                                                ABSTRACT
          In one aspect, the invention provides methods of inhibiting the effects of MASP-2
  dependent complement activation in a living subject. The methods comprise the step of
  administering, to a subject in need thereof, an amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent effective to
5 inhibit MASP-2-dependent         complement activation. In some embodiments,        the MASP-2
  inhibitory   agent   inhibits   cellular  injury associated with   MASP-2-mediated      alternative
  complement      pathway    activation,   while leaving the classical (Clq-dependent)       pathway
  component of the immune system intact. In another aspect, the invention provides compositions
  for inhibiting the effects of lectin-dependent complement activation, comprising a therapeutically
0 effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

1002052292
           METHODS FOR TREATING CONDITIONS ASSOCIATED WITH MASP-2
                          DEPENDENT COMPLEMENT ACTIVATION
                                    RELATED APPLICATION
           This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application no.
   <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of 2013201565, which is a divisional of 2011265532,
   which is a divisional of 2005254044 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to methods of inhibiting the adverse effects of MASP-2
   dependent complement activation.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           The complement system provides an early acting mechanism to initiate and amplify
   the inflammatory response to microbial infection and other acute insults (Liszewski, M.K. and
   J.P. Atkinson, 1993, in FundamentalImmunology, Third Edition, edited by W.E. Paul, Raven
   Press, Ltd., New York). While complement activation provides a valuable first-line defense
   against potential pathogens,    the activities of complement that promote a protective
   inflammatory response can also represent a potential threat to the host (Kalli, K.R., et al.,
   Springer Semin. Immunopathol. 15:417-431, 1994; Morgan, B.P., Eur. J Clinical Investig.
   24:219-228, 1994). For example, C3 and C5 proteolytic products recruit and activate
   neutrophils. These activated cells are indiscriminate in their release of destructive enzymes
   and may cause organ damage. In addition, complement activation may cause the deposition of
   lytic complement components on nearby host cells as well as on microbial targets, resulting in
   host cell lysis.
           The complement system has been implicated as contributing to the pathogenesis of
   numerous acute and chronic disease states, including: myocardial infarction, revascularization
   following stroke, ARDS, reperfusion injury, septic shock, capillary leakage following thermal
   bums, postcardiopulmonary bypass inflammation, transplant rejection, rheumatoid arthritis,
   multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, and Alzheimer's disease. In almost all of these
   conditions, complement is not the cause but is one of several factors involved in pathogenesis.
                                                 -1-

1002052292
Nevertheless, complement activation may be a major pathological mechanism and represents an
effective point for clinical control in many of these disease states. The growing recognition of the
importance of complement-mediated tissue injury in a variety of disease states underscores the
need for effective complement inhibitory drugs. No drugs have been approved for human use that
specifically target and inhibit complement activation.
                                                   -la-

            Currently, it is widely accepted that the complement system can be activated
   through three distinct pathways: the classical pathway, the lectin pathway, and the
   alternative pathway. The classical pathway is usually triggered by antibody bound to a
   foreign particle (i.e., an antigen) and thus requires prior exposure to that antigen for the
 5 generation of specific antibody. Since activation of the classical pathway is associated
   with development of an immune response, the classical pathway is part of the acquired
   immune system. In contrast, both the lectin and alternative pathways are independent of
   clonal immunity and are part of the innate immune system.
            The first step in activation of the classical pathway is the binding of a specific
10 recognition molecule, Clq, to antigen-bound IgG and IgM.             The activation of the
   complement system results in the sequential activation of serine protease zymogens. Cl q
   is associated with the Clr and Cls serine protease proenzymes as a complex called C1 and,
   upon binding of Clq to an immune complex, autoproteolytic cleavage of the Arg-Ile site
   of Clr is followed by Clr activation of Cls, which thereby acquires the ability to cleave C4
15 and C2. The cleavage of C4 into two fragments, designated C4a and C4b, allows the C4b
   fragments to form covalent bonds with adjacent hydroxyl or amino groups and the
   subsequent generation of C3 convertase (C4b2b) through noncovalent interaction with the
   C2b fragment of activated C2. C3 convertase (C4b2b) activates C3 leading to generation
   of the C5 convertase (C4b2b3b) and formation of the membrane attack complex (C5b-9)
20 that can cause microbial lysis. The activated forms of C3 and C4 (C3b and C4b) are
   covalently deposited on the foreign target surfaces, which are recognized by complement
   receptors on multiple phagocytes.
            Independently, the first step in activation of the complement system by the lectin
   pathway is also the binding of specific recognition molecules, which is followed by the
25 activation of associated serine proteases. However, rather than the binding of immune
   complexes by Clq, the recognition molecules in the lectin pathway are carbohydrate
   binding proteins (mannan-binding lectin (MBL), H-ficolin, M-ficolin and L-ficolin) (Lu,
   J., et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1572:387-400, 2002; Holmskov et al., Annu. Rev.
   Immunol. 21: 547-578 (2003); Teh et al., Immunology 101: 225-232 (2000)). Ikeda et al.
30 first demonstrated that, like Clq, MBL could activate the complement system upon
   binding to yeast mannan-coated erythrocytes in a C4-dependent manner (Ikeda, K., et al.,
   J. Biol. Chem. 262:7451-7454, 1987). MBL, a member of the collectin protein family, is
   a calcium-dependent lectin that binds carbohydrates with 3- and 4-hydroxy groups
                                                  -2-

   oriented in the equatorial plane of the pyranose ring. Prominent ligands for MBL are thus
   D-mannose and N-acetyl-D-glucosamine, while carbohydrates not fitting this steric
   requirement have undetectable affinity for MBL (Weis, W.I., et al., Nature 360:127-134,
   1992).    The interaction between MBL and monovalent sugars is extremely weak, with
 5 dissociation constants typically in the 2 mM range. MBL achieves tight, specific binding
   to glycan ligands by interaction with multiple monosaccharide residues simultaneously
   (Lee, R.T., et al., Archiv. Biochem. Biophys. 299:129-136, 1992). MBL recognizes the
   carbohydrate patterns that commonly decorate microorganisms such as bacteria, yeast,
   parasites and certain viruses. In contrast, MBL does not recognize D-galactose and sialic
10 acid, the penultimate and ultimate sugars that usually decorate "mature" complex
   glycoconjugates present on mammalian plasma and cell surface glycoproteins.             This
   binding specificity is thought to help protect from self activation. However, MBL does
   bind with high affinity to clusters of high-mannose "precursor" glycans on N-linked
   glycoproteins and glycolipids sequestered in the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi of
15 mammalian cells (Maynard, Y., et al., J. Biol. Chem. 257:3788-3794, 1982). Therefore,
    damaged cells are potential targets for lectin pathway activation via MBL binding.
            The ficolins possess a different type of lectin domain than MBL, called the
    fibrinogen-like domain. Ficolins bind sugar residues in a Ca-a-independent manner. In
    humans, three kinds of ficolins, L-ficolin, M-ficolin and H-ficolin, have been identified.
20  Both serum ficolins L-ficolin and H-ficolin have in common a specificity for N-acetyl-D
    glucosamine; however, H-ficolin also binds N-acetyl-D-galactosamine. The difference in
    sugar specificity of L-ficolin, H-ficolin and MBL means that the different lectins may be
    complementary and target different, though overlapping, glycoconjugates. This concept
    is supported by the recent report that, of the known lectins in the lectin pathway, only L
25  ficolin binds specifically to lipoteichoic acid, a cell wall glycoconjugate found on all
    Gram-positive bacteria (Lynch, N.J., et al., J. Immunol. 172:1198-1202, 2004).         The
    collectins (i.e., MBL) and the ficolins bear no significant similarity in amino acid
    sequence. However, the two groups of proteins have similar domain organizations and,
    like C1q, assemble into oligomeric structures, which maximize the possibility of multisite
30  binding. The serum concentrations of MBL are highly variable in healthy populations
    and this is genetically controlled by the polymorphism/mutations in both the promoter
    and coding regions of the MBL gene. As an acute phase protein, the expression of MBL
    is further upregulated during inflammation.        L-ficolin is present in serum at similar
                                                  -3-

   concentrations as MBL. Therefore, the L-ficolin arm of the lectin pathway is potentially
   comparable to the MBL arm in strength. MBL and ficolins can also function as opsonins,
   which require interaction of these proteins with phagocyte receptors (Kuhlman, M., et al.,
   J. Exp. Med. 169:1733, 1989; Matsushita, M., et al., J. Biol. Chem. 271:2448-54, 1996).
 5 However, the identities of the receptor(s) on phagocytic cells have not been established.
           Human MBL forms a specific and high affinity interaction through its collagen
   like domain with unique Clr/Cls-like serine proteases, termed MBL-associated serine
   proteases (MASPs). To date, three MASPs have been described. First, a single enzyme
   "MASP" was identified and characterized as the enzyme responsible for the initiation of
10 the complement cascade (i.e., cleaving C2 and C4) (Ji, Y.H., et al., J. Immunol. 150:571
   578, 1993). Later, it turned out that MASP is in fact a mixture of two proteases: MASP-1
   and MASP-2 (Thiel, S., et al., Nature 386:506-510, 1997).                However, it was.
   demonstrated that the MBL-MASP-2 complex alone is sufficient for complement
   activation (Vorup-Jensen, T., et al., J. Immunol. 165:2093-2100, 2000).       Furthermore,
15 only MASP-2 cleaved C2 and C4 at high rates (Ambrus, G., et al., J Immunol. 170:1374
    1382, 2003). Therefore, MASP-2 is the protease responsible for activating C4 and C2 to
   generate the C3 convertase, C4b2b. This is a significant difference from the Cl complex,
   where the coordinated action of two specific seine proteases (Cir and Cls) leads to the
   activation of the complement system. Recently, a third novel protease, MASP-3, has
20 been isolated (Dahl, M.R., et al., Immunity 15:127-35, 2001). MASP-1 and MASP-3 are
   alternatively spliced products of the same gene. The biological functions of MASP-1 and
   MASP-3 remain to be resolved.
           MASPs share identical domain organizations with those of Cr and Cls, the
   enzymatic components of the C1 complex (Sim, R.B., et al., Biochem. Soc. Trans. 28:545,
25 2000). These domains include an N-terminal Clr/Cls/sea urchin Vegf/bone morphogenic
   protein (CUB) domain, an epidermal growth factor-like domain, a second CUB domain, a
   tandem of complement control protein domains, and a seine protease domain. As in the
   Cl proteases, activation of MASP-2 occurs through cleavage of an Arg-Ile bond adjacent
   to the serine protease domain, which splits the enzyme into disulfide-linked A and B
30 chains, the latter consisting of the seine protease domain.        Recently, a genetically
   determined deficiency of MASP-2 was described (Stengaard-Pedersen, K., et al., New
   Eng. J. Med. 349:554-560, 2003). The mutation of a single nucleotide leads to an Asp
   Gly exchange in the CUB 1 domain and renders MASP-2 incapable of binding to MBL.
                                                -4-

            MBL is also associated with a nonenzymatic protein referred to as MBL
   associated protein of 19 kDa (MApl9) (Stover, C.M., J. Immunol. 162:3481-90, 1999) or
   small MBL-associated protein (sMAP) (Takahashi, M., et al., Int. Immunol. 11:859-863,
   1999).     MAp19 is formed by alternative splicing of the MASP 2 gene product and
 5 comprises the first two domains of MASP-2, followed by an extra sequence of four
   unique amino acids. The MASP 1 and MASP 2 genes are located on chromosomes 3 and
   1, respectively (Schwaeble, W., et al., Immunobiology 205:455-466, 2002).
             Several lines of evidence suggest that there are different MBL-MASPs complexes
   and a large fraction of the total MASPs in serum is not complexed with MBL (Thiel, S.,
10 et al., J. Immunol. 165:878-887, 2000). Both H- and L-ficolin are associated with MASP
   and activate the lectin complement pathway, as does MBL (Dahl, M.R., et al., Immunity
   15:127-35, 2001; Matsushita, M., et al., J. Immunol. 168:3502-3506, 2002). Both the
   lectin and classical pathways form a common C3 convertase (C4b2b) and the two
   pathways converge at this step.
15           The lectin pathway is widely thought to have a major role in host defense against
   infection. Strong evidence for the involvement of MBL in host defense comes from
   analysis of patients with decreased serum levels of functional MBL (Kilpatrick, D.C.,
   Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1572:401-413, 2002).           Such patients display susceptibility to
   recurrent bacterial and fungal infections. These symptoms are usually evident early in
20 life, during an apparent window of vulnerability as maternally derived antibody titer
   wanes, but before a full repertoire of antibody responses develops. This syndrome often
   results from mutations at several sites in the collagenous portion of MBL, which interfere
   with proper formation of MBL oligomers. However, since MBL can function as an
   opsonin independent of complement, it is not known to what extent the increased
25 susceptibility to infection is due to impaired complement activation.
             Although there is extensive evidence implicating both the classical and alternative
   complement pathways in the pathogenesis of non-infectious human diseases, the role of
   the lectin pathway is just beginning to be evaluated. Recent studies provide evidence that
   activation of the lectin pathway can be responsible for complement activation and related
30 inflammation in ischemia/reperfusion injury. Collard et al. (2000) reported that cultured
   endothelial cells subjected to oxidative stress bind MBL and show deposition of C3 upon
   exposure to human serum (Collard, C.D., et al., Am. J Pathol. 156:1549-1556, 2000). In
   addition, treatment of human sera with blocking anti-MBL monoclonal antibodies
                                                  -5-

   inhibited MBL binding and complement activation. These findings were extended to a
   rat model of myocardial ischemia-reperfusion in which rats treated with a blocking
   antibody directed against rat MBL showed significantly less myocardial damage upon
   occlusion of a coronary artery than rats treated with a control antibody (Jordan, J.E.,
 5 et al., Circulation 104:1413-1418, 2001). The molecular mechanism of MBL binding to
   the vascular endothelium after oxidative stress is unclear; a recent study suggests that
   activation of the lectin pathway after oxidative stress may be mediated by MBL binding
   to vascular endothelial cytokeratins, and not to glycoconjugates (Collard, C.D., et al., Am.
   J. Pathol. 159:1045-1054, 2001).        Qther studies have implicated the classical and
10 alternative pathways in the pathogenesis of ischemia/reperfusion injury and the role of the
   lectin pathway in this disease remains controversial (Riedermann, N.C., et al., Am. J.
   Pathol. 162:363-367, 2003).
            In contrast to the classical and lectin pathways, no initiators of the alternative
   pathway have been found to fulfill the recognition functions that Clq and lectins perform
15 in the other two pathways. Currently it is widely accepted that the alternative pathway is
   spontaneously triggered by foreign or other abnormal surfaces (bacteria, yeast, virally
   infected cells, or damaged tissue). There are four plasma proteins directly involved in the
   alternative pathway: C3, factors B and D, and properdin. Proteolytic generation of C3b
   from native C3 is required for the alternative pathway to function. Since the alternative
20 pathway C3 convertase (C3bBb) contains C3b as an essential subunit, the question
   regarding the origin of the first C3b via the alternative pathway has presented a puzzling
   problem and has stimulated considerable research.
            C3 belongs to a family of proteins (along with C4 and a-2 macroglobulin) that
    contain a rare posttranslational modification known as a thioester bond. The thioester
25 group is composed of a glutamine whose terminal carbonyl group is bound to the
    sulfhydryl group of a cysteine three amino acids away. This bond is unstable and the
    electrophilic carbonyl group of glutamine can form a covalent bond with other molecules
   via hydroxyl or amino groups. The thioester bond is reasonably stable when sequestered
   within a hydrophobic pocket of intact C3. However, proteolytic cleavage of C3 to C3a
30  and C3b results in exposure of the highly reactive thioester bond on C3b and by this
   mechanism C3b covalently attaches to a target. In addition to its well-documented role in
    covalent attachment of C3b to complement targets, the C3 thioester is also thought to
   have a pivotal role in triggering the alternative pathway.       According to the widely
                                                -6-

    accepted "tick-over theory", the alternative pathway is initiated by the generation of a
    fluid-phase convertase, iC3Bb, which is formed from C3 with hydrolyzed thioester (iC3;
    C3(H 2 0)) and factor B (Lachmann, P.J., et al., Springer Semin. Immunopathol. 7:143
    162, 1984).     The C3b-like iC3 is generated from native C3 by a slow spontaneous
 5 hydrolysis of the internal thioester in the protein (Pangburn, M.K., et al., J. Exp. Med.
    154:856-867, 1981). Through the activity of the iC3Bb convertase, C3b molecules are
   deposited on the target surface thereby initiating the alternative pathway.
            Very little is known about the initiators of activation of the alternative pathway.
   Activators are thought to include yeast cell walls (zymosan), many pure polysaccharides,
10 rabbit erythrocytes, certain immunoglobulins, viruses, fungi, bacteria, animal tumor cells,
   parasites, and damaged cells.        The only feature common to these activators is the
   presence of carbohydrate, but the complexity and variety of carbohydrate structures has
   made it difficult to establish the shared molecular determinants, which are recognized.
            The alternative pathway can also provide a powerful amplification loop for the
15 lectin/classical pathway C3 convertase (C4b2b) since any C3b generated can participate
   with factor B in forming additional alternative pathway C3 convertase (C3bBb). The
   alternative pathway C3 convertase is stabilized by the binding of properdin. Properdin
   extends the alternative pathway C3 convertase half-life six to ten fold. Addition of C3b
   to the C3 convertase leads to the formation of the alternative pathway C5 convertase.
20          All three pathways (i.e., the classical, lectin and alternative) have been thought to
   converge at C5, which is cleaved to form products with multiple proinflammatory effects.
   The converged pathway has been referred to as the terminal complement pathway. C5a is
   the most potent anaphylatoxin, inducing alterations in smooth muscle and vascular tone,
   as well as vascular permeability. It is also a powerful chemotaxin and activator of both
25 neutrophils and monocytes. C5a-mediated cellular activation can significantly amplify
   inflammatory responses by inducing the release of multiple additional inflammatory
   mediators, including cytokines, hydrolytic enzymes, arachidonic acid metabolites and
   reactive oxygen species. C5 cleavage leads to the formation of C5b-9, also known as the
   membrane attack complex (MAC).           There is now strong evidence that sublytic MAC
30 deposition may play an important role in inflammation in addition to its role as a lytic
   pore-forming complex.
                                                 -7-

1002052292
         Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgment, or any form of suggestion, that this prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected
to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
         As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise" and
variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended to
exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                                                 -7a-

                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In one aspect, the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the adverse
   effects of MASP-2-dependent complement activation in a living subject. The method
   includes the step of administering to a subject in need thereof, an amount of a MASP-2
 5 inhibitory agent effective to inhibit MASP-2-dependent complement activation. In this
   context, the phrase "MASP-2-dependent complement activation" refers to alternative
   pathway complement activation that occurs via the lectin-dependent MASP-2 system. In
   another aspect of the invention, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent inhibits complement
   activation via the lectin-dependent MASP-2 system without substantially inhibiting
10 complement activation via the classical or Clq-dependent system, such that the Clq
   dependent system remains functional.
           In some embodiments of these aspects of the invention, the MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent is an anti-MASP-2 antibody or fragment thereof. In further embodiments, the anti
   MASP-2 antibody has reduced effector function. In some embodiments, the MASP-2
15 inhibitory agent is a MASP-2 inhibitory peptide or a non-peptide MASP-2 inhibitor.
           In another aspect, the present invention provides compositions for inhibiting the
   adverse     effects  of   MASP-2-dependent       complement    activation,  comprising    a
   therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier. Methods are also provided for manufacturing a medicament for use in
20 inhibiting the adverse effects of MASP-2-dependent complement activation in living
   subjects in need thereof, comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2
   inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical carrier.           Methods are also provided for
   manufacturing medicaments for use in inhibiting MASP-2-dependent complement
   activation for treatment of each of the conditions, diseases and disorders described herein
25 below.
           The methods, compositions and medicaments of the invention are useful for
   inhibiting the adverse effects of MASP-2-dependent complement activation in vivo in
   mammalian subjects, including humans suffering from an acute or chronic pathological
    condition or injury as further described herein. Such conditions and injuries include
30 without limitation MASP-2 mediated complement activation in associated autoinmune
    disorders and/or inflammatory conditions.
            In one aspect of the invention, methods are provided for the treatment of ischemia
   reperfusion injuries by treating a subject experiencing ischemic reperfusion, including
                                                -8-

   without limitation, after aortic aneurysm repair, cardiopulmonary bypass, vascular
   reanastomosis in connection with, for example, organ transplants (e.g., heart, lung, liver,
   kidney) and/or extremity/digit replantation, stroke, myocardial infarction, hemodynamic
   resuscitation following shock and/or surgical procedures, with a therapeutically effective
 5 amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical carrier.
            In one aspect of the invention, methods are provided for the inhibition of
   atherosclerosis by treating a subject suffering from or prone to atherosclerosis with a
   therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical
   carrier.
10          In one aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject experiencing a vascular condition,
   including without limitation cardiovascular conditions, cerebrovascular conditions,
   peripheral    (e.g.,   musculoskeletal)  vascular   conditions,   renovascular    conditions,
   mesenteric/enteric vascular, and revascularization to transplants and/or replants, by
15 treating such patient with a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent. Such conditions include without limitation the treatment of: vasculitis, including
   Henoch-Schonlein purpura nephritis, systemic lupus erythematosus-associated vasculitis,
   vasculitis associated with rheumatoid arthritis (also called malignant rheumatoid
   arthritis), immune complex vasculitis, and Takayasu's disease; dilated cardiomyopathy;
20 diabetic angiopathy; Kawasaki's disease (arteritis); venous gas embolus (VGE); and/or
   restenosis following stent placement, rotational atherectomy and/or percutaneous
   transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
            In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent     complement      activation  in  a   subject  suffering   from    inflammatory
25 gastrointestinal disorders, including but not limited to pancreatitis, diverticulitis and
   bowel disorders including Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and irritable bowel
   syndrome.
            In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from a pulmonary condition
30 including but not limited to acute respiratory distress syndrome, transfusion-related acute
   lung injury, ischemia/reperfusion acute lung injury, chronic obstructive pulmonary
   disease, asthma, Wegener's granulomatosis, antiglomerular basement membrane disease
   (Goodpasture's      disease), meconium aspiration syndrome, bronchiolitis          obliterans
                                                -9-

   syndrome, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, acute lung injury secondary to burn, non
   cardiogenic     pulmonary     edema,    transfusion-related    respiratory  depression,   and
   emphysema.
            In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
 5 dependent complement activation in a subject that has undergone, is undergoing or will
   undergo an extracorporeal reperfusion procedure, including but not limited to
   hemodialysis, plasmapheresis, leukopheresis, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
   (ECMO), heparin-induced extracorporeal membrane oxygenation LDL precipitation
   (HELP) and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
10          In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from a musculoskeletal condition,
   including but not limited to osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid
   arthritis, gout, neuropathic arthropathy, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or other
   spondyloarthropathies and crystalline arthropathies, or systemic lupus erythematosus
15 (SLE).
            In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from renal conditions including
   but     not    limited   to     mesangioproliferative     glomerulonephritis,    membranous
   glomerulonephritis,      membranoproliferative      glomerulonephritis     (mesangiocapillary
20 glomerulonephritis),      acute    postinfectious    glomerulonephritis     (poststreptococcal
   glomerulonephritis), cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis, lupus nephritis, Henoch
   Schonlein purpura nephritis or IgA nephropathy.
            In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from a skin condition, including
25 but not limited to psoriasis, autoimmune bullous dermatoses, eosinophilic spongiosis,
   bullous pemphigoid, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita and herpes gestationis and other skin
   disorders, or from a thermal or chemical burn injury involving capillary leakage.
             In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject that has received an organ or other tissue
30 transplant, including but not limited to allotransplantation or xenotransplantation of
   whole organs (e.g., kidney, heart, liver, pancreas, lung, cornea, etc.) or grafts (e.g.,
   valves, tendons, bone marrow, etc.).
                                                 -10-

           In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from a central nervous system
   disorder or injury or a peripheral nervous system disorder or injury, including but not
   limited to multiple sclerosis (MS), myasthenia gravis (MG), Huntington's disease (HD),
 5 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Guillain Barre syndrome, reperfusion following
   stroke, degenerative discs, cerebral trauma, Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease
   (AD), Miller-Fisher syndrome, cerebral trauma and/or hemorrhage, demyelination and
   meningitis.
           In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
10 dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from a blood disorder including
   but not limited to sepsis or a condition resulting from sepsis including without limitation
   severe sepsis, septic shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome resulting from sepsis, and
   systemic inflammatory response syndrome.           Related methods are provided for the
   treatment of other blood disorders, including hemorrhagic shock, hemolytic anemia,
15 autoimmune thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), hemolytic uremic syndrome
   (HUS) or other marrow/blood destructive conditions.
           In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from a urogenital condition
   including but not limited to painful bladder disease, sensory bladder disease, chronic
20 abacterial cystitis and interstitial cystitis, male and female infertility, placental
   dysfunction and miscarriage and pre-eclampsia.
           In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from nonobese diabetes (Type-1
   diabetes or Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus) or from angiopathy, neuropathy or
25 retinopathy complications of Type-1 or Type-2 (adult onset) diabetes.
           In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject being treated with chemotherapeutics
   and/or radiation therapy, including without limitation for the treatment of cancerous
   conditions,    by - administering      a    MASP-2      inhibitor  to    such   a   patient
30 perichemotherapeutically or periradiation therapy, i.e., before and/or during and/or after
   the      administration     of    chemotherapeutic(s)       and/or    radiation    therapy.
   Perichemotherapeutic or periradiation therapy administration of MASP-2 inhibitors may
   be useful for reducing the side-effects of chemotherapeutic or radiation therapy. In a still
                                                -11-

   further aspect of the invention, methods are provided for the treatment of malignancies by
   administering a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a
   patient suffering from a malignancy.
           In another aspect of the invention methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
 5 dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from an endocrine disorder, by
   administering a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a
   pharmaceutical carrier to such a subject. Conditions subject to treatment in accordance
   with the present invention include, by way of nonlimiting example, Hashimoto's
   thyroiditis, stress, anxiety and other potential hormonal disorders involving regulated
10 release of prolactin, growth or insulin-like growth factor, and adrenocorticotropin from
   the pituitary.
            In another aspect of the invention methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from age-related macular
   degeneration or other complement mediated ophthalmologic condition by administering a
15 therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical
   carrier to a subject suffering from such a condition.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The foregoing aspects and many of the attendant advantages of this invention will
20 become more readily appreciated as the same become better understood by reference to
   the following detailed description, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying
   drawings, wherein:
            The foregoing aspects and many of the attendant advantages of this invention will
   become more readily appreciated as the same become better understood by reference to
25 the following detailed description, when taken in conjunction with the accompanying
   drawings, wherein:
            FIGURE 1 is a flowchart illustrating the new discovery that the alternative
   complement pathway requires lectin pathway-dependent              MASP-2    activation for
   complement activation;
30          FIGURE 2 is a diagram illustrating the genomic structure of human MASP-2;
            FIGURE 3A is a schematic diagram illustrating the domain structure of human
   MASP-2 protein;
                                                -12-

           FIGURE 3B is a schematic diagram illustrating the domain structure of human
   MAp 19 protein;
           FIGURE 4 is a diagram illustrating the murine MASP-2 knockout strategy;
           FIGURE 5 is a diagram illustrating the human MASP-2 minigene construct;
 5         FIGURE 6A presents results demonstrating that MASP-2-deficiency leads to the
   loss of lectin-pathway-mediated C4 activation as measured by lack of C4b deposition on
   mannan;
            FIGURE 6B presents results demonstrating that MASP-2-deficiency leads to the
   loss of lectin-pathway-mediated C4 activation as measured by lack of C4b deposition on
10 zymosan;
            FIGURE 6C presents results demonstrating the relative C4 activation levels of
   serum samples obtained from MASP-2+/-; MASP-2-/- and wild-type strains as measure
   by C4b deposition on mannan and on zymosan;
            FIGURE 7A presents results demonstrating that MASP-2-deficiency leads to the
15 loss of both lectin-pathway-mediated and alternative pathway mediated C3 activation as
   measured by lack of C3b deposition on mannan;
            FIGURE 7B presents results demonstrating that MASP-2-deficiency leads to the
    loss of both lectin-pathway-mediated and alternative pathway mediated C3 activation as
    measured by lack of C3b deposition on zymosan;
20          FIGURE 8 presents results demonstrating that the addition of murine recombinant
    MASP-2 to MASP-2-/- serum samples recovers lectin-pathway-mediated C4 activation in
    a protein concentration dependant manner, as measured by C4b deposition on mannan;
            FIGURE 9 presents demonstrating that the classical pathway is functional in the
    MASP-2-/- strain; and
25          FIGURE 10 presents results demonstrating          that the MASP-2-dependent
    complement activation system is activated in the ischemia/reperfusion phase following
     abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.
                         DESCRIPTION OF THE SEQUENCE LISTING
30          SEQ ID NO:1 human MAp19 cDNA
            SEQ ID NO:2 human MAp 19 protein (with leader)
             SEQ ID NO:3 human MAp 19 protein (mature)
             SEQ ID NO:4 human MASP-2 cDNA
                                               -13-

         SEQ ID NO:5 human MASP-2 protein (with leader)
         SEQ ID NO:6 human MASP-2 protein (mature)
         SEQ ID NO:7 human MASP-2 gDNA (exons 1-6)
   ANTIGENS: (IN REFERENCE TO THE MASP-2 MATURE PROTEIN)
 5       SEQ ID NO:8 CUBI sequence (aa 1-121)
         SEQ ID NO:9 CUBEGF sequence (aa 1-166)
         SEQ ID NO:10 CUBEGFCUBII (aa 1-293)
         SEQ ID NO: 11 EGF region (aa 122-166)
         SEQ ID NO:12 serine protease domain (aa 429 - 671)
10       SEQ ID NO: 13 serine protease domain inactive (aa 610-625 with Ser618
               to Ala mutation)
         SEQ ID NO:14 TPLGPKWPEPVFGRL (CUB 1 peptide)
         SEQ ID NO:15
               TAPPGYRLRLYFTHFDLELSHLCEYDFVKLSSGAKVLATLC
15             GQ (CUBI peptide)
         SEQ ID NO:16 TFRSDYSN (MBL binding region core)
         SEQ ID NO:17 FYSLGSSLDITFRSDYSNEKPFTGF                 (MBL binding
               region)
         SEQ ID NO:18 IDECQVAPG (EGF PEPTIDE)
20       SEQ   ID    NO:19    ANMLCAGLESGGKDSCRGDSGGALV                 (serine
               protease binding core)
   PEPTIDE INHIBITORS:
         SEQ ID NO:20 MBL full length cDNA
         SEQ ID NO:21 MBL full length protein
25       SEQ ID NO:22 OGK-X-GP (consensus binding)
         SEQ ID NO:23 OGKLG
         SEQ ID NO:24 GLR GLQ GPO GKL GPO G
         SEQ ID NO:25 GPO GPO GLR GLQ GPO GKL GPO GPO GPO
         SEQ ID NO:26 GKDGRDGTKGEKGEPGQGLRGLQGPOGKLGPOG
30       SEQ ID NO:27 GAOGSOGEKGAOGPQGPOGPOGKMGPKGEOGDO
               (human h-ficolin)
                                         -14-

        SEQ ID NO:28
              GCOGLOGAOGDKGEAGTNGKRGERGPOGPOGKAGPOGPN
              GAOGEO (human ficolin p35)
        SEQ ID NO:29 LQRALEILPNRVTIKANRPFLVFI (C4 cleavage site)
 5 EXPRESSION INHIBITORS:
        SEQ ID NO:30 cDNA of CUBI-EGF domain (nucleotides 22-680 of SEQ
              ID NO:4)
        SEQ ID NO:31
        5' CGGGCACACCATGAGGCTGCTGACCCTCCTGGGC 3'
10            Nucleotides 12-45 of SEQ ID NO:4 including the MASP-2
              translation start site (sense)
        SEQ ID NO:32
        5'GACATTACCTTCCGCTCCGACTCCAACGAGAAG3'                     Nucleotides
              361-396 of SEQ ID NO:4 encoding a region comprising the
15            MASP-2 MBL binding site (sense)
        SEQ ID NO:33
        5'AGCAGCCCTGAATACCCACGGCCGTATCCCAAA3'                     Nucleotides
              610-642 of SEQ ID NO:4 encoding a region comprising the CUBII
              domain
20 CLONING PRIMERS:
        SEQ ID NO:34 CGGGATCCATGAGGCTGCTGACCCTC (5' PCR for
              CUB)
        SEQ ID NO:35 GGAATTCCTAGGCTGCATA (3' PCR FOR CUB)
        SEQ ID NO:36 GGAATTCCTACAGGGCGCT (3' PCR FOR CUBIEGF)
25      SEQ ID NO:37 GGAATTCCTAGTAGTGGAT (3' PCR FOR
              CUBIEGFCUBII)
        SEQ ID NOS:38-47 are cloning primers for humanized antibody
        SEQ ID NO:48 is 9 aa peptide bond
   EXPRESSION VECTOR:
30      SEQ ID NO:49 is the MASP-2 minigene insert
        SEQ ID NO: 50 is the murine MASP-2 cDNA
        SEQ ID NO: 51 is the murine MASP-2 protein (w/leader)
        SEQ ID NO: 52 is the mature murine MASP-2 protein
                                             -15-

           SEQ ID NO: 53 the rat MASP-2 cDNA
           SEQ ID NO: 54 is the rat MASP-2 protein (w/ leader)
           SEQ ID NO: 55 is the mature rat MASP-2 protein
           SEQ ID NO: 56-59 are the oligonucleotides for site-directed mutagenesis
 5                 of human MASP-2 used to generate human MASP-2A
           SEQ ID NO: 60-63 are the oligonucleotides for site-directed mutagenesis
                   of murine MASP-2 used to generate murine MASP-2A
           SEQ ID NO: 64-65 are the oligonucleotides for site-directed mutagenesis
                   of rat MASP-2 used to generate rat MASP-2A
10                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           The present invention is based upon the surprising discovery by the present
   inventors that MASP-2 is needed to initiate alternative complement pathway activation.
   Through the use of a knockout mouse model of MASP-2-/-, the present inventors have
   shown that it is possible to inhibit alternative complement pathway activation via the
15 lectin mediated MASP-2 pathway while leaving the classical pathway intact, thus
   establishing the lectin-dependent MASP-2 activation as a requirement for alternative
   complement activation in absence of the classical pathway. The present invention also
   describes the use of MASP-2 as a therapeutic target for inhibiting cellular injury
   associated with lectin-mediated alternative complement pathway activation while leaving
20 the classical (Clq-dependent) pathway component of the immune system intact.
   I.      DEFINITIONS
           Unless specifically defined herein, all terms used herein have the same meaning
   as would be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art of the present invention. The
   following definitions are provided in order to provide clarity with respect to the terms as
25 they are used in the specification and claims to describe the present invention.
           As used herein, the term "MASP-2-dependent complement activation" refers to
   alternative pathway complement activation that occurs via lectin-dependent MASP-2
   activation.
           As used herein, the term "alternative pathway" refers to complement activation
30 that is triggered, for example, by zymosan from fungal and yeast cell walls,
   lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Gram negative outer membranes, and rabbit erythrocytes,
   as well as from many pure polysaccharides, rabbit erythrocytes, viruses, bacteria, animal
                                               -16-

   tumor cells, parasites and damaged cells, and which has traditionally been thought to
   arise from spontaneous proteolytic generation of C3b from complement factor C3.
            As used herein, the term "lectin pathway" refers to complement activation that
   occurs via the specific binding of serum and non-serum carbohydrate-binding proteins
 5 including mannan-binding lectin (MBL) and the ficolins.
            As used herein, the term "classical pathway" refers to complement activation that
   is triggered by antibody bound to a foreign particle and requires binding of the
   recognition molecule Cl q.
            As used herein, the term "MASP-2 inhibitory agent" refers to any agent that binds
10 to or interacts with MASP-2 and effectively inhibits MASP-2-dependent complement
   activation, including anti-MASP-2 antibodies and MASP-2 binding fragments thereof,
   natural and synthetic peptides, small molecules, soluble MASP-2 receptors, expression
   inhibitors and isolated natural inhibitors. MASP-2 inhibitory agents useful in the method
   of the invention may reduce MASP-2-dependent complement activation by greater than
15 20%, such as greater than 50%, such as greater than 90%. In one embodiment, the
   MASP-2 inhibitory agent reduces MASP-2-dependent complement activation by greater
   than 90% (i.e., resulting in MASP-2 complement activation of only 10% or less).
            As used herein, the term "antibody" encompasses antibodies and antibody
   fragments thereof, derived from any antibody-producing mammal (e.g., mouse, rat,
20 rabbit, and primate including human), that specifically bind to MASP-2 polypeptides or
   portions thereof. Exemplary antibodies include polyclonal, monoclonal and recombinant
   antibodies; multispecific antibodies (e.g., bispecific antibodies); humanized antibodies;
   murine antibodies; chimeric, mouse-human, mouse-primate, primate-human monoclonal
   antibodies; and anti-idiotype antibodies, and may be any intact molecule or fragment
25 thereof.
            As used herein, the term "antibody fragment" refers to a portion derived from or
   related to a full-length anti-MASP-2 antibody, generally including the antigen binding or
   variable region thereof Illustrative examples of antibody fragments include Fab, Fab',
   F(ab) 2 , F(ab') 2 and Fv fragments, scFv fragments, diabodies, linear antibodies, single
30 chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
            As used herein, a "single-chain Fv" or "scFv" antibody fragment comprises the
   VH and VL domains of an antibody, wherein these domains are present in a single
   polypeptide chain. Generally, the Fv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker
                                               -17-

   between the VH and VL domains, which enables the scFv to form the desired structure
    for antigen binding.
             As used herein, a "chimeric antibody" is a recombinant protein that contains the
   variable domains and complementarity-determining regions derived from a non-human
 5  species (e.g., rodent) antibody, while the remainder of the antibody molecule is derived
    from a human antibody.
            As used herein, a "humanized antibody" is a chimeric antibody that comprises a
   minimal sequence that conforms to specific complementarity-determining regions derived
   from non-human immunoglobulin that is transplanted into a human antibody framework.
10 Humanized antibodies are typically recombinant proteins in which only the antibody
    complementarity-determining regions are of non-human origin.
            As used herein, the term "mannan-binding lectin" ("MBL") is equivalent to
   mannan-binding protein ("MBP").
            As used herein, the "membrane attack complex" ("MAC") refers to a complex of
15 the terminal five complement components (C5-C9) that inserts into and disrupts
   membranes. Also referred to as C5b-9.
            As used herein, "a subject" includes all mammals, including without limitation
   humans, non-human primates, dogs, cats, horses, sheep, goats, cows, rabbits, pigs and
   rodents.
20          As used herein, the amino acid residues are abbreviated as follows:       alanine
   (Ala;A), asparagine (Asn;N), aspartic acid (Asp;D), arginine (Arg;R), cysteine (Cys;C),
   glutamic acid (Glu;E), glutamine (Gln;Q), glycine (Gly;G), histidine (His;H), isoleucine
   (Ile;I), leucine (Leu;L), lysine (Lys;K), methionine (Met;M), phenylalanine (Phe;F),
   proline (Pro;P), serine (Ser;S), threonine (Thr;T), tryptophan (Trp;W), tyrosine (Tyr;Y),
25 and valine (Val;V).
            In the broadest sense, the naturally occurring amino acids can be divided into
   groups based upon the chemical characteristic of the side chain of the respective amino
   acids. By "hydrophobic" amino acid is meant either Ile, Leu, Met, Phe, Trp, Tyr, Val,
   Ala, Cys or Pro. By "hydrophilic" amino acid is meant either Gly, Asn, Gln, Ser, Thr,
30 Asp, Glu, Lys, Arg or His. This grouping of amino acids can be further subclassed as
   follows. By "uncharged hydrophilic" amino acid is meant either Ser, Thr, Asn or Gln.
   By "acidic" amino acid is meant either Glu or Asp. By "basic" amino acid is meant either
   Lys, Arg or His.
                                               -18-

            As used herein the term "conservative amino acid substitution" is illustrated by a
   substitution among amino acids within each of the following groups: (1) glycine, alanine,
   valine, leucine, and isoleucine, (2) phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan, (3) serine and
   threonine, (4) aspartate and glutamate, (5) glutamine and asparagine, and (6) lysine,
 5 arginine and histidine.
            The term "oligonucleotide" as used herein refers to an oligomer or polymer of
   ribonucleic acid (RNA) or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or mimetics thereof. This term
   also covers those oligonucleobases composed of naturally-occurring nucleotides, sugars
   and covalent internucleoside (backbone) linkages as well as oligonucleotides having non
10 naturally-occurring modifications.
   II.      THE ALTERNATIVE PATHWAY: A NEW UNDERSTANDING
            The alternative pathway of complement was first described by Louis Pillemer and
   his colleagues in early 1950s based on studies in which zymosan made from yeast cell
   walls was used to activate complement (Pillemer, L. et al., J. Exp. Med. 103:1-13, 1956;
15 Lepow, I.H., J. Immunol. 125:471-478, 1980). Ever since then, zymosan is considered as
   the canonical example of a specific activator of the alternative pathway in human and
   rodent serum (Lachmann, P.J., et al., Springer Semin. Immunopathol. 7:143-162, 1984;
   Van Dijk, H., et al., J. Immunol. Methods 85:233-243, 1985; Pangburn, M.K., Methods in
   Enzymol. 162:639-653, 1988).        A convenient and widely used assay for alternative
20 pathway activation is to incubate serum with zymosan coated onto plastic wells and to
    determine the amount of C3b deposition onto the solid phase following the incubation.
   As expected, there is substantial C3b deposition onto zymosan-coated wells following
   incubation with normal mouse serum (Figure 7B). However, incubation of serum from
   homozygous MASP-2-deficient mice with zymosan-coated wells results in a substantial
25 reduction in C3b deposition compared to that of normal serum. Furthermore, use of
    serum from mice heterozygous for deficiency in the MASP 2 gene in this assay results in
    levels of C3b deposition that are intermediate between those obtained with serum from
   homozygous MASP-2-deficient mice and normal mouse serum. Parallel results are also
    obtained using wells coated with mannan, another polysaccharide known to activate the
30  alternative pathway (Figure 7A). Since the normal and MASP-2 deficient mice share the
    same genetic background, except for the MASP 2 gene, these unexpected results
    demonstrate that MASP-2 plays an essential role in activation of the alternative pathway.
                                                -19-

            These results provide strong evidence that the alternative pathway is not an
   independent, stand-alone pathway of complement activation as described in essentially all
   current medical textbooks and recent review articles on complement. The current and
   widely held scientific view is that the alternative pathway is activated on the surface of
 5 certain particulate targets (microbes, zymosan, rabbit erythrocytes) through the
   amplification of spontaneous "tick-over" C3 activation. However, the absence of
   significant alternative pathway activation in serum from MASP-2 knockout mice by two
   well-known "activators" of the alternative pathway makes it unlikely that the "tick-over
   theory" describes an important physiological mechanism for complement activation.
10          Since MASP-2 protease is known to have a specific and well-defined role as the
   enzyme responsible for the initiation of the lectin complement cascade, these results
   implicate activation of the lectin pathway by zymosan and mannan as a critical first step
    for subsequent activation of the alternative pathway.        C4b is an activation product
    generated by the lectin pathway but not by the alternative pathway. Consistent with this
15  concept, incubation of normal mouse serum with zymosan- or mannan-coated wells
    results in C4b deposition onto the wells and this C4b deposition is substantially reduced
    when the coated wells are incubated with serum from MASP-2-deficient mice (Figures
    6A, 6B and 6C).
            The alternative pathway, in addition to its widely accepted role as an independent
20  pathway for complement activation, can also provide an amplification loop for
    complement activation initially triggered via the classical and lectin pathways (Liszewski,
    M.K. and J.P. Atkinson, 1993, in Fundamental Immunology, Third Edition, edited by
    W.E. Paul, Raven Press, Ltd., New York; Schweinie, J.E., et al., J. Clin. Invest. 84:1821
     1829, 1989).     In this alternative pathway-mediated amplification mechanism, C3
25  convertase (C4b2b) generated by activation of either the classical or lectin complement
    cascades cleaves C3 into C3a and C3b, and thereby provides C3b that can participate in
    forming C3bBb, the alternative pathway C3 convertase. The likely explanation for the
    absence of alternative pathway activation in MASP-2 knockout serum is that the lectin
    pathway is required for initial complement activation by zymosan, mannan, and other
30  putative "activators" of the alternative pathway, while the alternative pathway plays a
     crucial role for amplifying complement activation.        In other words, the alternative
    pathway is a feedforward amplification loop dependent upon the lectin and classical
     complement pathways for activation, rather than an independent linear cascade.
                                                -20-

            Rather than the complement cascade being activated through three distinct
   pathways (classical, alternative and lectin pathways) as previously envisioned, our results
   indicate that it is more accurate to view complement as being composed of two major
   systems, which correspond, to a first approximation, to the innate (lectin) and acquired
 5 (classical) wings of the complement immune defense system. Lectins (MBP, M-ficolin,
   H-ficolin, and L-ficolin) are the specific recognition molecules that trigger the innate
   complement system and the system includes the lectin pathway and the associated
   alternative pathway amplification loop. Clq is the specific recognition molecule that
   triggers the acquired complement system and the system includes the classical pathway
10 and associated alternative pathway amplification loop.      We refer to these two major
   complement activation systems as the lectin-dependent complement system and the Cl q
   dependent complement system, respectively.
            In addition to its essential role in immune defense, the complement system
   contributes to tissue damage in many clinical conditions. Thus, there is a pressing need
15 to develop therapeutically effective complement inhibitors to prevent these adverse
   effects.   With recognition that complement is composed of two major complement
   activation systems comes the realization that it would be highly desirable to specifically
   inhibit only the complement activation system causing a particular pathology without
   completely shutting down the immune defense capabilities of complement. For example,
20 in disease states in which complement activation is mediated predominantly by the lectin
   dependent complement system, it would be advantageous to specifically inhibit only this
   system. This would leave the Clq-dependent complement activation system intact to
   handle immune complex processing and to aid in host defense against infection.
            The preferred protein component to target in the development of therapeutic
25 agents to specifically inhibit the lectin-dependent complement system is MASP-2. Of all
   the protein components of the lectin-dependent complement system (MBL, H-ficolin, M
   ficolin, L-ficolin, MASP-2, C2-C9, Factor B, Factor D, and properdin), only MASP-2 is
   both unique to the lectin-dependent complement system and required for the system to
   function.     The lectins (MBL, H-ficolin, M-ficolin and L-ficolin) are also unique
30 components in the lectin-dependent complement system. However, loss of any one of the
   lectin components would not necessarily inhibit activation of the system due to lectin
   redundancy.     It would be necessary to inhibit all four lectins in order to guarantee
   inhibition of the lectin-dependent complement activation system. Furthermore, since
                                                -21-

   MBL and the ficolins are also known to have opsonic activity independent of
   complement, inhibition of lectin function would result in the loss of this beneficial host
   defense mechanism against infection. In contrast, this complement-independent lectin
   opsonic activity would remain intact if MASP-2 was the inhibitory target. An added
 5 benefit of MASP-2 as the therapeutic target to inhibit the lectin-dependent complement
   activation system is that the plasma concentration of MASP-2 is among the lowest of any
   complement protein (~ 500 ng/ml); therefore, correspondingly low concentrations of
   high-affinity inhibitors of MASP-2 may be required to obtain full inhibition (Moller
   Kristensen, M., et al., J. Immunol Methods 282:159-167, 2003).
10 III.    ROLE OF MASP-2 IN VARIOUS DISEASES AND CONDITIONS AND
   THERAPEUTIC METHODS USING MASP-2 INHIBITORY AGENTS
           ISCHEMIA REPERFUSION INJURY
           Ischemia reperfusion injury (I/R) occurs when blood flow is restored after an
   extended period of ischemia. It is a common source of morbidity and mortality in a wide
15 spectrum of diseases.       Surgical patients are vulnerable after aortic aneurysm repair,
   cardiopulmonary bypass, vascular reanastomosis in connection with, for example, organ
   transplants (e.g., heart, lung, liver, kidney) and digit/extremity replantation, stroke,
   myocardial infarction and hemodynamic resuscitation following shock and/or surgical
   procedures. Patients with atherosclerotic diseases are prone to myocardial infarctions,
20 strokes, and emboli-induced intestinal and lower-extremity ischemia.          Patients with
   trauma frequently suffer from temporary ischemia of the limbs. In addition, any cause of
   massive blood loss leads to a whole-body I/R reaction.
           The pathophysiology of I/R injury is complex, with at least two major factors
   contributing to the process: complement activation and neutrophil stimulation with
25 accompanying oxygen radical-mediated injury. In I/R injury, complement activation was
   first described during myocardial infarction over 30 years ago, and has led to numerous
   investigations on the contribution of the complement system to I/R tissue injury (Hill,
   J.H., et al., J. Exp. Med. 133:885-900, 1971).      Accumulating evidence now points to
   complement as a pivotal mediator in I/R injury.          Complement inhibition has been
30 successful in limiting injury in several animal models of I/R.        In early studies, C3
   depletion was achieved following infusion of cobra venom factor, reported to be
   beneficial during I/R in kidney and heart (Maroko, P.R., et al., 1978, J. Clin Invest.
   61:661-670, 1978; Stein, S.H., et al., Miner Electrolyte Metab. 11:256-61, 1985).
                                                -22-

   However, the soluble form of complement receptor 1 (sCR1) was the first complement
    specific inhibitor utilized for the prevention of myocardial I/R injury (Weisman, H.F.,
    et al., Science 249:146-51, 1990).     sCR1 treatment during myocardial I/R attenuates
   infarction associated with decreased deposition of C5b-9 complexes along the coronary
 5 endothelium and decreased leukocyte infiltration after reperfusion.
             In experimental myocardial I/R, C1 esterase inhibitor (Cl INH) administered
   before reperfusion prevents deposition of Clq and significantly reduced the area of
   cardiac muscle necrosis (Buerke, M., et al., 1995, Circulation 91:393-402, 1995).
   Animals genetically deficient in C3 have less local tissue necrosis after skeletal muscle or
10 intestinal ischaemia (Weiser, M.R., et al., J Exp. Med. 183:2343-48, 1996).
            The membrane attack complex is the ultimate vehicle of complement-directed
   injury and studies in C5-deficient animals have shown decreased local and remote injury
   in models of I/R injury (Austen, W.G. Jr., et al., Surgery 126:343-48, 1999). An inhibitor
   of complement activation, soluble Crry (complement receptor-related gene Y), has been
15 shown to be effective against injury when given both before and after the onset of murine
   intestinal reperfusion (Rebrig, S., et al., J Immunol. 167:5921-27, 2001). In a model of
   skeletal muscle ischemia, the use of soluble complement receptor 1 (sCR1) also reduced
   muscle injury when given after the start of reperfusion (Kyriakides, C., et al., Am. J.
   Physiol. Cell Physiol. 281:C244-30, 2001).        In a porcine model of myocardial I/R,
20 animals treated with monoclonal antibody ("MoAb") to the anaphylatoxin C5a prior to
   reperfusion showed attenuated infarction (Amsterdam, E.A., et al., Am. J. Physiol. Heart
   Circ. Physiol. 268:H448-57, 1995). Rats treated with C5 MoAb demonstrated attenuated
   infarct size, neutrophil infiltration and apoptosis in the myocardium (Vakeva, A., et al.,
   Circulation 97:2259-67, 1998). These experimental results highlight the importance of
25 complement activation in the pathogenesis of I/R injury.
            It is unclear which complement pathway (classical, lectin or alternative) is
   predominantly involved in complement activation in I/R injury.                Weiser et al.
   demonstrated an important role of the lectin and/or classical pathways during skeletal I/R
   by showing that C3- or C4- knockout mice were protected against I/R injury based on a
30 significant reduction in vascular penneability (Weiser, M.R., et al., J. Exp. Med.
   183:2343-48, 1996).        In contrast, renal I/R experiments with C4 knockout mice
   demonstrate no significant tissue protection, while C3-, C5-, and C6-knockout mice were
   protected from injury, suggesting that complement activation during renal I/R injury
                                                -23-

   occurs via the alternative pathway (Zhou, W., et al., J. Clin. Invest. 105:1363-71, 2000).
   Using factor D deficient mice, Stahl et al. recently presented evidence for an important
   role of the alternative pathway in intestinal I/R in mice (Stahl, G., et al., Am. J. Pathol.
   162:449-55, 2003).       In contrast, Williams et al. suggested a predominant role of the
 5 classical pathway for initiation of I/R injury in the intestine of mice by showing reduced
   organ staining for C3 and protection from injury in C4 and IgM (Rag1-/-) deficient mice
   (Williams, J.P., et al., J. Apple. Physiol. 86:938-42, 1999).
            Treatment of rats in a myocardial I/R model with monoclonal antibodies against
   rat mannan-binding lectin (MBL) resulted in reduced postischemic reperfusion injury
10 (Jordan, J.E., et al., Circulation 104:1413-18, 2001).        MBL antibodies also reduced
   complement deposition on endothelial cells in vitro after oxidative stress indicating a role
   for the lectin pathway in myocardial I/R injury (Collard, C.D., et al., Am. J. Pathol.
   156:1549-56, 2000).       There is also evidence that I/R injury in some organs may be
   mediated by a specific category of IgM, termed natural antibodies, and activation of the
15 classical pathway (Fleming, S.D., et al., J. Imtnunol. 169:2126-33, 2002; Reid, R.R.,
   et al., J. Immunol. 169:5433-40, 2002).
             Several inhibitors of complement activation have been developed as potential
   therapeutic agents to prevent morbidity and mortality resulting from myocardial I/R
   complications.     Two of these inhibitors, sCR1 (TP10) and humanized anti-C5 scFv
20 (Pexelizumab), have completed Phase II clinical trials. Pexelizumab has additionally
   completed a Phase III clinical trial. Although TP10 was well tolerated and beneficial to
   patients in early Phase I/II trials, results from a Phase II trial ending in February 2002
   failed to meet its primary endpoint. However, sub-group analysis of the data from male
   patients in a high-risk population undergoing open-heart procedures demonstrated
25 significantly decreased mortality and infarct size. Administration of a humanized anti-C5
   scFv decreased overall patient mortality associated with acute myocardial infarction in
   the COMA and COMPLY Phase II trials, but failed to meet the primary endpoint
   (Mahaffey, K.W., et al., Circulation 108:1176-83, 2003). Results from a recent Phase III
   anti-C5 scFv clinical trial (PRIMO-CABG) for improving surgically induced outcomes
30 following coronary artery bypass were recently released. Although the primary endpoint
   for this study was not reached, the study demonstrated an overall reduction in
   postoperative patient morbidity and mortality.
                                                  -24-

            One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the treatment of ischemia
   reperfusion injuries by treating a subject experiencing ischemic reperfusion with a
   therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical
   carrier. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject by intra
 5 arterial, intravenous, intracranial, intramuscular, subcutaneous, or other parenteral
   administration, and potentially orally for non-peptidergic inhibitors, and most suitably by
   intra-arterial or intravenous administration. Administration of the MASP-2 inhibitory
   compositions of the present invention suitably commences immediately after or as soon
   as possible after an ischemia reperfusion event. In instances where reperfusion occurs in
10 a controlled environment (e.g., following an aortic aneurism repair, organ transplant or
   reattachment of severed or traumatized limbs or digits), the MASP-2 inhibitory agent
   may be administered prior to and/or during and/or after reperfusion. Administration may
   be repeated periodically as determined by a physician for optimal therapeutic effect.
            ATHEROSCLEROSIS
15          There is considerable evidence that complement activation is involved in
   atherogenesis in humans. A number of studies have convincingly shown that, although
   no significant complement activation takes place in normal arteries, complement is
   extensively activated in atherosclerotic lesions and is especially strong in vulnerable and
   ruptured plaques. Components of the terminal complement pathway are frequently found
20 in human atheromas (Niculescu, F., et al., Mol. Immunol. 36:949-55.10-12, 1999; Rus,
   H.G., et al., Immunol. Lett. 20:305-310, 1989; Torzewski, M., et al., Arterioscler.
   Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 18:369-378, 1998). C3 and C4 deposition in arterial lesions has also
   been demonstrated (Hansson, G.K., et al., Acta Pathol.Microbiol. Immunol. Scand. (A)
   92:429-35, 1984).       The extent of C5b-9 deposition was found to correlate with the
25 severity of the lesion (Vlaicu, R., et al., Atherosclerosis 57:163-77, 1985). Deposition of
   complement iC3b, but not C5b-9, was especially strong in ruptured and vulnerable
   plaques, suggesting that complement .activation may be a factor in acute coronary
   syndromes (Taskinen S., et al., Biochem. J 367:403-12, 2002). In experimental atheroma
   in rabbits, complement activation was found to precede the development of lesions
30 (Seifer, P.S., et al., Lab Invest. 60:747-54, 1989).
            In atherosclerotic lesions, complement is activated via the classic and alternative
   pathways, but there is little evidence, as yet, of complement activation via the lectin
   pathway. Several components of the arterial wall may trigger complement activation.
                                                 -25-

   The classical pathway of complement may be activated by C-reactive protein (CRP)
   bound to enzymatically degraded LDL (Bhakdi, S., et al., Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc.
   Biol. 19:2348-54, 1999).      Consistent with this view is the finding that the terminal
   complement proteins colocalize with CRP in the intima of early human lesions
 5 (Torzewski, J., et al., Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 18:1386-92, 1998). Likewise,
   immunoglobulin M or IgG antibodies specific for oxidized LDL within lesions may
   activate the classical pathway (Witztum, J.L., Lancet 344:793-95, 1994). Lipids isolated
   from human atherosclerotic lesions have a high content of unesterified cholesterol and are
   able to activate the alternative pathway (Seifert P.S., et al., J. Exp. Med. 172:547-57,
10  1990).   Chlamydia pneumoniae, a Gram-negative bacteria frequently associated with
   atherosclerotic lesions, may also activate the alternative pathway of complement
   (Campbell L.A., et al., J. Infect. Dis. 172:585-8, 1995).       Other potential complement
   activators present in atherosclerotic lesions include cholesterol crystals and cell debris,
   both of which can activate the alternative pathway (Seifert, P.S., et al., Mol. Immunol.
15 24:1303-08, 1987).
           Byproducts of complement activation are known to have many biological
   properties that could influence the development of atherosclerotic lesions.           Local
   complement activation may induce cell lysis and generate at least some of the cell debris
   found in the necrotic core of advanced lesions (Niculescu, F. et al., Mol. Immunol.
20 36:949-55.10-12, 1999).     Sublytic complement activation could be a significant factor
   contributing to smooth muscle cell proliferation and to monocyte infiltration into the
   arterial intima during atherogenesis (Torzewski J., et al., Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc.
   Biol. 18:673-77, 1996). Persistent activation of complement may be detrimental because
   it may trigger and sustain inflammation. In addition to the infiltration of complement
25 components from blood plasma, arterial cells express messenger RNA for complement
   proteins and the expression of various complement components is upregulated in
   atherosclerotic lesions (Yasojima, K., et al., Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Bio. 21:1214
   19, 2001).
           A limited number of studies on the influence of complement protein deficiencies
30 on atherogenesis have been reported. The results in experimental animal models have
   been conflicting. In the rat, the formation of atherosclerotic-like lesions induced by toxic
   doses of vitamin D was diminished in complement-depleted animals (Geertinger P., et al.,
   Acta. Pathol. Microbiol. Scand. (A) 78:284-88, 1970). Furthermore, in cholesterol-fed
                                               -26-

   rabbits, complement inhibition either by genetic C6 deficiency (Geertinger, P., et al.,
   Artery 1:177-84, 1977; Schmiedt, W., et al., Arterioscl. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 18:1790
    1795, 1998) or by anticomplement agent K-76 COONa (Saito, E., et al., J. Drug Dev.
   3:147-54, 1990) suppressed the development of atherosclerosis without affecting the
 5 serum cholesterol levels. In contrast, a recent study reported that C5 deficiency does not
   reduce the development of atherosclerotic lesions in apolipoprotein E (ApoE) deficient
   mice (Patel, S., et al., Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 286:164-70, 2001). However, in
   another study the development of atherosclerotic lesions in LDLR-deficient (ldlr-) mice
   with or without C3 deficiency was evaluated (Buono, C., et al., Circulation 105:3025-31,
10 2002).    They found that the maturation of atheromas to atherosclerotic-like lesions
   depends in part of the presence of an intact complement system.
            One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the treatment or prevention of
   atherosclerosis by treating a subject suffering from or prone to atherosclerosis with a
   therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical
15 carrier. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject by intra
   arterial, intravenous, intrathecal, intracranial, intramuscular, subcutaneous or other
   parenteral    administration,   and potentially    orally for non-peptidergic       inhibitors.
   Administration of the MASP-2 inhibitory composition may commence after diagnosis of
   atherosclerosis in a subject or prophylactically in a subject at high risk of developing such
20 a condition. Administration may be repeated periodically as determined by a physician
   for optimal therapeutic effect.
            OTHER VASCULAR DISEASES AND CONDITIONS
            The endothelium is largely exposed to the immune system and is particularly
   vulnerable to complement proteins that are present in plasma. Complement-mediated
25 vascular injury has been shown to contribute to the pathophysiology of several diseases
   of the     cardiovascular     system, including     atherosclerosis   (Seifert,  P.S.,   et al.,
   Atherosclerosis 73:91-104, 1988), ischemia-reperfusion injury (Weisman, H.F., Science
   249:146-51, 1990) and myocardial infarction (Tada, T., et al., Virchows Arch 430:327
   332, 1997). Evidence suggests that complement activation may extend to other vascular
30 conditions.
            For example, there is evidence that complement activation contributes to the
   pathogenesis of many forms of vasculitis, including: Henoch-Schonlein purpura nephritis,
   systemic lupus erythematosus-associated vasculitis, vasculitis associated with rheumatoid
                                               -27-

   arthritis (also called malignant rheumatoid arthritis), immune complex vasculitis, and
   Takayasu's disease. Henoch-Schonlein purpura nephritis is a form of systemic vasculitis
   of the small vessels with immune pathogenesis, in which activation of complement
   through the lectin pathway leading to C5b-9-induced endothelial damage is recognized as
 5 an important mechanism (Kawana, S., et al., Arch. Dermatol. Res. 282:183-7, 1990;
   Endo, M., et al., Am J. Kidney Dis. 35:401-7, 2000).        Systemic lupus erythematosus
   (SLE) is an example of systemic autoimmune diseases that affects multiple organs,
   including skin, kidneys, joints, serosal surfaces, and central nervous system, and is
   frequently associated with severe vasculitis.    IgG anti-endothelial antibodies and IgG
10 complexes capable of binding to endothelial cells are present in the sera of patients with
   active SLE, and deposits of IgG immune complexes and complement are found in blood
   vessel walls of patients with SLE vasculitis (Cines, D.B., et al., J. Clin. Invest. 73:611-25,
    1984). Rheumatoid arthritis associated with vasculitis, also called malignant rheumatoid
   arthritis (Tomooka, K., Fukuoka Igaku Zasshi 80:456-66, 1989), immune-complex
15 vasculitis, vasculitis associated with hepatitis A, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, and the
   arteritis known as Takayasu's disease, form another pleomorphic group of human diseases
   in which complement-dependent cytotoxicity against endothelial and other cell types
   plays a documented role (Tripathy, N.K., et al., J. Rheumatol. 28:805-8, 2001).
            Evidence also suggests that complement activation plays a role in dilated
20 cardiomyopathy.       Dilated cardiomyopathy is a syndrome characterized by cardiac
   enlargement and impaired systolic function of the heart.          Recent data suggests that
   ongoing inflammation in the myocardium may contribute to the development of disease.
   C5b-9, the terminal membrane attack complex of complement, is known to significantly
   correlate with immunoglobulin deposition and myocardial expression of TNF-alpha. In
25 myocardial biopsies from 28 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy,                  myocardial
    accumulation of C5b-9 was demonstrated, suggesting that chronic immunoglobulin
   mediated complement activation in the myocardium may contribute in part to the
   progression of dilated cardiomyopathy (Zwaka, T.P., et al., Am. J. PathoL. 161(2):449-57,
   2002).
30          One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the treatment of a vascular
    condition, including cardiovascular conditions, cerebrovascular conditions, peripheral
    (e.g.,   musculoskeletal)    vascular    conditions,   renovascular        conditions,    and
   mesenteric/enteric vascular conditions, by administering a composition comprising            a
                                               -28-

   therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical
   carrier.    Conditions for which the invention is believed to be suited include, without
   limitation: vasculitis, including Henoch-Schonlein purpura nephritis, systemic lupus
   erythematosus-associated vasculitis, vasculitis associated with rheumatoid arthritis (also
 5 called malignant rheumatoid arthritis), immune complex vasculitis, and Takayasu's
   disease; dilated cardiomyopathy; diabetic angiopathy; Kawasaki's disease (arteritis); and
   venous gas embolus (VGE). Also, given that complement activation occurs as a result of
   luminal     trauma   and the foreign-body      inflammatory    response  associated with
   cardiovascular interventional procedures, it is believed that the MASP-2 inhibitory
10 compositions of the present invention may also be used in the inhibition of restenosis
   following stent placement, rotational atherectomy and/or percutaneous transluminal
   coronary angioplasty (PTCA), either alone or in combination with other restenosis
   inhibitory agents such as are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,492,332 to Demopulos.
            The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject by intra-arterial,
15 intravenous, intramuscular, intrathecal, intracranial, subcutaneous or other parenteral
   administration, and potentially orally for non-peptidergic inhibitors. Administration may
   be repeated periodically as determined by a physician for optimal therapeutic effect. For
   the inhibition of restenosis, the MASP-2 inhibitory composition may be administered
   before and/or during and/or after the placement of a stent or the atherectomy or
20 angioplasty procedure. Alternately, the MASP-2 inhibitory composition may be coated
   on or incorporated into the stent.
            GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS
            Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are chronic inflammatory disorders of the
   bowel that fall under the banner of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).              IBD is
25 characterized by spontaneously occurring, chronic, relapsing inflammation of unknown
   origin. Despite extensive research into the disease in both humans and experimental
   animals, the precise mechanisms of pathology remain to be elucidated. However, the
    complement system is believed to be activated in patients with IBD and is thought to play
   a role in disease pathogenesis (Kolios, G., et al., Hepato-Gastroenterology45:1601-9,
30  1998; Elmgreen, J., Dan. Med. Bull. 33:222, 1986).
            It has been shown that C3b and other activated complement products are found at
   the luminal face of surface epithelial cells, as well as in the muscularis mucosa and
   submucosal blood vessels in IBD patients (Halstensen, T.S., et al., Immunol. Res. 10:485
                                               -29-

    92, 1991; Halstensen, T.S., et al., Gastroenterology 98:1264, 1990).         Furthermore,
   polymorphonuclear cell infiltration, usually a result of C5a generation, characteristically
   is seen in the inflammatory bowel (Kohl, J., Mol. Immunol. 38:175, 2001).               The
   multifunctional complement inhibitor K-76, has also been reported to produce
 5  symptomatic improvement of ulcerative colitis in a small clinical study (Kitano, A., et al.,
   Dis. Colon Rectum 35:560, 1992), as well as in a model of carrageenan-induced colitis in
   rabbits (Kitano, A., et al., Clin. Exp. Immunol. 94:348-53, 1993).
            A novel human C5a receptor antagonist has been shown to protect against disease
   pathology in a rat model of IBD (Woodruff, T.M., et al., J. Immunol. 171:5514-20, 2003).
10 Mice that were genetically deficient in decay-accelerating factor (DAF), a membrane
   complement regulatory protein, were used in a model of IBD to demonstrate that DAF
   deficiency resulted in markedly greater tissue damage and increased proinflammatory
   cytokine production (Lin, F., et al., J. Immunol. 172:3836-41, 2004). Therefore, control
   of complement is important in regulating gut homeostasis and may be a major pathogenic
15 mechanism involved in the development of IBD.
            The present invention thus provides methods for inhibiting MASP-2-dependent
   complement activation in subjects suffering from inflammatory gastrointestinal disorders,
   including but not limited to pancreatitis, diverticulitis and bowel disorders including
   Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and irritable bowel syndrome, by administering a
20 composition comprising a therapeutically effect amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in
   a pharmaceutical carrier to a patient suffering from such a disorder.        The MASP-2
   inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject by intra-arterial, intravenous,
   intramuscular, subcutaneous, intrathecal, intracranial or other parenteral administration,
   and potentially orally for non-peptidergic inhibitors.    Administration may suitably be
25 repeated periodically as determined by a physician to control symptoms of the disorder
   being treated.
            PULMONARY CONDITIONS
            Complement has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many lung inflammatory
   disorders, including: acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (Ware, I., et al., N.
30 Engl. J. Med. 342:1334-49, 2000); transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) (Seeger,
   W., et al., Blood 76:1438-44, 1990); ischemia/reperfusion acute lung injury (Xiao, F.,
   et al., J. Apple. Physiol. 82:1459-65, 1997); chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
   (COPD) (Marc, M.M., et al., Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. (Epub ahead of print), March
                                               -30-

   23, 2004); asthma (Krug, N., et al., Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med. 164:1841-43, 2001);
   Wegener's granulomatosis (Kalluri, R., et al., J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 8:1795-800, 1997);
   and antiglomerular basement membrane disease (Goodpasture's disease) (Kondo, C.,
   et al., Clin. Exp. Immunol. 124:323-9, 2001).
 5          It is now well accepted that much of the pathophysiology of ARDS involves a
   dysregulated inflammatory cascade that begins as a normal response to an infection or
   other inciting event, but ultimately causes significant autoinjury to the host (Stanley, T.P.,
   Emerging Therapeutic Targets 2:1-16, 1998). Patients with ARDS almost universally
   show evidence of extensive complement activation (increased plasma levels of
10 complement components C3a and C5a), and the degree of complement activation has
   been correlated with the development and outcome of ARDS (Hammerschmidt, D.F.,
   et al., Lancet 1:947-49, 1980; Solomkin, J.S., et al., J. Surgery 97:668-78, 1985).
            Various experimental and clinical data suggest a role for complement activation in
   the pathophysiology of ARDS. In animal models, systemic activation of complement
15 leads to acute lung injury with histopathology similar to that seen in human ARDS (Till,
   G.O., et al., Am. J. Pathol. 129:44-53, 1987; Ward, P.A., Am. J. Pathol. 149:1081-86,
   1996).     Inhibiting the complement cascade by general complement depletion or by
   specific inhibition of C5a confers protection in animal models of acute lung injury
   (Mulligan, M.S., et al., J. Clin. Invest. 98:503-512, 1996). In rat models, sCR1 has a
20 protective effect in complement- and neutrophil-mediated lung injury (Mulligan, M.S.,
   Yeh, et al., J. Immunol. 148:1479-85, 1992).         In addition, virtually all complement
   components can be produced locally in the lung by type II alveolar cells, alveolar
   macrophages and lung fibroblasts (Hetland, G., et al., Scand. J. Immunol. 24:603-8, 1986;
   Rothman, B.I., et al., J. Immunol. 145:592-98, 1990). Thus the complement cascade is
25 well positioned to contribute significantly to lung inflammation and, consequently, to
   lung injury in ARDS.
            Asthma is, in essence, an inflammatory disease. The cardinal features of allergic
   asthma include airway hyperresponsiveness to a variety of specific and nonspecific
   stimuli, excessive airway mucus production, pulmonary eosinophilia, and elevated
30 concentration of serum IgE. Although asthma is multifactorial in origin, it is generally
   accepted that it arises as a result of inappropriate immunological responses to common
   environmental antigens in genetically susceptible individuals.            The fact that the
   complement system is highly activated in the human asthmatic lung is well documented
                                               -31-

   (Humbles, A.A., et al., Nature 406:998-01, 2002; van de Graf, E.A., et al., J. Immunol.
   Methods 147:241-50, 1992). Furthermore, recent data from animal models and humans
   provide evidence that complement activation is an important mechanism contributing to
   disease pathogenesis (Karp, C.L., et al., Nat. Immunol. 1:221-26, 2000; Bautsch, W.,
 5 et al., J. Immunol. 165:5401-5, 2000; Drouin, S.M., et al., J. Immunol. 169:5926-33,
   2002; Walters, D.M., et al., Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 27:413-18, 2002). A role for
   the lectin pathway in asthma is supported by studies using a murine model of chronic
   fungal asthma. Mice with a genetic deficiency in mannan-binding lectin develop an
   altered airway hyperresponsiveness compared to normal animals in this asthma model
10 (Hogaboam, C.M., et al., J. Leukoc. Biol. 75:805-14, 2004).
            Complement may be activated in asthma via several pathways, including:
   (a) activation through the classical pathway as a result of allergen-antibody complex
   formation; (b) alternative pathway activation on allergen surfaces; (c) activation of the
   lectin pathway through engagement of carbohydrate structures on allergens; and
15 (d) cleavage of C3 and C5 by proteases released from inflammatory cells. Although
   much remains to be learned about the complex role played by complement in asthma,
   identification of the complement activation pathways involved in the development of
   allergic asthma may provide a focus for development of novel therapeutic strategies for
   this increasingly important disease.
20          An aspect of the invention thus provides a method for treating pulmonary
   disorders, by administering a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount
   of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a phannaceutical carrier to a subject suffering from
   pulmonary disorders, including without limitation, acute respiratory distress syndrome,
   transfusion-related acute lung injury, ischemia/reperfusion acute lung injury, chronic
25 obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, Wegener's granulomatosis, antiglomerular
   basement membrane disease (Goodpasture's disease), meconium aspiration syndrome,
   bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, acute lung injury
   secondary to bum, non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema, transfusion-related respiratory
   depression, and emphysema. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the
30 subject systemically, such as by intra-arterial, intravenous, intramuscular, inhalational,
   nasal, subcutaneous or other parenteral         administration, or potentially by oral
   administration for non-peptidergic agents. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent composition
   may be combined with one or more additional therapeutic agents, including anti
                                              -32-

   inflammatory       agents,    antihistamines,  corticosteroids    or  antimicrobial   agents.
   Administration may be repeated as determined by a physician until the condition has been
   resolved.
            EXTRACORPOREAL CIRCULATION
 5          There are numerous medical procedures during which blood is diverted from a
   patient's circulatory system (extracorporeal circulation systems or ECC).               Such
   procedures      include     hemodialysis,  plasmapheresis,     leukopheresis,  extracorporeal
   membrane oxygenator (ECMO), heparin-induced extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
   LDL precipitation (HELP) and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). These procedures expose
10 blood or blood products to foreign surfaces that may alter normal cellular function and
   hemostasis. In pioneering studies Craddock et al. identified complement activation as the
   probable cause of granulocytopenia during hemodialysis (Craddock, P.R., et al., N. Engl.
   J. Med. 296:769-74, 1977).         The results of numerous studies between 1977 and the
   present time indicate that many of the adverse events experienced by patients undergoing
15 hemodialysis or CPB are caused by activation of the complement system (Chenoweth,
   D.E., Ann. N.Y Acad. Sci. 516:306-313, 1987; Hugh, TE, Complement 3:111-127, 1986;
    Cheung, A.K., J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 1:150-161, 1990; Johnson, R.J., Nephrol. Dial.
    Transplant 9:36-45 1994). For example, the complement activating potential has been
    shown to be an important criterion in determination of the biocompatibility of
20 hemodialyzers with respect to recovery of renal function, susceptibility to infection,
   pulmonary dysfunction, morbidity, and survival rate of patients with renal failure (Hakim,
   R.M., Kidney Int. 44:484-4946, 1993).
            It has been largely believed that complement activation by hemodialysis
   membranes occurs by alternative pathway mechanisms due to weak C4a generation
25  (Kirklin, J.K., et al., J. Thorac. Cardiovasc.Surg. 86:845-57, 1983; Vallhonrat, H., et al.,
   ASAIO J. 45:113-4, 1999), but recent work suggests that the classical pathway may also
   be involved (Wachtfogel, Y.T., et al., Blood 73:468-471, 1989). However, there is still
    inadequate understanding of the factors initiating and controlling complement activation
    on artificial surfaces including biomedical polymers. For example, Cuprophan membrane
30 used in hemodialysis has been classified as a very potent complement activator. While
   not wishing to be limited by theory, the inventors theorize that this could perhaps be
    explained in part by its polysaccharide nature.       The MASP-2-dependent complement
                                                 -33-

   activation system identified in this patent provides a mechanism whereby activation of
   the lectin pathway triggers alternative pathway activation.
            Patients undergoing ECC during CPB suffer a systemic inflammatory reaction,
   which is partly caused by exposure of blood to the artificial surfaces of the extracorporeal
 5 circuit, but also by surface-independent factors like surgical trauma and ischemia
   reperfusion injury (Butler, J., et al., Ann. Thorac. Surg. 55:552-9, 1993; Edmunds, L.H.,
   Ann. Thorac. Surg. 66(Suppl):S12-6, 1998; Asimakopoulos, G., Perfusion 14:269-77,
   1999).       The CPB-triggered      inflammatory reaction     can result in postsurgical
   complications, generally termed "postperfusion syndrome." Among these postoperative
10 events are cognitive deficits (Fitch, J., et al., Circulation 100(25):2499-2506, 1999),
   respiratory failure, bleeding disorders, renal dysfunction and, in the most severe cases,
   multiple organ failure (Wan, S., et al., Chest 112:676-692, 1997).          Coronary bypass
   surgery with CPB leads to profound activation of complement, in contrast to surgery
   without CPB but with a comparable degree of surgical trauma (E. Fosse, 1987).
15 Therefore, the primary suspected cause of these CPB-related problems is inappropriate
   activation of complement during the bypass procedure (Chenoweth, K., et al., N. Engl. J.
   Med. 304:497-503, 1981; P. Haslam, et al., Anaesthesia 25:22-26, 1980; J.K. Kirklin,
   et al., J. Thorac. Cardiovasc. Surg. 86:845-857, 1983; Moore, F.D., et al., Ann. Surg
   208:95-103, 1988; J. Steinberg, et al., J. Thorac. Cardiovasc. Surg 106:1901-1918,
20 1993). In CPB circuits, the alternative complement pathway plays a predominant role in
   complement activation, resulting from the interaction of blood with the artificial surfaces
   of the CPB circuits (Kirklin, J.K., et al., J. Thorac. Cardiovasc.Surg., 86:845-57, 1983;
   Kirklin, J.K., et al., Ann. Thorac. Surg. 41:193-199, 1986; Vallhonrat H., et al., ASAIO J.
   45:113-4, 1999). However, there is also evidence that the classical complement pathway
25 is activated during CPB (Wachtfogel, Y.T., et al., Blood 73:468-471, 1989).
            Primary inflammatory       substances   are generated     after activation  of the
   complement system, including anaphylatoxins C3a and C5a, the opsonin C3b, and the
   membrane attack complex C5b-9. C3a and C5a are potent stimulators of neutrophils,
   monocytes, and platelets (Haeffner-Cavaillon, N., et al., J. Immunol. ,139:794-9, 1987;
30 Fletcher, M.P., et al., Am. J. Physiol. 265:H1750-61, 1993; Rinder, C.S., et al., J. Clin.
   Invest. 96:1564-72, 1995; Rinder, C.S., et al., Circulation 100:553-8, 1999). Activation
   of these cells results in release of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1, IL-6, IL-8, TNF
   alpha), oxidative free radicals and proteases (Schindler, R., et al., Blood 76:1631-8, 1990;
                                                -34-

   Cruickshank, A.M., et al., Clin Sci. (Lond) 79:161-5, 1990; Kawamura, T., et al., Can. J.
   Anaesth. 40:1016-21,      1993; Steinberg, J.B., et al., J. Thorac. Cardiovasc. Surg.
    106:1008-1, 1993; Finn, A., et al., J. Thorac. Cardiovasc. Surg. 105:234-41, 1993;
   Ashraf, S.S., et al., J. Cardiothorac. Vasc. Anesth. 11:718-22, 1997).          C5a has been
 5 shown     to  upregulate     adhesion    molecules    CD11b    and    CD18     of Mac-l   in
   polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs) and to induce degranulation of PMNs to release
   proinflammatory enzymes. Rinder, C., et al., CardiovascPharmacol.27(Suppl 1):S6-12,
   1996; Evangelista, V., et al., Blood 93:876-85, 1999; Kinkade, J.M., Jr., et al., Biochem.
   Biophys. Res. Commun. 114:296-303, 1983; Lamb, N.J., et al., Crit. Care Med. 27:1738
10 44, 1999; Fujie, K., et al., Eur. J. Pharmacol. 374:117-25, 1999.          C5b-9 induces the
   expression of adhesion molecule P-selectin (CD62P) on platelets (Rinder, C.S., et al., J.
   Thorac. Cardiovasc.Surg. 118:460-6, 1999), whereas both C5a and C5b-9 induce surface
   expression of P-selectin on endothelial cells (Foreman, K.E., et al., J. Clin. Invest.
   94:1147-55, 1994). These adhesion molecules are involved in the interaction among
15 leukocytes, platelets and endothelial cells. The expression of adhesion molecules on
   activated endothelial cells is responsible for sequestration of activated leukocytes, which
   then mediate tissue inflammation and injury (Evangelista, V., Blood 1999; Foreman,
   K.E., J. Clin. Invest. 1994; Lentsch, A.B., et al., J. Pathol. 190:343-8, 2000). It is the
   actions of these complement activation products on neutrophils, monocytes, platelets and
20 other circulatory cells that likely lead to the various problems that arise after CPB.
           Several complement inhibitors are being studied for potential applications in CPB.
   They include a recombinant soluble complement receptor 1 (sCR1) (Chai, P.J., et al.,
   Circulation 101:541-6, 2000), a humanized single chain anti-C5 antibody (h5Gl.l-scFv
   or Pexelizumab) (Fitch, J.C.K., et al., Circulation 100:3499-506, 1999), a recombinant
25 fusion hybrid (CAB-2) of human membrane cofactor protein and human decay
   accelerating factor (Rinder, C.S., et al., Circulation 100:553-8, 1999), a 13-residue C3
   binding cyclic peptide (Compstatin) (Nilsson, B., et al., Blood 92:1661-7, 1998) and an
   anti-factor D MoAb (Fung, M., et al., J. Thoracic Cardiovasc.Surg. 122:113-22, 2001).
   SCR1 and CAB-2 inhibit the classical and alternative complement pathways at the steps
30 of C3 and C5 activation. Compstatin inhibits both complement pathways at the step of
   C3 activation, whereas h5G1.1-scFv does so only at the step of C5 activation. Anti-factor
   D MoAb inhibits the alternative pathway at the steps of C3 and C5 activation. However,
                                                 -35-

   none of these complement inhibitors would specifically inhibit the MASP-2-dependent
   complement activation system identified in this patent.
            Results from a large prospective phase 3 clinical study to investigate the efficacy
   and safety of the humanized single chain anti-C5 antibody (h5Gl.l-scFv, pexelizu mab)
 5 in reducing perioperative MI and mortality in coronary artery bypass graft (CABG)
   surgery has been reported (Verrier, E.D., et al., JAMA 291:2319-27, 2004). Compared
   with placebo, pexelizu mab was not associated with a significant reduction in the risk of
   the composite end point of death or MI in 2746 patients who had undergone CABG
   surgery.     However, there was a statistically significant reduction 30 days after the
10 procedure among all 3099 patients undergoing CABG surgery with or without valve
   surgery. Since pexelizu mab inhibits at the step of C5 activation, it inhibits C5a and
   sC5b-9 generation but has no effect on generation of the other two potent complement
   inflammatory substances, C3a and opsonic C3b, which are also known to contribute to
   the CPB-triggered inflammatory reaction.
15           One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the prevention or treatment of
    extracorporeal exposure-triggered inflammatory reaction by treating a subject undergoing
    an extracorporeal circulation procedure with a composition comprising a therapeutically
    effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical carrier, including
   patients    undergoing     hemodialysis,  plasmapheresis,   leukopheresis,    extracorporeal
20 membrane oxygenation (ECMO), heparin-induced extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
    LDL precipitation (HELP) and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).            MASP-2 inhibitory
    agent treatment in accordance with the methods of the present invention is believed to be
    useful in reducing or preventing the cognitive dysfunction that sometimes results from
    CPB procedures.       The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject
25  preprocedurally and/or intraprocedurally and/or postprocedurally, such as by intra
    arterial, intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or other parenteral administration.
    Alternately, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be introduced to the subject's bloodstream
    during extracorporeal circulation, such as by injecting the MASP-2 inhibitory agent into
    tubing or a membrane through or past which the blood is circulated or by contacting the
30  blood with a surface that has been coated with the MASP-2 inhibitory agent such as an
    interior wall of the tubing, membrane or other surface such as a CPB device.
                                                -36-

   INFLAMMATORY AND NON-INFLAMMATORY ARTHRITIDES AND OTHER
   MUSCULOSKELETAL DISEASES
            Activation of the complement system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a
   wide variety of rheumatological diseases; including rheumatoid arthritis (Linton, S.M.,
 5 et al., Molec. Immunol. 36:905-14, 1999), juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (Mollnes, T.E.,
   et al., ArthritisRheum. 29:1359-64, 1986), osteoarthritis (Kemp, P.A., et al., J Clin. Lab.
   Immunol. 37:147-62, 1992), systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE) (Molina, H., Current
   Opinion in Rheumatol. 14:492-497, 2002), Behcet's syndrome (Rumfeld, W.R., et al., Br.
   J. Rheumatol. 25:266-70,       1986) and Sjogren's syndrome (Sanders, M.E., et al.,
10 J. Immunol. 138:2095-9, 1987).
            There is compelling evidence that immune-complex-triggered             complement
   activation is a major pathological mechanism that contributes to tissue damage in
   rheumatoid arthritis     (RA).      There are numerous    publications documenting that
   complement activation products are elevated in the plasma of RA patients (Morgan, B.P.,
15 et al., Clin. Exp. Immunol, 73:473-478, 1988; Auda, G., et al., Rheumatol. Int. 10:185
   189, 1990; Rumfeld, W.R., et al., Br. J. Rheumatol. 25:266-270, 1986). Complement
   activation products such as C3a, C5a, and sC5b-9 have also been found within inflamed
   rheumatic joints and positive correlations have been established between the degree of
   complement activation and the severity of RA (Makinde, V.A., et al., Ann. Rheum. Dis.
20 48:302-306, 1989; Brodeur, J.P., et al., Arthritis Rheumatism 34:1531-1537, 1991). In
   both adult and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, elevated serum and synovial fluid levels of
   alternative pathway complement activation product Bb compared to C4d (a marker for
   classical   pathway    activation),   indicate that complement    activation   is mediated
   predominantly by the alternative pathway (El-Ghobarey, A.F. et al., J. Rheumatology
25 7:453-460, 1980; Agarwal, A., et al., Rheumatology 39:189-192, 2000).          Complement
   activation products can directly damage tissue (via C5b-9) or indirectly mediate
   inflammation through recruitment of inflammatory cells by the anaphylatoxins C3a and
   C5a.
            Animal models of experimental arthritis have been widely used to investigate the
30 role of complement in the pathogenesis of RA. Complement depletion by cobra venom
   factor in animal models of RA prevents the onset of arthritis (Morgan, K., et al., Arthritis
   Rheumat. 24:1356-1362, 1981; Van Lent, P.L., et al., Am. J Pathol. 140:1451-1461,
   1992). Intra-articular injection of the soluble form of complement receptor 1 (sCR1), a
                                                 -37-

   complement inhibitor, suppressed inflammation in a rat model of RA (Goodfellow, R.M.,
   et al., Clin. Exp. Immunol. 110:45-52,        1997).    Furthermore, sCR1 inhibits the
   development and progression of rat collagen-induced arthritis (Goodfellow, R.M., et al.,
   Clin Exp. Immunol. 119:210-216, 2000).           Soluble CR1 inhibits the classical and
 5 alternative complement pathways at the steps of C3 and C5 activation in both the
   alternative pathway and the classical pathway, thereby inhibiting generation of C3a, C5a
   and sC5b-9.
            In the late 1970s it was recognized that immunization of rodents with
   heterologous type II collagen (CII; the major collagen component of human joint
10 cartilage) led to the development of an autoimmune arthritis (collagen-induced arthritis,
   or CIA) with significant similarities to human RA (Courtenay, J.S., et al., Nature
   283:666-68, 1980), Banda et al., J. of Immunol. 171: 2109-2115 (2003)).              The
   autoimmune response in susceptible animals involves a complex combination of factors
   including specific major histocompatability complex (MHC) molecules, cytokines and
15 CII-specific B- and T-cell responses (reviewed by Myers, L.K., et al., Life Sciences
   61:1861-78, 1997). The observation that almost 40% of inbred mouse strains have a
   complete deficiency in complement component C5 (Cinader, B., et al., J. Exp. Med.
    120:897-902, 1964) has provided an indirect opportunity to explore the role of
   complement in this arthritic model by comparing CIA between C5-deficient and
20 sufficient strains. Results from such studies indicate that C5 sufficiency is an absolute
   requirement for the development of CIA (Watson et al., 1987; Wang, Y., et al., J.
   Immunol. 164:4340-4347, 2000).         Further evidence of the importance of C5 and
   complement in RA has been provided by the use of anti-C5 monoclonal antibodies
   (MoAbs).     Prophylactic intraperitoneal administration of anti-C5 MoAbs in a murine
25 model of CIA almost completely prevented disease onset while treatment during active
   arthritis resulted in both significant clinical benefit and milder histological disease
   (Wang, Y., et al., Proc.NatI. Acad. Sci. USA 92:8955-59, 1995).
            Additional insights about the potential role of complement activation in disease
   pathogenesis have been provided by studies using K/BxN T-cell receptor transgenic mice,
30 a recently developed model of inflammatory arthritis (Korganow, A.S., et al., Immunity
    10:451-461, 1999). All K/BxN animals spontaneously develop an autoimmune disease
   with most (although not all) of the clinical, histological and immunological features of
   RA in humans. Furthermore, transfer of serum from arthritic K/BxN mice into healthy
                                               -38-

   animals provokes arthritis within days via the transfer of arthritogenic immunoglobulins.
   To identify the specific complement activation steps required for disease development,
   serum from arthritic K/BxN mice was transferred into various mice genetically deficient
   for a particular complement pathway product (Ji, H., et al., Immunity 16:157-68, 2002).
 5 Interestingly, the results of the study demonstrated that alternative pathway activation is
   critical, whereas classical pathway activation is dispensable. In addition, the generation
   of C5a is critical since both C5-deficient mice and C5aR-deficient mice were protected
   from disease development. Consistent with these results, a previous study reported that
   genetic ablation of C5a receptor expression protects mice from arthritis (Grant, E.P.,
10 et al., J. Exp. Med. 196:1461-1471, 2002).
            A humanized anti-C5 MoAb (5G1.1) that prevents the cleavage of human
   complement component C5 into its pro-inflammatory components is under development
   by Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., New Haven, Connecticut, as a potential treatment for
   RA.
15           Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease of undefined
   etiology that results in production of autoantibodies, generation of circulating immune
   complexes, and episodic, uncontrolled activation of the complement system. Although
   the origins of autoinmunity in SLE remain elusive, considerable information is now
   available implicating complement activation as an important mechanism contributing to
20 vascular injury in this disease (Abramson, S.B., et al., Hospital Practice 33:107-122,
    1998).    Activation of both the classical and alternative pathways of complement are
   involved in the disease and both C4d and Bb are sensitive markers of moderate-to-severe
   lupus disease activity (Manzi, S., et al., Arthrit. Rheumat. 39:1178-1188, 1996).
   Activation of the alternative complement pathway accompanies disease flares in systemic
25 lupus erythematosus during pregnancy (Buyon, J.P., et al., Arthritis Rheum. 35:55-61,
    1992).    In addition, the lectin pathway may contribute to disease development since
   autoantibodies against MBL have recently been identified in sera from SLE patients
   (Seelen, M.A., et al., Clin Exp. Immunol. 134:335-343, 2003).
             Immune complex-mediated activation of complement through the classic pathway
30 is believed to be one mechanism by which tissue injury occurs in SLE patients.
   However, hereditary deficiencies in complement components of the classic pathway
   increase the risk of lupus and lupus-like disease (Pickering, M.C., et al., Adv. Immunol.
   76:227-324, 2000). SLE, or a related syndrome occurs in more than 80% of persons with
                                               -39-

   complete deficiency of Clq, Clr/Cls, C4 or C3. This presents an apparent paradox in
   reconciling the harmful effects with the protective effects of complement in lupus.
            An important activity of the classical pathway appears to be promotion of the
   removal of immune complexes from the circulation and tissues by the mononuclear
 5 phagocytic system (Kohler, P.F., et al., Am. J. Med. 56:406-11, 1974).          In addition,
   complement has recently been found to have an important role in the removal and
   disposal of apoptotic bodies (Mevorarch, D., et al., J. Exp. Med. 188:2313-2320, 1998).
   Deficiency in classical pathway function may predispose subjects to the development of
   SLE by allowing a cycle to develop in which immune complexes or apoptotic cells
10 accumulate in tissues, cause inflammation and the release of autoantigens, which in turn
   stimulate the production of autoantibodies and more immune complexes and thereby
   evoke an autoimmune response (Botto, M., et al., Nat. Genet. 19:56-59, 1998; Botto, M.,
   Arthritis Res. 3:201-10, 2001). However, these "complete" deficiency states in classical
   pathway components are present in approximately one of 100 patients with SLE.
15 Therefore, in the vast majority of SLE patients, complement deficiency in classical
   pathway components does not contribute to the disease etiology and complement
    activation may be an important mechanism contributing to SLE pathogenesis. The fact
   that rare individuals with permanent genetic deficiencies in classical pathway components
    frequently develop SLE at some point in their lives testifies to the redundancy of
20 mechanisms capable of triggering the disease.
            Results from animal models of SLE support the important role of complement
    activation in pathogenesis of the disease. Inhibiting the activation of C5 using a blocking
    anti-C5 MoAb decreased proteinuria and renal disease in NZB/NZW Fl mice, a mouse
    model of SLE (Wang Y., et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:8563-8, 1996).
25  Furthermore,    treatment  with    anti-C5   MoAb     of mice      with  severe   combined
    immunodeficiency disease implanted with cells secreting anti-DNA antibodies results in
    improvement in the proteinuria and renal histologic picture with an associated benefit in
    survival compared to untreated controls (Ravirajan, C.T., et al., Rheumatology 43:442-7,
    2004). The alternative pathway also has an important role in the autoimmune disease
30  manifestations of SLE since backcrossing of factor B-deficient mice onto the MRL/lpr
    model of SLE revealed that the lack of factor B lessened the vasculitis, glomerular
    disease, C3 consumption and IgG3 RF levels typically found in this model without
    altering levels of other autoantibodies (Watanabe, H., et al., J. Immunol. 164:786-794,
                                                -40-

   2000). A humanized anti-C5 MoAb is under investigation as a potential treatment for
   SLE. This antibody prevents the cleavage of C5 to C5a and C5b. In Phase I clinical
   trials, no serious adverse effects were noted, and more human trials are under way to
   determine the efficacy in SLE (Strand, V., lupus 10:216-221, 2001).
 5          One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the prevention or treatment of
   inflammatory and non-inflammatory arthritides and other musculoskeletal disorders,
   including but not limited to osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid
   arthritis, gout, neuropathic arthropathy, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or other
   spondyloarthropathies and crystalline arthropathies, or systemic lupus erythematosus
10 (SLE), by administering a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
   MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical carrier to a subject suffering from such a
   disorder. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject systemically,
   such as by intra-arterial, intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or other parenteral
   administration, or potentially by oral administration for non-peptidergic agents.
15 Alternatively, administration may be by local delivery, such as by intra-articular
   injection.    The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered periodically over an
   extended period of time for treatment or control of a chronic condition, or may be by
   single or repeated administration in the period before, during and/or following acute
   trauma or injury, including surgical procedures performed on the joint.
20          RENAL CONDITIONS
            Activation of the complement system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a
   wide variety of renal diseases; including, mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis (IgA
   nephropathy, Berger's disease) (Endo, M., et al., Clin. Nephrology 55:185-191, 2001),
   membranous glomerulonephritis (Kerjashki, D., Arch B Cell Pathol. 58:253-71, 1990;
25 Brenchley, P.E., et al., Kidney Int., 41:933-7, 1992; Salant, D.J., et al., Kidney Int.
    35:976-84,     1989),   membranoproliferative       glomerulonephritis    (mesangiocapillary
    glomerulonephritis) (Bartlow, B.G., et al., Kidney Int. 15:294-300, 1979; Meri, S., et al.,
   J.     Exp.   Med.     175:939-50,    1992),    acute    postinfectious    glomerulonephritis
    (poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis), cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis (Ohsawa, I.,
30  et al., Clin Immunol. 101:59-66, 2001), lupus nephritis (Gatenby, P.A., Autoimmunity
    11:61-6, 1991), and Henoch-Schonlein purpura nephritis (Endo, M., et al., Am. J. Kidney
   Dis. 35:401-407, 2000).      The involvement of complement in renal disease has been
    appreciated for several decades but there is still a major discussion on its exact role in the
                                                -41-

   onset, the development and the resolution phase of renal disease.          Under normal
   conditions the contribution of complement is beneficial to the host, but inappropriate
   activation and deposition of complement may contribute to tissue damage.
           There is substantial evidence that glomerulonephritis, inflammation of the
 5 glomeruli, is often initiated by deposition of immune complexes onto glomerular or
   tubular structures which then triggers complement activation, inflammation and tissue
   damage.      Kahn and Sinniah demonstrated increased deposition of C5b-9 in tubular
   basement membranes       in biopsies taken from patients with various forms of
   glomerulonephritis (Kahn, T.N., et al., Histopath. 26:351-6, 1995). In a study of patients
10 with IgA nephrology (Alexopoulos, A., et al., Nephrol. Dial. Transplant 10:1166-1172,
   1995), C5b-9 deposition in the tubular epithelial/basement membrane structures
   correlated with plasma creatinine levels. Another study of membranous nephropathy
   demonstrated a relationship between clinical outcome and urinary sC5b-9 levels (Kon,
   S.P., et al., Kidney Int. 48:1953-58, 1995).      Elevated sC5b-9 levels were correlated
15 positively with poor prognosis.      Lehto et al., measured elevated levels of CD59, a
   complement regulatory factor that inhibits the membrane attack complex in plasma
   membranes, as well as C5b-9 in urine from patients with membranous glomerulonephritis
   (Lehto, T., et al., Kidney Int. 47:1403-11, 1995). Histopathological analysis of biopsy
   samples taken from these same patients demonstrated deposition of C3 and C9 proteins in
20 the glomeruli, whereas expression of CD59 in these tissues was diminished compared to
   that of normal kidney tissue. These various studies suggest that ongoing complement
   mediated glomerulonephritis results in urinary excretion of complement proteins that
   correlate with the degree of tissue damage and disease prognosis.
           Inhibition   of   complement     activation   in   various  animal   models     of
25 glomerulonephritis has also demonstrated the importance of complement activation in the
   etiology of the disease.      In a model of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis
   (MPGN), infusion of anti-Thyl antiserum in C6-deficient rats (that cannot form C5b-9)
   resulted in 90% less glomerular cellular proliferation, 80% reduction in platelet and
   macrophage infiltration, diminished collagen type IV synthesis (a marker for mesangial
30 matrix expansion), and 50% less proteinuria than in C6+ normal rats (Brandt, J., et al.,
   Kidney Int. 49:335-343, 1996). These results implicate C5b-9 as a major mediator of
   tissue damage by complement in this rat anti-thymocyte serum model. In another model
   of glomerulonephritis, infusion of graded dosages of rabbit anti-rat glomerular basement
                                              -42-

   membrane produced a dose-dependent influx of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN)
   that was attenuated by prior treatment with cobra venom factor (to consume complement)
   (Scandrett, A.L., et al., Am. J. Physiol. 268:F256-F265, 1995).      Cobra venom factor
   treated rats also showed diminished histopathology, decreased long-term proteinuria, and
 5 lower creatinine levels than control rats. Employing three models of GN in rats (anti
   thymocyte serum, Con A anti-Con A, and passive Heymann nephritis), Couser et al.,
   demonstrated the potential therapeutic efficacy of approaches to inhibit complement by
   using the recombinant sCR1 protein (Couser, W.G., et al., J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 5:1888
   94, 1995). Rats treated with sCR1 showed significantly diminished PMN, platelet and
10 macrophage influx, decreased mesangiolysis, and proteinuria versus control rats. Further
   evidence for the importance of complement activation in glomerulonephritis has been
   provided by the use of an anti-C5 MoAb in the NZB/W Fl mouse model. The anti-C5
   MoAb inhibits cleavage of C5, thus blocking generation of C5a and C5b-9. Continuous
   therapy with anti-C5 MoAb for 6 months resulted in significant amelioration of the
15 course of glomerulonephritis. A humanized anti-C5 MoAb monoclonal antibody (5G1.1)
   that prevents the cleavage of human complement component C5 into its pro
   inflammatory components is under development by Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., New
   Haven, Connecticut, as a potential treatment for glomerulonephritis.
            Direct evidence for a pathological role of complement in renal injury is provided
20 by studies of patients with genetic deficiencies in specific complement components. A
   number of reports have documented an association of renal disease with deficiencies of
   complement regulatory factor H (Ault, B.H., Nephrol. 14:1045-1053, 2000; Levy, M.,
   et al., Kidney Int. 30:949-56, 1986; Pickering, M.C., et al., Nat. Genet. 31:424-8, 2002).
   Factor H deficiency results in low plasma levels of factor B and C3 and in consumption
25 of C5b-9.       Both atypical membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) and
   idiopathic hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) are associated with factor H deficiency.
   Factor H deficient pigs (Jansen, J.H., et al., Kidney Int. 53:331-49, 1998) and factor H
   knockout mice (Pickering, M.C., 2002) display MPGN-like symptoms, confirming the
   importance of factor H in complement regulation. Deficiencies of other complement
30 components are associated with renal disease, secondary to the development of systemic
   lupus erythematosus (SLE) (Walport, M.J., Davies, et al., Ann. N.Y Acad. Sci. 815:267
   81, 1997). Deficiency for Clq, C4 and C2 predispose strongly to the development of
   SLE via mechanisms relating to defective clearance of immune complexes and apoptotic
                                               -43-

   material. In many of these SLE patients lupus nephritis occurs, characterized by the
   deposition of immune complexes throughout the glomerulus.
            Further evidence linking complement activation and renal disease has been
   provided by the identification in patients of autoantibodies directed against complement
 5 components, some of which have been directly related to renal disease (Trouw, L.A.,
   et al., Mo. Immunol. 38:199-206, 2001). A number of these autoantibodies show such a
   high degree of correlation with renal disease that the term nephritic factor (NeF) was
   introduced to indicate this activity. In clinical studies, about 50% of the patients positive
   for nephritic factors       developed MPGN         (Spitzer,  R.E.,  et al., Clin. Immunol.
10 Immunopathol. 64:177-83, 1992).           C3NeF is an autoantibody directed against the
   alternative pathway C3 convertase (C3bBb) and it stabilizes this convertase, thereby
   promoting alternative pathway activation (Daha, M.R., et al., J. Immunol. 116:1-7, 1976).
   Likewise, autoantibody with a specificity for the classical pathway C3 convertase
   (C4b2a), called C4NeF, stabilizes this convertase and thereby promotes classical pathway
15 activation (Daha, M.R. et al., J Immunol. 125:2051-2054, 1980; Halbwachs, L., et al.,
   J. Clin. Invest. 65:1249-56, 1980). Anti-Clq autoantibodies have been described to be
   related to nephritis in SLE patients (Hovath, L., et al., Clin. Exp. Rheumatol. 19:667-72,
   2001; Siegert, C., et al., J. Rheumatol. 18:230-34, 1991; Siegert, C., et al., Clin. Exp.
   Rheumatol. 10:19-23, 1992), and a rise in the titer of these anti-Clq autoantibodies was
20 reported to predict a flare of nephritis (Coremans, I.E., et al., Am. J Kidney Dis. 26:595
   601, 1995). Immune deposits eluted from postmortem kidneys of SLE patients revealed
   the accumulation of these anti-Cl q autoantibodies (Mannick, M., et al., Arthritis
   Rheumatol. 40:1504-11, 1997).         All these facts point to a pathological role for these
   autoantibodies. However, not all patients with anti-Clq autoantibodies develop renal
25 disease and also some healthy individuals have low titer anti-Cl q autoantibodies (Siegert,
   C.E., et al., Clin. Immunol. Immunopathol. 67:204-9, 1993).
            In addition to the alternative and classical pathways of complement activation, the
   lectin pathway may also have an important pathological role in renal disease. Elevated
   levels of MBL, MBL-associated seine protease and complement activation products
30 have been detected by immunohistochemical techniques on renal biopsy material
   obtained from patients diagnosed with several different renal diseases, including Henoch
   Schonlein purpura nephritis (Endo, M., et al., Am. J Kidney Dis. 35:401-407, 2000),
   cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis (Ohsawa, I., et al., Clin. Immunol. 101:59-66, 2001)
                                                 -44-

   and IgA neuropathy (Endo, M., et al., Clin. Nephrology 55:185-191, 2001). Therefore,
   despite the fact that an association between complement and renal diseases has been
   known for several decades, data on how complement exactly influences these renal
   diseases is far from complete.
 5         One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the treatment of renal conditions
   including but not limited to mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis, membranous
   glomerulonephritis,     membranoproliferative      glomerulonephritis    (mesangiocapillary
   glomerulonephritis),     acute   postinfectious     glomerulonephritis    (poststreptococcal
   glomerulonephritis), cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis, lupus nephritis, Henoch
10 Schonlein purpura nephritis or IgA nephropathy, by administering a composition
   comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a
   pharmaceutical carrier to a subject suffering from such a disorder.           The MASP-2
   inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject systemically, such as by intra-arterial,
   intravenous,    intramuscular,  subcutaneous     or other parenteral     administration, or
15 potentially by oral administration for non-peptidergic agents. The MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent may be administered periodically over an extended period of time for treatment or
   control of a chronic condition, or may be by single or repeated administration in the
   period before, during or following acute trauma or injury.
           SKIN DISORDERS
20         Psoriasis is a chronic, debilitating skin condition that affects millions of people
   and is attributed to both genetic and environmental factors. Topical agents as well as
   UVB and PUVA phototherapy are generally considered to be the first-line treatment for
   psoriasis.   However, for generalized or more extensive disease, systemic therapy is
   indicated as a primary treatment or, in some cases, to potentiate UVB and PUVA therapy.
25         The underlying etiology of various skins diseases such as psoriasis support a role
   for immune and proinflammatory processes including the involvement of the complement
   system.    Moreover, the role of the complement system has been established as an
   important nonspecific skin defense mechanism. Its activation leads to the generation of
   products that not only help to maintain normal host defenses, but also mediate
30 inflammation and tissue injury. Proinflammatory products of complement include large
   fragments of C3 with opsonic and cell-stimulatory activities (C3b and C3bi), low
   molecular weight anaphylatoxins (C3a, C4a, and C5a), and membrane attack complexes.
   Among them, C5a or its degradation product C5a des Arg, seems to be the most
                                               -45-

   important mediator because it exerts a potent chemotactic effect on inflammatory cells.
   Intradermal administration of C5a anaphylatoxin induces skin changes quite similar to
   those observed in cutaneous hypersensitivity vasculitis that occurs through immune
   complex-mediated complement activation. Complement activation is involved in the
 5 pathogenesis     of the inflammatory changes in autoimmune bullous dermatoses.
   Complement activation by pemphigus antibody in the epidermis seems to be responsible
   for the development of characteristic inflammatory changes termed eosinophilic
   spongiosis. In bullous pemphigoid (BP), interaction of basement membrane zone antigen
   and BP antibody leads to complement activation that seems to be related to leukocytes
10 lining the dermoepidermal junction.        Resultant anaphylatoxins not only activate the
   infiltrating leukocytes but also induce mast cell degranulation, which facilitates
   dermoepidermal separation and eosinophil infiltration. Similarly, complement activation
   seems to play a more direct role in the dermoepidermal separation noted in epidermolysis
   bullosa acquisita and herpes gestationis.
15          Evidence for the involvement of complement in psoriasis comes from recent
   experimental findings described in the literature related to the pathophysiological
   mechanisms for the inflammatory changes in psoriasis and related diseases. A growing
   body of evidence has indicated that T-cell-mediated immunity plays an important role in
   the triggering and maintenance of psoriatic lesions.            It has been revealed that
20 lymphokines produced by activated T-cells in psoriatic lesions have a strong influence on
   the proliferation of the epidermis.       Characteristic neutrophil accumulation under the
   stratum corneum can be observed in the highly inflamed areas of psoriatic lesions.
   Neutrophils are chemotactically attracted and activated there by synergistic action of
   chemokines, IL-8 and Gro-alpha released by stimulated keratinocytes, and particularly by
25 C5a/C5a des-arg produced via the alternative complement pathway activation (Terui, T.,
   Tahoku J. Exp. Med. 190:239-248, 2000; Terui, T., Exp. Dermatol. 9:1-10, 2000).
            Psoriatic scale extracts contain a unique chemotactic peptide fraction that is likely
   to be involved in the induction of rhythmic transepidermal leukocyte chemotaxis. Recent
   studies have identified the presence of two unrelated chemotactic peptides in this fraction,
30 i.e., C5a/C5a des Arg and interleukin 8 (IL-8) and its related cytokines. To investigate
   their relative contribution to the transepidermal leukocyte migration as well as their
   interrelationship in psoriatic lesions, concentrations of immunoreactive C5a/C5a desArg
   and IL-8 in psoriatic lesional scale extracts and those from related sterile pustular
                                                 -46-

   dermatoses were quantified. It was found that the concentrations of C5a/C5a desArg and
   IL-8 were more significantly increased in the horny-tissue extracts from lesional skin than
   in those from non-inflammatory orthokeratotic skin. The increase of C5a/C5a desArg
    concentration was specific to the lesional scale extracts. Based on these results, it appears
 5 that C5a/C5a desArg is generated only in the inflammatory lesional skin under specific
    circumstances that preferentially favor complement activation. This provides a rationale
   for the use of an inhibitor of complement activation to ameliorate psoriatic lesions.
           While the classical pathway of the complement system has been shown to be
   activated in psoriasis, there are fewer reports on the involvement of the alternative
10 pathway in the inflammatory reactions in psoriasis. Within the conventional view of
   complement activation pathways, complement fragments C4d and Bb are released at the
   time of the classical and alternative pathway activation, respectively. The presence of the
   C4d or Bb fragment, therefore, denotes a complement activation that proceeds through
   the classical and/or alternative pathway. One study measured the levels of C4d and Bb in
15 psoriatic scale extracts using enzyme immunoassay techniques.          The scales of these
   dermatoses contained higher levels of C4d and Bb detectable by enzyme immunoassay
   than those in the stratum corneum of noninflammatory skin (Takematsu, H., et al.,
   Dermatologica 181:289-292, 1990). These results suggest that the alternative pathway is
   activated in addition to the classical pathway of complement in psoriatic lesional skin.
20         Additional evidence for the involvement of complement in psoriasis and atopic
   dermatitis has been obtained by measuring normal complement components and
   activation products in the peripheral blood of 35 patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) and
   24 patients with psoriasis at a mild to intermediate stage. Levels of C3, C4 and C1
   inactivator (Cl INA) were determined in serum by radial immunodiffusion, whereas C3 a
25 and C5a levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. In comparison to healthy non
   atopic controls, the levels of C3, C4 and C1 INA were found to be significantly increased
   in both diseases. In AD, there was a tendency towards increased C3a levels, whereas in
   psoriasis, C3a levels were significantly increased. The results indicate that, in both AD
   and psoriasis, the complement system participates in the inflammatory process
30 (Ohkonohchi, K., et al., Dermatologica179:30-34, 1989).
           Complement activation in psoriatic lesional skin also results in the deposition of
   terminal complement complexes within the epidermis as defined by measuring levels of
   SC5b-9 in the plasma and horny tissues of psoriatic patients. The levels of SC5b-9 in
                                                -47-

   psoriatic plasma have been found to be significantly higher than those of controls or those
   of patients with atopic dermatitis. Studies of total protein extracts from lesional skin have
   shown that, while no SC5b-9 can be detected in the noninflammatory horny tissues, there
   were    high levels     of SC5b-9     in lesional     horny   tissues   of psoriasis.      By
 5 immunofluorescence using a monoclonal antibody to the C5b-9 neoantigen, deposition of
   C5b-9 has been observed only in the stratum corneum of psoriatic skin. In summary, in
   psoriatic lesional skin, the complement system is activated and complement activation
   proceeds all the way to the terminal step, generating membrane attack complex.
           New biologic drugs that selectively target the immune system have recently
10 become available for treating psoriasis. Four biologic drugs that are either currently FDA
   approved or in Phase 3 studies are: alefacept (Amevive@) and efalizuMoAb (Raptiva@)
   which are T-cell modulators; etanercept (Enbrel@), a soluble TNF-receptor; and
   inflixiMoAb (Remicade@), an anti-TNF monoclonal antibody. Raptiva is an immune
   response modifier, wherein the targeted mechanism of action is a blockade of the
15 interaction between LFA- 1 on lymphocytes and ICAM- 1 on antigen-presenting cells and
   on vascular endothelial cells.    Binding of CDl la by Raptiva results in saturation of
   available CDlla binding sites on lymphocytes and down-modulation of cell surface
   CDl la expression on lymphocytes. This mechanism of action inhibits T-cell activation,
   cell trafficking to the dermis and epidermis and T-cell reactivation. Thus, a plurality of
20 scientific evidence indicates a role for complement in inflammatory disease states of the
   skin and recent pharmaceutical approaches have targeted the immune system or specific
   inflammatory processes.       None, however, have identified MASP-2 as a targeted
   approach.     Based on the inventors' new understanding of the role of MASP-2 in
   complement activation, the inventors believe MASP-2 to be an effective target for the
25 treatment of psoriasis and other skin disorders.
            One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the treatment of psoriasis,
   autoimmune      bullous   dermatoses,    eosinophilic    spongiosis,   bullous pemphigoid,
   epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, atopic dermatitis, herpes gestationis and other skin
   disorders, and for the treatment of thermal and chemical burns including capillary leakage
30 caused thereby, by administering a composition comprising a therapeutically effective
   amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical carrier to a subject suffering
   from such a skin disorder. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the
   subject topically, by application of a spray, lotion, gel, paste, salve or irrigation solution
                                                -48-

     containing the MASP-2 inhibitory agent, or systemically such as by intra-arterial,
     intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or
     potentially by oral administration for non-peptidergic inhibitors. Treatment may involve
     a single administration or repeated applications or dosings for an acute condition, or by
  5  periodic applications or dosings for control of a chronic condition.
             TRANSPLANTATION
             Activation   of the complement         system   significantly  contributes    to  the
     inflammatory reaction after solid organ transplantation.         In allotransplantation, the
     complement system may be activated by ischemia/reperfusion and, possibly, by
 10  antibodies directed against the graft (Baldwin, W.M., et al., Springer Seminol
    Immunopathol. 25:181-197, 2003). In xenotransplantation from nonprimates to primates,
     the major activators for complement are preexisting antibodies. Studies in animal models
    have shown that the use of complement inhibitors may significantly prolong graft
     survival (see below). Thus, there is an established role of the complement system in
 15  organ injury after organ transplantation, and therefore the inventors believe that the use of
     complement inhibitors directed to MASP-2 may prevent damage to the graft after allo- or
    xenotransplantation.
            Innate immune mechanisms, particularly complement, play a greater role in
    inflammatory and immune responses against the graft than has been previously
20  recognized. For example, alternative complement pathway activation appears to mediate
    renal ischemia/reperfusion injury, and proximal tubular cells may be both the source and
    the site of attack of complement components in this setting.               Locally produced
    complement in the kidney also plays a role in the development of both cellular and
    antibody-mediated immune responses against the graft.
25          C4d is the degradation product of the activated complement factor C4, a
    component of the classical and lectin-dependent pathways. C4d staining has emerged as
    a useful marker of humoral rejection both in the acute and in the chronic setting and led
    to renewed interest in the significance of anti-donor antibody formation. The association
    between C4d and morphological signs of acute cellular rejection is statistically
30  significant. C4d is found in 24-43% of Type I episodes, in 45% of type II rejection and
    50% of type III rejection (Nickeleit, V., et al., J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 13:242-251, 2002;
    Nickeleit, V., et al., Nephrol. Dial. Transplant 18:2232-2239, 2003).          A number of
                                                 -49-

    therapies are in development that inhibit complement or reduce local synthesis as a means
    to achieve an improved clinical outcome following transplantation.
            Activation of the complement cascade occurs as a result of a number of processes
    during transplantation. Present therapy, although effective in limiting cellular rejection,
 5  does not fully deal with all the barriers faced. These include humoral rejection and
    chronic allograft nephropathy or dysfunction.         Although the overall response to the
    transplanted organ is a result of a number of effector mechanisms on the part of the host,
    complement may play a key role in some of these. In the setting of renal transplantation,
    local synthesis of complement by proximal tubular cells appears of particular importance.
10          The availability of specific inhibitors of complement may provide the opportunity
    for an improved clinical outcome following organ transplantation. Inhibitors that act by a
    mechanism that blocks complement attack may be particularly useful, because they hold
    the promise of increased efficacy and avoidance of systemic complement depletion in an
    already immuno-compromised recipient.
15          Complement also plays a critical role in xenograft rejection. Therefore, effective
    complement inhibitors are of great interest as potential therapeutic agents. In pig-to
   primate organ transplantation, hyperacute rejection (HAR) results from antibody
    deposition and complement activation. Multiple strategies and targets have been tested to
   prevent hyperacute xenograft rejection in the pig-to-primate combination.             These
20  approaches have been accomplished by removal of natural antibodies, complement
    depletion with cobra venom factor, or prevention of C3 activation with the soluble
    complement inhibitor sCR1. In addition, complement activation blocker-2 (CAB-2), a
   recombinant soluble chimeric protein derived from human decay accelerating factor
   (DAF) and membrane cofactor protein, inhibits C3 and C5 convertases of both classical
25 and alternative pathways. CAB-2 reduces complement-mediated tissue injury of a pig
   heart perfused ex vivo with human blood. A study of the efficacy of CAB-2 when a pig
   heart    was    transplanted    heterotopically    into   rhesus  monkeys    receiving   no
   immunosuppression showed that graft survival was markedly prolonged in monkeys that
   received CAB-2 (Salerno, C.T., et al., Xenotransplantation 9:125-134, 2002). CAB-2
30 markedly inhibited complement activation, as shown by a strong reduction in generation
   of C3a and SC5b-9. At graft rejection, tissue deposition of iC3b, C4 and C9 was similar
   or slightly reduced from controls, and deposition of IgG, IgM, Clq and fibrin did not
   change. Thus, this approach for complement inhibition abrogated hyperacute rejection of
                                                 -50-

   pig hearts transplanted into rhesus monkeys. These studies demonstrate the beneficial
   effects of complement inhibition on survival and the inventors believe that MASP-2
   inhibition may also be useful in xenotransplantation.
            Another approach has focused on determining if anti-complement 5 (C5)
 5 monoclonal antibodies could prevent hyperacute rejection (HAR) in a rat-to-presensitized
   mouse heart transplantation model and whether these MoAb, combined with cyclosporine
   and cyclophosphamide, could achieve long-term graft survival. It was found that anti-C5
   MoAb prevents HAR (Wang, H., et al., Transplantation 68:1643-1651, 1999).                The
   inventors thus believe that other targets in the complement cascade, such as MASP-2,
10 may also be valuable for preventing HAR and acute vascular rejection in future clinical
   xenotransplantation.
            While the pivotal role of complement in hyperacute rejection seen in xenografts is
   well established, a subtler role in allogeneic transplantation is emerging. A link between
   complement and the acquired immune response has long been known, with the finding
15 that complement-depleted animals mounted subnormal antibody responses following
   antigenic stimulation. Opsonization of antigen with the complement split product C3d
   has been shown to greatly increase the effectiveness of antigen presentation to B cells,
   and has been shown to act via engagement of complement receptor type 2 on certain B
   cells. This work has been extended to the transplantation setting in a skin graft model in
20 mice, where C3- and C4-deficient mice had a marked defect in allo-antibody production,
   due to failure of class switching to high-affinity IgG.           The importance of these
   mechanisms in renal transplantation is increased due to the significance of anti-donor
   antibodies and humoral rejection.
            Previous work has already demonstrated upregulation of C3 synthesis by proximal
25 tubular cells during allograft rejection following renal transplantation. The role of locally
   synthesized complement has been examined in a mouse renal transplantation model.
   Grafts from C3-negative donors transplanted into C3-sufficient recipients demonstrated
   prolonged survival (>100 days) as compared with control grafts from C3-positive donors,
   which were rejected within 14 days. Furthermore, the anti-donor T-cell proliferative
30 response in recipients of C3-negative grafts was markedly reduced as compared with that
   of controls, indicating an effect of locally synthesized C3 on T-cell priming.
            These observations suggest the possibility that exposure of donor antigen to T
   cells first occurs in the graft and that locally synthesized complement enhances antigen
                                                 -51-

   presentation, either by opsonization of donor antigen or by providing additional signals to
   both antigen-presenting cells and T-cells. In the setting of renal transplantation, tubular
   cells that produce complement also demonstrate complement deposition on their cell
   surface.
 5          One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the prevention or treatment of
   inflammatory reaction resulting from tissue or solid organ transplantation by
   administering a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2
   inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical carrier to the transplant recipient, including subjects
   that have received allotransplantation or xenotransplantation of whole organs (e.g.,
10 kidney, heart, liver, pancreas, lung, cornea, etc.) or grafts (e.g., valves, tendons, bone
   marrow, etc.). The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject by intra
   arterial, intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or
   potentially by oral administration for non-peptidergic inhibitors.     Administration may
   occur during      the acute period following       transplantation   and/or as long-term
15 posttransplantation therapy. Additionally or in lieu of posttransplant administration, the
   subject may be treated with the MASP-2 inhibitory agent prior to transplantation and/or
   during the transplant procedure, and/or by pretreating the organ or tissue to be
   transplanted with the MASP-2 inhibitory agent. Pretreatment of the organ or tissue may
   entail applying a solution, gel or paste containing the MASP-2 inhibitory agent to the
20 surface of the organ or tissue by spraying or irrigating the surface, or the organ or tissue
   may be soaked in a solution containing the MASP-2 inhibitor.
            CENTRAL AND PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS AND
            INJURIES
            Activation of the complement system has been implicated in the pathogenesis of a
25 variety of central nervous system (CNS) or peripheral nervous system (PNS) diseases or
   injuries, including but not limited to multiple sclerosis (MS), myasthenia gravis (MG),
   Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS),              Guillain Barre
   syndrome, reperfusion following stroke, degenerative discs, cerebral trauma, Parkinson's
   disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The initial determination that complement
30 proteins are synthesized in CNS cells including neurons, astrocytes and microglia, as well
   as the realization that anaphylatoxins generated in the CNS following complement
   activation can alter neuronal function, has opened up the potential role of complement in
   CNS disorders (Morgan, B.P., et al., Immunology Today 17:10: 461-466, 1996). It has
                                               -52-

   now been shown that C3a receptors and C5a receptors are found on neurons and show
   widespread distribution in distinct portions of the sensory, motor and limbic brain
   systems (Barum, S.R., Immunologic Research 26:7-13, 2002).               Moreover, the
   anaphylatoxins C5a and C3a have been shown to alter eating and drinking behavior in
 5 rodents and can induce calcium signaling in microglia and neurons. These findings raise
   possibilities regarding the therapeutic utility of inhibiting complement activation in a
   variety of CNS inflammatory diseases including cerebral trauma, demyelination,
   meningitis, stroke and Alzheimer's disease.
            Brain trauma or hemorrhage is a common clinical problem, and complement
10 activation may occur and exacerbate resulting inflammation and edema. The effects of
   complement inhibition have been studied in a model of brain trauma in rats (Kaczorowski
   et al., J. Cereb. Blood Flow Metab. 15:860-864, 1995).          Administration of sCR1
   immediately prior to brain injury markedly inhibited neutrophil infiltration into the
   injured area, indicating complement was important for recruitment of phagocytic cells.
15 Likewise, complement activation in patients following cerebral hemorrhage is clearly
   implicated by the presence of high levels of multiple complement activation products in
   both plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).         Complement activation and increased
   staining of C5b-9 complexes have been demonstrated in sequestered lumbar disc tissue
   and could suggest a role in disc herniation tissue-induced sciatica (Gronblad, M., et al.,
20 Spine 28(2):114-118, 2003).
            MS is characterized by a progressive loss of myelin ensheathing and insulating
   axons within the CNS. Although the initial cause is unknown, there is abundant evidence
   implicating the immune system (Prineas, J.W., et al., Lab Invest. 38:409-421, 1978;
   Ryberg, B., J. Neurol. Sci. 54:239-261, 1982).        There is also clear evidence that
25 complement plays a prominent role in the pathophysiology of CNS or PNS demyelinating
   diseases including MS, Guillain-Barre syndrome and Miller-Fisher syndrome (Gasque,
   P., et al., Immunopharmacology49:171-186, 2000; Barnum, S.R. in Bondy S. et al. (eds.)
   Inflammatory events       in neurodegeneration, Prominent       Press  139-156,   2001).
   Complement contributes to tissue destruction, inflammation, clearance of myelin debris
30 and even remyelination of axons. Despite clear evidence of complement involvement,
   the identification of complement therapeutic targets is only now being evaluated in
   experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis.
   Studies have established that EAE mice deficient in C3 or factor B showed attenuated
                                              -53-

    demyelination as compared to EAE control mice (Barnum, Immunologic Research 26:7
    13, 2002). EAE mouse studies using a soluble form of a complement inhibitor coined
    "sCrry" and C3-/- and factor B-/- demonstrated that complement contributes to the
    development and progression of the disease model at several levels. In addition, the
 5 marked reduction in EAE severity in factor B-/- mice provides further evidence for the
   role of the alternative pathway of complement in EAE (Nataf et al., J. Immunology
    165:5867-5873, 2000).
           MG is a disease of the neuromuscular junction with a loss of acetylcholine
   receptors and destruction of the end plate. sCR1 is very effective in an animal model of
10 MG, further indicating the role of complement in the disease (Piddelesden et al.,
   J. Neuroimmunol. 1997).
           The histological hallmarks of AD, a neurodegenerative disease, are senile plaques
   and neurofibrillary tangles (McGeer et al., Res. Immunol. 143:621-630, 1992).       These
   pathological markers also stain strongly for components of the complement system.
15 Evidence points to a local neuroinflammatory state that results in neuronal death and
   cognitive dysfunction.     Senile plaques contain abnormal amyloid-p-peptide (AP), a
   peptide derived from amyloid precursor protein. As has been shown to bind Cl and can
   trigger complement activation (Rogers et al., Res. Immunol. 143:624-630, 1992).         In
   addition, a prominent feature of AD is the association of activated proteins of the
20 classical complement pathway from Clq to C5b-9, which have been found highly
   localized in the neuritic plaques (Shen, Y., et al., Brain Research 769:391-395, 1997;
   Shen, Y., et al., Neurosci. Letters 305(3):165-168, 2001). Thus, As not only initiates the
   classical pathway, but a resulting continual inflammatory state may contribute to the
   neuronal cell death. Moreover, the fact that complement activation in AD has progressed
25 to the terminal C5b-9 phase indicates that the regulatory mechanisms of the complement
   system have been unable to halt the complement activation process.
           Several inhibitors of the complement pathway have been proposed as potential
   therapeutic approaches for AD, including proteoglycan as inhibitors of ClQ binding,
   Nafamstat as an inhibitor of C3 convertase, and CS activation blockers or inhibitors of
30 C5a receptors (Shen, Y., et al., Progressin Neurobiology, 70:463-472, 2003). The role of
   MASP-2 as an initiation step in the innate complement pathway, as well as for alternative
   pathway activation, provides a potential new therapeutic approach and is supported by the
   wealth of data suggesting complement pathway involvement in AD.
                                               -54-

            In damaged regions in the brains of PD patients, as in other CNS degenerative
    diseases, there is evidence of inflammation characterized by glial reaction (especially
    microglia), as well as increased expression of HLA-DR antigens, cytokines, and
    components of complement.           These observations suggest that immune system
 5  mechanisms are involved in the pathogenesis of neuronal damage in PD. The cellular
    mechanisms of primary injury in PD have not been clarified, however, but it is likely that
    mitochondrial mutations, oxidative stress and apoptosis play a role.           Furthermore,
    inflammation initiated by neuronal damage in the striatum and the substantial nigra in PD
   may aggravate the course of the disease. These observations suggest that treatment with
10  complement inhibitory drugs may act to slow progression of PD (Czlonkowska, A., et al.,
   Med. Sci. Monit. 8:165-177, 2002).
            One aspect of the invention is thus directed to the treatment of peripheral nervous
    system (PNS) and/or central nervous system (CNS) disorders or injuries by treating a
    subject suffering from such a disorder or injury with a composition comprising a
15 therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical
    carrier. CNS and PNS disorders and injuries that may be treated in accordance with the
   present invention are believed to include but are not limited to multiple sclerosis (MS),
   myasthenia gravis (MG), Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS),
    Guillain Barre syndrome, reperfusion following stroke, degenerative discs, cerebral
20 trauma, Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), Miller-Fisher syndrome,
   cerebral trauma and/or hemorrhage, demyelination and, possibly, meningitis.
            For treatment of CNS conditions and cerebral trauma, the MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent may be administered to the subject by intrathecal, intracranial, intraventricular,
   intra-arterial,   intravenous,   intramuscular,     subcutaneous,    or   other   parenteral
25 administration, and potentially orally for non-peptidergic inhibitors. PNS conditions and
   cerebral trauma may be treated by a systemic route of administration or alternately by
   local administration to the site of dysfunction or trauma. Administration of the MASP-2
   inhibitory compositions of the present invention may be repeated periodically as
   determined by a physician until effective relief or control of the symptoms is achieved.
30          BLOOD DISORDERS
            Sepsis is caused by an overwhelming reaction of the patient to invading
   microorganisms.      A major function of the complement system is to orchestrate the
   inflammatory response to invading bacteria and other pathogens. Consistent with this
                                               -55-

   physiological role, complement activation has been shown in numerous studies to have a
   major role in the pathogenesis of sepsis (Bone, R.C., Annals. Internal.Med. 115:457-469,
    1991). The definition of the clinical manifestations of sepsis is ever evolving. Sepsis is
   usually defined as the systemic host response to an infection.            However, on many
 5 occasions, no clinical evidence for infection (e.g., positive bacterial blood cultures) is
   found in patients with septic symptoms. This discrepancy was first taken into account at
   a Consensus Conference in 1992 when the term "systemic inflammatory response
    syndrome" (SIRS) was established, and for which no definable presence of bacterial
   infection was required (Bone, R.C., et al., Crit. Care Med. 20:724-726, 1992). There is
10 now general agreement that sepsis and SIRS are accompanied by the inability to regulate
   the inflammatory response. For the purposes of this brief review, we will consider the
   clinical definition of sepsis to also include severe sepsis, septic shock, and SIRS.
            The predominant source of infection in septic patients before the late 1980s was
   Gram-negative bacteria. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the main component of the Gram
15 negative bacterial cell wall, was known to stimulate release of inflammatory mediators
   from various cell types and induce acute infectious symptoms when injected into animals
   (Haeney,     M.R.,     et al., Antimicrobial Chemotherapy 41(Suppl. A):41-6,         1998).
   Interestingly, the spectrum of responsible microorganisms appears to have shifted from
   predominantly Gram-negative bacteria in the late 1970s and 1980s to predominantly
20 Gram-positive bacteria at present, for reasons that are currently unclear (Martin, G.S.,
   et al., N. Eng. J. Med. 348:1546-54, 2003).
            Many studies have shown the importance of complement activation in mediating
   inflammation and contributing to the features of shock, particularly septic and
   hemorrhagic shock.         Both Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms commonly
25 precipitate septic shock. LPS is a potent activator of complement, predominantly via the
   alternative pathway, although classical pathway activation mediated by antibodies also
   occurs (Fearon, D.T., et al., N. Engl. J. Med. 292:937-400, 1975). The major components
   of the Gram-positive cell wall are peptidoglycan and lipoteichoic acid, and both
   components are potent activators of the alternative complement pathway, although in the
30 presence of specific antibodies they can also activate the classical complement pathway
   (Joiner, K.A., et al., Ann. Rev. Immunol. 2:461-2, 1984).
            The complement system was initially implicated in the pathogenesis of sepsis
   when it was noted by researchers that anaphylatoxins C3a and C5a mediate a variety of
                                                 -56-

   inflammatory reactions that might also occur during sepsis. These anaphylatoxins evoke
   vasodilation and an increase in microvascular permeability, events that play a central role
   in septic shock (Schumacher, W.A., et al., Agents Actions 34:345-349, 1991).                 In
   addition, the anaphylatoxins induce bronchospasm, histamine release from mast cells, and
 5 aggregation of platelets. Moreover, they exert numerous effects on granulocytes, such as
   chemotaxis, aggregation, adhesion, release of lysosomal enzymes, generation of toxic
   super oxide anion and formation of leukotrienes (Shin, H.S., et al., Science 162:361-363,
   1968; Vogt, W., Complement 3:177-86, 1986). These biologic effects are thought to play
   a role in development of complications of sepsis such as shock or acute respiratory
10 distress syndrome (ARDS) (Hammerschmidt, D.E., et al., Lancet 1:947-949, 1980;
   Slotman, G.T., et al., Surgery 99:744-50, 1986).       Furthermore, elevated levels of the
   anaphylatoxin C3a is associated with a fatal outcome in sepsis (Hack, C.E., et al., Am. J.
   Med. 86:20-26, 1989). In some animal models of shock, certain complement-deficient
   strains (e.g., C5-deficient ones) are more resistant to the effects of LPS infusions (Hseuh,
15 W., et al., Immunol. 70:309-14, 1990).
            Blockade of C5a generation with antibodies during the onset of sepsis in rodents
   has been shown to greatly improve survival (Czermak, B.J., et al., Nat. Med. 5:788-792,
   1999). Similar findings were made when the C5a receptor (C5aR) was blocked, either
   with antibodies or with a small molecular inhibitor (Huber-Lang, M.S., et al., FASEB J
20 16:1567-74, 2002; Riedemann, N.C., et al., J. Clin. Invest. 110:101-8, 2002).           Earlier
   experimental studies in monkeys have suggested that antibody blockade of C5a
   attenuated E. coli-induced septic shock and adult respiratory distress syndrome (Hangen,
   D.H., et al., J Surg. Res. 46:195-9, 1989; Stevens, J.H., et al., J. Clin. Invest. 77:1812-16,
   1986).     In humans with sepsis, C5a was elevated and associated with significantly
25 reduced survival rates together with multiorgan failure, when compared with that in less
   severely septic patients and survivors (Nakae, H., et al., Res. Commun. Chem. Pathol.
   Pharmacol.84:189-95, 1994; Nakae, et al., Surg. Today 26:225-29, 1996; Bengtson, A.,
   et al., Arch. Surg. 123:645-649, 1988). The mechanisms by which C5a exerts its harmful
   effects during sepsis are yet to be investigated in greater detail, but recent data suggest the
30 generation of C5a during sepsis significantly compromises innate immune functions of
   blood neutrophils (Huber-Lang, M.S., et al., J. Immunol. 169:3223-31, 2002), their ability
   to express a respiratory burst, and their ability to generate cytokines (Riedemann, N.C.,
   et al., Immunity 19:193-202, 2003). In addition, C5a generation during sepsis appears to
                                                -57-

   have procoagulant effects (Laudes, I.J., et al., Am. J. Pathol. 160:1867-75, 2002). The
   complement-modulating protein CI INH has also shown efficacy in animal models of
   sepsis and ARDS (Dickneite, G., Behring Ins. Mitt. 93:299-305, 1993).
            The lectin pathway may also have a role in pathogenesis of sepsis. MBL has been
 5 shown to bind to a range of clinically important microorganisms including both Gram
   negative and Gram-positive bacteria, and to activate the lectin pathway (Neth, 0., et al.,
   Infect. Immun. 68:688, 2000). Lipoteichoic acid (LTA) is increasingly regarded as the
   Gram-positive counterpart of LPS. It is a potent immunostimulant that induces cytokine
   release from mononuclear phagocytes and whole blood (Morath, S. et al., J. Exp. Med.
10 195:1635, 2002; Morath, S. et al., Infect. Immun. 70:938, 2002).          Recently it was
   demonstrated that L-ficolin specifically binds to LTA isolated from numerous Gram
   positive bacteria species, including Staphylococcus aureus, and activates the lectin
   pathway (Lynch, N.J., et al., J. Immunol. 172:1198-02, 2004). MBL also has been shown
   to bind to LTA from Enterococcus spp in which the polyglycerophosphate chain is
15 substituted with glycosyl groups), but not to LTA from nine other species including S.
   aureus (Polotsky, V.Y., et al., Infect. Immun. 64:380, 1996).
            An aspect of the invention thus provides a method for treating sepsis or a
   condition resulting from sepsis, by administering a composition comprising a
   therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical
20 carrier to a subject suffering from sepsis or a condition resulting from sepsis including
   without limitation severe sepsis, septic shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome
   resulting from sepsis, and systemic inflammatory response syndrome. Related methods
   are provided for the treatment of other blood disorders, including hemorrhagic shock,
   hemolytic anemia, autoimmune thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), hemolytic
25 uremic syndrome (HUS) or other marrow/blood destructive conditions, by administering
   a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent in a pharmaceutical carrier to a subject suffering from such a condition.       The
   MASP-2 inhibitory agent is administered to the subject systemically, such as by intra
   arterial, intravenous, intramuscular, inhalational (particularly in the case of ARDS),
30 subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or potentially by oral administration for
   non-peptidergic agents. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent composition may be combined
   with one or more additional therapeutic agents to combat the sequelae of sepsis and/or
   shock. For advanced sepsis or shock or a distress condition resulting therefrom, the
                                               -58-

    MASP-2 inhibitory composition may suitably be administered in a fast-acting dosage
    form, such as by intravenous or intra-arterial delivery of a bolus of a solution containing
    the MASP-2 inhibitory agent composition. Repeated administration may be carried out
    as determined by a physician until the condition has been resolved.
 5           UROGENITAL CONDITIONS
             The complement system has been implicated in several distinct urogenital
    disorders including painful bladder disease, sensory bladder disease, chronic abacterial
    cystitis and interstitial cystitis (Holm-Bentzen, M., et al., J. Urol. 138:503-507, 1987),
    infertility (Cruz, et al., Biol. Reprod. 54:1217-1228, 1996), pregnancy (Xu, C., et al.,
10  Science 287:498-507, 2000), fetomaternal tolerance (Xu, C., et al., Science 287:498-507,
    2000), and pre-eclampsia (Haeger, M., Int. J. Gynecol. Obstet. 43:113-127, 1993).
             Painful bladder disease, sensory bladder disease, chronic abacterial cystitis and
    interstitial cystitis are ill-defined conditions of unknown etiology and pathogenesis, and,
    therefore, they are without any rational therapy. Pathogenetic theories concerning defects
15  in the epithelium and/or mucous surface coating of the bladder, and theories concerning
    immunological disturbances, predominate (Holm-Bentzen, M., et al., J. Urol. 138:503
    507, 1987).     Patients with interstitial cystitis were reported to have been tested for
   immunoglobulins (IgA, G, M), complement components (Clq, C3, C4) and for Cl
    esterase inhibitor.     There was a highly significant depletion of the serum levels of
20  complement component C4 (p less than 0.001) and immunoglobulin G was markedly
    elevated (p less than 0.001).       This study suggests classical pathway activation of the
    complement system, and supports the possibility that a chronic local immunological
   process is involved in the pathogenesis of the disease (Mattila, J., et al., Eur. Urol. 9:350
   352, 1983).       Moreover, following binding of autoantibodies to antigens in bladder
25 mucosa, activation of complement could be involved in the production of tissue injury
   and in the chronic self-perpetuating inflammation typical of this disease (Helin, H., et al.,
    Clin. Immunol. Immunopathol. 43:88-96, 1987).
             In addition to the role of complement in urogenital inflammatory diseases,
   reproductive functions may be impacted by the local regulation of the complement
30 pathway. Naturally occurring complement inhibitors have evolved to provide host cells
   with the protection they need to control the body's complement system. Crry, a naturally
   occurring rodent complement inhibitor that is structurally similar to the human
   complement inhibitors, MCP and DAF, has been investigated to delineate the regulatory
                                                   -59-

     control of complement in fetal development. Interestingly, attempts to generate Crry-/
     mice were unsuccessful. Instead, it was discovered that homozygous Crry-/- mice died in
     utero.   Crry-/- embryos survived until about 10 days post coitus, and survival rapidly
     declined with death resulting from developmental arrest.        There was also a marked
  5  invasion of inflammatory cells into the placental tissue of Crry-/- embryos. In contrast,
     Crry+/+ embryos appeared to have C3 deposited on the placenta. This suggests that
     complement activation had occurred at the placenta level, and in the absence of
     complement regulation, the embryos died.            Confirming studies investigated the
     introduction of the Crry mutation onto a C3 deficient background. This rescue strategy
 10  was successful. Together, these data illustrate that the fetomaternal complement interface
     must be regulated. Subtle alterations in complement regulation within the placenta might
     contribute to placental dysfunction and miscarriage (Xu, C., et al., Science 287:498-507,
     2000).
             Pre-eclampsia is a pregnancy-induced hypertensive disorder in which complement
 15  system activation has been implicated but remains controversial (Haeger, M., Int. J.
     Gynecol. Obstet. 43:113-127, 1993). Complement activation in systemic circulation is
     closely related to established disease in pre-eclampsia, but no elevations were seen prior
    to the presence of clinical symptoms and, therefore, complement components cannot be
    used as predictors of pre-eclampsia (Haeger, et al., Obstet. Gynecol. 78:46, 1991).
20  However, increased complement activation at the local environment of the placenta bed
    might overcome local control mechanisms, resulting in raised levels of anaphylatoxins
    and C5b-9 (Haeger, et al., Obstet. Gynecol. 73:551, 1989).
             One proposed mechanism of infertility related to antisperm antibodies (ASA) is
    through the role of complement activation in the genital tract. Generation of C3b and
25  iC3b opsonin, which can potentiate the binding of sperm by phagocytic cells via their
    complement receptors as well as formation of the terminal C5b-9 complex on the sperm
    surface, thereby reducing sperm motility, are potential causes associated with reduced
    fertility. Elevated C5b-9 levels have also been demonstrated in ovarian follicular fluid of
    infertile women (D'Cruz, O.J., et al., J. Immunol. 144:3841-3848, 1990). Other studies
30  have shown impairment in sperm migration, and reduced sperm/egg interactions, which
    may be complement associated (D'Cruz, O.J., et al., J. ImmunoL 146:611-620, 1991;
    Alexander, N.J., Fertil. Sterile. 41:433-439,       1984).    Finally, studies with sCR1
    demonstrated a protective effect against ASA- and complement mediated injury to human
                                                 -60-

   sperm (D'Cruz, O.J., et al., Bio. Reprod. 54:1217-1228, 1996).           These data provide
   several lines of evidence for the use of complement inhibitors in the treatment of
   urogenital disease and disorders.
            An aspect of the invention thus provides a method for inhibiting MASP-2
 5 dependent complement activation in a patient suffering from a urogenital disorder, by
   administering a composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2
   inhibitory agent in a pharmaceutical carrier to a subject suffering from such a disorder.
   Urogenital disorders believed to be subject to therapeutic treatment with the methods and
   compositions of the present invention include, by way of nonlimiting example, painful
10 bladder disease, sensory bladder disease, chronic abacterial cystitis and interstitial
   cystitis, male and female infertility, placental dysfunction and miscarriage and pre
   eclampsia.     The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be administered to the subject
   systemically,    such as by intra-arterial,       intravenous, intramuscular,   inhalational,
   subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or potentially by oral administration for
15 non-peptidergic agents.      Alternately, the MASP-2 inhibitory composition may be
   delivered locally to the urogenital tract, such as by intravesical irrigation or instillation
   with a liquid solution or gel composition. Repeated administration may be carried out as
   determined by a physician to control or resolve the condition.
            DIABETES AND DIABETIC CONDITIONS
20          Diabetic retinal microangiopathy is characterized by increased permeability,
   leukostasis, microthrombosis, and apoptosis of capillary cells, all of which could be
   caused or promoted by activation of complement. Glomerular structures and endoneurial
   microvessels of patients with diabetes show signs of complement activation. Decreased
   availability or effectiveness of complement inhibitors in diabetes has been suggested by
25 the findings that high glucose in vitro selectively decreases on the endothelial cell surface
   the     expression    of    CD55     and     CD59,       the  two    inhibitors   that    are
   glycosylphosphatidylinositol     (GPI)-anchored membrane        proteins,  and that CD59
   undergoes nonenzymatic glycation that hinders its complement-inhibitory function.
            Studies by Zhang et al. (Diabetes 51:3499-3504, 2002), investigated complement
30 activation as a feature of human nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy and its association
   with changes in inhibitory molecules. It was found that deposition of C5b-9, the terminal
   product of complement activation, occurs in the wall of retinal vessels of human eye
   donors with type-2 diabetes, but not in the vessels of age-matched nondiabetic donors.
                                                -61-

   Clq and C4, the complement components unique to the classical pathway, were not
   detected in the diabetic retinas, which indicates that C5b-9 was generated via the
   alternative pathway. The diabetic donors showed a prominent reduction in the retinal
   levels of CD55 and CD59, the two complement inhibitors linked to the plasma membrane
 5 by GPI anchors. Similar complement activation in retinal vessels and selective reduction
   in the levels of retinal CD55 and CD59 were observed in rats with a 10 week duration of
   streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Thus, diabetes appears to cause defective regulation of
   complement inhibitors and complement activation that precede most other manifestations
   of diabetic retinal microangiopathy.
10         Gerl et al. (Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science 43:1104-08, 2000)
   determined the presence of activated complement components in eyes affected by
   diabetic retinopathy.       Immunohistochemical studies found extensive deposits of
   complement C5b-9 complexes that were detected in the choriocapillaris immediately
   underlying the Bruch membrane and densely surrounding the capillaries in all 50 diabetic
15 retinopathy specimens.       Staining for C3d positively correlated with C5b-9 staining,
   indicative of the fact that complement activation had occurred in situ. Furthermore,
   positive staining was found for vitronectin, which forms stable complexes with
   extracellular C5b-9.     In contrast, there was no positive staining for C-reactive protein
   (CRP), mannan-binding lectin (MBL), Clq, or C4, indicating that complement activation
20 did not occur through a C4-dependent pathway. Thus, the presence of C3d, C5b-9, and
   vitronectin indicates that complement activation occurs to completion, possibly through
   the alternative pathway in the choriocapillaris in eyes affected by diabetic retinopathy.
   Complement activation may be a causative factor in the pathologic sequelae that can
   contribute to ocular tissue disease and visual impairment.         Therefore, the use of a
25 complement inhibitor may be an effective therapy to reduce or block damage to
   microvessels that occurs in diabetes.
           Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM, also referred to as Type-I diabetes) is
   an autoimmune disease associated with the presence of different types of autoantibodies
   (Nicoloff et al., Clin. Dev. Immunol. 11:61-66, 2004). The presence of these antibodies
30 and the corresponding antigens in the circulation leads to the formation of circulating
   immune complexes (CIC), which are known to persist in the blood for long periods of
   time.    Deposition of CIC in the small blood vessels has the potential to lead to
   microangiopathy with debilitating clinical consequences. A correlation exists between
                                                -62-

    CIC and the development of microvascular complications in diabetic children. These
    findings suggest that elevated levels of CIC IgG are associated with the development of
    early diabetic nephropathy and that an inhibitor of the complement pathway may be
    effective at blocking diabetic nephropathy (Kotnik, et al., Croat. Med. J. 44:707-11,
 5  2003).      In addition, the formation of downstream complement proteins and the
    involvement of the alternative pathway is likely to be a contributory factor in overall islet
    cell function in IDDM, and the use of a complement inhibitor to reduce potential damage
    or limit cell death is expected (Caraher, et al., J. Endocrinol. 162:143-53, 1999).
            In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
10  dependent complement activation in a subject suffering from nonobese diabetes (IDDM)
   or from angiopathy, neuropathy or retinopathy complications of IDDM or adult onset
    (Type-2) diabetes, by administering a composition comprising a therapeutically effective
    amount of a MASP-2 inhibitor in a pharmaceutical carrier. The MASP-2 inhibitory agent
   may be administered to the subject systemically, such as by intra-arterial, intravenous,
15 intramuscular, subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or potentially by oral
   administration for non-peptidergic agents. Alternatively, administration may be by local
   delivery to the site of angiopathic, neuropathic or retinopathic symptoms. The MASP-2
   inhibitory agent may be administered periodically over an extended period of time for
   treatment or control of a chronic condition, or by a single or series of administrations for
20 treatment of an acute condition.
            PERICHEMOTHERAPEUTIC ADMINISTRATION AND TREATMENT OF
            MALIGNANCIES
            Activation of the complement system may also be implicated in the pathogenesis
   of malignancies. Recently, the neoantigens of the C5b-9 complement complex, IgG, C3,
25 C4, S-protein/vitronectin, fibronectin, and macrophages were localized on 17 samples of
   breast cancer and on 6 samples of benign breast tumors using polyclonal or monoclonal
   antibodies and the streptavidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. All the tissue samples with
   carcinoma in each the TNM stages presented C5b-9 deposits on the membranes of tumor
   cells, thin granules on cell remnants, and diffuse deposits in the necrotic areas (Niculescu,
30 F., et al., Am. J. Pathol. 140:1039-1043, 1992).
            In addition, complement activation may be a consequence of chemotherapy or
   radiation therapy and thus inhibition of complement activation would be useful as an
   adjunct in the treatment of malignancies to reduce iatrogenic inflammation.            When
                                                 -63-

   chemotherapy and radiation therapy preceded surgery, C5b-9 deposits were more intense
   and extended. The C5b-9 deposits were absent in all the samples with benign lesions. S
   protein/vitronectin was present as fibrillar deposits in the connective tissue matrix and as
   diffuse deposits around the tumor cells, less intense and extended than fibronectin. IgG,
 5 C3, and C4 deposits were present only in carcinoma samples. The presence of C5b-9
   deposits is indicative of complement activation and its subsequent pathogenetic effects in
   breast cancer (Niculescu, F., et al., Am. J. Pathol. 140:1039-1043, 1992).
           Pulsed tunable dye laser (577 nm) (PTDL) therapy induces hemoglobin
   coagulation and tissue necrosis, which is mainly limited to blood vessels. In a PTDL
10 irradiated normal skin study, the main findings were as follows: 1) C3 fragments, C8,
   C9, and MAC were deposited in vessel walls; 2) these deposits were not due to
   denaturation of the proteins since they became apparent only 7 min after irradiation,
   contrary to immediate deposition of transferrin at the sites of erythrocyte coagulates; 3)
   the C3 deposits were shown to amplify complement activation by the alternative
15 pathway, a reaction which was specific since tissue necrosis itself did not lead to such
   amplification;    and      4) these   reactions    preceded  the  local    accumulation   of
   polymorphonuclear       leucocytes.     Tissue necrosis was more pronounced in the
   hemangiomas. The larger angiomatous vessels in the center of the necrosis did not fix
   complement significantly. By contrast, complement deposition in the vessels situated at
20 the periphery was similar to that observed in normal skin with one exception: C8, C9, and
   MAC were detected in some blood vessels immediately after laser treatment, a finding
   consistent with assembly of the MAC occurring directly without the formation of a C5
   convertase.    These results indicate that complement is activated in PTDL-induced
   vascular necrosis, and might be responsible for the ensuing inflammatory response.
25          Photodynamic therapy (PDT) of tumors elicits a strong host immune response,
   and one of its manifestations is a pronounced neutrophilia. In addition to complement
   fragments (direct mediators) released as a consequence of PDT-induced complement
   activation, there are at least a dozen secondary mediators that all arise as a result of
   complement activity. The latter include cytokines IL-lbeta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-10, G
30 CSF and KC, thromboxane, prostaglandins, leukotrienes, histamine, and coagulation
   factors (Cecic, I., et al., CancerLett. 183:43-51, 2002).
           Finally, the use of inhibitors of MASP-2-dependent complement activation may
   be envisioned in conjunction with the standard therapeutic regimen for the treatment of
                                                 -64-

   cancer.    For example, treatment with rituximab, a chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal
   antibody, can be associated with moderate to severe first-dose side-effects, notably in
   patients with high numbers of circulating tumor cells. Recent studies during the first
   infusion of rituximab measured complement activation products (C3b/c and C4b/c) and
 5 cytokines (tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin 6 (IL-6) and IL-8) in
   five relapsed low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients. Infusion of rituximab
   induced rapid complement activation, preceding the release of TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-8.
   Although the study group was small, the level of complement activation appeared to be
   correlated both with the number of circulating B cells prior to the infusion (r = 0.85; P =
10 0.07), and with the severity of the side-effects. The results indicated that complement
   plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of side-effects of rituximab treatment.          As
   complement activation cannot be prevented by corticosteroids, it may be relevant to study
   the possible role of complement inhibitors during the first administration of rituximab
   (van der Kolk, L.E., et al., Br. J. Haematol. 115:807-811, 2001).
15         In another aspect of the invention, methods are provided for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation in a subject being treated with chemotherapeutics
   and/or radiation therapy, including without limitation for the treatment of cancerous
   conditions.     This method includes         administering  a composition comprising a
   therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitor in a pharmaceutical carrier to a
20 patient perichemotherapeutically, i.e., before and/or during and/or after the administration
   of chemotherapeutic(s) and/or radiation therapy.         For example, administration of a
   MASP-2 inhibitor composition of the present invention may be commenced before or
   concurrently with the administration of chemo- or radiation therapy, and continued
   throughout the course of therapy, to reduce the detrimental effects of the chemo- and/or
25 radiation therapy in the non-targeted, healthy tissues. In addition, the MASP-2 inhibitor
   composition can be administered following chemo- and/or radiation therapy.              It is
   understood that chemo- and radiation therapy regimens often entail repeated treatments
   and, therefore, it is possible that administration of a MASP-2 inhibitor composition would
   also be repetitive and relatively coincident with the chemotherapeutic and radiation
30 treatments.    It is also believed that MASP-2 inhibitory agents may be used as
   chemotherapeutic agents, alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents
   and/or radiation therapy, to treat patients suffering from malignancies. Administration
                                                 -65-

   may suitably be via oral (for non-peptidergic), intravenous, intramuscular or other
   parenteral route.
            ENDOCRINE DISORDERS
            The complement system has also been recently associated with a few endocrine
 5  conditions or disorders including Hashimoto's thyroiditis (Blanchin, S., et al., Exp. Eye
   Res. 73(6):887-96, 2001), stress, anxiety and other potential hormonal disorders involving
   regulated    release   of prolactin,    growth    or     insulin-like growth   factor,  and
   adrenocorticotropin from the pituitary (Francis, K., et al., FASEB J. 17:2266-2268, 2003;
   Hansen, T.K., Endocrinology 144(12):5422-9, 2003).
10         Two-way communication exists between the endocrine and immune systems
   using molecules such as hormones and cytokines. Recently, a new pathway has been
   elucidated by which C3a, a complement-derived cytokine, stimulates anterior pituitary
   hormone release and activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, a reflex central to
   the stress response and to the control of inflammation. C3a receptors are expressed in
15 pituitary-hormone-secreting and non-hormone-secreting (folliculostellate) cells. C3a and
   C3adesArg (a non-inflammatory metabolite) stimulate pituitary cell cultures to release
   prolactin, growth hormone, and adrenocorticotropin. Serum levels of these hormones,
   together with adrenal corticosterone, increase dose dependently with recombinant C3a
   and C3adesArg administration in vivo. The implication is that complement pathway
20 modulates tissue-specific and systemic inflammatory responses through communication
   with the endocrine pituitary gland (Francis, K., et al., FASEB J. 17:2266-2268, 2003).
           An increasing number of studies in animals and humans indicate that growth
   hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) modulate immune function. GH
   therapy increased the mortality in critically ill patients.     The excessive mortality was
25 almost entirely due to septic shock or multi-organ failure, which could suggest that a GH
   induced modulation of immune and complement function was involved. Mannan-binding
   lectin (MBL) is a plasma protein that plays an important role in innate immunity through
   activation of the complement        cascade and inflammation following binding to
   carbohydrate structures. Evidence supports a significant influence from growth hormone
30 on MBL levels and, therefore, potentially on lectin-dependent complement activation
   (Hansen, T.K., Endocrinology 144(12):5422-9, 2003).
                                              -66-

            Thyroperoxidase (TPO) is one of the main autoantigens involved in autoimmune
   thyroid diseases.    TPO consists of a large N-terminal myeloperoxidase-like module
   followed by a complement control protein (CCP)-like module and an epidermal growth
   factor-like module. The CCP module is a constituent of the molecules involved in the
 5 activation of C4 complement component, and studies were conducted to investigate
   whether C4 may bind to TPO and activate the complement pathway in autoimmune
   conditions.    TPO via its CCP module directly activates complement without any
   mediation by Ig.       Moreover, in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, thyrocytes
   overexpress C4 and all the downstream components of the complement pathway. These
10 results indicate that TPO, along with other mechanisms related to activation of the
   complement pathway, may contribute to the massive cell destruction observed in
   Hashimoto's thyroiditis (Blanchin, S., et al., 2001).
           An aspect of the invention thus provides a method for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation to treat an endocrine disorder, by administering a
15 composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent
   in a pharmaceutical carrier to a subject suffering from an endocrine disorder. Conditions
   subject to treatment in accordance with the present invention include, by way of
   nonlimiting example, Hashimoto's thyroiditis, stress, anxiety and other potential
   hormonal disorders involving regulated release of prolactin, growth or insulin-like growth
20 factor, and adrenocorticotropin from the pituitary. The MAS-2 inhibitory agent may be
   administered to the subject systemically, such as by intra-arterial, intravenous,
   intramuscular, inhalational, nasal, subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or
   potentially by oral administration for non-peptidergic agents. The MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent composition may be combined with one or more additional therapeutic agents.
25 Administration may be repeated as determined by a physician until the condition has been
   resolved.
           OPHTHALMOLOGIC CONDITIONS
           Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a blinding disease that afflicts
   millions of adults, yet the sequelae of biochemical, cellular, and/or molecular events
30 leading to the development of AMD are poorly understood.            AMD results in the
   progressive destruction of the macula which has been correlated with the formation of
   extracellular deposits called drusen located in and around the macula, behind the retina
   and between the retina pigment epithelium (RPE) and the choroid. Recent studies have
                                                -67-

   revealed that proteins associated with inflammation and immune-mediated processes are
   prevalent among drusen-associated constituents.      Transcripts that encode a number of
   these molecules have been detected in retinal, RPE, and choroidal cells. These data also
   demonstrate that dendritic cells, which are potent antigen-presenting cells, are intimately
 5 associated with drusen development, and that complement activation is a key pathway
   that is active both within drusen and along the RPE-choroid interface (Hageman, G.S.,
   et al., Prog.Retin. Eye Res., 20:705-732, 2001).
            Several independent studies have shown a strong association between AMD and a
   genetic polymorphism in the gene for complement factor H (CFH) in which the
10 likelihood of AMD is increased by a factor of 7.4 in individuals homozygous for the risk
   allele (Klein, R.J. et al., Science, 308:362-364, 2005; Haines et al., Science 308:362-364.
   2005; Edwards et al., Science 308:263-264, 2005). The CFH gene has been mapped to
   chromosome 1q31 a region that had been implicated in AMD by six independent linkage
   scans (see, e.g., D.W. Schultz et al., Hum. Mo. Genet. 12:3315, 2003). CFH is known to
15 be a key regulator of the complement system. It has been shown that CFH on cells and in
   circulation regulates complement activity by inhibiting the activation of C3 to C3a and
   C3b, and by inactivating existing C3b.        Deposition of C5b-9 has been observed in
   Brusch's membrane, the intercapillary pillars and within drusen in patients with AMD
   (Klein et al.). Immunofluorescence experiments suggest that in AMD, the polymorphism
20 of CFH may give rise to complement deposition in chorodial capillaries and chorodial
   vessels (Klein et al.).
            The membrane-associated complement inhibitor, complement receptor 1, is also
   localized in drusen, but it is not detected in RPE cells immunohistochemically.          In
   contrast, a second membrane-associated complement inhibitor, membrane cofactor
25 protein, is present in drusen-associated RPE cells, as well as in small, spherical
   substructural elements within drusen. These previously unidentified elements also show
   strong immunoreactivity for proteolytic fragments of complement component C3 that are
   characteristically deposited at sites of complement activation. It is proposed that these
   structures represent residual debris from degenerating RPE cells that are the targets of
30 complement attack (Johnson, L.V., et al., Exp. Eye Res. 73:887-896, 2001).
            An aspect of the invention thus provides a method for inhibiting MASP-2
   dependent complement activation to treat age-related macular degeneration or other
   complement mediated ophthalmologic condition by administering a composition
                                                -68-

   comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in a
   pharmaceutical carrier to a subject suffering from such a condition or other complement
   mediated ophthalmologic condition.         The MASP-2 inhibitory composition may be
   administered locally to the eye, such as by irrigation or application of the composition in
 5 the form of a gel, salve or drops. Alternately, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be
   administered to the subject systemically, such as by intra-arterial, intravenous,
   intramuscular, inhalational, nasal, subcutaneous or other parenteral administration, or
   potentially by oral administration for non-peptidergic agents. The MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent composition may be combined with one or more additional therapeutic agents, such
10 as are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004-0072809-Al.
   Administration may be repeated as determined by a physician until the condition has been
   resolved or is controlled.
   IV.      MASP-2 INHIBITORY AGENTS
            In one aspect,, the present invention provides methods of inhibiting the adverse
15 effects of MASP-2-dependent complement activation.            MASP-2 inhibitory agents are
   administered in an amount effective to inhibit MASP-2-dependent complement activation
   in a living subject. In the practice of this aspect of the invention, representative MASP-2
   inhibitory agents include: molecules that inhibit the biological activity of MASP-2 (such
   as small molecule inhibitors, anti-MASP-2 antibodies or blocking peptides which interact
20 with MASP-2 or interfere with a protein-protein interaction), and molecules that decrease
   the expression of MASP-2 (such as MASP-2 antisense nucleic acid molecules, MASP-2
   specific RNAi molecules and MASP-2 ribozymes), thereby preventing MASP-2 from
   activating the alternative complement pathways. The MASP-2 inhibitory agents can be
   used alone as a primary therapy or in combination with other therapeutics as an adjuvant
25 therapy to enhance the therapeutic benefits of other medical treatments.
            The inhibition of MASP-2-dependent complement activation is characterized by
   at least one of the following changes in a component of the complement system that
   occurs as a result of administration of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in accordance with the
   methods of the invention: the inhibition of the generation or production of MASP-2
30 dependent complement activation system products C4b, C3a, C5a and/or C5b-9 (MAC)
   (measured, for example, as described in Example 2), the reduction of alternative
   complement activation assessed in a hemolytic assay using unsensitized rabbit or guinea
   pig red blood cells , the reduction of C4 cleavage and C4b deposition (measured, for
                                                -69-

    example as described in Example 2), or the reduction of C3 cleavage and C3b deposition
    (measured, for example, as described in Example 2).
            According to the present invention, MASP-2 inhibitory agents are utilized that are
    effective in inhibiting the MASP-2-dependent complement activation system. MASP-2
 5  inhibitory agents useful in the practice of this aspect of the invention include, for
    example, anti-MASP-2 antibodies and fragments thereof, MASP-2 inhibitory peptides,
    small molecules, MASP-2 soluble receptors and expression inhibitors.             MASP-2
    inhibitory agents may inhibit the MASP-2-dependent complement activation system by
   blocking the biological function of MASP-2.        For example, an inhibitory agent may
10  effectively block MASP-2 protein-to-protein interactions, interfere with MASP-2
    dimerization or assembly, block Ca 2 + binding, interfere with the MASP-2 seine protease
    active site, or may reduce MASP-2 protein expression.
            In some embodiments, the MASP-2 inhibitory agents selectively inhibit MASP-2
    complement activation, leaving the Clq-dependent complement activation system
15 functionally intact.
            In one embodiment, a MASP-2 inhibitory agent useful in the methods of the
   invention is a specific MASP-2 inhibitory agent that specifically binds to a polypeptide
   comprising SEQ ID NO:6 with an affinity of at least 10 times greater than to other
   antigens in the complement system. In another embodiment, a MASP-2 inhibitory agent
20 specifically binds to a polypeptide comprising SEQ ID NO:6 with a binding affinity of at
   least 100 times greater than to other antigens in the complement system. The binding
   affinity of the MASP-2 inhibitory agent can be determined using a suitable binding assay.
            The MASP-2 polypeptide exhibits a molecular structure similar to MASP-1,
   MASP-3, and Clr and Cls, the proteases of the Cl complement system. The cDNA
25 molecule set forth in SEQ ID NO:4 encodes a representative example of MASP-2
   (consisting of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:5) and provides the
   human MASP-2 polypeptide with a leader sequence (aa 1-15) that is cleaved after
   secretion, resulting in the mature form of human MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:6). As shown in
   FIGURE 2, the human MASP 2 gene encompasses twelve exons. The human MASP-2
30 cDNA is encoded by exons B, C, D, F, G, H, I, J, K AND L. An alternative splice results
   in a 20 kDa protein termed MBL-associated protein 19 ("MAp 19") (SEQ ID NO:2),
   encoded by (SEQ ID NO:1) arising from exons B, C, D and E as shown in FIGURE 2.
   The cDNA molecule set forth in SEQ ID NO:50 encodes the murine MASP-2 (consisting
                                               -70-

   of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:51) and provides the murine MASP-2
   polypeptide with a leader sequence that is cleaved after secretion, resulting in the mature
   form of murine MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:52). The cDNA molecule set forth in SEQ ID
   NO:53 encodes the rat MASP-2 (consisting of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ
 5 ID NO:54) and provides the rat MASP-2 polypeptide with a leader sequence that is
   cleaved after secretion, resulting in the mature form of rat MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:55).
            Those skilled in the art will recognize that the sequences disclosed in SEQ ID
   NO:4, SEQ ID NO:50 and SEQ ID NO:53 represent single alleles of human, murine and
   rat MASP-2 respectively, and that allelic variation and alternative splicing are expected to
10 occur. Allelic variants of the nucleotide sequences shown in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID
   NO:50 and SEQ ID NO:53, including those containing silent mutations and those in
   which mutations result in amino acid sequence changes, are within the scope of the
   present invention. Allelic variants of the MASP-2 sequence can be cloned by probing
   cDNA or genomic libraries from different individuals according to standard procedures.
15          The domains of the human MASP-2 protein (SEQ ID NO:6) are shown in
   FIGURE 3A and include an N-terminal Clr/Cls/sea urchin Vegf/bone morphogenic
   protein (CUBI) domain (aa 1-121 of SEQ ID NO:6), an epidermal growth factor-like
   domain (aa 122-166), a second CUBI domain (aa 167-293), as well as a tandem of
   complement control protein domains and a serine protease domain. Alternative splicing
20 of the MASP 2 gene results in MApl9 shown in FIGURE 3B. MApl9 is a nonenzymatic
   protein containing the N-terminal CUB1-EGF region of MASP-2 with four additional
   residues (EQSL) derived from exon E as shown in FIGURE 2.
            Several proteins have been shown to bind to, or interact with MASP-2 through
   protein-to-protein interactions.   For example, MASP-2 is known to bind to, and form
25 Ca 2 + dependent complexes with, the lectin proteins MBL, H-ficolin and L-ficolin. Each
   MASP-2/lectin complex has been shown to activate complement through the MASP-2
   dependent cleavage of proteins C4 and C2 (Ikeda, K., et al., J Bio. Chem. 262:7451
   7454, 1987; Matsushita, M., et al., J. Exp. Med. 176:1497-2284, 2000; Matsushita, M.,
   et al., J. Immunol. 168:3502-3506, 2002).        Studies have shown that the CUB1-EGF
30 domains of MASP-2 are essential for the association of MASP-2 with MBL (Thielens,
   N.M., et al., L Immunol. 166:5068, 2001).             It has also been shown that the
   CUB1EGFCUBII domains mediate dimerization of MASP-2, which is required for
   formation of an active MBL complex (Wallis, R., et al., I Bio. Chem. 275:30962-30969,
                                                -71-

   2000). Therefore, MASP-2 inhibitory agents can be identified that bind to or interfere
   with MASP-2 target regions known to be important for MASP-2-dependent complement
   activation.
                                    ANTI-MASP-2 ANTIBODIES
 5          In some embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent comprises an anti-MASP-2 antibody that inhibits the MASP-2-dependent
   complement activation system. The anti-MASP-2 antibodies useful in this aspect of the
   invention include polyclonal, monoclonal or recombinant antibodies derived from any
   antibody producing mammal and may be multispecific, chimeric, humanized, anti
10 idiotype, and antibody fragments. Antibody fragments include Fab, Fab', F(ab) 2 , F(ab') 2 ,
   Fv fragments, scFv fragments and single-chain antibodies as further described herein.
            Several anti-MASP-2 antibodies have been described in the literature, some of
   which are listed below in TABLE 1. These previously described anti-MASP-2 antibodies
   can be screened for the ability to inhibit the MASP-2-dependent complement activation
15 system using the assays described herein. Once an anti-MASP-2 antibody is identified
   that functions as a MASP-2 inhibitory agent, it can be used to produce anti-idiotype
   antibodies and used to identify other MASP-2 binding molecules as further described
   below.
20 TABLE 1: MASP-2 SPECIFIC ANTIBODIES FROM THE LITERATURE
   Antigen                        Antibody          Reference
                                  Type
   Recombinant MASP-2             Rat               Peterson, S.V., et al., Mol. Immunol.
                                  Polyclonal        37:803-811, 2000
   Recombinant human              Rat MoAb          Moller-Kristensen, M., et al., J. of
    CCP1/2-SP fragment            (subclass         Immunol. Methods 282:159-167, 2003
    (MoAb 8B5)                    IgGl)
   Recombinant human              Rat MoAb          Moller-Kristensen, M., et al., J. of
   MAp19 (MoAb 6G12)              (subclass         Immunol. Methods 282:159-167, 2003
    (cross reacts with MASP-2)    IgGl)
                                               -72-

   Antigen                          Antibody        Reference
                                    Type
   MASP-2                           Mouse           Peterson, S.V., et al., Mol. Immunol.
                                    MoAb            35:409
           ANTI-MASP-2 ANTIBODIES WITH REDUCED EFFECTOR FUNCTION
           In some embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the anti-MASP-2 antibodies
   have reduced effector function in order to reduce inflammation that may arise from the
 5 activation of the classical complement pathway. The ability of IgG molecules to trigger
   the classical complement pathway has been shown to reside within the Fc portion of the
   molecule (Duncan, A.R., et al., Nature 332:738-740 1988). IgG molecules in which the
   Fc portion of the molecule has been removed by enzymatic cleavage are devoid of this
   effector function (see Harlow, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor
10 Laboratory, New York, 1988). Accordingly, antibodies with reduced effector function
   can be generated as the result of lacking the Fc portion of the molecule by having a
   genetically engineered Fc sequence that minimizes effector function, or being of either
   the human IgG2 or IgG4 isotype.
           Antibodies with reduced effector function can be produced by standard molecular
15 biological manipulation of the Fc portion of the IgG heavy chains as described in
   Example 9 herein and also described in Jolliffe, et al., Int'l Rev. Immunol. 10:241-250,
    11993, and Rodrigues, et al., J. Immunol. 151:6954-6961, 1998. Antibodies with reduced
   effector function also include human IgG2 and IgG4 isotypes that have a reduced ability
   to activate complement and/or interact with Fc receptors (Ravetch, J.V., et al., Annu. Rev.
20 Immunol. 9:457-492, 1991; Isaacs, J.D., et al., J Immunol. 148:3062-3071, 1992; van de
   Winkel, J.G., et al., Immunol. Today 14:215-221, 1993).         Humanized or fully human
   antibodies specific to human MASP-2 comprised of IgG2 or IgG4 isotypes can be
   produced by one of several methods known to one of ordinary skilled in the art, as
   described in Vaughan, T.J., et al., NatureBiotechnical 16:535-539, 1998.
25         PRODUCTION OF ANTI-MASP-2 ANTIBODIES
           Anti-MASP-2 antibodies can be produced using MASP-2 polypeptides (e.g., full
   length MASP-2) or using antigenic MASP-2 epitope-bearing peptides (e.g., a portion of
                                               -73-

      the MASP-2 polypeptide). Immunogenic peptides may be as small as five amino acid
      residues. For example, the MASP-2 polypeptide including the entire amino acid
      sequence of SEQ ID NO:6 may be used to induce anti-MASP-2 antibodies useful in the
      method of the invention. Particular MASP-2 domains known to be involved in protein
  5   protein interactions, such as the CUBI, and CUBIEGF domains, as well as the region
      encompassing the serine-protease active site, may be expressed as recombinant
     polypeptides as described in Example 5 and used as antigens. In addition, peptides
      comprising a portion of at least 6 amino acids of the MASP-2 polypeptide (SEQ ID
     NO:6) are also useful to induce MASP-2 antibodies. Additional examples of MASP-2
 10  derived antigens useful to induce MASP-2 antibodies are provided below in TABLE 2.
     The MASP-2 peptides and polypeptides used to raise antibodies may be isolated as
     natural polypeptides, or recombinant or synthetic peptides and catalytically inactive
     recombinant polypeptides, such as MASP-2A, as further described in Examples 5-7. In
     some embodiments of this aspect of the invention, anti-MASP-2 antibodies are obtained
 15  using a transgenic mouse strain as described in Examples 8 and 9 and further described
     below.
             Antigens useful for producing anti-MASP-2 antibodies also include fusion
     polypeptides, such as fusions of MASP-2 or a portion thereof with an immunoglobulin
    polypeptide or with maltose-binding protein. The polypeptide immunogen may be a full
20   length molecule or a portion thereof. If the polypeptide portion is hapten-like, such
    portion may be advantageously joined or linked to a macromolecular carrier (such as
    keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH), bovine serum albumin (BSA) or tetanus toxoid) for
    immunization.
25  TABLE 2: MASP-2 DERIVED ANTIGENS
    SEQ ID NO:                        Amino Acid Sequence
    SEQ ID NO:6                       Human MASP-2 protein
    SEQ ID NO:51                      Murine MASP-2 protein
    SEQ ID NO:8                       CUBI domain of human MASP-2 (aa 1-121 of SEQ ID NO:6)
    SEQ ID NO:9                       CUBIEGF domains of human MASP-2
                                              -74-

 SEQ ID NO:           Amino Acid Sequence
                      (aa 1-166 of SEQ ID NO:6)
 SEQ ID NO:10         CUBIEGFCUBII domains of human MASP-2
                      (aa 1-293 of SEQ ID NO:6)
 SEQ ID NO: 11        EGF domain of human MASP-2
                      (aa 122-166 of SEQ ID NO:6)
 SEQ ID NO: 12        Serine-Protease domain of human MASP-2
                      (aa 429-671 of SEQ ID NO:6)
SEQ ID NO:13          Serine-Protease inactivated mutant form
GKDSCRGDAGGALVFL      (aa 610-625 of SEQ ID NO:6 with mutated Ser 618)
SEQ ID NO:14          Human CUBI peptide
TPLGPKWPEPVFGRL
SEQ ID NO:15:         Human CUBI peptide
TAPPGYRLRLYFTHFDLEL
SHLCEYDFVKLSSGAKVL
ATLCGQ
SEQ ID NO: 16:        MBL binding region in human CUBI domain
TFRSDYSN
SEQ ID NO:17:         MBL binding region in human CUBI domain
FYSLGSSLDITFRSDYSNEKP
FTGF
SEQ ID NO:18          EGF peptide
IDECQVAPG
SEQ ID NO: 19         Peptide from serine-protease active site
ANMLCAGLESGGKDSCR
GDSGGALV
                                -75-

           POLYCLONAL ANTIBODIES
           Polyclonal antibodies against MASP-2 can be prepared by immunizing an animal
   with MASP-2 polypeptide or an immunogenic portion thereof using methods well known
 5 to those of ordinary skill in the art.    See, for example, Green, et al., "Production of
   Polyclonal Antisera," in Immunochemical Protocols (Manson, ed.), page 105, and as
   further described in Example 6. The immunogenicity of a MASP-2 polypeptide can be
   increased through the use of an adjuvant, including mineral gels, such as aluminum
   hydroxide or Freund's adjuvant (complete or incomplete), surface active substances such
10 as lysolecithin, pluronic polyols, polyanions, oil emulsions, keyhole limpet hemocyanin
   and dinitrophenol. Polyclonal antibodies are typically raised in animals such as horses,
   cows, dogs, chicken, rats, mice, rabbits, guinea pigs, goats, or sheep. Alternatively, an
   anti-MASP-2 antibody useful in the present invention may also be derived from a
   subhuman primate.       General techniques for raising diagnostically and therapeutically
15 useful antibodies in baboons may be found, for example, in Goldenberg et al.,
   International Patent Publication No. WO 91/11465, and in Losman, M.J., et al., Int. J.
   Cancer 46:310, 1990.        Sera containing immunologically active antibodies are then
   produced from the blood of such immunized animals using standard procedures well
   known in the art.
20         MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES
           In some embodiments,        the MASP-2     inhibitory agent is an anti-MASP-2
   monoclonal antibody. Anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies are highly specific, being
   directed against a single MASP-2 epitope. As used herein, the modifier "monoclonal"
   indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogenous
25 population of antibodies, and is not to be construed as requiring production of the
   antibody by any particular method. Monoclonal antibodies can be obtained using any
   technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines
   in culture, such as the hybridoma method described by Kohler, G., et al., Nature 256:495,
   1975, or they may be made by recombinant DNA methods (see, e.g., U.S. Patent
30 No. 4,816,567 to Cabilly).     Monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage
   antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson, T., et al., Nature 352:624
   628, 1991, and Marks, J.D., et al., J. Mo. Biol. 222:581-597, 1991. Such antibodies can
                                               -76-

    be of any immunoglobulin class including IgG, IgM, IgE, IgA, IgD and any subclass
    thereof.
            For example, monoclonal antibodies can be obtained by injecting a suitable
    mammal (e.g., a BALB/c mouse) with a composition comprising a MASP-2 polypeptide
 5  or portion thereof. After a predetermined period of time, splenocytes are removed from
    the mouse and suspended in a cell culture medium. The splenocytes are then fused with
    an immortal cell line to form a hybridoma. The formed hybridomas are grown in cell
    culture and screened for their ability to produce a monoclonal antibody against MASP-2.
   An example further describing the production of anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies is
10 provided in Example 7. (See also CurrentProtocols in Immunology, Vol. 1., John Wiley
    & Sons, pages 2.5.1-2.6.7, 1991.)
            Human monoclonal antibodies may be obtained through the use of transgenic
   mice that have been engineered to produce specific human antibodies in response to
   antigenic challenge. In this technique, elements of the human immunoglobulin heavy and
15 light chain locus are introduced into strains of mice derived from embryonic stem cell
   lines that contain targeted disruptions of the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain
   and light chain loci. The transgenic mice can synthesize human antibodies specific for
   human antigens, such as the MASP-2 antigens described herein, and the mice can be used
   to produce human MASP-2 antibody-secreting hybridomas by fusing B-cells from such
20 animals to suitable myeloma cell lines using conventional Kohler-Milstein technology as
   further described in Example 7. Transgenic mice with a human immunoglobulin genome
   are commercially available (e.g., from Abgenix, Inc., Fremont, CA, and Medarex, Inc.,
   Annandale, N.J.).    Methods for obtaining human antibodies from transgenic mice are
   described, for example, by Green, L.L., et al., Nature Genet. 7:13, 1994; Lonberg, N.,
25 et al., Nature 368:856, 1994; and Taylor, L.D., et al., Int. Immun. 6:579, 1994.
            Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and purified from hybridoma cultures by a
   variety of well-established techniques.        Such isolation techniques include affinity
   chromatography with Protein-A Sepharose, size-exclusion chromatography, and ion
   exchange chromatography (see, for example, Coligan at pages 2.7.1-2.7.12 and pages
30 2.9.1-2.9.3; Baines et al., "Purification of Immunoglobulin G (IgG)," in Methods in
   MolecularBiology, The Humana Press, Inc., Vol. 10, pages 79-104, 1992).
            Once produced, polyclonal, monoclonal or phage-derived antibodies are first
   tested for specific MASP-2 binding. A variety of assays known to those skilled in the art
                                                -77-

    may be utilized to detect antibodies which specifically bind to MASP-2.          Exemplary
    assays include Western blot or immunoprecipitation analysis by standard methods (e.g.,
    as described in Ausubel et al.), immunoelectrophoresis, enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent
    assays, dot blots, inhibition or competition assays and sandwich assays (as described in
 5  Harlow and Land, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
    Press, 1988). Once antibodies are identified that specifically bind to MASP-2, the anti
    MASP-2 antibodies are tested for the ability to function as a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in
    one of several assays such as, for example, a lectin-specific C4 cleavage assay (described
    in Example 2), a C3b deposition assay (described in Example 2) or a C4b deposition
10  assay (described in Example 2).
            The affinity of anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies can be readily determined by
    one of ordinary skill in the art (see, e.g., Scatchard, A., NYAcad. Sci. 51:660-672, 1949).
    In one embodiment, the anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies useful for the methods of
    the invention bind to MASP-2 with a binding affinity of <100 nM, preferably <10 nM
15  and most preferably <2 nM.
            CHIMERIC/HUMANIZED ANTIBODIES
            Monoclonal antibodies useful in the method of the invention include chimeric
    antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and/or light chain is identical with or
   homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species
20  or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of the chain(s)
   is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from
    another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass, as well as fragments
   of such antibodies (U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567 to Cabilly, and Morrison, S.L., et al., Proc.
   Nat'l Acad. Sci. USA 81:6851-6855, 1984).
25          One form of a chimeric antibody useful in the invention is a humanized
   monoclonal anti-MASP-2 antibody.            Humanized forms of non-human (e.g., murine)
   antibodies are chimeric antibodies, which contain minimal sequence derived from non
   human immunoglobulin. Humanized monoclonal antibodies are produced by transferring
   the non-human (e.g., mouse) complementarity determining regions (CDR), from the
30 heavy and light variable chains of the mouse immunoglobulin into a human variable
   domain. Typically, residues of human antibodies are then substituted in the framework
   regions of the non-human counterparts.              Furthermore, humanized antibodies may
   comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody.
                                                  -78-

    These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance. In general, the
   humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one, and typically two
   variable domains, in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable loops correspond
    to those of a non-human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the Fv framework
 5 regions are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence.            The humanized antibody
    optionally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region
    (Fe), typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further details, see Jones, P.T.,
    et al., Nature 321:522-525, 1986; Reichmann, L., et al., Nature 332:323-329, 1988; and
   Presta, Curr. Op. Struct. Biol. 2:593-596, 1992.
10           The humanized antibodies useful in the invention include human monoclonal
    antibodies including at least a MASP-2 binding CDR3 region.            In addition, the Fc
   portions may be replaced so as to produce IgA or IgM as well as human IgG antibodies.
    Such humanized antibodies will have particular clinical utility because they will
   specifically recognize human MASP-2 but will not evoke an immune response in humans
15 against the antibody itself. Consequently, they are better suited for in vivo administration
   in humans, especially when repeated or long-term administration is necessary.
             An example of the generation of a humanized anti-MASP-2 antibody from a
   murine anti-MASP-2        monoclonal    antibody is provided herein in Example 10.
   Techniques for producing humanized monoclonal antibodies are also described, for
20 example, by Jones, P.T., et al., Nature 321:522, 1986; Carter, P., et al., Proc.Nat'l. Acad.
   Sci. USA 89:4285, 1992; Sandhu, J.S., Crit.Rev. Biotech. 12:437, 1992; Singer, I.I., et al.,
   J. Immun. 150:2844, 1993; Sudhir (ed.), Antibody EngineeringProtocols,Humana Press,
   Inc., 1995; Kelley, "Engineering Therapeutic Antibodies," in Protein Engineering:
   Principlesand Practice, Cleland et al. (eds.), John Wiley & Sons, Inc., pages 399-434,
25  1996; and by U.S. Patent No. 5,693,762 to Queen, 1997.             In addition, there are
   commercial entities that will synthesize humanized antibodies from specific murine
   antibody regions, such as Protein Design Labs (Mountain View, CA).
             RECOMBINANT ANTIBODIES
             Anti-MASP-2 antibodies can also be made using recombinant methods.             For
30 example, human antibodies can be made using human immunoglobulin expression
   libraries (available for example, from Stratagene, Corp., La Jolla, CA) to produce
   fragments of human antibodies (VH, VL, Fv, Fd, Fab or F(ab') 2 ). These fragments are
                                               -79-

     then used to construct whole human antibodies using techniques similar to those for
     producing chimeric antibodies.
              ANTI-IDIOTYPE ANTIBODIES
              Once anti-MASP-2 antibodies are identified with the desired inhibitory activity,
  5  theseantibodies can be used to generate anti-idiotype antibodies that resemble a portion
     of MASP-2 using techniques that are well known in the art. See, e.g., Greenspan, N.S.,
     et al., FASEB J. 7:437, 1993. For example, antibodies that bind to MASP-2 and
     competitively inhibit a MASP-2 protein interaction required for complement activation
     can be used to generate anti-idiotypes that resemble the MBL binding site on MASP-2
 10  protein and therefore bind and neutralize a binding ligand of MASP-2 such as, for
     example, MBL.
             IMMUNOGLOBULIN FRAGMENTS
             The MASP-2 inhibitory agents useful in the method of the invention encompass
     not only intact immunoglobulin molecules but also the well known fragments including
 15  Fab, Fab', F(ab) 2 , F(ab') 2 and Fv fragments, scFv fragments, diabodies, linear antibodies,
     single-chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody
     fragments.
             It is well known in the art that only a small portion of an antibody molecule, the
    paratope, is involved in the binding of the antibody to its epitope (see, e.g., Clark, W.R.,
20   The ExperimentalFoundations of Modern Immunology, Wiley & Sons, Inc., NY, 1986).
    The pFc' and Fc regions of the antibody are effectors of the classical complement
    pathway, but are not involved in antigen binding. An antibody from which the pFe'
    region has been enzymatically cleaved, or which has been produced without the pFc'
    region, is designated an F(ab') 2 fragment and retains both of the antigen binding sites of
25  an intact antibody. An isolated F(ab') 2 fragment is referred to as a bivalent monoclonal
    fragment because of its two antigen binding sites. Similarly, an antibody from which the
    Fe region has been enzymatically cleaved, or which has been produced without the Fc
    region, is designated a Fab fragment, and retains one of the antigen binding sites of an
    intact antibody molecule.
30           Antibody fragments can be obtained by proteolytic hydrolysis, such as by pepsin
    or papain digestion of whole antibodies by conventional methods. For example, antibody
    fragments can be produced by enzymatic cleavage of antibodies with pepsin to provide a
    5S fragment denoted F(ab') 2 . This fragment can be further cleaved using a thiol reducing
                                                  -80-

        agent to produce 3.5S Fab' monovalent fragments. Optionally, the cleavage reaction can
       be performed using a blocking group for the sulfhydryl groups that result from cleavage
        of disulfide linkages. As an alternative, an enzymatic cleavage using pepsin produces
       two monovalent Fab fragments and an Fc fragment directly. These methods are
   5   described, for example, U.S. Patent No. 4,331,647 to Goldenberg; Nisonoff, A., et
                                                                                               al.,
       Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 89:230, 1960; Porter, R.R., Biochem. J. 73:119, 1959; Edelman,
       et al., in Methods in Enzymology, 1:422, Academic Press, 1967; and by Coligan at pages
       2.8.1-2.8.10 and 2.10.-2.10.4.
                In some embodiments, the use of antibody fragments lacking the Fc region are
  10   preferred to avoid activation of the classical complement pathway which is initiated upon
       binding Fc to the Fcy receptor. There are several methods by which one can produce a
       MoAb that avoids Fcy receptor interactions. For example, the Fc region of a monoclonal
       antibody can be removed chemically using partial digestion by proteolytic enzymes (such
       as ficin digestion), thereby generating, for example, antigen-binding antibody fragments
 15    such as Fab or F(ab) 2 fragments (Mariani, M., et al., Mol. Immunol. 28:69-71, 1991).
       Alternatively, the human y4 IgG isotype, which does not bind Fey receptors, can be used
       during construction of a humanized antibody as described herein. Antibodies, single
      chain antibodies and antigen-binding domains that lack the Fc domain can also be
      engineered using recombinant techniques described herein.
 20             SINGLE-CHAIN ANTIBODY FRAGMENTS
                Alternatively, one can create single peptide chain binding molecules specific for
      MASP-2 in which the heavy and light chain Fv regions are connected. The Fv fragments
      may be connected by a peptide linker to form a single-chain antigen binding protein
      (scFv). These single-chain antigen binding proteins are prepared by constructing a
25    structural gene comprising DNA sequences encoding the VH and VL domains which are
      connected by an oligonucleotide.       The structural gene is inserted into an expression
     vector, which is subsequently introduced into a host cell, such as E. coli. The
     recombinant host cells synthesize a single polypeptide chain with a linker peptide
     bridging the two V domains. Methods for producing scFvs are described for example, by
30   Whitlow, et al., "Methods: A Companion to Methods in Enzymology" 2:97, 1991; Bird,
     et al., Science 242:423, 1988; U.S. Patent No. 4,946,778 to Ladner; Pack, P., et al.,
     Bio/Technology 11:1271, 1993.
                                                   -81-

            As an illustrative example, a MASP-2 specific scFv can be obtained by exposing
    lymphocytes to MASP-2 polypeptide in vitro and selecting antibody display libraries in
    phage or similar vectors (for example, through the use of immobilized or labeled
    MASP-2 protein or peptide). Genes encoding polypeptides having potential MASP-2
 5  polypeptide binding domains can be obtained by screening random peptide libraries
    displayed on phage or on bacteria such as E. coli. These random peptide display libraries
    can be used to screen for peptides which interact with MASP-2. Techniques for creating
    and screening such random peptide display libraries are well known in the art (U.S.
    Patent No. 5,223,409 to Lardner; U.S. Patent No. 4,946,778 to Ladner; U.S. Patent
10  No. 5,403,484 to Lardner; U.S. Patent No. 5,571,698 to Lardner; and Kay et al., Phage
   Display of Peptides and Proteins Academic Press, Inc., 1996) and random peptide
    display libraries and kits for screening such libraries are available commercially, for
    instance from CLONTECH Laboratories, Inc. (Palo Alto, Calif.), Invitrogen Inc. (San
    Diego, Calif.), New England Biolabs, Inc. (Beverly, Mass.), and Pharmacia LKB
15  Biotechnology Inc. (Piscataway, N.J.).
            Another form of an anti-MASP-2 antibody fragment useful in this aspect of the
    invention is a peptide coding for a single complementarity-determining region (CDR) that
   binds to an epitope on a MASP-2 antigen and inhibits MASP-2-dependent complement
    activation. CDR peptides ("minimal recognition units") can be obtained by constructing
20 genes encoding the CDR of an antibody of interest.          Such genes are prepared, for
    example, by using the polymerase chain reaction to synthesize the variable region from
   RNA of antibody-producing cells (see, for example, Larrick et al., Methods: A
    Companion to Methods in Enzymology 2:106, 1991; Courtenay-Luck,                 "Genetic
   Manipulation of Monoclonal Antibodies," in Monoclonal Antibodies: Production,
25 Engineering and Clinical Application, Ritter et al. (eds.), page 166, Cambridge
   University Press, 1995; and Ward et al., "Genetic Manipulation and Expression of
   Antibodies," in Monoclonal Antibodies: Principles and Applications, Birch et al. (eds.),
   page 137, Wiley-Liss, Inc., 1995).
            The MASP-2 antibodies described herein are administered to a subject in need
30 thereof to inhibit MASP-2-dependent complement activation. In some embodiments, the
   MASP-2 inhibitory agent is a high-affinity human or humanized monoclonal anti
   MASP-2 antibody with reduced effector function.
                                                -82-

              PEPTIDE INHIBITORS
              In some embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the MASP-2 inhibitory
      agent comprises isolated MASP-2 peptide inhibitors, including isolated natural peptide
      inhibitors   and   synthetic  peptide inhibitors    that inhibit the MASP-2-dependent
  5   complement activation system.       As used herein, the term "isolated MASP-2 peptide
      inhibitors" refers to peptides that bind to or interact with MASP-2 and inhibit MASP-2
      dependent complement activation that are substantially pure and are essentially free of
      other substances with which they may be found in nature to an extent practical and
      appropriate for their intended use.
 10           Peptide inhibitors have been used successfully in vivo to interfere with protein
     protein interactions and catalytic sites.     For example, peptide inhibitors to adhesion
     molecules structurally related to LFA-1 have recently been approved for clinical use in
     coagulopathies (Ohman, E.M., et al., European Heart J. 16:50-55, 1995).       Short linear
     peptides (<30 amino acids) have been described that prevent or interfere with integrin
 15  dependent adhesion (Murayama, 0., et al., J. Biochem. 120:445-51, 1996).           Longer
     peptides, ranging in length from 25 to 200 amino acid residues, have also been used
     successfully to block integrin-dependent adhesion (Zhang, L., et al., J. Biol. Chem.
     271(47):29953-57, 1996).      In general, longer peptide inhibitors have higher affinities
     and/or slower off-rates than short peptides and may therefore be more potent inhibitors.
20   Cyclic peptide inhibitors have also been shown to be effective inhibitors of integrins
     in vivo for the treatment of human inflammatory disease (Jackson, D.Y., et al., J. Med.
     Chem. 40:3359-68, 1997).         One method of producing cyclic peptides involves the
     synthesis of peptides in which the terminal amino acids of the peptide are cysteines,
    thereby allowing the peptide to exist in a cyclic form by disulfide bonding between the
25  terminal amino acids, which has been shown to improve affinity and half-life in vivo for
    the treatment of hematopoietic neoplasms (e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,649,592 to Larson).
              SYNTHETIC MASP-2 PEPTIDE INHIBITORS
             MASP-2 inhibitory peptides useful in the methods of this aspect of the invention
    are exemplified by amino acid sequences that mimic the target regions important for
30  MASP-2 function. The inhibitory peptides useful in the practice of the methods of the
    invention range in size from about 5 amino acids to about 300 amino acids. TABLE 3
    provides a list of exemplary inhibitory peptides that may be useful in the practice of this
    aspect of the present invention. A candidate MASP-2 inhibitory peptide may be tested
                                                 -83-

   for the ability to function as a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in one of several assays
   including, for example, a lectin specific C4 cleavage assay (described in Example 2), and
   a C3b deposition assay (described in Example 2).
           In some embodiments, the MASP-2 inhibitory peptides are derived from MASP-2
 5 polypeptides and are selected from the full length mature MASP-2 protein (SEQ ID
   NO:6), or from a particular domain of the MASP-2 protein such as, for example, the
   CUBI domain (SEQ ID NO:8), the CUBIEGF domain (SEQ ID NO:9), the EGF domain
   (SEQ ID NO: 11), and the seine protease domain (SEQ ID NO:12).               As previously
   described, the CUBEGFCUBII regions have been shown to be required for dimerization
10 and binding with MBL (Thielens et al., supra). In particular, the peptide sequence
   TFRSDYN (SEQ ID NO: 16) in the CUBI domain of MASP-2 has been shown to be
   involved in binding to MBL in a study that identified a human carrying a homozygous
   mutation at Asp105 to Gly105, resulting in the loss of MASP-2 from the MBL complex
   (Stengaard-Pedersen, K., et al., New England J. Med. 349:554-560, 2003).           MASP-2
15 inhibitory peptides may also be derived from MAp 19 (SEQ ID NO:3).
           In some embodiments, MASP-2 inhibitory peptides are derived from the lectin
   proteins that bind to MASP-2 and are involved in the lectin complement pathway.
   Several different lectins have been identified that are involved in this pathway, including
   mannan-binding lectin (MBL), L-ficolin, M-ficolin and H-ficolin. (Ikeda, K., et al., J.
20 Biol. Chem. 262:7451-7454, 1987; Matsushita, M., et al., J. Exp. Med. 176:1497-2284,
   2000; Matsushita, M., et al., J. Immunol. 168:3502-3506, 2002). These lectins are present
   in serum as oligomers of homotrimeric subunits, each having N-terminal collagen-like
   fibers with carbohydrate recognition domains. These different lectins have been shown
   to bind to MASP-2, and the lectin/MASP-2 complex activates complement through
25 cleavage of proteins C4 and C2. H-ficolin has an amino-terminal region of 24 amino
   acids, a collagen-like domain with 11 Gly-Xaa-Yaa repeats, a neck domain of 12 amino
   acids, and a fibrinogen-like domain of 207 amino acids (Matsushita, M., et al., J.
   Immunol. 168:3502-3506, 2002).       H-ficolin binds to GlcNAc and agglutinates human
   erythrocytes coated with LPS derived from S. typhimurium, S. minnesota and E. coli.
30 H-ficolin has been shown to be associated with MASP-2 and MAp19 and activates the
   lectin pathway.    Id. L-ficolin/P35 also binds to GlcNAc and has been shown to be
   associated with MASP-2 and MAp19 in human serum and this complex has been shown
   to activate the lectin pathway (Matsushita, M., et al., J. Immunol. 164:2281, 2000).
                                               -84-

    Accordingly, MASP-2 inhibitory peptides useful in the present invention may comprise a
    region of at least 5 amino acids selected from the MBL protein (SEQ ID NO:21), the
    H-ficolin protein (Genbank accession number NM_173452), the M-ficolin protein
    (Genbank accession number 000602)and the L-ficolin protein (Genbank accession
 5  number NM_015838).
             More specifically, scientists have identified the MASP-2 binding site on MBL to
    be within the 12 Gly-X-Y triplets "GKD GRD GTK GEK GEP GQG LRG LQG POG
    KLG POG NOG PSG SOG PKG QKG DOG KS" (SEQ ID NO:26) that lie between the
    hinge and the neck in the C-terminal portion of the collagen-like domain of MBP (Wallis,
10  R., et al., J. Bio. Chem. 279:14065, 2004). This MASP-2 binding site region is also
    highly conserved in human H-ficolin and human L-ficolin. A consensus binding site has
    been described that is present in all three lectin proteins comprising the amino acid
    sequence "OGK-X-GP" (SEQ ID NO:22) where the letter "0"represents hydroxyproline
    and the letter "X" is a hydrophobic residue (Wallis et al., 2004, supra). Accordingly, in
15  some embodiments, MASP-2 inhibitory peptides useful in this aspect of the invention are
    at least 6 amino acids in length and comprise SEQ ID NO:22. Peptides derived from
    MBL that include the amino acid sequence "GLR GLQ GPO GKL GPO G" (SEQ ID
    NO:24) have been shown to bind MASP-2 in vitro (Wallis, et al., 2004, supra). To
    enhance binding to MASP-2, peptides can be synthesized that are flanked by two GPO
20  triplets at each end ("GPO GPO GLR GLQ GPO GKL GPO GGP OGP 0" SEQ ID
   NO:25) to enhance the formation of triple helices as found in the native MBL protein (as
    further described in Wallis, R., et al., J. Bio. Chem. 279:14065, 2004).
            MASP-2 inhibitory peptides may also be derived from human H-ficolin that
   include the sequence "GAO GSO GEK GAO GPQ GPO GPO GKM GPK GEO GDO"
25  (SEQ ID NO:27) from the consensus MASP-2 binding region in H-ficolin. Also included
   are peptides derived from human L-ficolin that include the sequence "GCO GLO GAO
   GDK GEA GTN GKR GER GPO GPO GKA GPO GPN GAO GEO" (SEQ ID NO:28)
   from the consensus MASP-2 binding region in L-ficolin.
            MASP-2 inhibitory peptides may also be derived from the C4 cleavage site such
30 as "LQRALEILPNRVTIKANRPFLVFI" (SEQ ID NO:29) which is the C4 cleavage site
   linked to the C-terminal portion of antithrombin III (Glover, G.I., et al., Mol. Immunol.
   25:1261 (1988)).
                                                  -85-

 TABLE 3: EXEMPLARY MASP-2 INHIBITORY PEPTIDES
 SEQ ID NO              Source
 SEQ ID NO:6           Human MASP-2 protein
 SEQ ID NO:8           CUBI domain of MASP-2 (aa 1-121 of SEQ ID NO:6)
 SEQ ID NO:9           CUBIEGF domains of MASP-2 (aa 1-166 of SEQ ID NO:6)
 SEQ ID NO:10          CUBIEGFCUBII domains of MASP-2
                       (aa 1-293 of SEQ ID NO:6)
 SEQ ID NO:1 1         EGF domain of MASP-2 (aa 122-166)
SEQ ID NO:12           Serine-protease domain of MASP-2 (aa 429-671)
SEQ ID NO:16           MBL binding region in MASP-2
SEQ ID NO:3            Human MAp19
SEQ ID NO:21           Human MBL protein
SEQ ID NO:22           Synthetic peptide Consensus binding site from Human
OGK-X-GP,              MBL and Human ficolins
Where "0" =
hydroxyproline and "X"
is a hydrophobic amino
acid residue
SEQ ID NO:23           Human MBL core binding site
OGKLG
SEQ ID NO:24           Human MBP Triplets 6-10- demonstrated binding to
GLR GLQ GPO GKL        MASP-2
GPO.G
SEQ ID NO:25           Human MBP Triplets with GPO added to enhance
                                     -86-

   SEQ ID NO                    Source
   GPOGPOGLRGLQGPO              formation of triple helices
   GKLGPOGGPOGPO
   SEQ ID NO:26                 Human MBP Triplets 1-17
   GKDGRDGTKGEKGEP
   GQGLRGLQGPOGKLG
   POGNOGPSGSOGPKG
   QKGDOGKS
   SEQ ID NO:27                 Human H-Ficolin (Hataka)
   GAOGSOGEKGAOGPQ
   GPOGPOGKMGPKGEO
   GDO
   SEQ ID NO:28                 Human L-Ficolin P35
   GCOGLOGAOGDKGE
   AGTNGKRGERGPOGP
   OGKAGPOGPNGAOGE
   0
   SEQ ID NO:29                 Human C4 cleavage site
   LQRALEILPNRVTIKA
   NRPFLVFI
   Note: The letter "0"represents hydroxyproline. The letter "X" is a hydrophobic residue.
           Peptides derived from the C4 cleavage site as well as other peptides that inhibit
   the MASP-2 serine protease site can be chemically modified so that they are irreversible
 5 protease inhibitors.   For example, appropriate modifications may include, but are not
   necessarily limited to, halomethyl ketones (Br, Cl, I, F) at the C-terminus, Asp or Glu, or
   appended to functional side chains; haloacetyl (or other a-haloacetyl) groups on amino
   groups or other functional side chains; epoxide or imine-containing groups on the amino
   or carboxy termini or on functional side chains; or imidate esters on the amino or carboxy
10 termini or on functional side chains. Such modifications would afford the advantage of
                                               -87-

     permanently inhibiting the enzyme by covalent attachment of the peptide. This could
     result in lower effective doses and/or the need for less frequent administration of the
     peptide inhibitor.
             In addition to the inhibitory peptides described above, MASP-2 inhibitory
  5  peptides useful in the method of the invention include peptides containing the MASP-2
     binding CDR3 region of anti-MASP-2 MoAb obtained as described herein.                   The
     sequence of the CDR regions for use in synthesizing the peptides may be determined by
     methods known in the art. The heavy chain variable region is a peptide that generally
     ranges from 100 to 150 amino acids in length. The light chain variable region is a peptide
 10  that generally ranges from 80 to 130 amino acids in length. The CDR sequences within
     the heavy and light chain variable regions include only approximately 3-25 amino acid
     sequences that may be easily sequenced by one of ordinary skill in the art.
             Those skilled in the art will recognize that substantially homologous variations of
    the MASP-2 inhibitory peptides described above will also exhibit MASP-2 inhibitory
 15  activity. Exemplary variations include, but are not necessarily limited to, peptides having
    insertions, deletions, replacements, and/or additional amino acids on the carboxy
    terminus or amino-terminus portions of the subject peptides and mixtures thereof.
    Accordingly, those homologous peptides having MASP-2 inhibitory activity are
    considered to be useful in the methods of this invention. The peptides described may also
20  include duplicating motifs and other modifications with conservative substitutions.
    Conservative variants are described elsewhere herein, and include the exchange of an
    amino acid for another of like charge, size or hydrophobicity and the like.
             MASP-2 inhibitory peptides may be modified to increase solubility and/or to
    maximize the positive or negative charge in order to more closely resemble the segment
25  in the intact protein. The derivative may or may not have the exact primary amino acid
    structure of a peptide disclosed herein so long as the derivative functionally retains the
    desired property of MASP-2 inhibition.         The modifications can include amino acid
    substitution with one of the commonly known twenty amino acids or with another amino
    acid, with a derivatized or substituted amino acid with ancillary desirable characteristics,
30  such as resistance to enzymatic degradation or with a D-amino acid or substitution with
    another molecule or compound, such as a carbohydrate, which mimics the natural
    confirmation and function of the amino acid, amino acids or peptide; amino acid deletion;
    amino acid insertion with one of the commonly known twenty amino acids or with
                                                 -88-

     another amino acid, with a derivatized or substituted amino acid with ancillary desirable
     characteristics, such as resistance to enzymatic degradation or with a D-amino acid or
     substitution with another molecule or compound, such as a carbohydrate, which mimics
     the natural confirmation and function of the amino acid, amino acids or peptide; or
  5  substitution with another molecule or compound, such as a carbohydrate or nucleic acid
     monomer, which mimics the natural conformation, charge distribution and function of the
     parent peptide. Peptides may also be modified by acetylation or amidation.
             The synthesis of derivative inhibitory peptides can rely on known techniques of
     peptide biosynthesis, carbohydrate biosynthesis and the like. As a starting point, the
 10  artisan may rely on a suitable computer program to determine the conformation of a
     peptide of interest. Once the conformation of peptide disclosed herein is known, then the
     artisan can determine in a rational design fashion what sort of substitutions can be made
     at one or more sites to fashion a derivative that retains the basic conformation and charge
     distribution of the parent peptide but which may possess characteristics which are not
 15 present or are enhanced over those found in the parent peptide.             Once candidate
     derivative molecules are identified, the derivatives can be tested to determine if they
     function as MASP-2 inhibitory agents using the assays described herein.
             SCREENING FOR MASP-2 INHIBITORY PEPTIDES
             One may also use molecular modeling and rational molecular design to generate
20  and screen for peptides that mimic the molecular structures of key binding regions of
    MASP-2 and inhibit the complement activities of MASP-2.             The molecular structures
    used for modeling include the CDR regions of anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies, as
    well as the target regions known to be important for MASP-2 function including the
    region required for dimerization, the region involved in binding to MBL, and the serine
25  protease active site as previously described. Methods for identifying peptides that bind to
    a particular target are well known in the art. For example, molecular imprinting may be
    used for the de novo construction of macromolecular structures such as peptides that bind
    to a particular molecule.      See, for example, Shea, K.J., "Molecular Imprinting of
    Synthetic Network Polymers: The De Novo synthesis of Macromolecular Binding and
30  CatalyticSties," TRIP 2(5), 1994.
            As an illustrative example, one method of preparing mimics of MASP-2 binding
    peptides is as follows. Functional monomers of a known MASP-2 binding peptide or the
    binding region of an anti-MASP-2 antibody that exhibits MASP-2 inhibition (the
                                                 -89-

   template) are polymerized. The template is then removed, followed by polymerization of
    a second class of monomers in the void left by the template, to provide a new molecule
   that exhibits one or more desired properties that are similar to the template. In addition to
   preparing peptides in this manner, other MASP-2 binding molecules that are MASP-2
 5 inhibitory   agents   such as polysaccharides,       nucleosides,    drugs,  nucleoproteins,
   lipoproteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, steroid, lipids and other biologically active
   materials can also be prepared. This method is useful for designing a wide variety of
   biological mimics that are more stable than their natural counterparts because they are
   typically prepared by free radical polymerization of function monomers, resulting in a
10 compound with a nonbiodegradable backbone.
           PEPTIDE SYNTHESIS
           The MASP-2 inhibitory peptides can be prepared using techniques well known in
   the art, such as the solid-phase synthetic technique initially described by Merrifield, in
   J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 85:2149-2154, 1963. Automated synthesis may be achieved, for
15 example, using Applied Biosystems 431A Peptide Synthesizer (Foster City, Calif.) in
   accordance with the instructions provided by the manufacturer. Other techniques may be
   found, for example, in Bodanszky, M., et al., Peptide Synthesis, second edition, John
   Wiley & Sons, 1976, as well as in other reference works known to those skilled in the art.
           The peptides can also be prepared using standard genetic engineering techniques
20 known to those skilled in the art.         For example, the peptide can be produced
   enzymatically by inserting nucleic acid encoding the peptide into an expression vector,
   expressing the DNA, and translating the DNA into the peptide in the presence of the
   required amino acids.       The peptide is then purified using chromatographic or
   electrophoretic techniques, or by means of a carrier protein that can be fused to, and
25 subsequently cleaved from, the peptide by inserting into the expression vector in phase
   with the peptide encoding sequence a nucleic acid sequence encoding the carrier protein.
   The fusion protein-peptide may be isolated using chromatographic, electrophoretic or
   immunological techniques (such as binding to a resin via an antibody to the carrier
   protein). The peptide can be cleaved using chemical methodology or enzymatically, as
30 by, for example, hydrolases.
           The MASP-2 inhibitory peptides that are useful in the method of the invention can
   also be produced in recombinant host cells following conventional techniques. To express
   a MASP-2 inhibitory peptide encoding sequence, a nucleic acid molecule encoding the
                                              -90-

     peptide must be operably linked to regulatory sequences that control transcriptional
      expression in an expression vector and then introduced into a host cell. In addition to
     transcriptional regulatory sequences, such as promoters and enhancers, expression vectors
      can include translational regulatory sequences and a marker gene, which is suitable for
  5   selection of cells that carry the expression vector.
              Nucleic acid molecules that encode a MASP-2 inhibitory peptide can be
     synthesized with "gene machines" using protocols such as the phosphoramidite method.
     If chemically synthesized double-stranded DNA is required for an application such as the
     synthesis of a gene or a gene fragment, then each complementary strand is made
 10  separately.     The production of short genes (60 to 80 base pairs) is technically
     straightforward and can be accomplished by synthesizing the complementary strands and
     then annealing them.       For the production of longer genes, synthetic genes (double
     stranded) are assembled in modular form from single-stranded fragments that are from 20
     to 100 nucleotides in length. For reviews on polynucleotide synthesis, see, for example,
 15  Glick and Pasternak, "Molecular Biotechnology, Principles and Applications of
    Recombinant DNA", ASM Press, 1994; Itakura, K., et al., Annu. Rev. Biochem. 53:323,
     1984; and Climie, S., et al., Proc. Nat'lAcad.Sci. USA 87:633, 1990.
              SMALL MOLECULE INHIBITORS
              In some embodiments, MASP-2 inhibitory agents are small molecule inhibitors
20   including natural and synthetic substances that have a low molecular weight, such as for
     example,      peptides,    peptidomimetics       and  nonpeptide  inhibitors    (including
     oligonucleotides and organic compounds). Small molecule inhibitors of MASP-2 can be
    generated based on the molecular structure of the variable regions of the antiMASP-2
    antibodies.
25            Small molecule inhibitors may also be designed and generated based on the
    MASP-2 crystal structure using computational drug design (Kuntz I.D., et al., Science
    257:1078, 1992). The crystal structure of rat MASP-2 has been described (Feinberg, H.,
    et al., EMBO J. 22:2348-2359, 2003). Using the method described by Kuntz et al., the
    MASP-2 crystal structure coordinates are used as an input for a computer program such
30  as DOCK, which outputs a list of small molecule structures that are expected to bind to
    MASP-2. Use of such computer programs is well known to one of skill in the art. For
    example, the crystal structure of the HIV-1 protease inhibitor was used to identify unique
    nonpeptide ligands that are HIV-1 protease inhibitors by evaluating the fit of compounds
                                                   -91-

     found in the Cambridge Crystallographic database to the binding site of the enzyme using
     the program DOCK (Kuntz, I.D., et al., J. Mol. Biol. 161:269-288, 1982; DesJarlais, R.L.,
     et al., PNAS 87:6644-6648, 1990).
              The list of small molecule structures that are identified by a computational method
  5  as potential MASP-2 inhibitors are screened using a MASP-2 binding assay such as
     described in Example 7. The small molecules that are found to bind to MASP-2 are then
     assayed in a functional assay such as described in Example 2 to determine if they inhibit
     MASP-2-dependent complement activation.
              MASP-2 SOLUBLE RECEPTORS
 10           Other suitable MASP-2 inhibitory agents are believed to include MASP-2 soluble
     receptors, which may be produced using techniques known to those of ordinary skill in
     the art.
              EXPRESSION INHIBITORS OF MASP-2
              In another embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the MASP-2 inhibitory
 15  agent is a MASP-2 expression inhibitor capable of inhibiting MASP-2-dependent
     complement activation. In the practice of this aspect of the invention, representative
    MASP-2 expression inhibitors include MASP-2 antisense nucleic acid molecules (such as
     antisense mRNA, antisense DNA or antisense oligonucleotides), MASP-2 ribozymes and
    MASP-2 RNAi molecules.
20            Anti-sense RNA and DNA molecules act to directly block the translation of
    MASP-2 mRNA by hybridizing to MASP-2 mRNA and preventing translation of MASP
    2 protein.     An antisense nucleic acid molecule may be constructed in a number of
    different ways provided that it is capable of interfering with the expression of MASP-2.
    For example, an antisense nucleic acid molecule can be constructed by inverting the
25  coding region (or a portion thereof) of MASP-2 cDNA (SEQ ID NO:4) relative to its
    normal orientation for transcription to allow for the transcription of its complement.
              The antisense nucleic acid molecule is usually substantially identical to at least a
    portion of the target gene or genes. The nucleic acid, however, need not be perfectly
    identical to inhibit expression. Generally, higher homology can be used to compensate
30  for the use of a shorter antisense nucleic acid molecule. The minimal percent identity is
    typically greater than about 65%, but a higher percent identity may exert a more effective
    repression of expression of the endogenous sequence.             Substantially greater percent
                                                 -92-

   identity of more than about 80% typically is preferred, though about 95% to absolute
   identity is typically most preferred.
            The antisense nucleic acid molecule need not have the same intron or exon pattern
   as the target gene, and non-coding segments of the target gene may be equally effective in
 5  achieving antisense suppression of target gene expression as coding segments. A DNA
    sequence of at least about 8 or so nucleotides may be used as the antisense nucleic acid
   molecule, although a longer sequence is preferable.          In the present invention, a
   representative example of a useful inhibitory agent of MASP-2 is an antisense MASP-2
   nucleic acid molecule which is at least ninety percent identical to the complement of the
10 MASP-2 cDNA consisting of the nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4. The
   nucleic acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4 encodes the MASP-2 protein consisting
   of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:5.
            The targeting of antisense oligonucleotides to bind MASP-2 mRNA is another
   mechanism that may be used to reduce the level of MASP-2 protein synthesis.           For
15 example, the synthesis of polygalacturonase and the muscarine type 2 acetylcholine
   receptor are inhibited by antisense oligonucleotides directed to their respective mRNA
   sequences (U.S. Patent No. 5,739,119 to Cheng and U.S. Patent No. 5,759,829 to
   Shewmaker).      Furthermore, examples of antisense inhibition have been demonstrated
   with the nuclear protein cyclin, the multiple drug resistance gene (MDG1), ICAM-1, E
20 selectin, STK-1, striatal GABAA receptor and human EGF (see, e.g., U.S. Patent
   No. 5,801,154 to Baracchini; U.S. Patent No. 5,789,573            to Baker; U.S. Patent
   No. 5,718,709 to Considine; and U.S. Patent No. 5,610,288 to Reubenstein).
            A system has been described that allows one of ordinary skill to determine which
   oligonucleotides are useful in the invention, which involves probing for suitable sites in
25 the target mRNA using Rnase H cleavage as an indicator for accessibility of sequences
   within the transcripts. Scherr, M., et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 26:5079-5085, 1998; Lloyd,
   et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 29:3665-3673, 2001. A mixture of antisense oligonucleotides
   that are complementary to certain regions of the MASP-2 transcript is added to cell
   extracts expressing MASP-2, such as hepatocytes, and hybridized in order to create an
30 RNAseH vulnerable site. This method can be combined with computer-assisted sequence
   selection that can predict optimal sequence selection for antisense compositions based
   upon their relative ability to form dimers, hairpins or other secondary structures that
   would reduce or prohibit specific binding to the target mRNA in a host cell. These
                                               -93-

   secondary structure analysis and target site selection considerations may be performed
   using the OLIGO primer analysis software (Rychlik, I., 1997) and the BLASTN 2.0.5
   algorithm software (Altschul, S.F., et al., Nucl. Acids Res. 25:3389-3402, 1997). The
   antisense compounds directed towards the target sequence preferably comprise from
 5 about 8 to about 50 nucleotides in length. Antisense oligonucleotides comprising from
   about 9 to about 35 or so nucleotides are particularly preferred.               The inventors
   contemplate all oligonucleotide compositions in the range of 9 to 35 nucleotides (i.e.,
   those of 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
   31, 32, 33, 34 or 35 or so bases in length) are highly preferred for the practice of
10 antisense oligonucleotide-based methods of the invention.            Highly preferred target
   regions of the MASP-2 mRNA are those that are at or near the AUG translation initiation
   codon, and those sequences that are substantially complementary to 5' regions of the
   mRNA, e.g., between the -10 and +10 regions of the MASP 2 gene nucleotide sequence
   (SEQ ID NO:4). Exemplary MASP-2 expression inhibitors are provided in TABLE 4.
15
   TABLE 4         EXEMPLARY EXPRESSION INHIBITORS OF MASP-2
   SEQ ID NO:30 (nucleotides 22-680 of SEQ Nucleic acid sequence of MASP-2 cDNA
   ID NO:4)                                          (SEQ ID NO:4) encoding CUBIEGF
   SEQ ID NO:31                                      Nucleotides 12-45 of SEQ ID NO:4 including
                                                     the MASP-2 translation start site (sense)
   5'CGGGCACACCATGAGGCTGCTGACC
   CTCCTGGGC3
   SEQ ID NO:32                                      Nucleotides    361-396     of SEQ ID NO:4
                                                     encoding a region comprising the MASP-2
   5'GACATTACCTTCCGCTCCGACTCCAA
                                                     MBL binding site (sense)
   CGAGAAG3'
   SEQ ID NO:33                                      Nucleotides    610-642     of SEQ ID NO:4
                                                     encoding a region comprising the CUBII
   5'AGCAGCCCTGAATACCCACGGCCGT
                                                     domain
   ATCCCAAA3'
                                                -94-

            As noted above, the term "oligonucleotide" as used herein refers to an oligomer or
    polymer of ribonucleic acid (RNA) or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or mimetics thereof.
    This term also covers those oligonucleobases           composed of naturally occurring
    nucleotides, sugars and covalent internucleoside (backbone) linkages as well as
  5 oligonucleotides having non-naturally occurring modifications.         These modifications
    allow one to introduce certain desirable properties that are not offered through naturally
    occurring oligonucleotides, such as reduced toxic properties, increased stability against
    nuclease degradation and enhanced cellular uptake.       In illustrative embodiments, the
    antisense compounds of the invention differ from native DNA by the modification of the
 10 phosphodiester backbone to extend the life of the antisense oligonucleotide in which the
    phosphate substituents are replaced by phosphorothioates. Likewise, one or both ends of
    the oligonucleotide may be substituted by one or more acridine derivatives that intercalate
    between adjacent basepairs within a strand of nucleic acid.
            Another alternative to antisense is the use of "RNA interference" (RNAi).
15  Double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) can provoke gene silencing in mammals in vivo. The
    natural function of RNAi and co-suppression appears to be protection of the genome
    against invasion by mobile genetic elements such as retrotransposons and viruses that
    produce aberrant RNA or dsRNA in the host cell when they become active (see, e.g.,
    Jensen, J., et al., Nat. Genet. 21:209-12, 1999). The double-stranded RNA molecule may
20  be prepared by synthesizing two RNA strands capable of forming a double-stranded RNA
    molecule, each having a length from about 19 to 25 (e.g., 19-23 nucleotides).          For
    example, a dsRNA molecule useful in the methods of the invention may comprise the
    RNA corresponding to a sequence and its complement listed in TABLE 4. Preferably, at
    least one strand of RNA has a 3' overhang from 1-5 nucleotides. The synthesized RNA
25  strands are combined under conditions that form a double-stranded molecule. The RNA
    sequence may comprise at least an 8 nucleotide portion of SEQ ID NO:4 with a total
    length of 25 nucleotides or less. The design of siRNA sequences for a given target is
    within the ordinary skill of one in the art. Commercial services are available that design
    siRNA sequence and guarantee at least 70% knockdown of expression (Qiagen, Valencia,
30  CA).
            The dsRNA may be administered as a pharmaceutical composition and carried out
    by known methods, wherein a nucleic acid is introduced into a desired target cell.
    Commonly used gene transfer methods include calcium phosphate, DEAE-dextran,
                                                -95-

   electroporation, microinjection and viral methods. Such methods are taught in Ausubel
   et al., CurrentProtocolsin MolecularBiology, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1993.
            Ribozymes can also be utilized to decrease the amount and/or biological activity
   of MASP-2, such as ribozymes that target MASP-2 mRNA. Ribozymes are catalytic
 5 RNA molecules that can cleave nucleic acid molecules having a sequence that is
   completely or partially homologous to the sequence of the ribozyme. It is possible to
   design ribozyme transgenes that encode RNA ribozymes that specifically pair with a
   target RNA and cleave the phosphodiester backbone at a specific location, thereby
   functionally inactivating the target RNA. In carrying out this cleavage, the ribozyme is
10 not itself altered, and is thus capable of recycling and cleaving other molecules. The
   inclusion of ribozyme sequences within antisense RNAs confers RNA-cleaving activity
   upon them, thereby increasing the activity of the antisense constructs.
            Ribozymes useful in the practice of the invention typically comprise a hybridizing
   region of at least about nine nucleotides, which is complementary in nucleotide sequence
15 to at least part of the target MASP-2 mRNA, and a catalytic region that is adapted to
   cleave the target MASP-2 mRNA (see generally, EPA No. 0 321 201; W088/04300;
   Haseloff, J., et al., Nature 334:585-591, 1988; Fedor, M.J., et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
    USA 87:1668-1672, 1990; Cech, T.R., et al., Ann. Rev. Biochem. 55:599-629, 1986).
            Ribozymes can either be targeted directly to cells in the form of RNA
20 oligonucleotides incorporating ribozyme sequences, or introduced into the cell as an
   expression vector encoding the desired ribozymal RNA. Ribozymes may be used and
   applied in much the same way as described for antisense polynucleotides.
            Anti-sense RNA and DNA, ribozymes and RNAi molecules useful in the methods
   of the invention may be prepared by any method known in the art for the synthesis of
25 DNA and RNA molecules.             These include techniques for chemically synthesizing
   oligodeoxyribonucleotides and oligoribonucleotides well known in the art, such as for
   example solid phase phosphoramidite chemical synthesis. Alternatively, RNA molecules
   may be generated by in vitro and in vivo transcription of DNA sequences encoding the
   antisense RNA molecule. Such DNA sequences may be incorporated into a wide variety
30 of vectors that incorporate suitable RNA polymerase promoters such as the T7 or SP6
   polymerase promoters.         Alternatively, antisense cDNA constructs that synthesize
   antisense RNA constitutively or inducibly, depending on the promoter used, can be
   introduced stably into cell lines.
                                                -96-

           Various well known modifications of the DNA molecules may be introduced as a
   means of increasing stability and half-life. Useful modifications include, but are not
   limited to, the addition of flanking sequences of ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides
   to the 5' and/or 3' ends of the molecule or the use of phosphorothioate or 2' O-methyl
 5 rather than phosphodiesterase linkages within the oligodeoxyribonucleotide backbone.
   V.      PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS AND DELIVERY METHODS
           DOSING
            In another aspect, the invention provides compositions for inhibiting the adverse
   effects of MASP-2-dependent complement activation comprising a therapeutically
10 effective amount of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
   The MASP-2 inhibitory agents can be administered to a subject in need thereof, at
   therapeutically effective doses to treat or ameliorate conditions associated with MASP-2
   dependent complement activation. A therapeutically effective dose refers to the amount
   of the MASP-2 inhibitory agent sufficient to result in amelioration of symptoms of the
15 condition.
           Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of MASP-2 inhibitory agents can be determined
   by standard pharmaceutical procedures employing experimental animal models, such as
   the murine MASP-2 -/- mouse model expressing the human MASP-2 transgene described
   in Example 3. Using such animal models, the NOAEL (no observed adverse effect level)
20 and the MED (the minimally effective dose) can be determined using standard methods.
   The dose ratio between NOAEL and MED effects is the therapeutic ratio, which is
   expressed as the ratio NOAEL/MED.            MASP-2 inhibitory agents that exhibit large
   therapeutic ratios or indices are most preferred. The data obtained from the cell culture
   assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosages for use in
25 humans. The dosage of the MASP-2 inhibitory agent preferably lies within a range of
   circulating concentrations that include the MED with little or no toxicity. The dosage
   may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of
   administration utilized.
           For any compound formulation, the therapeutically effective dose can be
30 estimated using animal models. For example, a dose may be formulated in an animal
   model to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the MED.
   Quantitative levels of the MASP-2 inhibitory agent in plasma may also be measured, for
   example, by high performance liquid chromatography.
                                                -9)7-

           In addition to toxicity studies, effective dosage may also be estimated based on
   the amount of MASP-2 protein present in a living subject and the binding affinity of the
   MASP-2 inhibitory agent. It has been shown that MASP-2 levels in normal human
   subjects is present in serum in low levels in the range of 500 ng/ml, and MASP-2 levels
 5 in a particular subject can be determined using a quantitative assay for MASP-2 described
   in Moller-Kristensen M., et al., J. ofImmunol. Methods 282:159-167, 2003.
           Generally, the dosage of administered compositions comprising MASP-2
   inhibitory agents varies depending on such factors as the subject's age, weight, height,
   sex, general medical condition, and previous medical history. As an illustration, MASP-2
10 inhibitory agents, such as anti-MASP-2 antibodies, can be administered in dosage ranges
   from about 0.010 to 10.0 mg/kg, preferably 0.010 to 1.0 mg/kg, more preferably 0.010 to
   0.1 mg/kg of the subject body weight.
           Therapeutic efficacy of MASP-2 inhibitory compositions and methods of the
   present invention in a given subject, and appropriate dosages, can be determined in
15 accordance with complement assays well known to those of skill in the art. Complement
   generates numerous specific products.       During the last decade, sensitive and specific
   assays have been developed and are available commercially for most of these activation
   products, including the small activation fragments C3a, C4a, and C5a and the large
   activation fragments iC3b, C4d, Bb and sC5b-9. Most of these assays utilize monoclonal
20 antibodies that react with new antigens (neoantigens) exposed on the fragment, but not on
   the native proteins from which they are formed, making these assays very simple and
   specific. Most rely on ELISA technology, although radioimmunoassay is still sometimes
   used for C3a and C5a. These latter assays measure both the unprocessed fragments and
   their 'desArg' fragments, which are the major forms found in the circulation.
25 Unprocessed fragments and C5adesarg are rapidly cleared by binding to cell surface
   receptors and are hence present in very low concentrations, whereas C 3 adesArg does not
   bind to cells and accumulates in plasma.        Measurement of C3a provides a sensitive,
   pathway-independent indicator of complement activation. Alternative pathway activation
   can be assessed by measuring the Bb fragment. Detection of the fluid-phase product of
30 membrane attack pathway activation, sC5b-9, provides evidence that complement is
   being activated to completion. Because both the lectin and classical pathways generate
   the same activation products, C4a and C4d, measurement of these two fragments does not
                                                -98-

   provide any information about which of these two pathways has generated the activation
   products.
           ADDITIONAL AGENTS
           The compositions and methods comprising MASP-2 inhibitory agents may
 5 optionally comprise one or more additional therapeutic agents, which may augment the
   activity of the MASP-2 inhibitory agent or that provide related therapeutic functions in an
   additive or synergistic fashion. For example, one or more MASP-2 inhibitory agents may
   be administered in combination with one or more anti-inflammatory and/or analgesic
   agents. The inclusion and selection of additional agent(s) will be determined to achieve a
10 desired therapeutic result. Suitable anti-inflammatory and/or analgesic agents include:
   serotonin receptor     antagonists;  serotonin receptor     agonists; histamine receptor
   antagonists; bradykinin receptor antagonists; kallikrein inhibitors; tachykinin receptor
   antagonists, including neurokinini      and neurokinin 2 receptor subtype antagonists;
   calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonists; interleukin receptor
15 antagonists; inhibitors of enzymes active in the synthetic pathway for arachidonic acid
   metabolites, including phospholipase inhibitors, including PLA 2 isoform inhibitors and
   PLCY isoform inhibitors, cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors (which may be either COX-1,
   COX-2 or nonselective COX-1 and -2 inhibitors), lipooxygenase inhibitors; prostanoid
   receptor antagonists including eicosanoid EP-1 and EP-4 receptor subtype antagonists
20 and thromboxane receptor subtype antagonists; leukotriene receptor antagonists including
   leukotriene B 4 receptor subtype antagonists and leukotriene D4 receptor subtype
   antagonists; opioid receptor agonists, including p-opioid, 5-opioid, and -K-opioid receptor
   subtype agonists; purinoceptor agonists and antagonists including P2X receptor
   antagonists and P2y receptor agonists; adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium
25 channel openers; MAP kinase inhibitors; nicotinic acetylcholine inhibitors; and alpha
   adrenergic receptor agonists (including alpha-1, alpha-2 and nonselective alpha-1 and 2
   agonists).
           When used in the prevention or treatment of restenosis, the MASP-2 inhibitory
   agent of the present invention may be combined with one or more anti-restenosis agents
30 for concomitant administration.     Suitable anti-restenosis agents include:   antiplatelet
   agents including: thrombin inhibitors and receptor antagonists, adenosine diphosphate
   (ADP) receptor antagonists (also known as purinoceptorl receptor antagonists),
   thromboxane inhibitors and receptor antagonists and platelet membrane glycoprotein
                                               -99-

    receptor antagonists; inhibitors of cell adhesion molecules, including selectin inhibitors
    and integrin inhibitors; anti-chemotactic agents; interleukin receptor antagonists; and
    intracellular signaling inhibitors including: protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors and protein
   tyrosine phosphatases, modulators of intracellular protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors,
 5  inhibitors of src homology2 (SH2) domains, and calcium channel antagonists.
             The MASP-2 inhibitory agents of the present invention may also be administered
    in combination with one or more other complement inhibitors. No complement inhibitors
    are currently approved for use in humans, however some pharmacological agents have
   been shown to block complement in vivo. Many of these agents are also toxic or are only
10 partial inhibitors (Asghar, S.S., Pharmacol.Rev. 36:223-44, 1984), and use of these has
   been limited to use as research tools. K76COOH and nafamstat mesilate are two agents
   that have shown some effectiveness in animal models of transplantation (Miyagawa, S.,
    et al., Transplant Proc. 24:483-484, 1992). Low molecular weight heparins have also
   been shown to be effective in regulating complement activity (Edens, R.E., et al.,
15  Complement Today pp. 96-120, Basel: Karger, 1993).          It is believed that these small
   molecule inhibitors may be useful as agents to use in combination with the MASP-2
   inhibitory agents of the present invention.
             Other naturally occurring complement inhibitors may be useful in combination
   with the MASP-2 inhibitory agents of the present invention. Biological inhibitors of
20 complement include soluble complement factor 1 (sCR1). This is a naturally occurring
   inhibitor that can be found on the outer membrane of human cells. Other membrane
   inhibitors include DAF, MCP and CD59. Recombinant forms have been tested for their
   anti-complement activity in vitro and in vivo. sCR1 has been shown to be effective in
   xenotranplantation, wherein the complement system (both alternative and classical)
25 provides the trigger for a hyperactive rejection syndrome within minutes of perfusing
   blood through the newly transplanted organ (Platt J.L., et al., Immunol. Today 11:450-6,
    1990; Marino I.R., et al., Transplant Proc. 1071-6, 1990; Johnstone, P.S., et al.,
   Transplantation54:573-6, 1992). The use of sCRI protects and extends the survival
   time of the transplanted organ, implicating the complement pathway in the pathogenesis
30 of organ survival (Leventhal, J.R. et al., Transplantation55:857-66, 1993; Pruitt, S.K.,
   et al., Transplantation57:363-70, 1994).
             Suitable additional complement inhibitors for use in combination with the
   compositions of the present invention also include, by way of example, MoAbs such as
                                                -100-

   those being developed by Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., New Haven, Connecticut, and
   anti-properdin MoAbs.
            When used in the treatment of arthritides (e.g., osteoarthritis and rheumatoid
   arthritis), the MASP-2 inhibitory agent of the present invention may be combined with
 5 one or more chondroprotective agents, which may include one or more promoters of
   cartilage anabolism and/or one or more inhibitors of cartilage catabolism, and suitably
   both an anabolic agent and a catabolic inhibitory agent, for concomitant administration.
   Suitable anabolic promoting chondroprotective agents include interleukin (IL) receptor
   agonists including IL-4, IL-10, IL-13, rhIL-4, rhIL-10 and rhIL-13, and chimeric IL-4,
10 IL-10 or IL-13; Transforming growth factor-p superfamily agonists, including TGF-p,
   TGF-p1, TGF-P2, TGF-P3, bone morphogenic proteins including BMP-2, BMP-4, BMP
   5, BMP-6, BMP-7 (OP-1), and OP-2/BMP-8, growth-differentiation factors including
   GDF-5, GDF-6 and GDF-7, recombinant TGF-Ps and BMPs, and chimeric TGF-ps and
   BMPs; insulin-like growth factors including IGF-1; and fibroblast growth factors
15 including bFGF.         Suitable catabolic inhibitory chondroprotective agents include
   Interleukin- 1 (IL-1) receptor antagonists (IL-Ira), including soluble human IL-1 receptors
   (shulL-lR), rshuIL-1R, rhIL-lra, anti-ILl-antibody, AF11567, and AF12198; Tumor
   Necrosis Factor (TNF) Receptor Antagonists (TNF-a), including soluble receptors
   including sTNFR1 and sTNFRII, recombinant TNF soluble receptors, and chimeric TNF
20 soluble receptors including chimeric rhTNFR:Fc, Fc fusion soluble receptors and anti
   TNF antibodies; cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2 specific) inhibitors, including DuP 697, SC
   58451, celecoxib, rofecoxib, nimesulide, diclofenac, meloxicam, piroxicam, NS-398, RS
   57067, SC-57666, SC-58125, flosulide, etodolac, L-745,337 and DFU-T-614; Mitogen
   activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitors, including inhibitors of ERKI, ERK2,
25 SAPK1, SAPK2a, SAPK2b, SAPK2d, SAPK3, including SB 203580, SB 203580 iodo,
   SB202190, SB 242235, SB 220025, RWJ 67657, RWJ 68354, FR 133605, L-167307, PD
   98059, PD 169316; inhibitors of nuclear factor kappa B (NFiB), including caffeic acid
   phenylethyl ester (CAPE), DM-CAPE, SN-50 peptide, hymenialdisine and pyrolidone
   dithiocarbamate; nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors, including NG-monomethyl-L
30 arginine, 1400W, diphenyleneiodium, S-methyl isothiourea, S-(aminoethyl) isothiourea,
   L-N 6-(1 -iminoethyl)lysine, 1,3-PBITU, 2-ethyl-2-thiopseudourea, aminoguanidine, N*
   nitro-L-arginine,    and    N*-nitro-L-arginine   methyl     ester,  inhibitors of   matrix
   metalloproteinases (MMPs), including inhibitors of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-7,
                                               -101-

     MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-10, MMP-ll, MMP-12, MMP-13, MMP-14 and MMP-15, and
     including U-24522, minocycline, 4-Abz-Gly-Pro-D-Leu-D-Ala-NHOH, Ac-Arg-Cys
     Gly-Val-Pro-Asp-NH 2 , rhuman TIMP1, rhuman TIMP2, and phosphoramidon; cell
     adhesion molecules, including integrin agonists and antagonists including aVp3 MoAb
  5  LM 609 and echistatin; anti-chemotactic agents including F-Met-Leu-Phe receptors, IL-8
     receptors, MCP-1 receptors and MIP1-I/RANTES receptors; intracellular signaling
     inhibitors, including (a) protein kinase inhibitors, including both (i) protein kinase C
     (PKC) inhibitors (isozyme) including calphostin C, G-6203 and GF 109203X and (ii)
     protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors, (b) modulators of intracellular protein tyrosine
 10  phosphatases (PTPases) and (c) inhibitors of SH2 domains (src Homology 2 domains).
             For some applications, it may be beneficial to administer the MASP-2 inhibitory
     agents of the present invention in combination with a spasm inhibitory agent.          For
     example, for urogenital applications, it may be beneficial to include at least one smooth
    muscle spasm inhibitory agent and/or at least one anti-inflammation agent, and for
15  vascular procedures it may be useful to include at least one vasospasm inhibitor and/or at
    least one anti-inflammation agent and/or at least one anti-restenosis agent. Suitable
    examples of spasm inhibitory agents include: serotonin 2 receptor subtype antagonists;
    tachykinin receptor antagonists; nitric oxide donors; ATP-sensitive potassium channel
    openers; calcium channel antagonists; and endothelin receptor antagonists.
20           PHARMACEUTICAL CARRIERS AND DELIVERY VEHICLES
             In general, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent compositions of the present invention,
    combined with any other selected therapeutic agents, are suitably contained in a
    pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.      The carrier is non-toxic, biocompatible and is
    selected so as not to detrimentally affect the biological activity of the MASP-2 inhibitory
25  agent     (and  any    other therapeutic    agents   combined     therewith).   Exemplary
    pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for peptides are described in U.S. Patent
    No. 5,211,657 to Yamada. The anti-MASP-2 antibodies and inhibitory peptides useful in
    the invention may be formulated into preparations in solid, semi-solid, gel, liquid or
    gaseous forms such as tablets, capsules, powders, granules, ointments, solutions,
30  depositories, inhalants and injections allowing for oral, parenteral or surgical
    administration. The invention also contemplates local administration of the compositions
    by coating medical devices and the like.
                                                -102-

           Suitable carriers for parenteral delivery via injectable, infusion or irrigation and
   topical delivery include distilled water, physiological phosphate-buffered saline, normal
   or lactated Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution, Hank's solution, or propanediol.          In
   addition, sterile, fixed oils may be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this
 5 purpose any biocompatible oil may be employed including synthetic mono- or
   diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of
   injectables.    The carrier and agent may be compounded as a liquid, suspension,
   polymerizable or non-polymerizable gel, paste or salve.
           The carrier may also comprise a delivery vehicle to sustain (i.e., extend, delay or
10 regulate) the delivery of the agent(s) or to enhance the delivery, uptake, stability or
   pharmacokinetics of the therapeutic agent(s). Such a delivery vehicle may include, by
   way of non-limiting example, microparticles, microspheres, nanospheres or nanoparticles
   composed of proteins, liposomes, carbohydrates, synthetic organic compounds, inorganic
   compounds, polymeric or copolymeric hydrogels and polymeric micelles.                  Suitable
15 hydrogel and micelle delivery systems include the PEO:PHB:PEO copolymers and
   copolymer/cyclodextrin complexes disclosed in WO 2004/009664 A2 and the PEO and
   PEO/cyclodextrin complexes disclosed in US 2002/0019369 Al. Such hydrogels may be
   injected locally at the site of intended action, or subcutaneously or intramuscularly to
   form a sustained release depot.
20         For intra-articular delivery, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be carried in above
   described liquid or gel carriers that are injectable, above-described sustained-release
   delivery vehicles that are injectable, or a hyaluronic acid or hyaluronic acid derivative.
           For oral administration of non-peptidergic agents, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent
   may be carried in an inert filler or diluent such as sucrose, cornstarch, or cellulose.
25         For topical administration, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be carried in
   ointment, lotion, cream, gel, drop, suppository, spray, liquid or powder, or in gel or
   microcapsular delivery systems via a transdermal patch.
           Various nasal and pulmonary delivery systems, including aerosols, metered-dose
   inhalers, dry powder inhalers, and nebulizers, are being developed and may suitably be
30 adapted for delivery of the present invention in an aerosol, inhalant, or nebulized delivery
   vehicle, respectively.
                                                -103-

              For intrathecal (IT) or intracerebroventricular (ICV) delivery, appropriately sterile
      delivery systems (e.g., liquids; gels, suspensions, etc.) can be used to administer the
      present invention.
              The compositions of the present invention may also include biocompatible
  5   excipients, such as dispersing or wetting agents, suspending agents, diluents, buffers,
      penetration enhancers, emulsifiers, binders, thickeners, flavouring agents (for oral
      administration).
              PHARMACEUTICAL CARRIERS FOR ANTIBODIES AND PEPTIDES
              More specifically with respect to anti-MASP-2 antibodies and inhibitory peptides,
 10   exemplary formulations can be parenterally administered as injectable dosages of a
      solution or suspension of the compound in a physiologically acceptable diluent with a
     pharmaceutical carrier that can be a sterile liquid such as water, oils, saline, glycerol or
      ethanol.   Additionally, auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents,
      surfactants, pH buffering substances and the like can be present in compositions
 15   comprising anti-MASP-2 antibodies and inhibitory peptides. Additional components of
     pharmaceutical compositions include petroleum (such as of animal, vegetable or synthetic
     origin), for example, soybean oil and mineral oil. In general, glycols such as propylene
     glycol or polyethylene glycol are preferred liquid carriers for injectable solutions.
              The anti-MASP-2 antibodies and inhibitory peptides can also be administered in
20   the form of a depot injection or implant preparation that can be formulated in such a
     manner as to permit a sustained or pulsatile release of the active agents.
             PHARMACEUTICALLY ACCEPTABLE CARRIERS FOR EXPRESSION
             INHIBITORS
             More specifically with respect to expression inhibitors useful in the methods of
25   the invention, compositions are provided that comprise an expression inhibitor as
     described above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. The composition
    may further comprise a colloidal dispersion system.
             Pharmaceutical compositions that include expression inhibitors may include, but
    are not limited to, solutions, emulsions, and liposome-containing formulations. These
30  compositions may be generated from a variety of components that include, but are not
    limited to, preformed liquids, self-emulsifying solids and self-emulsifying semisolids.
    The preparation of such compositions typically involves combining the expression
    inhibitor with one or more of the following: buffers, antioxidants, low molecular weight
                                                 -104-

    polypeptides, proteins, amino acids, carbohydrates including glucose, sucrose or dextrins,
    chelating agents such as EDTA, glutathione and other stabilizers and excipients. Neutral
    buffered saline or saline mixed with non-specific serum albumin are examples of suitable
    diluents.
 5          In some embodiments, the compositions niay be prepared and formulated as
    emulsions which are typically heterogeneous systems of one liquid dispersed in another
    in the form of droplets (see, Idson, in PharmaceuticalDosageForms, Vol. 1, Rieger and
    Banker (eds.), Marcek Dekker, Inc., N.Y., 1988).          Examples of naturally occurring
    emulsifiers used in emulsion formulations include acacia, beeswax, lanolin, lecithin and
10  phosphatides.
            In one embodiment, compositions including nucleic acids can be formulated as
   microemulsions. A microemulsion, as used herein refers to a system of water, oil and
    amphiphile, which is a single optically isotropic and thermodynamically stable liquid
    solution (see Rosoff in PharmaceuticalDosage Forms, Vol. 1).             The method of the
15  invention may also use liposomes for the transfer and delivery of antisense
    oligonucleotides to the desired site.
            Pharmaceutical compositions and formulations of expression inhibitors for topical
    administration may include transdermal patches, ointments, lotions, creams, gels, drops,
    suppositories, sprays, liquids and powders. Conventional pharmaceutical carriers, as well
20  as aqueous, powder or oily bases and thickeners and the like may be used.
            MODES OF ADMINISTRATION
            The pharmaceutical compositions comprising MASP-2 inhibitory agents may be
   administered in a number of ways depending on whether a local or systemic mode of
   administration is most appropriate for the condition being treated.          Additionally, as
25 described herein above with respect to extracorporeal reperfusion procedures, MASP-2
   inhibitory agents can be administered via introduction of the compositions of the present
   invention to recirculating blood or plasma.       Further, the compositions of the present
   invention can be delivered by coating or incorporating the compositions on or into an
   implantable medical device.
30          SYSTEMIC DELIVERY
            As used herein, the terms "systemic delivery" and "systemic administration" are
   intended to include but are not limited to oral and parenteral routes including
   intramuscular     (IM),   subcutaneous,   intravenous    (IV),  intra-arterial, inhalational,
                                               -105-

   sublingual, buccal, topical, transdermal, nasal, rectal, vaginal and other routes of
   administration that effectively result in dispersement of the delivered agent to a single or
   multiple sites of intended therapeutic action. Preferred routes of systemic delivery for the
   present compositions include intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous and inhalational.
 5 It will be appreciated that the exact systemic administration route for selected agents
   utilized in particular compositions of the present invention will be determined in part to
   account for the agent's susceptibility to metabolic transformation pathways associated
   with a given route of administration.        For example, peptidergic agents may be most
   suitably administered by routes other than oral.
10         MASP-2 inhibitory antibodies and polypeptides can be delivered into a subject in
   need thereof by any suitable means. Methods of delivery of MASP-2 antibodies and
   polypeptides include administration by oral, pulmonary, parenteral (e.g., intramuscular,
   intraperitoneal, intravenous (IV) or subcutaneous injection), inhalation (such as via a fine
   powder formulation), transdermal, nasal, vaginal, rectal, or sublingual routes of
15 administration, and can be formulated in dosage forms appropriate for each route of
   administration.
           By way of representative example, MASP-2 inhibitory antibodies and peptides
   can be introduced into a living body by application to a bodily membrane capable of
   absorbing the polypeptides, for example the nasal, gastrointestinal and rectal membranes.
20 The polypeptides are typically applied to the absorptive membrane in conjunction with a
   permeation enhancer. (See, e.g., Lee, V.H.L., Crit. Rev. Ther. Drug CarrierSys. 5:69,
   1988; Lee, V.H.L., J. Controlled Release 13:213, 1990; Lee, V.H.L., Ed., Peptide and
   Protein Drug Delivery, Marcel Dekker, New York (1991); DeBoer, A.G., et al.,
   J. ControlledRelease, 13:241, 1990.) For example, STDHF is a -synthetic derivative of
25 fusidic acid, a steroidal surfactant that is similar in structure to the bile salts, and has been
   used as a permeation enhancer for nasal delivery. (Lee, W.A., Biopharm. 22, Nov./Dec.
   1990.)
           The MASP-2 inhibitory antibodies and polypeptides may be introduced in
   association with another molecule, such as a lipid, to protect the polypeptides from
30 enzymatic degradation. For example, the covalent attachment of polymers, especially
   polyethylene glycol (PEG), has been used to protect certain proteins from enzymatic
   hydrolysis in the body and thus prolong half-life (Fuertges, F., et al., J. Controlled
   Release 11:139, 1990). Many polymer systems have been reported for protein delivery
                                                 -106-

   (Bae, Y.H., et al., J. ControlledRelease 9:271, 1989; Hori, R., et al., Pharm. Res. 6:813,
   1989; Yamakawa, I., et al., J. Pharm. Sci. 79:505, 1990; Yoshihiro, I., et al., J. Controlled
   Release 10:195, 1989; Asano, M., et al., J. Controlled Release 9:111, 1989; Rosenblatt,
   J., et al., J. Controlled Release 9:195, 1989; Makino, K., J. Controlled Release 12:235,
 5 1990; Takakura, Y., et al., J. Pharm. Sci. 78:117, 1989; Takakura, Y., et al., J. Pharm.
   Sci. 78:219, 1989).
            Recently, liposomes have been developed with improved serum stability and
   circulation half-times (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,741,516 to Webb).          Furthermore,
   various methods of liposome and liposome-like preparations as potential drug carriers
10 have been reviewed (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 5,567,434 to Szoka; U.S. Patent
   No. 5,552,157      to Yagi; U.S.     Patent No. 5,565,213    to Nakamori; U.S.        Patent
   No. 5,738,868 to Shinkarenko and U.S. Patent No. 5,795,587 to Gao).
            For transdermal applications, the MASP-2 inhibitory antibodies and polypeptides
   may be combined with other suitable ingredients, such as carriers and/or adjuvants.
15 There are no limitations on the nature of such other ingredients, except that they must be
   pharmaceutically acceptable for their intended administration, and cannot degrade the
   activity of the active ingredients of the composition.      Examples of suitable vehicles
   include ointments, creams, gels, or suspensions, with or without purified collagen. The
   MASP-2       inhibitory antibodies and polypeptides may also be impregnated into
20 transdermal patches, plasters, and bandages, preferably in liquid or semi-liquid form.
            The compositions of the present invention may be systemically administered on a
   periodic basis at intervals determined to maintain a desired level of therapeutic effect.
   For example, compositions may be administered, such as by subcutaneous injection,
   every two to four weeks or at less frequent intervals. The dosage regimen will be
25 determined by the physician considering various factors that may influence the action of
   the combination of agents.      These factors will include the extent of progress of the
   condition being treated, the patient's age, sex and weight, and other clinical factors. The
   dosage for each individual agent will vary as a function of the MASP-2 inhibitory agent
   that is included in the composition, as well as the presence and nature of any drug
30 delivery vehicle (e.g., a sustained release delivery vehicle).     In addition, the dosage
   quantity may be adjusted to account for variation in the frequency of administration and
   the pharmacokinetic behavior of the delivered agent(s).
                                               -107-

             LOCAL DELIVERY
             As used herein, the term "local" encompasses application of a drug in or around a
    site of intended localized action, and may include for example topical delivery to the skin
    or other affected tissues, ophthalmic delivery, intrathecal (IT), intracerebroventricular
 5  (ICV), intra-articular, intracavity, intracranial or intravesicular administration, placement
    or irrigation. Local administration may be preferred to enable administration of a lower
    dose, to avoid systemic side effects, and for more accurate control of the timing of
    delivery and concentration of the active agents at the site of local delivery.             Local
    administration provides a known concentration at the target site, regardless of interpatient
10 variability in metabolism, blood flow, etc. Improved dosage control is also provided by
   the direct mode of delivery.
             Local delivery of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be achieved in the context of
    surgical methods for treating a disease or condition, such as for example during
   procedures such as arterial bypass surgery, atherectomy, laser procedures, ultrasonic
15 procedures, balloon angioplasty and stent placement. For example, a MASP-2 inhibitor
   can be administered to a subject in conjunction with a balloon angioplasty procedure. A
   balloon angioplasty procedure involves inserting a catheter having a deflated balloon into
   an artery. The deflated balloon is positioned in proximity to the atherosclerotic plaque
   and is inflated such that the plaque is compressed against the vascular wall. As         A result,
20 the balloon surface is in contact with the layer of vascular endothelial cells on the surface
   of the blood vessel.      The MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be attached to the balloon
   angioplasty catheter in a manner that permits release of the agent at the site of the
   atherosclerotic plaque. The agent may be attached to the balloon catheter in accordance
   with standard procedures known in the art. For example, the agent may be stored in a
25 compartment of the balloon catheter until the balloon is inflated, at which point it is
   released into the local environment. Alternatively, the agent may be impregnated on the
   balloon surface, such that it contacts the cells of the arterial wall as the balloon is inflated.
   The agent may also be delivered in a perforated balloon catheter such as those disclosed
   in Flugelman, M.Y., et al., Circulation 85:1110-1117, 1992.           See also published PCT
30 Application WO 95/23161 for an exemplary procedure for attaching a therapeutic protein
   to a balloon angioplasty catheter.        Likewise, the MASP-2 inhibitory agent may be
   included in a gel or polymeric coating applied to a stent, or may be incorporated into the
                                                 -108-

   material of the stent, such that the stent elutes the MASP-2 inhibitory agent after vascular
   placement.
           MASP-2 inhibitory compositions used in the treatment of arthritides and other
   musculoskeletal disorders may be locally delivered by intra-articular injection.       Such
 5  compositions may suitably include a sustained release delivery vehicle. As a further
    example of instances in which local delivery may be desired, MASP-2 inhibitory
    compositions used in the treatment of urogenital conditions may be suitably instilled
   intravesically or within another urogenital structure.
           COATINGS ON A MEDICAL DEVICE
10         MASP-2 inhibitory agents such as antibodies and inhibitory peptides may be
   immobilized onto (or within) a surface of an implantable or attachable medical device.
   The modified surface will typically be in contact with living tissue after implantation into
   an animal body. By "implantable or attachable medical device" is intended any device
   that is implanted into, or attached to, tissue of an animal body, during the normal
15 operation of the device (e.g., stents and implantable drug delivery devices).          Such
   implantable or attachable medical devices can be made from, for example, nitrocellulose,
   diazocellulose,   glass, polystyrene, polyvinylchloride, polypropylene, polyethylene,
   dextran, Sepharose, agar, starch, nylon, stainless steel, titanium and biodegradable and/or
   biocompatible polymers. Linkage of the protein to a device can be accomplished by any
20 technique that does not destroy the biological activity of the linked protein, for example
   by attaching one or both of the N- C-terminal residues of the protein to the device.
   Attachment may also be made at one or more internal sites in the protein. Multiple
   attachments (both internal and at the ends of the protein) may also be used. A surface of
   an implantable or attachable medical device can be modified to include functional groups
25 (e.g., carboxyl, amide, amino, ether, hydroxyl, cyano, nitrido, sulfanamido, acetylinic,
   epoxide, silanic, anhydric, succinimic, azido) for protein immobilization thereto.
   Coupling chemistries include, but are not limited to, the formation of esters, ethers,
   amides, azido and sulfanamido derivatives, cyanate and other linkages to the functional
   groups available on MASP-2 antibodies or inhibitory peptides. MASP-2 antibodies or
30 inhibitory fragments can also be attached non-covalently by the addition of an affinity tag
   sequence to the protein, such as GST (D.B. Smith and K.S. Johnson, Gene 67:31, 1988),
   polyhistidines (E. Hochuli et al., J. Chromatog. 411:77, 1987), or biotin. Such affinity
   tags may be used for the reversible attachment of the protein to a device.
                                                -109-

             Proteins can also be covalently attached to the surface of a device body, for
     example by covalent activation of the surface of the medical device.            By way of
     representative example, matricellular protein(s) can be attached to the device body by any
     of the following pairs of reactive groups (one member of the pair being present on the
  5  surface of the device body, and the other member of the pair being present on the
    matricellular protein(s)):      hydroxyl/carboxylic    acid to yield     an ester linkage;
    hydroxyl/anhydride to yield an ester linkage; hydroxyl/isocyanate to yield a urethane
    linkage. A surface of a device body that does not possess useful reactive groups can be
    treated with radio-frequency discharge plasma (RFGD) etching to generate reactive
 10 groups in order to allow deposition of matricellular protein(s) (e.g., treatment with
    oxygen plasma to introduce oxygen-containing groups; treatment with propyl amino
    plasma to introduce amine groups).
             MASP-2 inhibitory agents comprising nucleic acid molecules such as antisense,
    RNAi-or DNA-encoding peptide inhibitors can be embedded in porous matrices attached
 15 to a device body. Representative porous matrices useful for making the surface layer are
    those prepared from tendon or dermal collagen, as may be obtained from a variety of
    commercial sources (e.g., Sigma and Collagen Corporation), or collagen matrices
    prepared as described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,394,370 to Jefferies and 4,975,527 to
    Koezuka.     One collagenous material is termed UltraFiberm, and is obtainable from
20  Norian Corp. (Mountain View, Calif.).
             Certain polymeric matrices may also be employed if desired, and include acrylic
    ester polymers and lactic acid polymers, as disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent
    Nos. 4,526,909 to Urist and 4,563,489 to Urist. Particular examples of useful polymers
    are those of orthoesters, anhydrides, propylene-cofumarates, or a polymer of one or more
25  a-hydroxy carboxylic acid monomers, (e.g., a-hydroxy acetic acid (glycolic acid) and/or
    a-hydroxy propionic acid (lactic acid)).
            TREATMENT REGIMENS
            In prophylactic applications, the pharmaceutical compositions are administered to
    a subject susceptible to, or otherwise at risk of, a condition associated with MASP-2
30  dependent complement activation in an amount sufficient to eliminate or reduce the risk
    of developing symptoms of the condition. In therapeutic applications, the pharmaceutical
    compositions are administered to a subject suspected of, or already suffering from, a
    condition associated with MASP-2-dependent complement activation in a therapeutically
                                               -110-

     effective amount sufficient to relieve, or at least partially reduce, the symptoms of the
     condition.   In both prophylactic and therapeutic regimens, compositions comprising
    MASP-2 inhibitory agents may be administered in several dosages until a sufficient
    therapeutic outcome has been achieved in the subject.           Application of the MASP-2
  5 inhibitory compositions of the present invention may be carried out by a single
    administration of the composition, or a limited sequence of administrations, for treatment
    of an acute condition, e.g., reperfusion injury or other traumatic injury. Alternatively, the
    composition may be administered at periodic intervals over an extended period of time
    for treatment of chronic conditions, e.g., arthritides or psoriasis.
 10          The methods and compositions of the present invention may be used to inhibit
    inflammation and related processes that typically result from diagnostic and therapeutic
    medical and surgical procedures.       To inhibit such processes, the MASP-2 inhibitory
    composition of the present invention may be applied periprocedurally. As used herein
    "periprocedurally" refers to administration of the inhibitory composition preprocedurally
15  and/or intraprocedurally and/or postprocedurally, i.e., before the procedure, before and
    during the procedure, before and after the procedure, before, during and after the
    procedure, during the procedure, during and after the procedure, or after the procedure.
    Periprocedural application may be carried out by local administration of the composition
    to the surgical or procedural site, such as by injection or continuous or intermittent
20  irrigation of the site, or by systemic administration.           Suitable methods for local
    perioperative delivery of MASP-2 inhibitory agent solutions are disclosed in US Patent
    Nos. 6,420,432 to Demopulos and 6,645,168 to Demopulos. Suitable methods for local
    delivery of chondroprotective compositions including MASP-2 inhibitory agent(s) are
    disclosed in International PCT Patent Application WO 01/07067 A2. Suitable methods
25  and compositions for targeted systemic delivery of chondroprotective compositions
    including MASP-2 inhibitory agent(s) are disclosed in International PCT Patent
    Application WO 03/063799 A2.
    VI.      EXAMPLES
             The following examples merely illustrate the best mode now contemplated for
30  practicing the invention, but should not be construed to limit the invention. All literature
    citations herein are expressly incorporated by reference.
                                                -111-

           EXAMPLE 1
           This example describes the generation of a mouse strain deficient in MASP-2
   (MASP-2-/-) but sufficient of MAp19 (MAp19+/+).
           Materials and Methods: The targeting vector pKO-NTKV 1901 was designed to
 5 disrupt the three exons coding for the C-terminal end of murine MASP-2, including the
   exon that encodes the seine protease domain, as shown in FIGURE 4. PKO-NTKV 1901
   was used to transfect the murine ES cell line E14.1a (SV129 Ola). Neomycin-resistant
   and Thymidine Kinase-sensitive clones were selected. 600 ES clones were screened and
   of these, four different clones were identified and verified by southern blot to contain the
10 expected selective targeting and recombination event as shown in FIGURE 4. Chimeras
   were generated from these four positive clones by embryo transfer. The chimeras were
   then backcrossed in the genetic background C57/BL6 to create transgenic males.. The
   transgenic males were crossed with females to generate Fls with 50% of the offspring
   showing heterozygosity for the disrupted MASP 2 gene. The heterozygous mice were
15 intercrossed to generate homozygous MASP-2              deficient offspring, resulting in
   heterozygous and wild-type mice in the ration of 1:2:1, respectively.
           Results and Phenotype:      The resulting homozygous MASP-2-/- deficient mice
   were found to be viable and fertile and were verified to be MASP-2 deficient by southern
   blot to confirm the correct targeting event, by Northern blot to confirm the absence of
20 MASP-2 mRNA, and by Western blot to confirm the absence of MASP-2 protein (data
   not shown). The presence of MAp19 mRNA and the absence of MASP-2 mRNA was
   further confirmed using time-resolved RT-PCR on a LightCycler machine.                  The
   MASP-2-/- mice do continue to express MApl9, MASP-1 and MASP-3 mRNA and
   protein as expected (data not shown). The presence and abundance of mRNA in the
25 MASP-2-/- mice for Properdin, Factor B, Factor D, C4, C2 and C3 was assessed by
   LightCycler analysis and found to be identical to that of the wild-type littermate controls
   (data not shown). The plasma from homozygous MASP-2-/- mice is totally deficient of
   lectin-pathway-mediated complement activation and alternative pathway complement
   activation as further described in Example 2.
30         Generation of a MASP-2-/- strain on a pure C57BL6 Background:                   The
   MASP-2-/- mice are back-crossed with a pure C57BL6 line for nine generations prior to
   use of the MASP-2-/- strain as an experimental animal model.
                                               -112-

           EXAMPLE 2
           This example demonstrates that MASP-2 is required for complement activation
   via the alternative and the lectin pathway.
           Methods and Materials:
 5         Lectin pathway specific C4 Cleavage Assay:          A C4 cleavage assay has been
   described by Petersen, et al., J. Immunol. Methods 257:107 (2001) that measures lectin
   pathway activation resulting from lipoteichoic acid (LTA) from S. aureus which binds
   L-ficolin. The assay described in example 11 was adapted to measure lectin pathway
   activation via MBL by coating the plate with LPS and mannan or zymosan prior to
10 adding serum from MASP-2 -/- mice as described below. The assay was also modified to
   remove the possibility of C4 cleavage due to the classical pathway. This was achieved by
   using a sample dilution buffer containing 1 M NaCl, which permits high affinity binding
   of lectin pathway recognition components to their ligands, but prevents activation of
   endogenous C4, thereby excluding the participation of the classical pathway by
15 dissociating the C1 complex. Briefly described, in the modified assay serum samples
   (diluted in high salt (lM NaCl) buffer) are added to ligand-coated plates, followed by the
   addition of a constant amount of purified C4 in a buffer with a physiological
   concentration of salt. Bound recognition complexes containing MASP-2 cleave the C4,
   resulting in C4b deposition.
20         Assay Methods:
           1)       Nunc Maxisorb microtiter plates (Maxisorb, Nunc, cat. No. 442404, Fisher
   Scientific) were coated with 1 pg/ml mannan (M7504 Sigma) or any other ligand (e.g.,
   such as those listed below) diluted in coating buffer (15 mM Na 2 CO 3 , 35 mM NaHCO 3 ,
   pH 9.6).
25         The following reagents were used in the assay:
           a.      mannan (1 ptg/well mannan (M7504 Sigma) in 100 pl coating buffer):
           b.       zymosan (1pg/well zymosan (Sigma) in 100pl coating buffer);
           c.       LTA (1pg/well in 100 jil coating buffer or 2 pg/well in 20 pil methanol)
           d.       1 pig of the H-ficolin specific Mab 4H5 in coating buffer
30         e.       PSA from Aerococcus viridans (2 jig/well in 100 pl coating buffer)
           f.       100 pl/well of formalin-fixed S. aureus DSM20233 (OD 550 =0.5) in
   coating buffer.
           2)      The plates were incubated overnight at 4'C.
                                                 -113-

             3)      After overnight incubation, the residual protein binding sites were
     saturated by incubated the plates with 0.1% HSA-TBS blocking buffer (0.1% (w/v) HSA
    in 10 mM Tris-CL, 140 mM NaCl, 1.5 mM NaN 3 , pH 7.4) for 1-3 hours, then washing
    the plates 3X with TBS/tween/Ca 2 + (TBS with 0.05% Tween 20 and 5 mM CaCl2 , 1 mM
  5 MgCl 2 , pH 7.4).
             4)      Serum samples to be tested were diluted in MBL-binding buffer (1 M
    NaCI) and the diluted samples were added to the plates and incubated overnight at 4*C.
    Wells receiving buffer only were used as negative controls.
             5)      Following incubation overnight at 4'C, the plates were washed 3X with
 10 TBS/tween/Ca2+. Human C4 (100 pl/well of 1 pg/ml diluted in BBS (4 mM barbital,
     145 mM NaCl, 2 mM CaCl 2 , 1 mM MgCl 2 , pH 7.4)) was then added to the plates and
    incubated for 90 minutes at 37 0 C.           The plates were washed again 3X with
    TBS/tween/Ca 2 +.
             6)      C4b deposition was detected with an alkaline phosphatase-conjugated
15  chicken anti-human C4c (diluted 1:1000 in TBS/tween/Ca 2 +), which was added to the
    plates and incubated for 90 minutes at room temperature. The plates were then washed
    again 3X with TBS/tween/Ca 2 +.
             7)      Alkaline phosphatase was detected by adding 100 pl of p-nitrophenyl
    phosphate substrate solution, incubating at room temperature for 20 minutes, and reading
20  the OD 405 in a microtiter plate reader.
             Results:   FIGURE 6A-B show the amount of C4b deposition on mannan
    (FIGURE 6A) and zymosan (FIGURE 6B) in serum dilutions from MASP-2+/+
    (crosses), MASP-2+/- (closed circles) and MASP-2-/- (closed triangles). FIGURE 6C
    shows the relative C4 convertase activity on plates coated with zymosan (white bars) or
25  mannan (shaded bars) from MASP-2-/+ mice (n=5) and MASP-2-/- mice (n=4) relative to
    wild-type mice (n=5) based on measuring the amount of C4b deposition normalized to
    wild-type serum.      The error bars represent the standard deviation.    As shown in
    FIGURES 6A-C, plasma from IASP-2-/- mice is totally deficient in lectin-pathway
    mediated complement activation on mannan and on zymosan coated plates. These results
30  clearly demonstrate that MASP-2, but not MASP-1 or MASP-3, is the effector
    component of the lectin pathway.
            C3b deposition assay:
                                               -1114-

            1)     Nunc Maxisorb microtiter plates (Maxisorb, Nunc, cat. No. 442404, Fisher
   Scientific) are coated with 1 pg/well mannan (M7504 Sigma) or any other ligand diluted
   in coating buffer (15 mM Na 2 CO 3 , 35 mM NaHCO 3 , pH 9.6) and incubated overnight at
   40 C.
 5          2)     Residual protein binding sites are saturated by incubating the plate with
   0.1% HSA-TBS blocking buffer (0.1% (w/v) HSA in 10 mM Tris-CL, 140 mM NaCl,
   1.5 mM NaN 3 , pH 7.4) for 1-3 hours.
            3)     Plates are washed in TBS/tw/Ca++(TBS with 0.05% Tween 20 and 5 mM
   CaCl 2 ) and diluted BBS is added to serum samples (4 mM barbital, 145 mM NaCl, 2 mM
10 CaCl 2 , 1 mM MgCl 2 , pH 7.4). Wells receiving only buffer are used as negative controls.
   A control set of serum samples obtained from wild-type or MASP-2-/- mice are Clq
   depleted prior to use in the assay.     Clq-depleted mouse serum was prepared using
   protein-A-coupled Dynabeads (Dynal Biotech, Oslo, Norway) coated with rabbit anti
   human C1q IgG (Dako, Glostrup, Denmark), according to the supplier's instructions.
15          4)      Following incubation overnight at 4*C, and another wash with TBS/tw/
   Ca++, converted and bound C3 is detected with a polyclonal anti-human-C3c Antibody
   (Dako A 062) diluted in TBS/tw/ Ca++ at 1:1000). The secondary antibody is goat anti
   rabbit     IgG    (whole   molecule)    conjugated    to   alkaline-phosphatase      (Sigma
   Immunochemicals A-3812)         diluted 1:10,000 in TBS/tw/Ca++.        The presence of
20 alternative complement pathway (AP) is determined by addition of 100            1l substrate
   solution (Sigma Fast p-Nitrophenyl Phosphate tablet sets, Sigma) and incubation at room
   temperature.     Hydrolysis is monitored quantitatively by measuring the absorption at
   405 nm in a microtiter plate reader. A standard curve is prepared for each analysis using
   serial dilutions of plasma/serum samples.
25          Results: The results shown in FIGURES 7A and 7B are from pooled serum from
   several mice. The crosses represent MASP-2+/+ serum, the filled circles represent Clq
   depleted MASP-2+/+ serum, the open squares represent MASP-2-/- serum and the open
   triangles represent Clq depleted MASP-2-/- serum. As shown in FIGURES 7A-B, serum
   from MASP-2-/- mice tested in a C3b deposition assay results in very low levels of C3
30 activation on mannan (FIGURE 7A) and on zymosan (FIGURE 7B) coated plates. This
   result clearly demonstrates that MASP-2 is required to contribute the initial C3b
   generation from C3 to initiate the alternative complement pathway. This is a surprising
   result in view of the widely accepted view that complement factors C3, factor B, factor D
                                              -115-

   and properdin form an independent functional alternative pathway in which C3 can
   undergo a spontaneous conformational change to a "C3b-like" form which then generates
   a fluid phase convertase iC3Bb and deposits C3b molecules on activation surfaces such
   as zymosan.
 5         Recombinant MASP-2 reconstitutes Lectin Pathway-Dependent C4 Activation in
   serum from the MASP-2-/- mice
           In order to establish that the absence of MASP-2 was the direct cause of the loss
   of lectin pathway-dependent C4 activation in the MASP-2-/- mice, the effect of adding
   recombinant MASP-2 protein to serum samples was examined in the C4 cleavage assay
10 described above. Functionally active murine MASP-2 and catalytically inactive murine
   MASP-2A (in which the active-site serine residue in the serine protease domain was
   substituted for the alanine residue) recombinant proteins were produced and purified as
   described below in Example 5. Pooled serum from 4 MASP-2 -/- mice was pre-incubated
   with increasing protein concentrations of recombinant murine MASP-2 or inactive
15 recombinant murine MASP-2A and C4 convertase activity was assayed as described
   above.
           Results:   As shown in FIGURE 8, the addition of functionally active murine
   recombinant MASP-2 protein (shown as open triangles) to serum obtained from the
   MASP-2 -/- mice restored lectin pathway-dependent C4 activation in a protein
20 concentration dependent manner, whereas the catalytically inactive murine MASP-2A
   protein (shown as stars) did not restore C4 activation. The results shown in FIGURE 8
   are normalized to the C4 activation observed with pooled wild-type mouse serum (shown
   as a dotted line).
           EXAMPLE 3
25         This example describes the generation of a transgenic mouse strain that is murine
   MASP-2-/-, MApl9+/+ and that expresses a human MASP-2 transgene (a murine
   MASP-2 knock-out and a human MASP-2 knock-in).
           Materials and Methods:       A minigene encoding human MASP-2 called "mini
   hMASP-2" (SEQ ID NO:49) as shown in FIGURE 5 was constructed which includes the
30 promoter region of the human MASP 2 gene, including the first 3 exons (exon 1 to
   exon 3) followed by the cDNA sequence that represents the coding sequence of the
   following 8 exons, thereby encoding the full-length MASP-2 protein driven by its
   endogenous promoter. The mini hMASP-2 construct was injected into fertilized eggs of
                                               -116-

   MASP-2-/- in order to replace the deficient murine MASP 2 gene by transgenically
   expressed human MASP-2.
           EXAMPLE 4
           This example describes the isolation of human MASP-2 protein in proenzyme
 5 form from human serum.
           Method of human MASP-2 isolation:         A method for isolating MASP-2 from
   human serum has been described in Matsushita et al., J Immunol. 165:2637-2642, 2000.
   Briefly, human serum is passed through a yeast mannan-Sepharose column using a
   10 mM imidazole buffer (pH 6.0) containing 0.2 M NaCl, 20 mM CaCl 2 , 0.2 mM NPGB,
10 20 pM p-APMSF, and 2% mannitol. The MASP-1 and MASP-2 proenzymes complex
   with MBL and elute with the above buffer containing 0.3 M mannose.            To separate
   proenzymes MASP-1 and MASP-2 from MBL, preparations containing the complex are
   applied to anti-MBL-Sepharose and then MASPs are eluted with imidazole buffer
   containing 20 mM EDTA and 1 M NaCl. Finally, proenzymes MASP-1 and MASP-2 are
15 separated from each other by passing through anti-MASP-1-Sepharose in the same buffer
   as used for the anti-MBL-Sepharose.      MASP-2 is recovered in the effluents, whereas
   MASP-1 is eluted with 0.1 M glycine buffer (pH 2.2).
           EXAMPLE 5
           This example describes the recombinant expression and protein production of
20 recombinant full-length human, rat and murine MASP-2, MASP-2 derived polypeptides,
   and catalytically inactivated mutant forms of MASP-2
           Expression of Full-length human, murine and rat MASP-2:
           The full length cDNA sequence of human MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO: 4) was also
   subcloned into the mammalian expression vector pCI-Neo (Promega), which drives
25 eukaryotic expression under the control of the CMV enhancer/promoter region (described
   in Kauftman R.J. et al., Nucleic Acids Research 19:4485-90, 1991; Kaufman, Methods in
   Enzymology, 185:537-66 (1991)). The full length mouse cDNA (SEQ ID NO:50) and rat
   MASP-2 cDNA (SEQ ID NO:53) were each subcloned into the pED expression vector.
   The MASP-2 expression vectors were then transfected into the adherent Chinese hamster
30 ovary cell line DXB1 using the standard calcium phosphate transfection procedure
   described in Maniatis et al., 1989.    Cells transfected with these constructs grew very
   slowly, implying that the encoded protease is cytotoxic.
                                              -117-

             In another approach, the minigene construct (SEQ ID NO:49) containing the
    human cDNA of MASP-2 driven by its endogenous promoter is transiently transfected
    into Chinese hamster ovary cells (CHO). The human MASP-2 protein is secreted into the
    culture media and isolated as described below.
 5           Expression of Full-length catalytically inactive MASP-2:
             Rationale: MASP-2 is activated by autocatalytic cleavage after the recognition
    subcomponents MBL or ficolins (either L-ficolin, H-ficolin or M-ficolin) bind to their
    respective carbohydrate pattern. Autocatalytic cleavage resulting in activation of MASP
    2 often occurs during the isolation procedure of MASP-2 from serum, or during the
10 purification following recombinant expression. In order to obtain a more stable protein
   preparation for use as an antigen, a catalytically inactive form of MASP-2, designed as
   MASP-2A was created by replacing the seine residue that is present in the catalytic triad
    of the protease domain with an alanine residue in rat (SEQ ID NO:55 Ser617 to Ala617);
    in mouse (SEQ ID NO:52 Ser617 to Ala617); or in human (SEQ ID NO:3 Ser618 to
15 Ala6l8).
            In order to generate catalytically inactive human and murine MASP-2A proteins,
    site-directed mutagenesis was carried out using the oligonucleotides shown in TABLE 5.
   The oligonucleotides in TABLE 5 were designed to anneal to the region of the human
   and murine cDNA encoding the enzymatically active seine and oligonucleotide contain a
20 mismatch in order to change the serine codon into an alanine codon. For example, PCR
   oligonucleotides SEQ ID NOS:56-59 were used in combination with human MASP-2
   cDNA (SEQ ID NO: 4) to amplify the region from the start codon to the enzymatically
   active serine and from the serine to the stop codon to generate the complete open reading
   from of the mutated MASP-2A containing the Ser618 to Ala6l8 mutation. The PCR
25 products were purified after agarose gel electrophoresis and band preparation and single
   adenosine overlaps were generated using a standard tailing procedure. The adenosine
   tailed MASP-2A was then cloned into the pGEM-T easy vector, transformed into E. coli.
            A catalytically inactive rat MASP-2A protein was generated by kinasing and
   annealing SEQ ID NO: 64 and SEQ ID NO: 65 by combining these two oligonucleotides
30 in equal molar amounts, heating at 100*C for 2 minutes and slowly cooling to room
   temperature. The resulting annealed fragment has Pstl and Xbal compatible ends and
   was inserted in place of the PstI-XbaI fragment of the wild-type rat MASP-2 cDNA (SEQ
   ID NO: 53) to generate rat MASP-2A.
                                                -118-

            5 'GAGGTGACGCAGGAGGGGCATTAGTGTTT 3' (SEQ ID NO: 64)
            5' CTAGAAACACTAATGCCCCTCCTGCGTCACCTCTGCA 3' (SEQ ID NO: 65)
            The human, murine and rat MASP-2A were each further subcloned into either of
 5 the mammalian expression vectors pED or pCI-Neo and transfected into the Chinese
   Hamster ovary cell line DXB 1 as described below.
            In another approach, a catalytically inactive form of MASP-2 is constructed using
   the method described in Chen et al., J. Biol. Chem., 276(28):25894-25902, 2001. Briefly,
   the plasmid containing the full-length human MASP-2 cDNA (described in Thiel et al.,
10 Nature 386:506, 1997) is digested with Xhol and EcoRl and the MASP-2 cDNA
   (described herein as SEQ ID NO:4) is cloned into the corresponding restriction sites of
   the pFastBacl baculovirus transfer vector (Life Technologies, NY). The MASP-2 serine
   protease active site at Ser618 is then altered to Ala618 by substituting the double
   stranded oligonucleotides encoding the peptide region amino acid 610-625 (SEQ ID
15 NO:13) with the native region amino acids 610 to 625 to create a MASP-2 full length
   polypeptide with an inactive protease domain. Construction of Expression Plasmids
   Containing Polypeptide Regions Derived from Human Masp-2
            The following constructs are produced using the MASP-2 signal peptide (residues
    1-15 of SEQ ID NO:5) to secrete various domains of MASP-2. A construct expressing
20 the human MASP-2 CUBI domain (SEQ ID NO:8) is made by PCR amplifying the
   region encoding residues 1-121 of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:6) (corresponding to the N
   terminal CUB 1 domain). A construct expressing the human MASP-2 CUBIEGF domain
   (SEQ ID NO:9) is made by PCR amplifying the region encoding residues 1-166 of
   MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:6) (corresponding to the N-terminal CUB1EGF domain).                    A
25 construct expressing the human MASP-2 CUBIEGFCUBII domain (SEQ ID NO:10) is
   made by PCR amplifying the region encoding residues 1-293 of MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:6)
   (corresponding to the N-terminal CUBIEGFCUBII domain).              The above mentioned
   domains are amplified by PCR using VentR polymerase and pBS-MASP-2 as a template,
   according to established PCR methods.          The 5' primer sequence of the sense primer
30 (5'-CGGGATCCATGAGGCTGCTGACCCTC-3' SEQ ID NO:34) introduces a BamHI
   restriction site (underlined) at the 5' end of the PCR products. Antisense primers for each
   of the MASP-2 domains, shown below in TABLE 5, are designed to introduce a stop
   codon (boldface) followed by an EcoRI site (underlined) at the end of each PCR product.
                                                -119-

  Once amplified, the DNA fragments are digested with BamHI and EcoRI and cloned into
  the corresponding sites of the pFastBacl vector.          The resulting constructs are
  characterized by restriction mapping and confirmed by dsDNA sequencing.
5 TABLE 5: MASP-2      PCR PRIMERS
    MASP-2 domain                5' PCR Primer          3' PCR Primer
    SEQ ID NO:8                  5'CGGGATCCATGAG        5'GGAATTCCTAGGCTGCATA
    CUBI (aa 1-121 of SEQ ID     GCTGCTGACCCTC-3'       (SEQ ID NO:35)
    NO:6)                        (SEQ ID NO:34)
    SEQ ID NO:9                  5'CGGGATCCATGAG        5'GGAATTCCTACAGGGCGCT
    CUBIEGF (aa 1-166 of         GCTGCTGACCCTC-3'       3' (SEQ ID NO:36)
    SEQ ID NO:6)                 (SEQ ID NO:34)
    SEQ ID NO:10                 5'CGGGATCCATGAG        5'GGAATTCCTAGTAGTGGAT
                                 GCTGCTGACCCTC-3'       3' (SEQ ID NO:37)
    CUBIEGFCUBII (aa 1-293
                                 (SEQ ID NO:34)
    of SEQ ID NO:6)
    SEQ ID NO:4                  5'ATGAGGCTGCTGA        5'TTAAAATCACTAATTATGTT
    human MASP-2                 CCCTCCTGGGCCTT         CTCGATC 3' (SEQ ID NO: 59)
                                 C 3' (SEQ ID NO: 56) hMASP-2_reverse
                                 hMASP-2 forward
    SEQ ID NO:4                  5'CAGAGGTGACGCA        5'GTGCCCCTCCTGCGTCACCT
    human MASP-2 cDNA            GGAGGGGCAC          3' CTG 3'      (SEQ ID NO: 57)
                                 (SEQ    ID  NO:    58) hMASP-2_alareverse
                                 hMASP-2 ala forward
    SEQ ID NO:50                 5'ATGAGGCTACTCA        5'TTAGAAATTACTTATTATGT
    Murine MASP-2 cDNA           TCTTCCTGG3'      (SEQ  TCTCAATCC3' (SEQ ID NO: 63)
                                 ID NO: 60) mMASP- mMASP-2_reverse
                                 2 forward
                                            -120-

     MASP-2 domain               5' PCR Primer             3' PCR Primer
      SEQ ID NO:50               5'CCCCCCCTGCGTC           5'CTGCAGAGGTGACGCAGGG
     Murine MASP-2 cDNA          ACCTCTGCAG3'              GGGG 3'       (SEQ ID NO: 61)
                                 (SEQ     ID   NO:    62)  mMASP-2_alareverse
                                 mMASP-2 ala forward
           Recombinant eukaryotic expression of MASP-2 and protein production of
    enzymatically inactive mouse, rat, and human MASP-2A
           The MASP-2       and MASP-2A expression constructs described above were
 5 transfected into DXB 1 cells using the standard calcium phosphate transfection procedure
   (Maniatis et al., 1989).  MASP-2A was produced in serum-free medium to ensure that
   preparations were not contaminated with other serum proteins.        Media was harvested
   from confluent cells every second day (four times in total). The level of recombinant
   MASP-2A averaged approximately 1.5 mg/liter of culture medium for each of the three
10 species.
           MASP-2A protein purification: The MASP-2A (Ser-Ala mutant described above)
   was purified by affinity chromatography on MBP-A-agarose columns.            This strategy
   enabled rapid purification without the use of extraneous tags. MASP-2A (100-200 ml of
   medium diluted with an equal volume of loading buffer (50 mM Tris-Cl, pH 7.5,
15 containing 150 mM NaCl and 25 mM CaCl 2) was loaded onto an MBP-agarose affinity
   column (4 ml) pre-equilibrated with 10 ml of loading buffer. Following washing with a
   further 10 ml of loading buffer, protein was eluted in 1 ml fractions with 50 mM Tris-Cl,
   pH 7.5, containing 1.25 M NaCl and 10 mM EDTA. Fractions containing the MASP-2A
   were identified by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Where necessary, MASP-2A
20 was purified further by ion-exchange chromatography on a MonoQ column (HR 5/5).
   Protein was dialysed with 50 mM Tris-CI pH 7.5, containing 50 mM NaCI and loaded
   onto the column equilibrated in the same buffer. Following washing, bound MASP-2A
   was eluted with a 0.05-1 M NaCl gradient over 10 ml.
           Results: Yields of 0.25-0.5 mg of MASP-2A protein were obtained from 200 ml
25 of medium. The molecular mass of 77.5 kDa determined by MALDI-MS is greater than
   the calculated value of the unmodified polypeptide (73.5 kDa) due to glycosylation.
                                             -121-

   Attachment of glycans at each of the N-glycosylation sites accounts for the observed
   mass. MASP-2A migrates as a single band on SDS-polyacrylamide gels, demonstrating
   that it is not proteolytically processed during biosynthesis. The weight-average molecular
   mass determined by equilibrium ultracentrifugation is in agreement with the calculated
 5 value for homodimers of the glycosylated polypeptide.
            PRODUCTION OF RECOMBINANT HUMAN MASP-2 POLYPEPTIDES
            Another method for producing recombinant MASP-2 and MASP2A derived
   polypeptides is described in Thielens, N.M., et al., J. Immunol. 166:5068-5077, 2001.
   Briefly, the Spodoptera frugiperda insect cells (Ready-Plaque Sf9 cells obtained from
10 Novagen, Madison, WI) are grown and maintained in Sf9001I serum-free medium (Life
   Technologies) supplemented with 50 IU/ml penicillin and 50 mg/ml streptomycin (Life
   Technologies).      The Trichoplusia ni (High Five) insect cells (provided by Jadwiga
   Chroboczek, Institut de Biologie Structurale, Grenoble, France) are maintained in TC100
   medium (Life Technologies) containing 10% FCS (Dominique Dutscher, Brumath,
15 France)     supplemented      with    50 IU/mI   penicillin   and    50 mg/ml      streptomycin.
   Recombinant       baculoviruses    are   generated   using the Bac-to-Bac         system   (Life
   Technologies).      The bacmid DNA is purified using the Qiagen midiprep purification
   system (Qiagen) and is used to transfect Sf9 insect cells using cellfectin in Sf900 II SFM
   medium (Life Technologies) as described in the manufacturer's protocol. Recombinant
20 virus particles are collected 4 days later, titrated by virus plaque assay, and amplified as
   described by King and Possee, in The Baculovirus Expression System: A Laboratory
   Guide, Chapman and Hall Ltd., London, pp. 111-114, 1992.
            High Five cells (1.75 x 107 cells/1 75-cm 2 tissue culture flask) are infected with the
   recombinant viruses containing MASP-2 polypeptides at a multiplicity of infection of 2 in
25 Sf900 II SFM medium at 28*C for 96 h. The supernatants are collected by centrifugation
   and diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate is added to a final concentration of 1 mM.
            The MASP-2 polypeptides are secreted in the culture medium.                The culture
   supernatants are dialyzed against 50 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl2 , 50 mM triethanolamine
   hydrochloride, pH 8.1, and loaded at 1.5 ml/min onto a Q-Sepharose Fast Flow column
30 (Amersham Pharmacia Biotech) (2.8 x 12 cm) equilibrated in the same buffer. Elution is
   conducted by applying al.2 liter linear gradient to 350 mM NaCl in the same buffer.
   Fractions containing the recombinant MASP-2 polypeptides are identified by Western
   blot analysis, precipitated by addition of (NH4 )2 SO 4 to 60% (w/v), and left overnight at
                                                -I??-

   4*C. The pellets are resuspended in 145 mM NaCl, 1 mM CaCl 2, 50 mM triethanolamine
   hydrochloride, pH 7.4, and applied onto a TSK G3000 SWG column (7.5 x 600 mm)
   (Tosohaas, Montgomeryville, PA) equilibrated in the same buffer.             The purified
   polypeptides are then concentrated to 0.3 mg/ml by ultrafiltration on Microsep
 5 microconcentrators (m.w. cut-off= 10,000) (Filtron, Karlstein, Germany).
            EXAMPLE 6
            This example describes a method of producing polyclonal antibodies against
   MASP-2 polypeptides.
10          Materials and Methods:
            MASP-2 Antigens:      Polyclonal anti-human MASP-2 antiserum is produced by
   immunizing rabbits with the following isolated MASP-2 polypeptides: human MASP-2
   (SEQ ID NO:6) isolated from serum as described in Example 4; recombinant human
   MASP-2 (SEQ ID NO:6), MASP-2A containing the inactive protease domain (SEQ ID
15 NO:13), as described in Examples 4-5; and recombinant CUBI (SEQ ID NO:8),
   CUBEGFI (SEQ ID NO:9), and CUBEGFCUBII (SEQ ID NO:10) expressed as
   described above in Example 5.
            Polyclonal antibodies:     Six-week old Rabbits, primed with BCG (bacillus
    Calmette-Guerin vaccine) are immunized by injecting 100 pg of MASP-2 polypeptide at
20  100 pg/ml in sterile saline solution. Injections are done every 4 weeks, with antibody
   titer monitored by ELISA assay as described in Example 7.          Culture supernatants are
    collected for antibody purification by protein A affinity chromatography.
            EXAMPLE 7
25          This example describes a method for producing murine monoclonal antibodies
    against rat or human MASP-2 polypeptides.
            Materials and Methods:
            Male A/J mice (Harlan, Houston, Tex.), 8-12 weeks old, are injected
    subcutaneously with 100 pg human or rat rMASP-2 or rMASP-2A polypeptides (made as
30  described in Example 4 or Example 5) in complete Freund's adjuvant (Difco
    Laboratories, Detroit, Mich.) in 200 pl of phosphate buffered saline (PBS) pH 7.4. At
    two-week intervals the mice are twice injected subcutaneously with 50   sg of human or rat
    rMASP-2 or rMASP-2A polypeptide in incomplete Freund's adjuvant. On the fourth
                                                -111-~

      week the mice are injected with 50 ptg of human or rat rMASP-2 or rMASP-2A
      polypeptide in PBS and are fused 4 days later.
              For each fusion, single cell suspensions are prepared from the spleen of an
      immunized mouse and used for fusion with Sp2/0 myeloma cells. 5x10 8 of the Sp2/0 and
  5   5x10 8 spleen cells are fused in a medium containing 50% polyethylene glycol
      (M.W. 1450) (Kodak, Rochester, N.Y.) and 5% dimethylsulfoxide (Sigma Chemical Co.,
      St. Louis, Mo.). The cells are then adjusted to a concentration of 1.5x 105 spleen cells per
     200 l of the suspension in Iscove medium (Gibco, Grand Island, N.Y.), supplemented
     with 10% fetal bovine serum, 100 units/ml of penicillin, 100 pg/ml of streptomycin,
 10  0.1 mM hypoxanthine, 0.4 iM aminopterin and 16 pM thymidine. Two hundred
     microliters of the cell suspension are added to each well of about twenty 96-well
     microculture plates.     After about ten days culture supernatants are withdrawn for
     screening for reactivity with purified factor MASP-2 in an ELISA assay.
             ELISA Assay:      Wells of Immulon 2 (Dynatech Laboratories, Chantilly, Va.)
 15  microtest plates are coated by adding 50 [d of purified hMASP-2 at 50 ng/ml or rat
     rMASP-2 (or rMASP-2A) overnight at room temperature.             The low concentration of
     MASP-2 for coating enables the selection of high-affinity antibodies. After the coating
     solution is removed by flicking the plate, 200 p1l of BLOTTO (non-fat dry milk) in PBS is
     added to each well for one hour to block the non-specific sites. An hour later, the wells
20   are then washed with a buffer PBST (PBS containing 0.05% Tween 20). Fifty microliters
    of culture supernatants from each fusion well is collected and mixed with 50 d of
    BLOTTO and then added to the individual wells of the microtest plates. After one hour
    of incubation, the wells are washed with PBST. The bound murine antibodies are then
    detected by reaction with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG
25  (Fc specific) (Jackson ImmunoResearch Laboratories, West Grove, Pa.) and diluted at
     1:2,000 in BLOTTO. Peroxidase substrate solution containing 0.1% 3,3,5,5 tetramethyl
    benzidine (Sigma, St. Louis, Mo.) and 0.0003% hydrogen peroxide (Sigma) is added to
    the wells for color development for 30 minutes. The reaction is terminated by addition of
    50 jil of 2M H2 S0 4 per well. The Optical Density at 450 nm of the reaction mixture is
30  read with a BioTek ELISA Reader (BioTek Instruments, Winooski, Vt.).
    MASP-2 Binding Assay:
             Culture supernatants that test positive in the MASP-2 ELISA assay described
    above can be tested in a binding assay to determine the binding affinity the MASP-2
                                                -124-

     inhibitory agents have for MASP-2. A similar assay can also be used to determine if the
     inhibitory agents bind to other antigens in the complement system.
             Polystyrene microtiter plate wells (96-well medium binding plates, Corning
     Costar, Cambridge, MA) are coated with MASP-2 (20 ng/100 p1/well, Advanced
  5  Research Technology, San Diego, CA) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) pH 7.4
     overnight at 4"C. After aspirating the MASP-2 solution, wells are blocked with PBS
     containing 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA; Sigma Chemical) for 2 h at room
    temperature. Wells without MASP-2 coating serve as the background controls. Aliquots
     of hybridoma supernatants or purified anti-MASP-2 MoAbs, at varying concentrations in
 10 blocking solution, are added to the wells.          Following a 2 h incubation at room
    temperature, the wells are extensively rinsed with PBS. MASP-2-bound anti-MASP-2
    MoAb is detected by the addition of peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Sigma
     Chemical) in blocking solution, which is allowed to incubate for lh at room temperature.
    The plate is rinsed again thoroughly with PBS, and 100 pl of 3,3',5,5'-tetramethyl
 15 benzidine (TMB) substrate (Kirkegaard and Perry Laboratories, Gaithersburg, MD) is
    added. The reaction of TMB is quenched by the addition of 100 il of IM phosphoric
    acid, and the plate is read at 450 nm in a microplate reader (SPECTRA MAX 250,
    Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA).
             The culture supernatants from the positive wells are then tested for the ability to
20  inhibit complement activation in a functional assay such as the C4 cleavage assay as
    described in Example 2. The cells in positive wells are then cloned by limiting dilution.
    The MoAbs are tested again for reactivity with hMASP-2 in an ELISA assay as described
    above.    The selected hybridomas are grown in spinner flasks and the spent culture
    supernatant collected for antibody purification by protein A affinity chromatography.
25
             EXAMPLE 8
             This example describes the generation of a MASP-2-/-             knockout mouse
    expressing human MASP-2 for use as a model in which to screen for MASP-2 inhibitory
    agents.
30           Materials and Methods: A MASP-2-/- mouse as described in Example 1 and a
    MASP-2-/- mouse expressing a human MASP-2 transgene construct (human MASP-2
    knock-in) as described in Example 3 are crossed, and progeny that are murine MASP
                                                -125-

     2-/-, murine MApl9+, human MASP-2+ are used to identify human MASP-2 inhibitory
     agents.
             Such animal models can be used as test substrates for the identification and
     efficacy of MASP-2 inhibitory agents such as human anti-MASP-2 antibodies, MASP-2
  5  inhibitory peptides and nonpeptides, and compositions comprising MASP-2 inhibitory
     agents. For example, the animal model is exposed to a compound or agent that is known
     to trigger MASP-2-dependent complement activation, and a MASP-2 inhibitory agent is
     administered to the animal model at a sufficient time and concentration to elicit a
     reduction of disease symptoms in the exposed animal.
 10          In addition, the murine MASP-2-/-, MApl9+, human MASP-2+ mice may be
     used to generate cell lines containing one or more cell types involved in a MASP-2
     associated disease which can be used as a cell culture model for that disorder. The
     generation of continuous cell lines from transgenic animals is well known in the art, for
     example see Small, J.A., et al., Mol. Cell Biol., 5:642-48, 1985.
 15
             EXAMPLE 9
             This example describes a method of producing human antibodies against human
    MASP-2 in a MASP-2 knockout mouse that expresses human MASP-2 and human
    immunoglobulins.
20           Materials and Methods:
             A MASP-2-/- mouse was generated as described in Example 1. A mouse was
    then constructed that expresses human MASP-2 as described in Example 3.                 A
    homozygous MASP-2-/- mouse and a MASP-2-/- mouse expressing human MASP-2 are
    each crossed with a mouse derived from an embryonic stem cell line engineered to
25  contain targeted disruptions of the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain and light
    chain loci and expression of at least a segment of the human immunoglobulin locus.
    Preferably, the segment of the human immunoglobulin locus includes unrearranged
    sequences of heavy and light chain components.            Both inactivation of endogenous
    immunoglobulin genes and introduction of exogenous immunoglobulin genes can be
30  achieved by targeted homologous recombination.           The transgenic mammals resulting
    from this process are capable of functionally rearranging the inmunoglobulin component
    sequences and expressing a repertoire of antibodies of various isotypes encoded by
    human immunoglobulin genes, without expressing endogenous immunoglobulin genes.
                                                 -126-

    The production and properties of mammals having these properties is described, for
    example see Thomson, A.D., Nature 148:1547-1553, 1994, and Sloane, B.F., Nature
    Biotechnology 14:826, 1996. Genetically engineered strains of mice in which the mouse
    antibody genes are inactivated and functionally replaced with human antibody genes is
 5  commercially available (e.g., XenoMouse@, available from Abgenix, Fremont CA). The
    resulting offspring mice are capable of producing human MoAb against human MASP-2
    that are suitable for use in human therapy.
            EXAMPLE 10
10          This example describes the generation and production of humanized murine anti
    MASP-2 antibodies and antibody fragments.
            A murine anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibody is generated in Male A/J mice as
    described in Example 7. The murine antibody is then humanized as described below to
   reduce its immunogenicity by replacing the murine constant regions with their human
15  counterparts to generate a chimeric IgG and Fab fragment of the antibody, which is useful
    for inhibiting the adverse effects of MASP-2-dependent complement activation in human
    subjects in accordance with the present invention.
            1.      Cloning of anti-MASP-2          variable region genes     from murine
   hybridoma cells.        Total RNA is isolated from the hybridoma cells secreting anti
20 MASP-2 MoAb (obtained as described in Example 7) using RNAzol following the
   manufacturer's protocol (Biotech, Houston, Tex.). First strand cDNA is synthesized from
   the total RNA using oligo dT as the primer. PCR is performed using the immunoglobulin
    constant C region-derived 3' primers and degenerate primer sets derived from the leader
   peptide or the first framework region of murine VH or VK genes as the 5' primers.
25 Anchored PCR is carried out as described by Chen and Platsucas (Chen, P.F., Scand. J.
   Immunol. 35:539-549, 1992). For cloning the VK gene, double-stranded cDNA is
   prepared using a Notl-MAK1 primer (5'-TGCGGCCGCTGTAGGTGCTGTCTTT-3'
   SEQ ID NO:38). Annealed adaptors AD1 (5'-GGAATTCACTCGTTATTCTCGGA-3'
   SEQ ID NO:39) and AD2 (5'-TCCGAGAATAACGAGTG-3' SEQ ID NO:40) are ligated
30 to both 5' and 3' termini of the double-stranded cDNA. Adaptors at the 3' ends are
   removed by Notl digestion. The digested product is then used as the template in PCR
   with     the    AD1      oligonucleotide   as     the  5'  primer    and    MAK2      (5'
   CATTGAAAGCTTTGGGGTAGAAGTTGTTC-3' SEQ ID NO:41) as the 3' primer.
                                                -1)7-

   DNA fragments of approximately 500 bp are cloned into pUC19. Several clones are
    selected for sequence analysis to verify that the cloned sequence encompasses the
    expected murine immunoglobulin constant region. The Notl-MAKI and MAK2
    oligonucleotides are derived from the VK region and are 182 and 84 bp, respectively,
 5  downstream from the first base pair of the C kappa gene. Clones are chosen that include
   the complete VK and leader peptide.
            For cloning the VH gene, double-stranded cDNA is prepared using the Notl
   MAGI primer (5'-CGCGGCCGCAGCTGCTCAGAGTGTAGA-3' SEQ ID NO:42).
   Annealed adaptors AD1 and AD2 are ligated to both 5' and 3' termini of the double
10  stranded cDNA. Adaptors at the 3' ends are removed by Notl digestion. The digested
   product are used as the template in PCR with the ADl oligonucleotide and MAG2 (5'
   CGGTAAGCTTCACTGGCTCAGGGAAATA-3' SEQ ID NO:43) as primers.                          DNA
   fragments of 500 to 600 bp in length are cloned into pUC19.       The Notl-MAGI and
   MAG2 oligonucleotides are derived from the murine Cy.7.1 region, and are 180 and
15 93 bp, respectively, downstream from the first bp of the murine Cy.7.1 gene. Clones are
   chosen that encompass the complete VH and leader peptide.
            2.     Construction of Expression Vectors for Chimeric MASP-2 IgG and
   Fab. The cloned VH and VK genes described above are used as templates in a PCR
   reaction to add the Kozak consensus sequence to the 5' end and the splice donor to the 3'
20 end of the nucleotide sequence. After the sequences are analyzed to confirm the absence
   of PCR errors, the VH and VK genes are inserted into expression vector cassettes
   containing human C.yl and C. kappa respectively, to give pSV2neoVH-huCyl and
   pSV2neoV-huCy. CsC1 gradient-purified plasmid DNAs of the heavy- and light-chain
   vectors are used to transfect COS cells by electroporation. After 48 hours, the culture
25 supernatant is tested by ELISA to confirm the presence of approximately 200 ng/ml of
   chimeric IgG. The cells are harvested and total RNA is prepared. First strand cDNA is
   synthesized from the total RNA using oligo dT as the primer. This cDNA is used as the
   template in PCR to generate the Fd and kappa DNA fragments. For the Fd gene, PCR is
   carried out using 5'-AAGAAGCTTGCCGCCACCATGGATTGGCTGTGGAACT-3'
30 (SEQ     ID   NO:44)    as  the  5'   primer    and  a   CH1-derived    3' primer    (5'
   CGGGATCCTCAAACTTTCTTGTCCACCTTGG-3' SEQ ID NO:45).                            The DNA
   sequence is confirmed to contain the complete VH and the CH1 domain of human IgGl.
   After digestion with the proper enzymes, the Fd DNA fragments are inserted at the
                                             -128-

   HindIll and BamHI restriction sites of the expression vector cassette pSV2dhfr-TUS to
   give pSV2dhfrFd. The pSV2 plasmid is commercially available and consists of DNA
   segments from various sources: pBR322 DNA (thin line) contains the pBR322 origin of
   DNA replication (pBR ori) and the lactamase ampicillin resistance gene (Amp); SV40
 5 DNA, represented by wider hatching and marked, contains the SV40 origin of DNA
   replication (SV40 ori), early promoter (5' to the dhfr and neo genes), and polyadenylation
   signal (3' to the dhfr and neo genes). The SV40-derived polyadenylation signal (pA) is
   also placed at the 3' end of the Fd gene.
           For      the    kappa      gene,    PCR       is    carried    out     using     5'
10 AAGAAAGCTTGCCGCCACCATGTTCTCACTAGCTCT-3' (SEQ ID NO:46) as the 5'
   primer and a CK-derived 3' primer (5'-CGGGATCCTTCTCCCTCTAACACTCT-3' SEQ
   ID NO:47). DNA sequence is confirmed to contain the complete VK and human CK
   regions. After digestion with proper restriction enzymes, the kappa DNA fragments are
   inserted at the HindIII and BamHI restriction sites of the expression vector cassette
15 pSV2neo-TUS to give pSV2neoK. 'The expression of both Fd and .kappa genes are
   driven by the HCMV-derived enhancer and promoter elements. Since the Fd gene does
   not include the cysteine amino acid residue involved in the inter-chain disulfide bond, this
   recombinant chimeric Fab contains non-covalently linked heavy- and light-chains. This
   chimeric Fab is designated as cFab.
20         To obtain recombinant Fab with an inter-heavy and light chain disulfide bond, the
   above Fd gene may be extended to include the coding sequence for additional 9 amino
   acids (EPKSCDKTH SEQ ID NO:48) from the hinge region of human IgGl.                     The
   BstEII-BamHI DNA segment encoding 30 amino acids at the 3' end of the Fd gene may
   be replaced with DNA segments encoding the extended Fd, resulting in pSV2dhfrFd/9aa.
25         3.      Expression and Purification of Chimeric Anti-MASP-2 IgG
           To generate cell lines secreting chimeric anti-MASP-2 IgG, NSO cells are
   transfected with purified plasmid DNAs of pSV2neoVH-huC.yl and pSV2neoV-huC
   kappa by electroporation. Transfected cells are selected in the presence of 0.7 mg/ml
   G418. Cells are grown in a 250 ml spinner flask using serum-containing medium.
30         Culture supernatant of 100 ml spinner culture is loaded on a 10-ml PROSEP-A
   column (Bioprocessing, Inc., Princeton, N.J.).      The column is washed with 10 bed
   volumes of PBS. The bound antibody is eluted with 50 mM citrate buffer, pH 3.0. Equal
   volume of 1 M Hepes, pH 8.0 is added to the fraction containing the purified antibody to
                                              -129-

    adjust the pH to 7.0.     Residual salts are removed by buffer exchange with PBS by
    Millipore membrane ultrafiltration (M.W. cut-off: 3,000). The protein concentration of
   the purified antibody is determined by the BCA method (Pierce).
            4.      Expression and purification of chimeric anti-MASP-2 Fab
 5          To generate cell lines secreting chimeric anti-MASP-2 Fab, CHO cells are
   transfected with purified plasmid DNAs of pSV2dhfrFd (or pSV2dhfrFd/9aa) and
   pSV2neokappa, by electroporation.        Transfected cells are selected in the presence of
    G418 and methotrexate. Selected cell lines are amplified in increasing concentrations of
   methotrexate.     Cells are single-cell subcloned by limiting dilution.     High-producing
10  single-cell subcloned cell lines are then grown in 100 ml spinner culture using serum-free
   medium.
            Chimeric anti-MASP-2 Fab is purified by affinity chromatography using a mouse
   anti-idiotypic MoAb to the MASP-2 MoAb. An anti-idiotypic MASP-2 MoAb can be
   made by immunizing mice with a murine anti-MASP-2 MoAb conjugated with keyhole
15 limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and screening for specific MoAb binding that can be
   competed with human MASP-2. For purification, 100 ml of supernatant from spinner
   cultures of CHO cells producing cFab or cFab/9aa are loaded onto the affinity column
   coupled with an anti-idiotype MASP-2 MoAb. The column is then washed thoroughly
   with PBS before the bound Fab is eluted with 50 mM diethylamine, pH 11.5. Residual
20 salts are removed by buffer exchange as described above. The protein concentration of
   the purified Fab is determined by the BCA method (Pierce).
            The ability of the chimeric MASP-2 IgG, cFab, and cFAb/9aa to inhibit MASP-2
   dependent complement pathways may be determined by using the inhibitory assays
   described in Example 2.
25
            EXAMPLE 11
            This example describes an in vitro C4 cleavage assay used as a functional screen
   to identify MASP-2 inhibitory agents capable of blocking MASP-2-dependent
   complement activation via L-ficolin/P35, H-ficolin, M-ficolin or mannan.
30          C4 Cleavage Assay: A C4 cleavage assay has been described by Petersen, S.V.,
   et al., J. Immunol. Methods 257:107, 2001, which measures lectin pathway activation
   resulting from lipoteichoic acid (LTA) from S. aureus which binds L-ficolin.
                                                -130-

             Reagents:    Formalin-fixed S. aureous (DSM20233) is prepared as follows:
     bacteria is grown overnight at 37"C in tryptic soy blood medium, washed three times with
     PBS, then fixed for 1 h at room temperature in PBS/0.5% formalin, and washed a further
     three times with PBS, before being resuspended in coating buffer (15 mM Na Co ,
                                                                                        2    3
  5  35 mM NaHCO 3 , pH 9.6).
             Assay:     The wells of a Nunc MaxiSorb microtiter plate (Nalgene Nunc
     International, Rochester, NY) are coated with:        100 pl of formalin-fixed S. aureus
     DSM20233 (OD 5 5 0 = 0.5) in coating buffer with 1 ug of L-ficolin in coating buffer.
     After overnight incubation, wells are blocked with 0.1% human serum albumin (HSA) in
 10  TBS (10 mM Tris-HCl, 140 mM NaCl, pH 7.4), then are washed with TBS containing
     0.05% Tween 20 and 5 mM CaCl 2 (wash buffer). Human serum samples are diluted in
     20 mM Tris-HCl, 1 M NaCl, 10 mM CaCl 2 , 0.05% Triton X-100, 0.1% HSA, pH 7.4,
     which prevents activation of endogenous C4 and dissociates the C1 complex (composed
     of Clq, Cir and Cis). MASP-2 inhibitory agents, including anti-MASP-2 MoAbs and
 15  inhibitory peptides are added to the serum samples in varying concentrations. The diluted
     samples are added to the plate and incubated overnight at 4"C. After 24 hours, the plates
     are washed thoroughly with wash buffer, then 0.1 pg of purified human C4 (obtained as
    described in Dodds, A.W., Methods Enzymol. 223:46, 1993) in 100 R1 of 4 mM barbital,
     145 mM NaCl, 2 mM CaCl 2 , 1 mM MgCl 2 , pH 7.4 is added to each well. After 1.5 h at
20  37"C, the plates are washed again and C4b deposition is detected using alkaline
    phosphatase-conjugated chicken anti-human C4c (obtained from Immunsystem, Uppsala,
    Sweden) and measured using the colorimetric substrate p-nitrophenyl phosphate.
             C4 Assay on mannan: The assay described above is adapted to measure lectin
    pathway activation via MBL by coating the plate with LSP and mannan prior to adding
25  serum mixed with various MASP-2 inhibitory agents.
             C4 assay on H-ficolin (Hakata Ag):      The assay described above is adapted to
    measure lectin pathway activation via H-ficolin by coating the plate with LPS and H
    ficolin prior to adding serum mixed with various MASP-2 inhibitory agents.
30          EXAMPLE 12
            The following assay demonstrates the presence of classical pathway activation in
    wild-type and MASP-2-/- mice.
                                               -131-

            Methods: Immune complexes were generated in situ by coating microtiter plates
   (Maxisorb, Nunc, cat. No. 442404, Fisher Scientific) with 0.1% human serum albumin in
    10mM Tris, 140mM NaCI, pH 7.4 for 1 hours at room temperature followed by overnight
   incubation at 4'C with sheep anti whole serum antiserum (Scottish Antibody Production
 5 Unit, Carluke, Scottland) diluted 1:1000 in TBS/tween/Ca 2 +.      Serum samples were
   obtained from wild-type and MASP-2-/- mice and added to the coated plates. Control
   samples were prepared in which Clq was depleted from wild-type and MASP-2-/- serum
   samples. Clq-depleted mouse serum was prepared using protein-A-coupled Dynabeads
   (Dynal Biotech, Oslo, Norway) coated with rabbit anti-human Clq IgG (Dako, Glostrup,
10 Denmark), according to the supplier's instructions. The plates were incubated for 90
   minutes at 37"C. Bound C3b was detected with a polyclonal anti-human-C3c Antibody
   (Dako A 062) diluted in TBS/tw/ Ca++ at 1:1000. The secondary antibody is goat anti
   rabbit IgG.
            Results: FIGURE 9 shows the relative C3b deposition levels on plates coated
15 with IgG in wild-type serum, MASP-2-/- serum, Clq-depleted wild-type and Clq
   depleted MASP-2-/- serum. These results demonstrate that the classical pathway is intact
   in the MASP-2-/- mouse strain.
            EXAMPLE 13
            The following assay is used to test whether a MASP-2 inhibitory agent blocks the
20 classical pathway by analyzing the effect of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent under conditions
   in which the classical pathway is initiated by immune complexes.
            Methods:   To test the effect of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent on conditions of
   complement activation where the classical pathway is initiated by immune complexes,
   triplicate 50 pl samples containing 90% NHS are incubated at 37"C in the presence of
25  10 pg/ml immune complex (IC) or PBS, and parallel triplicate samples (+/-IC) are also
   included which contain 200 nM anti-properdin monoclonal antibody during the 37"C
   incubation. After a two hour incubation at 37"C, 13 mM EDTA is added to all samples to
   stop further complement activation and the samples are immediately cooled to 5"C. The
   samples are then stored at -70"C prior to being assayed for complement activation
30 products (C3a and sC5b-9) using ELISA kits (Quidel, Catalog Nos. A015 and A009)
   following the manufacturer's instructions.

            EXAMPLE 14
            This example demonstrates that the lectin-dependent MASP-2 complement
    activation system is activated in the ischemia/reperfusion phase following abdominal
    aortic aneurysm repair.
 5          Experimental Rationale and Design:            Patients undergoing abdominal aortic
    aneurysm (AAA) repair are subject to an ischemia-reperfusion injury, which is largely
    mediated by complement activation. We investigated the role of the MASP-2-dependent
    lectin pathway of complement activation in ischemia-reperfusion injury in patients
    undergoing AAA repair. The consumption of mannan-binding lectin (MBL) in serum
10  was used to measure the amount of MASP-2-dependent lectin pathway activation that
    occurred during reperfusion.
            Patient Serum Sample Isolation:        A total of 23 patients undergoing elective
    infrarenal AAA repair and 8 control patients undergoing major abdominal surgery were
    included in this study.
15          For the patients under going AAA repair, systemic blood samples were taken
    from each patient's radial artery (via an arterial line) at four defined time points during the
   procedure:    time point 1: induction of anaesthesia; time point 2: just prior to aortic
    clamping; time point 3: just prior to aortic clamp removal; and time point 4: during
   reperfusion.
20          For the control patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, systemic blood
   samples were taken at induction of anaesthesia and at two hours after the start of the
   procedure.
            Assay for levels of MBL: Each patient plasma sample was assayed for levels of
   mannan-binding lectin (MBL) using ELISA techniques.
25          Results: The results of this study are shown in FIGURE 10, which presents a
   graph showing the mean percentage change in MBL levels (y axis) at each of the various
   time points (x axis). Starting values for MBL are 100%, with relative decreases shown
   thereafter. As shown in FIGURE 10, AAA patients (n=23) show a significant decrease in
   plasma     MBL     levels,  averaging     an   approximate      41%     decrease  at time     of
30 ischemia/reperfusion following AAA.        In contrast, in control patients (n=8) undergoing
   major abdominal surgery only a minor consumption of MBL was observed in the plasma
   samples.
                                                -1T;-

                The data presented provides a strong indication that the MASP-2-dependent lectin
       pathway of the complement system is activated in the ischemia/reperfusion phase
       following AAA repair.       The decrease in MBL levels appears to be associated with
       ischaemia-reperfusion injury because the MBL levels drop significantly and rapidly when
   5   the clamped major vessel is reperfused after the end of the operation. In contrast, control
       sera of patients undergoing major abdominal surgery without a major ischemia
       reperfusion insult only show a slight decrease in MBL plasma levels. In view of the well
       established contribution of complement activation in reperfusion injury, we conclude that
       activation of the MASP-2-dependent lectin pathway on ischemic endothelial cells is a
 10    major factor in the pathology of ischemia/reperfusion injury. Therefore, a specific
       transient blockade or reduction in the MASP-2-dependent lectin pathway of complement
       activation would be expected to have a significant beneficial therapeutic impact to
      improve the outcome of clinical procedures and diseases that involve a transient ischemic
      insult, e.g., myocardial infarction, gut infarction, bums, transplantation and stroke.
 15
               EXAMPLE 15
               This example describes the use of the MASP-2-/- strain as an animal model for
      testing MASP-2 inhibitory agents useful to treat Rheumatoid Arthritis.
               Background and Rationale:       Murine Arthritis Model:     K/BxN T cell receptor
20    (TCR) transgenic (tg) mice, is a recently developed model of inflammatory arthritis
      (Kouskoff, V., et al., Cell 87:811-822, 1996; Korganow, A.S., et al., Immunity 10:451
      461, 1999; Matsumoto, I., et al., Science 286:1732-1735, 1999; Maccioni M. et al., J.
     Exp. Med. 195(8):1071-1077, 2002). The K/BxN mice spontaneously develop an
      autoimmune disease with most of the clinical, histological and immunological features of
25   RA in humans (Ji, H., et al., Immunity 16:157-168, 2002). The murine disorder is joint
      specific, but is initiated then perpetuated by T, then B cell autoreactivity to glucose-6
     phosphate isomerase ("GPI"), a ubiquitously expressed antigen.            Further, transfer of
     serum (or purified anti-GPI Igs) from arthritic K/BxN mice into healthy animals provokes
     arthritis within several days. It has also been shown that polyclonal anti-GPI antibodies
30   or a pool of anti-GPI monoclonal antibodies of the IgGl isotype induce arthritis when
     injected into healthy recipients (Maccioni et al., 2002). The murine model is relevant to
     human RA, because serum from RA patients has also been found to contain anti-GPI
     antibodies, which is not found in normal individuals. A C5-deficient mouse was tested in
                                                  -134-

     this system and found to block the development of arthritis (Ji, H., et al., 2002, supra).
     There was also strong inhibition of arthritis in C3 null mice, implicating the alternative
     pathway, however, MBP-A null mice did develop arthritis.           In mice however, the
     presence of MBP-C may compensate for the loss of MBP-A.
  5          Based on the observations described herein that MASP-2 plays an essential role in
     the initiation of both the lectin and alternative pathways, the K/BxN arthritic model is
     useful to screen for MASP-2 inhibitory agents that are effective for use as a therapeutic
     agents to treat RA.
             Methods: Serum from arthritic K/BxN mice is obtained at 60 days of age, pooled
 10  and injected (150-200    sl  i.p.) into MASP-2-/- recipients (obtained as described in
     Example 1); and control littermates with or without MASP-2 inhibitory agents (MoAb,
     inhibitory peptides and the like as described herein) at days 0 and 2. A group of normal
    mice are also pretreated with a MASP-2 inhibitory agent for two days prior to receiving
    the injection of serum. A further group of mice receive an injection of serum at day 0,
15  followed by a MASP-2 inhibitory agent at day 6. A clinical index is evaluated over time
    with one point scored for each affected paw, 2 point scored for a paw with only mild
    swelling. Ankle thickness is also measured by a caliper (thickness is defined as the
    difference from day 0 measurement).
20           EXAMPLE 16
             This example describes an assay for inhibition of complement-mediated tissue
    damage in an ex vivo model of rabbit hearts perfused with human plasma.
             Background and Rationale: Activation of the complement system contributes to
    hyperacute rejection of xenografts.       Previous studies have shown that hyperacute
25  rejection can occur in the absence of anti-donor antibodies via activation of the
    alternative pathway (Johnston, P.S., et al., TransplantProc. 23:877-879, 1991).
             Methods: To determine whether isolated anti-MASP-2 inhibitory agents such as
    anti-MASP-2 antibodies obtained as described in Example 7 are able to inhibit
    complement pathway in tissue damage, the anti-MASP-2 MoAbs and antibody fragments
30  may be tested using an ex vivo model in which isolated rabbit hearts are perfused with
    diluted human plasma. This model was previously shown to cause damage to the rabbit
    myocardium due to the activation of the alternative complement pathway (Gralinski,
    M.R., et al., Immunopharmacology 34:79-88, 1996).
                                                -13SK

              EXAMPLE 17
             This example describes an assay that measures neutrophil activation which is
     useful as a measure of an effective dose of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent for the treatment
  5  of conditions associated with the lectin-dependent pathway in accordance with the
     methods of the invention.
             Methods:     A method for measuring neutrophil elastase has been described in
     Gupta-Bansal, R., et al., MolecularImmunol. 37:191-201, 2000. Briefly, the complex of
     elastase and serum al -antitrypsin is measured with a two-site sandwich assay that utilizes
 10  antibodies against both elastase and ai-antitrypsin.     Polystyrene microtiter plates are
     coated with a 1:500 dilution of anti-human elastase antibody (The Binding Site,
     Birmingham, UK) in PBS overnight at 4"C. After aspirating the antibody solution, wells
     are blocked with PBS containing 0.4% HAS for 2 h at room temperature. Aliquots
     (100 [d) of plasma samples that are treated with or without a MASP-2 inhibitory agent are
 15  added to the wells. Following a 2 h incubation at room temperature, the wells are
     extensively rinsed with PBS. Bound elastase-ai-antitrypsin complex is detected by the
     addition of a 1:500 dilution of peroxidase conjugated- al-antitrypsin antibody in blocking
     solution that is allowed to incubate for 1 h at room temperature. After washing the plate
     with PBS, 100 pl aliquots of TMB substrate are added. The reaction of TMB is quenched
20   by the addition of 100 pl of phosphoric acid, and the plate is read at 450 nm in a
    microplate reader.
             EXAMPLE 18
             This example describes an animal model for testing MASP-2 inhibitory agents
    useful to treat myocardial ischemia/reperfusion.
25           Methods:     A myocardial ischemia-reperfusion model has been described by
    Vakeva     et al.,  Circulation 97:2259-2267,       1998, and Jordan    et al., Circulation
     104(12):1413-1418, 2001. The described model may be modified for use in MASP-2-/
    and MASP-2+/+ mice as follows. Briefly, adult male mice are anesthetized. Jugular vein
    and trachea are cannulated and ventilation is maintained with 100% oxygen with a rodent
30  ventilator adjusted to maintain exhaled CO2 between 3.5% and 5%. A left thoracotomy
    is performed and a suture is placed 3 to 4 mm from the origin of the left coronary artery.
    Five minutes before ischemia, animals are given a MASP-2 inhibitory agent, such as anti
    MASP-2 antibodies (e.g., in a dosage range of between .01 to 10 mg/kg). Ischemia is
                                                .1 1 ..

       then initiated by tightening the suture around the coronary artery and maintained for 30
      minutes, followed by four hours of reperfusion. Sham-operated animals are prepared
      identically without tightening the suture.
               Analysis of Complement C3 Deposition:           After reperfusion, samples. for
  5   immunohistochemistry are obtained from the central region of the left ventricle, fixed and
      frozen at -80'C until processed. Tissue sections are incubated with an HRP-conjugated
      goat anti-rat C3 antibody. Tissue sections are analyzed for the presence of C3 staining in
      the presence of anti-MASP-2 inhibitory agents as compared with sham-operated control
      animals and MASP-2-/- animals to identify MASP-2 inhibitory agents that reduce C3
 10   deposition in vivo.
              EXAMPLE 19
              This example describes the use of the MASP-2-/- strain as an animal model for
     testing MASP-2 inhibitory agents for the ability to protect transplanted tissue from
     ischemia/reperfusion injury.
 15           Background/Rationale:     It is known that ischemia/reperfusion injury occurs in a
     donor organ during transplantation. The extent of tissue damage is related to the length
     of ischemia and is mediated by complement, as demonstrated in various models of
     ischemia and through the use of complement inhibiting agents such as soluble receptor
     type 1 (CR1) (Weisman et al., Science 249:146-151, 1990; Mulligan et al., J Immunol.
20   148:1479-1486, 1992; Pratt et al., Am. J Path. 163(4):1457-1465, 2003). An animal
     model for transplantation has been described by Pratt et al., Am. J Path. 163(4):1457
     1465, which may be modified for use with the MASP-2-/- mouse model and/or for use as
     a MASP-2+/+ model system in which to screen MASP-2 inhibitory agents for the ability
    to protect transplanted tissue from ischemia/reperfusion injury. The flushing of the donor
25  kidney with perfusion fluid prior to transplantation provides an opportunity to introduce
    anti-MASP-2 inhibitory agents into the donor kidney.
              Methods: MASP-2-/- and/or MASP-2+/+ mice are anesthetized. The left donor
    kidney is dissected and the aorta is ligated cephalad and caudad to the renal artery. A
    portex tube catheter (Portex Ltd, Hythe, UK) is inserted between the ligatures and the
30  kidney is perfused with 5 ml of Soltran Kidney Perfusion Solution (Baxter Health Care,
    UK) containing MASP-2 inhibitory agents such as anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies
    (in a dosage range of from .01 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg) for a period of at least 5 minutes.
    Renal transplantation is then performed and the mice are monitored over time.
                                                 -1 77-

               Analysis of Transplant Recipients: Kidney transplants are harvested at various
      time intervals and tissue sections are analyzed using anti-C3 to determine the extent of C3
      deposition.
  5            EXAMPLE 20
              This example describes the use of a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) animal
     model for testing MASP-2 inhibitory agents useful to treat rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
              Background and Rationale:        Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) represents an
     autoimmune polyarthritis inducible in susceptible strains of rodents and primates after
 10  immunization with native type II collagen and is recognized as a relevant model for
     human rheumatoid arthritis (RA) (see Courtney et al., Nature 283: 666 (1980); Trenthan
     et al., J. Exp. Med. 146: 857 (1977)).       Both RA and CIA are characterized by joint
     inflammation, pannus formation and cartilage and bone erosion. The CIA susceptible
     murine strain DBA/lLacJ is a developed model of CIA in which mice develop clinically
 15  severe arthritis after immunization with Bovine type II collagen (Wang et al., J. Immunol.
     164: 4340-4347 (2000). A C5-deficient mouse strain was crossed with DBA/1LacJ and
    the resulting strain was found to be resistant to the development of CIA arthritis (Wang
     et al., 2000, supra).
              Based on the observations described herein that MASP-2 plays an essential role in
20  the initiation of both the lectin and alternative pathways, the CIA arthritic model is useful
    to screen for MASP-2 inhibitory agents that are effective for use as therapeutic agents to
    treat RA.
              Methods:    A MASP-2-/- mouse is generated as described in Example 1. The
    MASP-2-/- mouse is then crossed with a mouse derived from the DBA/lLacJ strain (The
25  Jackson Laboratory).        F1 and subsequent offspring are intercrossed to produce
    homozygous MASP-2-/- in the DBA/lLacJ line.
              Collagen immunization is carried out as described in Wang et al., 2000, supra.
    Briefly, wild-type DBA/lLacJ mice and MASP-2-/- DBA/lLacJ mice are immunized
    with Bovine type II collagen (BCII) or mouse type II collagen (MCII) (obtained from
30  Elastin Products, Owensville, MO), dissolved in 0.01 M acetic acid at a concentration of
    4mg/ml. Each mouse is injected intradermally at the base of the tail with 200ug CII and
    100ug mycobacteria. Mice are re-immunized after 21 days and are examined daily for
                                                 -11252-

     the appearance of arthritis. An arthritic index is evaluated over time with respect to the
      severity of arthritis in each affected paw.
              MASP-2 inhibitory agents are screened in the wild-type DBA/lLacJ CIA mice by
     injecting a MASP-2 inhibitory agent such as anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies (in a
  5  dosage range of from .01 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg) at the time of collagen immunization, either
     systemically, or locally at one or more joints and an arthritic index is evaluated over time
     as described above. Anti-hMASP-2 monoclonal antibodies as therapeutic agents can be
     easily evaluated in a MASP-2-/-, hMASP-+/+ knock-in DBA/lLacJ CIA mouse model.
 10           EXAMPLE 21
              This example describes the use of a (NZB/W) F1 animal model for testing MASP
     2 inhibitory agents useful to treat immune-complex mediated glomerulonephritis.
             Background and Rationale: New Zealand black x New Zealand white (NZB/W)
     F1 mice spontaneously develop an autoimmune syndrome with notable similarities to
 15  human immune-complex mediated glomerulonephritis. The NZB/W F1 mice invariably
     succumb to glomerulonephritis by 12 months of age. As discussed above, it has been
     demonstrated that complement activation plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of
     immune-complex mediated glomerulonephritis.             It has been further shown that the
     administration of an anti-C5 MoAb in the NZB/W F1 mouse model resulted in significant
20   amelioration of the course of glomerulonepthritis (Wang et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 93:
     8563-8568 (1996)).       Based on the observations described herein that MASP-2 plays an
     essential role in the initiation of both the lectin and alternative pathways, the NZB/W F1
     animal model is useful to screen for MASP-2 inhibitory agents that are effective for use
    as therapeutic agents to treat glomerulonephritis.
25           Methods:      A MASP-2-/- mouse is generated as described in Example 1. The
    MASP-2-/- mouse is then seperately crossed with a mouse derived both from the NZB
    and the NZW strains (The Jackson Laboratory).               F1 and subsequent offspring are
    intercrossed to produce homozygous MASP-2-/- in both the NZB and NZW genetic
    backgrounds.         To    determine    the role of MASP-2          in the pathogenesis    of
30  glomerulonephritis in this model, the development of this disease in F1 individuals
    resulting from crosses of either wild-type NZB x NZW mice or MASP-2-/-NZB x
    MASP-2-/-NZW mice are compared. At weekly intervals urine samples will be collected
    from the MASP-2+/+ and MASP-2-/- F 1 mice and urine protein levels monitored for the
                                                  .1 20

      presence of anti-DNA        antibodies (as described in Wang et al.,        1996, supra).
      Histopathological analysis of the kidneys is also carried out to monitor the amount of
      mesangial matrix deposition and development of glomerulonephritis.
              The NZB/W F1 animal model is also useful to screen for MASP-2 inhibitory
  5   agents that are effective for use as therapeutic agents to treat glomerulonephritis. At 18
      weeks of age, wild-type NZB/W Fl mice are injected intraperitoneally with anti-MASP-2
      inhibitory agents, such as anti-MASP-2 monoclonal antibodies (in a dosage range of from
      .01 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg) at a frequency of weekly or biweekly. The above-mentioned
     histopathological and biochemical markers of glomerulonephritis are used to evaluate
 10  disease development in the mice and to identify useful MASP-2 inhibitory agents for the
     treatment of this disease.
              EXAMPLE 22
              This example describes the use of a tubing loop as a model for testing MASP-2
 15  inhibitory agents useful to prevent tissue damage resulting from extracorporeal
     circulation (ECC) such as a cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) circuit.
              Background and Rationale: As discussed above, patients undergoing ECC during
     CPB suffer a systemic inflammatory reaction, which is partly caused by exposure of
     blood to the artificial surfaces of the extracorporeal circuit, but also by surface
20   independent factors like surgical trauma and ischemia-reperfusion injury (Butler, J., et al.,
    Ann. Thorac. Surg. 55:552-9, 1993; Edmunds, L.H., Ann. Thorac. Surg. 66(Suppl):S12-6,
     1998; Asimakopoulos, G., Perfusion 14:269-77, 1999). It has further been shown that the
     alternative complement pathway plays a predominant role in complement activation in
    CPB circuits, resulting from the interaction of blood with the artificial surfaces of the
25  CPB circuits (see Kirklin et al., 1983, 1986, discussed supra). Therefore, based on the
    observations described herein that MASP-2 plays an essential role in the initiation of both
    the lectin and alternative pathways, the tubing loop model is useful to screen for MASP-2
    inhibitory agents that are effective for use as therapeutic agents to prevent or treat an
    extracorporeal exposure-triggered inflammatory reaction.
30           Methods:     A modification of a previously described tubing loop model for
    cardiopulmonary bypass circuits is utilized (see Gong et al., J. Clinical Immunol.
    16(4):222-229 (1996)) as described in Gupta-Bansal et al., MolecularImmunol. 37:191
    201 (2000). Briefly, blood is freshly collected from a healthy subject in a 7ml vacutainer
                                                _1 AA

       tube (containing 7 units of heparin per ml of whole blood). Polyethylene tubing similar
       to what is used during CPB procedures (e.g., I.D. 2.92 mm; O.D. 3.73 mm, length:
       45 cm) is filled with iml of blood and closed into a loop with a short piece of silicone
       tubing. A control tubing containing heparinized blood with 10 mM EDTA was included
  5    in the study as a background control. Sample and control tubings were rotated vertically
       in a water bath for 1 hour at 37*C. After incubation, the blood samples were transferred
       into 1.7ml microfuge tubes containing EDTA, resulting in a final concentration of 20mM
       EDTA. The samples were centrifuged and the plasma was collected. MASP-2 inhibitory
       agents, such as anti-MASP-2 antibodies are added to the heparinized blood immediately
 10   before rotation.    The plasma samples are then subjected to assays to measure the
       concentration C3a and soluble C5b-9 as described in Gupta-Bansal et al., 2000, supra.
               EXAMPLE 23
               This example describes the use of a rodent caecal ligation and puncture (CLP)
 15   model system for testing MASP-2 inhibitory agents useful to treat sepsis or a condition
      resulting from sepsis, including severe sepsis, septic shock, acute respiratory distress
      syndrome resulting from sepsis and systemic inflammatory response syndrome.
              Background and Rationale: As discussed above, complement activation has been
      shown in numerous studies to have a major role in the pathogenesis of sepsis (see Bone,
20   R.C., Annals. Internal.Med. 115:457-469, 1991). The CLP rodent model is a recognized
     model that mimics the clinical course of sepsis in humans and is considered to be a
     reasonable surrogate model for sepsis in humans (see Ward, P., Nature Review
     Immunology Vol 4: 133-142 (2004). A recent study has shown that treatment of CLP
     animals with anti-C5a antibodies resulted in reduced bacteremia and greatly improved
25   survival Huber-Lang et al., J. of Immunol. 169: 3223-3231 (2002). Therefore, based on
     the observations described herein that MASP-2 plays an essential role in the initiation of
    both the lectin and alternative pathways, the CLP rodent model is useful to screen for
    MASP-2 inhibitory agents that are effective for use as therapeutic agents to prevent or
    treat sepsis or a condition resulting from sepsis.
30            Methods: The CLP model is adapted from the model described in Huber-Lang
    et al., 2004, supra as follows. MASP-2-/- and MASP-2+/+ animals are anesthetized. A
    2cm midline abdominal incision is made and the cecum is tightly ligated below the
    ileocecal valve, avoiding bowel obstruction. The cecum is then punctured through and
                                                _1 A1

   through with a 21-gauge needle. The abdominal incision was then closed in layers with
   silk suture and skin clips (Ethicon, Summerville, NJ). Immediately after CLP, animals
   receive an injection of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent such as anti-MASP-2 monoclonal
   antibodies (in a dosage range of from .01 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg). Anti-hMASP-2
 5 monoclonal antibodies as therapeutic agents can be easily evaluated in
                                                                            a MASP-2-/-,
   hMASP-+/+ knock-in CLP mouse model. The plasma of the mice are then analyzed for
   levels of complement-derived anaphylatoxins and respiratory burst using the assays
   described in Huber-Lang et al., 2004, supra.
           While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and
10 described, it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

1002052292
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       The use of a composition comprising a MASP-2 inhibitory agent in the manufacture
of a medicament for inhibiting the adverse effects of MASP-2-dependent complement
activation in the treatment of a subject suffering from a MASP-2-dependent complement
mediated condition selected from the group consisting of (i) an ischemia-reperfusion injury,
(ii) a complication associated with associated with Type-i or Type-2 diabetes, (iii) age
related macular degeneration, (iv) a subject that has undergone, is undergoing, or will
undergo an organ or tissue transplant procedure, and (v) a subject that has undergone, is
undergoing, or will undergo an extracorporeal reperfusion procedure, wherein the MASP-2
inhibitory agent is a MASP-2 expression inhibitor that selectively inhibits MASP-2
dependent     complement     activation  without    substantially inhibiting   Clq-dependent
complement activation.
2.       The use of Claim 1, wherein the MASP-2 expression inhibitor is selected from the group
consisting of a MASP-2 antisense nucleic acid molecule, a MASP-2 ribozyme and a MASP-2 RNAi
molecule.
3.       The use of Claim 2, wherein the MASP-2 antisense nucleic acid molecule comprises at least
one of an antisense RNA molecule, an antisense DNA molecule or an antisense oligonucleotide.
4.       The use of any of Claims 1 to 3, wherein the composition further comprises a
pharmaceutical carrier.
5.       The use of any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the ischemia-reperfusion injury is selected
from the group consisting of an ischemia-reperfusion injury associated with aortic aneurysm
repair, cardiopulmonary bypass, vascular reanastomosis in connection with organ transplants
and/or extremity/digit replantation,    stroke, myocardial infarction, and hemodynamic
resuscitation following shock and/or surgical procedures.
6.       The use of any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the extracorporeal reperfusion procedure is
selected from the group consisting of hemodialysis, plasmapheresis,            leukopheresis,
                                                 -143-

1002052292
extracorporeal membrane oxygenator (ECMO), heparin-induced extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation LDL precipitation (HELP) and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
7.       The use of any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the organ or tissue transplant procedure is
selected from the group consisting of organ allotransplantation, organ xenotransplantation
organ and tissue graft.
8.       The use of any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the MASP-2-dependent complement
mediated complication associated with Type-i or Type-2 (adult onset) diabetes, is selected
from the group consisting of angiopathy, neuropathy and retinopathy.
9.       A method of inhibiting the adverse effects of MASP-2 dependent complement
activation in the treatment of a subject suffering from a MASP-2 dependent complement
mediated condition selected from the group consisting of (i) an ischemia-reperfusion injury,
(ii) a complication associated with associated with Type-i or Type-2 diabetes, (iii) age
related macular degeneration, (iv) a subject that has undergone, is undergoing, or will
undergo an organ or tissue transplant procedure, and (v) a subject that has undergone, is
undergoing,    or will undergo an extracorporeal       reperfusion procedure,     comprising
administration of a MASP-2 inhibitory agent, wherein the MASP-2 inhibitory agent is a
MASP-2 expression inhibitor that selectively inhibits MASP-2-dependent complement
activation without substantially inhibiting Cl q-dependent complement activation.
10.      The method of claim 9, wherein the MASP-2 expression inhibitor is selected from the group
consisting of a MASP-2 antisense nucleic acid molecule, a MASP-2 ribozyme and a MASP-2 RNAi
molecule.
11.      The method of Claim 10, wherein the MASP-2 antisense nucleic acid molecule comprises at
least one of an antisense RNA molecule, an antisense DNA                 molecule or an antisense
oligonucleotide.
12.      The method of any of Claims 9 to 11 wherein the composition further comprises a
pharmaceutical carrier.
                                                 -144-

1002052292
13.      The method of any of Claims 9 to 12, wherein the ischemia-reperfusion injury is
selected from the group consisting of an ischemia-reperfusion injury associated with aortic
aneurysm repair, cardiopulmonary bypass, vascular reanastomosis in connection with organ
transplants    and/or   extremity/digit replantation,  stroke, myocardial  infarction, and
hemodynamic resuscitation following shock and/or surgical procedures.
14.      The method of any of Claims 9 to 12, wherein the extracorporeal reperfusion
procedure    is  selected from the group      consisting of hemodialysis,   plasmapheresis,
leukopheresis,     extracorporeal     membrane     oxygenator   (ECMO),    heparin-induced
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation LDL precipitation (HELP) and cardiopulmonary
bypass (CPB).
15.      The method of any of Claims 9 to 12, wherein the organ or tissue transplant
procedure is selected from the group consisting of organ allotransplantation, organ
xenotransplantation organ and tissue graft.
16.      The method of any of Claims 9 to 12, wherein the MASP-2-dependent complement
mediated complication associated with Type-i or Type-2 (adult onset) diabetes, is selected
from the group consisting of angiopathy, neuropathy and retinopathy.
                                                 -145-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
