                                                Abstract
The invention relates to an umbrella comprising: a mast having a shaft with an inner tubular portion
and the outer wall, at least one interconnecting web portion that interconnects the inner tubular portion
and the outer wall; a frame on which a canopy is located, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of
ribs that are pivotally connected to the mast and to which a canopy is attached. The ribs can be pivoted
between a collapsed position in which the canopy is closed, and an assembled position in which ribs
are oriented laterally to the mast to hold the canopy opened; a runner that is slidable along the mast;
some stretchers that interconnect the runner and the ribs; and a bracket which is pivotably mounted to
the stretcher and slidably connected to the ribs, wherein the bracket includes a pair of rails that are
receivable by a pair of channels on opposite sides of the ribs.

114j
                                           - 1
                                    A MAST AND UMBRELLA
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. 2014200765, the original disclosure of
 5 which is incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a mast for supporting a
10 canopy of a market umbrella.                The mast may also be used
   for other purposes such as, but by no means limited to,
   supporting sun-shade sails either on a temporary or
   permanent basis.
15 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Umbrellas provide protection against the elements such as
   rain and sunlight and come in a variety of sizes to serve
   different purposes. For example, market umbrellas are used
20 at cafes or parks to provide shade and shelter to groups
   of people, while smaller portable umbrellas are carried by
   people for protecting them against the elements when on
   the move.
25 As a result, most umbrella masts are made of a thin light
   weight material to improve portability and/or facilitate
   installation. However, a disadvantage of using such a
   material is that these umbrella masts are often weak and
   cannot withstand stresses exerted on them during use,
30 particularly in windy conditions. As a result, some
   umbrella masts can break when subjected to strong winds
   during a downpour.
   This is particularly significant for market umbrellas
35 which are often exposed for long periods of time to
   changing weather conditions.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                     - 2
   It is desirable to provide a mast for supporting a canopy
   of a market umbrella that is light-weight for easy
   installation and be able to withstand breakage in windy
   conditions.
 5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a mast for supporting a
   canopy of a market umbrella, wherein the mast has a shaft
10 including:
               an inner wall defining an inner tubular portion;
               an outer wall arranged about the inner wall such that
   there is a spacing between the inner wall and the outer
   wall at least part way about the inner tubular portion;
15 and
               at least one interconnecting web portion that
   interconnects the inner tubular portion and the outer
   wall.
20 The outer wall may define an outer tubular portion
   arranged about the inner tubular portion of the inner wall
   and connected thereto by the web connectors.
   According to the present invention, there is provided a
25 mast for supporting a canopy of a market umbrella, wherein
   the mast includes:
               an outer tubular portion;
               an inner tubular portion arranged inside the outer
   tubular portion such that there is a spacing between the
30 inner tubular portion and the outer tubular portion at
   least part way about the perimeter of the inner tubular
   portion; and
               at least one interconnecting web portion extending
   across the spacing so as to connect the inner tubular
35 portion and the outer tubular portion.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                      - 3
   In one embodiment, the inner tubular portion may be
   arranged inside the outer wall such that there is a
   spacing therebetween around a perimeter of the inner
   tubular portion and there is at least two interconnecting
 5 web portions that connect different points of the inner
   tubular portion to the outer tubular portion.          In one
   example, the inner and outer tubular portions may be
   coaxially arranged or non-coaxially arranged.          In one
   example, the inner and outer tubular portions may contact,
10 i.e.,         without any spacing between the inner and outer
   tubular portions at a point of contact.          For example the
   inner and outer tubular portions may be integrally
   connected at the point of contact.          However ideally, the
   spacing extends between the inner and outer tubular
15 portions with the interconnecting webs extending between
   the inner and outer tubular portions.
   The cross-sectional structure provides a more light-weight
   structure by using less material compared to a solid mast.
20
   The interconnecting webs between the inner and outer wall
   imparts strength to the shaft by distributing any bending
   forces on the outer tubular portion to inner tubular
   portion of the shaft. In this respect, increasing the
25 number of interconnecting webs between the tubular
   portions improves the distribution of stress exerted on
   the shaft.
   Preferably, the interconnecting webs are evenly spaced
30 about/around the perimeter of the inner tubular portion.
   In one example, four or more interconnecting webs may
   interconnect the inner and outer tubular portions.          Even
   more suitably from 6 to 10 interconnecting webs, and
   ideally 8 interconnecting webs may interconnect the inner
35 tubular portion and the outer wall.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                    - 4
   The inner tubular portion may be arranged inside the outer
   tubular portion so that the spacing between the inner and
   outer tubular portions is uniform about the perimeter of
   the inner tubular portion.
 5
   The inner and outer tubular portions may be arranged
   concentrically about a longitudinal axis of the inner and
   outer tubular portions and thereby provides uniform
   strength distribution about the circumference of the mast.
10 Alternatively, the inner and outer tubular portions may be
   arranged eccentrically to provide increased strength to
   sides of the mast that may be subjected to greater stress.
   The inner and outer tubular portions defined by the inner
15 and outer walls may each include inner and outer
   perimeters. The spacing is provided between the outer
   perimeter of the inner tubular portion and the inner
   perimeter of the outer portion. In this embodiment, the
   interconnecting web extends from the outer perimeter of
20 the inner tubular portion to the inner perimeter of the
   outer portion.
   The shaft may include an intermediate wall between the
   inner and outer walls, the intermediate wall defining an
25 intermediate tubular portion located between the outer and
   inner tubular portions. The outer and/or inner tubular
   portions may be connected to the intermediate tubular
   portion by interconnecting webs.
30 The shaft may include at least two intermediate tubular
   portions which are connected together by interconnecting
   webs. The connection of the inner tubular portion and the
   outer tubular portion to the intermediate tubular portion
   includes at least one of the interconnecting webs that
35 extend between the inner and outer tubular portions to the
   intermediate tubular portion. The interconnecting web may
   extend from the outer perimeter of the inner tubular
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                        - 5
   portion to the intermediate tubular portion. The
   interconnecting web may also extend from the inner
   perimeter of the outer tubular portion to the intermediate
   tubular portion.
 5
   The inner tubular and outer tubular portions may be
   axially symmetrical.
   Each tubular portion may be made out material including
10 any one or a combination of: metal such as aluminium,
   stainless steel or the like, plastics such as
   polypropylene or polyethylene, or polymer-based composites
   such as polycarbonate, fibreglass or the like.            Ideally,
   the shaft of the mast is formed by an extruding process.
15 Moreover, the extruding process enables all portions and
   components, including the inner tubular portion, the outer
   tubular portion, interconnecting webs and if present any
   intermediate tubular portions to be integrally formed.
20 Although it is possible that the mast may comprise only
   one shaft, for example, in which the shaft is anchored in
   the ground and extends lengthwise along the length of the
   mast.            In another example, the shaft may be attached to a
   footing, anchoring the shaft in position for use.
25
   In an embodiment, the mast may include at least two shafts
   that inter-fit, in which the outer tubular portion of the
   first shaft, herein referred to as the inner shaft, is
   adapted to be received by the inner tubular portion of the
30 second shaft, herein referred to as the outer shaft.            In
   other words, the cross-section of the outer tubular
   portion of the inner shaft is sized to be fitted within
   the opening of the inner tubular portion of the outer
   shaft.
35
   Ideally, the inner shaft is slidably received within the
   outer shaft.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                          - 6
   In another example, the mast may include three shafts in
   which an inner shaft is received by an intermediate shaft
   and the intermediate shaft is received by an outer shaft.
   In other examples, the mast may include four or more
 5 shafts that fit within each other from smallest to
   largest.
   In any event, the shafts may be of different lengths, and
   the length of the shafts may increase from the outer shaft
10 being the shortest, to the inner shaft being the longest.
   For example, the inner shaft may be longer than the outer
   shaft, and if the intermediate shaft is present, the
   intermediate shaft may be longer than the outer shaft and
   shorter than the inner shaft.
15
   The mast may have a lower end that can be anchored to the
   ground, and all of the shafts may extend upwardly from the
   lower end of the mast.
20 One of the benefits of the mast having multiple inter
   fitting shafts is that mast is capable of withstanding
   greater wind loads.              For example, depending the size,
   weight and shape of the canopy attach the mast, a mast
   having one shaft may be rated to withstand wind-speeds up
25 to from 60 to 80 km/h, another mast having two shafts may
   be rated to withstand wind-speeds 120 to 130 km/h and
   other masts having three or more shafts may be rated to
   withstand wind-speeds equal to or greater than 130km/h.
30 The mast may include a retainer for retaining the shafts
   locking together when inter-fitted.
   Each shaft comprises a hollow central portion for
   receiving another shaft of different diameter.              In one
35 example, the shaft sections can slide within each other to
   provide a mast with a length that is telescopically
   extendable. The hollow central portion of each shaft may
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

   have an alike cross-sectional shape to interfit with
   another shaft of an alike cross-sectional shape but having
   a different diameter.
 5 This allows the mast to be stored in a compact manner and
   extended when used. It may also allow the length of the
   mast to be adjusted as needed.
   One or both of the inner wall and the outer wall of the or
10 each shaft may have a polygonal cross-section.  In other
   words, either one or both of the inner tubular portion and
   the outer tubular may have a polygonal cross-section for
   resisting twisting about a longitudinal axis of the shaft.
   In one embodiment, it is also possible that one or both of
15 the inner wall and the outer wall may have a non-polygonal
   cross-section such as circular or oval cross-section.
   Ideally, both the inner tubular portion and the outer
   tubular portion have a polygonal cross-section.  Although
20 the polygonal cross-section may differ for the inner and
   outer tubular portions, ideally polygonal cross-sections
   are the same, but differ in scale, so that the corners of
   the inner and outer tubular portions can aligned.
   Preferably, each tubular portion has an octagonal cross
25 section.
   A polygonal shape also reduces the likelihood of the shaft
   twisting when interfitted with a shaft with an alike
   cross-sectional shape but having a different diameter.
30 The interconnecting web of the shaft may interconnect the
   inner wall and the outer wall at corners of the inner and
   outer tubular portions. For example, an outer tubular
   portion with an octagonal cross-section would have eight
   webs interconnecting each of the octagonal corners of the
35 outer tubular portion with an octagonal corner of the
   inner tubular portion to form eight partitioned spaces
   around the circumference of the shaft.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                     - 8
   Each mast or shaft may have an outer diameter ranging from
   40 mm to 100 mm.
   Each mast or shaft may have an inner diameter ranging from
 5 20 mm to 80 mm.
   The mast or shaft may be formed by casting or extrusion.
   The mast may be mounted to a receiver having a hole with
10 an alike cross-sectional shape that interfits with the
   mast. The receiver may have an alike tubular structure to
   the mast for providing additional strength against stress
   exerted on the mast.
15 According to the present invention, there is also provided
   an umbrella comprising:
   a mast having a shaft including:
               an inner wall defining an inner tubular portion;
               an outer wall arranged about the inner wall such that
20             there is a spacing between the inner wall and the
               outer wall at least part way about the inner tubular
               portion; and
               at least one interconnecting web portion that
               interconnects the inner tubular portion and the outer
25             wall; and
   a frame on which a canopy is located, wherein the frame
   comprises:
               a plurality of ribs that are pivotally connected to
   the mast and to which a canopy is attached, the ribs can
30 be pivoted between a collapsed position in which the
   canopy is closed, and an assembled position in which ribs
   are oriented laterally to the mast to hold the canopy
   opened;
               a runner that is slidable along the mast;
35             stretchers that interconnect the runner and the ribs;
   and
               a bracket which is pivotably mounted to the stretcher
   and slidably connected to the ribs, wherein the bracket
   includes a pair of rails that are receivable by a pair of
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                             - 9
   channels on opposite sides of the ribs.
   In use, the ribs can be moved between the collapsed and
   assembled positions by moving the runner along the mast.
 5
   Either one or both of the ribs and the stretchers may have
   i) a tubular formation defined by an outer wall, and ii) a
   connecting formation including a channel in the outer wall
   extending in an longitudinal direction of the tubular
10 formation.
   The tubular formation of the stretcher and/or rib may
   define a hollow internal space free of internal components
   or strengthening members.                 Alternatively, the tubular
15 formation of the stretcher and/or rib may have reinforcing
   webs disposed within the tubular formation interconnect
   spaced sections of the outermost wall to form internal
   bracing.                 The reinforcing web may include an X-shaped
   formation to improve the strength of the stretcher or rib
20 against breakage.
   The tubular formation of the stretcher and/or rib may be
   formed by an extrusion process.                 Moreover, the rib and
   stretched may be made from a metal including alloys
25 containing aluminium, and plastics or a combination
   thereof.
   Ideally, the channel is formed on outer face of the outer
   wall.
30
   The channel may have a narrowed entrance and a cavity
   inwardly of the entrance that is capable of accommodating
   a co-operating item, and the entrance is sized to prevent
   the item from passing through the entrance.
35
   The umbrella may include a bracket that is received by the
   channel of the rib and is pivotally connected to the
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                    - 10
   stretcher, for example, via a pin or suitable fastener.
   Ideally, the bracket has a pair of rails that are received
   by a pair of the channels on opposite sides of the rib.
 5 To secure the bracket can be located at any desired
   position along the channels of the rib and a fastener,
   such as rivet, may to secure the bracket in position on
   the rib.
10 Preferably, the structures of the stretcher and the rib
   are alike.
   The stretcher may have a cross-sectional width ranging
   from 15 to 30 mm. Preferably, the cross-sectional width
15 ranges from 19 to 26 mm.
   The rib may have a cross-sectional width ranging from 20
   mm to 50 mm. Preferably, the cross-sectional width ranges
   from 25 to 45 mm.
20
   The bracket includes a rail portion for slidably
   connecting to the stretcher and a mounting portion for
   pivotably connecting to the rib. The bracket functions to
   open and close the canopy by manipulating the stretchers
25 and rubs when the runner is slid along the mast.
   The runner may be multi-armed for connecting to the
   plurality of stretchers. The arms are located
   circumferentially around the runner and each arm may
30 include fingers for pivotably mounting to an end of a
   stretcher.
   The stretchers are connected to the runner such that
   sliding the runner along the mast moves the stretchers
35 either radiating outwardly from the mast or collapsing
   inwardly towards the mast to open and close the umbrella,
   respectively.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                           - 11
   The runner includes a central cavity for receiving the
   mast. Preferably, the central cavity has an alike cross
   sectional shape to the mast to resist the runner twisting
 5 on the mast.
   The umbrella mast is capable of resisting breakage at a
   minimum windspeed of 60 km/hr. Typically, most embodiments
   of the invention are capable of resisting breakage at
10 windspeeds from 70 km/hr to 120 km/hr.
   According to the present invention, there is also provided
   a receiver or socket having an opening with an alike
   cross-sectional shape to a mast for receiving the mast and
15 is securable to a substrate.                The receiver may be secured
   to a substrate by driving the receiver into the substrate.
   The receiver may also be secured to the substrate by other
   means including a screw-thread engagement.
20 The mast may be secured to the socket via any suitable
   means.              In one example, the socket has an attachment
   formation that receives a fastener which can be installed
   to extend through a hole in the mast.
25 The socket may have a lid that can be opened and closed to
   protect against the ingress of debris from entering the
   socket.               The lid may have a hole formed therein and the
   mast may have a hole therein and the holes of the lid and
   the mast can be aligned to receive a fastener.
30
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
   The present invention is hereinafter described by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings,
35 wherein:
   Figure 1 is an isometric view of a mast including three
   10116912_1(GHMates) P91577.AU.2

                                            - 12
   shafts according to a preferred embodiment of the present
   invention.
   Figure 2 is a cross-sectional view of the mast in Figure
 5 1.
   Figure 3 is an isometric view of one of the shafts in
   Figure 1.
10 Figure 4 is a cross-sectional view of the shaft in Figure
   3.
   Figure 5 is an isometric view of an umbrella frame
   including individual isometric view of the various
15 components of the frame including a mast.
   Figure 6 is a cross-sectional view across axis A-A of
   Figure 5.
20 Figures 7A-C are cross-sectional views of three possible
   variants of a member that can be used as stretchers or
   ribs of the umbrella frame.
   Figures 8 and 9 are perspective views of two further
25 variants of members for forming stretchers and/or ribs of
   the umbrella.
   Figure 10 is a photograph illustrating the members of
   Figures 8 and 9 fitted to a bracket for interconnecting
30 the stretcher to the rib.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   A preferred embodiment of the present invention will now
35 be described in the following text with reference to the
   attached Figures.                A number of the features of the
   preferred embodiment have been allocated reference
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                           - 13
   numerals to help identify the features in the drawings.
   However, in order to maintain the clarity of the drawings,
   not all of the reference numerals have been used in each
   drawing.
 5
   The preferred embodiment of the present invention relates
   to a mast 10 comprises three shaft members 12A-C that
   interfit one inside the other. Other embodiments can
   include any number of shaft members. For example, the mast
10 may comprise a single shaft member or four or more shaft
   members.
   Each shaft member 12A-C has a polygonal cross-section, as
   such an octagonal cross-section as illustrated in Figure
15 3. Each shaft member 12A-C comprises an outer wall
   defining an outer tubular portion 14 and an inner wall
   defining an inner tubular portion 16 that is arranged
   inside the outer tubular portion 14. There is a spacing 18
   between the inner tubular portion 16 and the outer tubular
20 portion 14.
   The inner and outer tubular portions 14, 16 have inner and
   outer perimeters with interconnecting webs 20 extending
   from the outer perimeter of the inner tubular portion 16
25 to the inner perimeter of the outer tubular portion 14.
   For example, webs 20 interconnect an octagonal corner 22
   of outer tubular portion 14 with an octagonal corner 24 of
   inner tubular portion 16 to form eight trapezium-shaped
   partitioned spaces 26 around the circumference of the
30 shaft members 12A-C              (see Figures 3 and 4).
   The cross-sectional structure of each shaft member reduces
   the weight of the mast compared to a solid mast while the
   interconnecting webs 20 between each of outer tubular
35 portion 14 and inner tubular portion 16 imparts strength
   to the shaft by distributing any bending forces on the
   outer tubular portion 14 to the inner tubular portion of
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                              - 14
   the shaft member.
   The mast 10 may also include intermediate tubular portions
    (not shown) located between the outer and inner tubular
 5 portions 14 and 16. In this embodiment, interconnecting
   webs may be located between the outer tubular portion and
   the intermediate tubular portion and between the
   intermediate tubular portion and the inner tubular
   portion. Depending on the number of intermediate tubular
10 portions, interconnecting webs may also be located between
   the intermediate tubular portions.
   The eight interconnecting webs 20 are circumferentially
   spaced around the shaft 12A-C to evenly distribute stress
15 exerted from multiple directions on the mast. In this
   respect, each shaft 12A-C is strongest at the apices of
   the octagonal shape                 (i.e. the corners 22 of outer tubular
   portion 14).
20 The inner tubular portion 16 defines a hollow central
   region 28 that receives another shaft member having an
   alike cross-sectional shape but having a different
   diameter. For example, hollow central portion 28 of the
   intermediate shaft member 12B receives the inner shaft
25 member 12A, while the hollow central region of the outer
   shaft member 12C receives the intermediate shaft member
   12B (see Figures 1 and 2).                  Each shaft member 12A-C
   includes a retaining member (not shown),                  such as fastener
   can secure the assembly of shafts together.
30
   The outer shaft 12C is ideally the shortest, followed by
   the intermediate shaft 12B, and finally the longest, the
   inner shaft 12A.                 According to the preferred embodiment,
   all of the shafts 12A-C extend from the lower end of the
35 mast 10 and all shafts 12A-C are extend upwardly and are
   fixed in position from the bottom of the mast.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                            - 15
   According to another embodiment, it possible the length of
   the mast 10 can be adjusted, for example by sliding the
   shafts 12A to 12C relative to each other in a telescopic
   nature.                If required, the telescopic nature of the mast 10
 5 allows the mast to be stored in a compact manner and
   extended when in use. It also allows the length of the
   mast 10 to be adjusted to suit any desired purpose.
   The octagonal cross-section of the shaft member resists
10 axial twisting, particularly when interfitted with another
   shaft member in a telescopic arrangement                (Figures 1 and
   2).       This is important in protecting mechanical components
   of the mast such as the bottom and top springs                (not shown)
   that control the opening and closing of the umbrella.
15
   An umbrella according to a preferred embodiment of the
   present invention is marked as 100 in Figure 5.
   The umbrella 100 comprises mast 10 connected to a frame on
20 which a canopy is located. The frame comprises a plurality
   of stretchers 30 which are movably connected, at one end,
   to a plurality of ribs 32 on which is fastened the canopy,
   and at an opposing end, to a runner 34 slidably mounted to
   the mast 10.
25
   The top end of the mast 10 is fixedly mounted with a
   connector 54, that is alike in structure to the runner 34,
   to pivotably mount the plurality of ribs 32 to the mast 10
    (Figure 5).
30
   In Figure 5, the mast 10 comprises a single shaft member.
   However, the mast 10 may include a number of interfitting
   shaft members 12A-C.
35 Figures 7A, 7B and 7c each illustrate possible cross
   sectional shapes 36 of the stretcher 30 and rib 32 having
   internal reinforcing.                Figure 8 and 9 illustrate
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                                  - 16
   alternative profiles for the stretcher 30 and rib 32
   without internal reinforcing.
   The cross-sectional shapes 36 of the stretcher 30 and the
 5 rib 32 are alike as illustrated in Figure 5.                       As can be
   seen, the stretcher 30 and rib 21 each include:                      i) a
   tubular formation defined by an outermost wall in which
   reinforcing webs disposed within the tubular formation
   interconnect spaced sections of the outermost wall to form
10 internal bracing 38A-38C for increasing the strength of
   the stretcher 30 and/or rib 21; and ii) a connecting
   formation 40A-C for slidably connecting the stretcher 30
   to a rib 32 via a bracket 42                      (Figure 5).  The connecting
   formation 40A, 40B and 40C is ideally in the form of a
15 channel in the outermost wall of the tubular formation.
   The reinforcing portions 38A-38C include a cross-membered
   web to improve the strength of the stretcher 30 and/or rib
   32 against breakage. The stretcher 30 and/or rib 32 may
20 include any one of the cross-sectional shapes shown in
   Figure 7. Typically, the cross-sectional size and shape
   used for an umbrella will be dictated by the strength
   required of the umbrella. For example, the cross-sectional
   shape of Figure 7C provides the greatest strength, while
25 Figure 7A provides the least strength. This is due to the
   size and number of the cross members 44. The larger the
   cross-member                     (comparing Figure 7B to Figure 7A) or the
   more numerous the cross-members                      (comparing Figure 7C to
   Figure 7B) increases the strength of the stretcher 30
30 and/or rib 32 from breakage under stress. Each of the
   stretcher 30 and/or rib 32 in Figure 7 can resist breakage
   at a minimum windspeed of 70 km/hr.
   The cross-sectional width of the stretcher 30 and/or rib
35 32 in Figure 7A is about 19 mm with a cross-sectional
   length of about 25 mm. The cross-sectional width of the
   stretcher 30 and/or rib 32 in Figure 7B is about 19 mm
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                                - 17
   with a cross-sectional length of about 35 mm. The cross
   sectional width of the stretcher 30 and/or rib 32 in
   Figure 7C is about 26 mm with a cross-sectional length of
   about 45 mm.
 5
   The connecting formations 40A-C on the stretcher 30 and/or
   rib 32 comprises a pair of channels that extends axially
   along the outermost wall of the stretcher 30 and/or rib
   32. The channels have a constricted entrance and an inner
10 cavity than can accommodate a body having a width that is
   unable to pass through the entrance of the channel.                     The
   channel of the rib 32 receives the rail portion 44 of
   bracket 42 while the opposing end 46 of bracket 42,
   ideally in the form of a pair of legs, is pivotably
15 mounted to one end of the stretcher 30                    (Figure 5) via a
   fastener extending through an opening in the legs and the
   tubular formation. During assembly, the bracket 42 can
   slide along the length of the rib 32 and fastened in a
   desired position, according to required pitch of the
20 umbrella canopy.                    Any suitable fastener such as rivets can
   be used.
   Figures 8 and 9 illustrate alternative cross-sectional
   shapes for the stretcher 30 and/or rib 21.                     According to
25 Figures 8 and 9, the stretcher 30 and/or rib 21 includes a
   outer wall defining a tubular formation, in the same
   manner as the variants illustrated in Figures 7A to 7C,
   and includes a channel in the outer wall of the tubular
   formation.                    However, the variant in Figures 8 and 9 do not
30 have internal reinforcing webs which are included in the
   variant in Figures 7A to 7C.                     The variants illustrated in
   Figures 8 and 9 may be used as either the stretcher 30
   and/or the rib 21.
35 Figure 10 is a photograph illustrating the bracket 46
   having rails that are slidably received by the channels 40
   of the ribs 21.                    The bracket 46 is ideally pivotally
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                              - 18
   connected to one end of the stretchers 30, which are also
   pivotally connected the runner 34.
   Runner 34                 (see Figure 5) comprises a central hole that
 5 interfits with mast 10, and a plurality of radiating arms
   50 located around the circumference of the runner 34. Each
   arm 50 has a pair of fingers 52A-B for pivotably mounting
   an end of a stretcher 30 such that sliding the runner
   along mast 10 moves the stretcher to open or close the
10 umbrella.
   The bottom of mast 10 is inserted into a socket or
   receiver 56 having a hole with an alike cross-sectional
   shape to the mast. The receiver 56 is securable to a
15 substrate such as a cement block or the ground by driving
   the receiver into the substrate or incorporated into the
   substrate, such as a cement block, during the substrate
   manufacturing process. The receiver 56 also includes a lid
   or cover 58 for protecting the receiver hole against
20 ingress of debris such as dirt, stones or the like. The
   receiver 56 may have the same tubular structure as mast 10
   to increase its strength against breakage.
   In use, the umbrella 100 is slidably mounted to receiver
25 56 in an upright position. Runner 34 is slid upwardly
    (Direction A in Figure 5) causing the stretchers 30 pivot
   about opposing end 46 of bracket 42. This causes
   stretchers 30 to flare outwardly from the mast 10. The
   outward movement of the stretchers 30 also causes ribs 32
30 to slide along rails 44 of the bracket 42 and move
   outwardly to open the umbrella and spreading the umbrella
   canopy to provide shade and shelter (Direction B in Figure
   5).       The runner includes a pair of apertures for securing
   the position of the runner on the mast 10.                  The canopy can
35 be made of any suitable material including flexible fabric
   material and flexible plastic material.                  It is also
   possible that the canopy may comprise semi flexible or
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                       - 19
   rigid leaves attached to the ribs.           For example, the
   leaves may overlap when the canopy is assembled to form
   the canopy.
 5 For storage, the runner 34 is slid downwards          (Direction C
   in Figure 5) causing the stretchers 30 to move towards the
   mast 10. This results in the ribs 32 and consequently, the
   canopy to collapse towards the mast 10 to close the
   umbrella (Direction D in Figure 5).
10
   The mast 10 is removed from receiver 56 and stored while
   the receiver cover 58 is replaced on the receiver to
   prevent debris from entering the receiver.
15 The shafts 12A-C, stretcher 21, and ribs 30 may be made of
   any suitable material.           For example, these components may
   be made of extruded aluminium, but can be made from other
   materials including metals such as stainless steel,
   plastics such as polypropylene or polyethylene or
20 composites such as polycarbonate or fibreglass.           The
   runner 34 may also be made of any suitable material
   including cast or welded metals, such as aluminium or
   stainless steel, plastics and composites such as
   polycarbonate and fibreglass.
25
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
30 "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                     - 20
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. An umbrella comprising:
   a mast having a shaft including:
 5             an inner wall defining an inner tubular portion;
               an outer wall arranged about the inner wall such that
               there is a spacing between the inner wall and the
               outer wall at least part way about the inner tubular
               portion; and
10             at least one interconnecting web portion that
               interconnects the inner tubular portion and the outer
               wall; and
   a frame on which a canopy is located, wherein the frame
   comprises:
15             a plurality of ribs that are pivotally connected to
   the mast and to which a canopy is attached, the ribs can
   be pivoted between a collapsed position in which the
   canopy is closed, and an assembled position in which ribs
   are oriented laterally to the mast to hold the canopy
20 opened;
               a runner that is slidable along the mast;
               stretchers that interconnect the runner and the ribs;
   and
               a bracket which is pivotably mounted to the stretcher
25 and slidably connected to the ribs, wherein the bracket
   includes a pair of rails that are receivable by a pair of
   channels on opposite sides of the ribs.
   2. The umbrella according to claim 1, wherein the outer
30 wall of the mast defines an outer tubular portion arranged
   about the inner tubular portion of the inner wall and
   connected thereto by the web connectors, and the inner
   tubular portion is arranged inside the outer tubular
   portion such that there is a spacing therebetween around
35 the perimeter of the inner tubular portion and there is at
   least two interconnecting web portions that connect
   different points of the inner tubular portion to the outer
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                      - 21
    tubular portion.
    3. The umbrella according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the
    inner and the outer tubular portions of the mast are
  5 arranged concentrically about a longitudinal axis.
    4. The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
    claims, wherein multiple interconnecting webs of the mast
    are uniformly distributed about the inner tubular portion.
10
    5. The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
    claims in which the mast comprises one shaft only.
    6. The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
15  claims, wherein the mast includes at least two shafts in
    which the outer tubular portion of the first shaft, herein
    the inner shaft, is adapted to be received by the inner
    tubular portion of the second shaft, herein the outer
    shaft.
20
    7. The umbrella according to claim 6, wherein the shafts
    are of different lengths, and the length of the shafts
    increase from the outer shaft, being the shortest, to the
    inner shaft, being the longest.
25
    8.        The umbrella according to either claim 6 or 7, wherein
    the mast includes a retainer for retaining the shafts
    locking together when inter-fitted.
30  9. The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
    claims, wherein one or both of the inner wall and the
    outer wall of the shaft, or each shaft, have a polygonal
    cross-section.
35  10.         The umbrella according to claim 9, wherein the inner
    wall and the outer wall have corresponding polygonal
    cross-sections, and corners of the polygonal shapes align
    10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                     - 22
   and interconnecting web portions interconnect the inner
   wall and the outer wall at at least some of the corners.
   11. The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
 5 claims, including a socket that can be located in the
   ground, the socket having an opening with an alike cross
   sectional shape to the shaft of the mast such that a
   length of the mast can be received within the socket.
10 12. The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein either one or both of the ribs and the
   stretchers have:
               a tubular formation defined by an outer wall, and
               a connecting formation including a channel in the
15 outer wall extending in a longitudinal direction of the
   tubular formation.
   13. The umbrella according to claim 12, wherein the
   channel has a narrowed entrance extending along the
20 channel and an enlarged cavity located inwardly of the
   entrance.
   14. The umbrella according to claim 13, wherein the rails
   include a head formation that is accommodated within the
25 cavity and a narrow neck that extends through the entrance
   of the channel.
   15. The umbrella according to any one of claims 12 to 14,
   in which either: i) an inner space of the tubular
30 formation is free of internal reinforcing webs, or ii) the
   inner space of the tubular formation contains reinforcing
   webs disposed within the tubular formation interconnect
   spaced sections of the outer wall to form internal
   bracing.
35
   16. The umbrella according to claim 15, wherein the
   reinforcing webs have an X-shaped lateral to the
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

                                     - 23
   longitudinal axis of the stretcher or rib.
   17. The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein the runner has multi-arms extending
 5 outwardly therefrom for connecting to the plurality of
   stretchers.
   18.         The umbrella according to any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein the stretchers are pivotally connected to
10 the runner such that sliding the runner along the mast
   moves the stretchers either radiating outwardly from the
   mast or inwardly towards the mast to open and close the
   umbrella, respectively.
15
   10116912_1(GHMaters) P91577.AU.2

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
              - There are 9 pages of Drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
