AUTOMATED HISTOLOGICAL PROCESSING OF BIOLOGICAL
SPECIMENS AND ASSOCIATED TECHNOLOGY
ABSTRACT
A method for processing specimens (3034) carried by slides (3020) within an automated
histological system (2), the method comprising: automatically dispensing a liquid (3030) so as to
form a freestanding first puddle on a first slide, the liquid (3030) being one of a staining reagent
and a counterstaining reagent; automatically dispensing the liquid (3030) so as to form a
freestanding second puddle on a second slide (3020); non-immunohistochemically staining the
first and second specimens (3020) while the first and second specimens (3020) are in contact
with the first and second puddles, respectively; removing at least a portion of the first puddle
from the first specimen (3020) so as to at least partially uncover the first specimen (3020)
without contacting the first puddle with a solid structure or displacing the first puddle with a
liquid (3030); and removing at least a portion of the second puddle from the second specimen
(3020) so as to at least partially uncover the second specimen (3020) without contacting the
second puddle with a solid structure or displacing the second puddle with a liquid (3030).

                                                  1
AUTOMATED HISTOLOGICAL PROCESSING OF BIOLOGICAL
SPECIMENS AND ASSOCIATED TECHNOLOGY
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> is a divisional application of
Australian Patent Application No. 2014363717, all of which are incorporated herein in their
entirety by reference thereto.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] The present technology is generally related to automated histological processing of
biological specimens (e.g., tissue samples), such as systems, devices, methods, and
compositions that enhance the quality, precision, efficiency and/or other aspects of this
processing.
BACKGROUND
[0003] A wide variety of techniques may be used to analyze biological specimens. Examples of
analysis techniques useful in this context include microscopy, microarray analysis (e.g., protein
and nucleic acid microarray analysis), and mass spectrometry. Preparing specimens for these
and other types of analysis typically includes contacting the specimens with a series of
processing liquids. Some of these processing liquids (e.g., staining reagents and counterstaining
reagents) may add color and contrast or otherwise change the visual characteristics of invisible
or poorly visible specimen components (e.g., at least some types of cells and intracellular
structures). Other processing liquids (e.g., deparaffinizing liquids) may be used to achieve other
processing objectives. If a specimen is treated with multiple processing liquids, both the
application and the subsequent removal of each processing liquid can be important for
producing specimens suitable for analysis. In some cases, treating specimens with multiple
processing liquids includes manually applying the processing liquids to microscope slides
respectively carrying the specimens. This approach to processing specimens tends to be
relatively labor intensive and imprecise.
[0004] "Dip and dunk" automated machines can be used as an alternative to manual specimen
processing. These machines automatically process specimens by submerging racks of specimen-

                                                  2
bearing slides in open baths of processing liquids. Unfortunately, operation of dip and dunk
machines inevitably causes carryover of processing liquids from one bath to another. Over time,
this carryover leads to the degradation of the processing liquids. Furthermore, when specimens
are immersed in a shared bath, there is a potential for cross-contamination. For example, cells
may slough off a specimen on one slide and be transported within a shared bath onto another
slide, even on a slide processed much later (e.g., if the cells remain suspended in the bath). This
form of contamination can adversely affect the accuracy of certain types of specimen analysis.
To mitigate this issue and to address degradation of processing liquids due to carryover, baths of
processing liquids in dip and dunk machines typically need to be replaced frequently.
Accordingly, these machines tend to consume relatively large volumes of processing liquids,
which increases the economic and environmental costs associated with operating these
machines. Open baths of processing liquids are also prone to evaporative losses and oxidative
degradation of some processing liquid components. Oxidation of certain components of staining
reagents, for example, can alter the staining performance of these components and thereby
adversely affect the precision of staining operations.
[0005] Some example of conventional histological processing machines that avoid certain
disadvantages of dip and dunk machines are known. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 6,387,326 (the
'326 patent) to Edwards et al. describes an apparatus for delivering fresh processing liquids
directly onto individual slides. The slides are expelled one at a time from a slide storage device
onto a conveyor belt. Specimens carried by the slides are individually treated at various stations
as the slides move along the conveyor belt. Among other drawbacks, the apparatus described in
the '326 patent and similar machines tend to have throughput limitations that make them
unsuitable for primary staining applications, such as hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining
applications. A typical laboratory that performs primary staining, for example, may process
hundreds or even thousands of specimens per day. Using the apparatus described in the '326
patent and similar machines for this processing would be unacceptably slow. Furthermore, these
machines do not allow for control over staining characteristics. Such control can be important in
primary staining applications.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION

                                                   3
[0006] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or ameliorate one or
more of the above described disadvantages, or at least provide a useful alternative to the above
described machines.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] In a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for processing
specimens carried by slides within an automated histological system, the method comprising:
        automatically dispensing a liquid so as to form a freestanding first puddle on a first slide,
the liquid being one of a staining reagent and a counterstaining reagent;
        automatically dispensing the liquid so as to form a freestanding second puddle on a
second slide;
        non-immunohistochemically staining the first and second specimens while the first and
second specimens are in contact with the first and second puddles, respectively;
        removing at least a portion of the first puddle from the first specimen so as to at least
partially uncover the first specimen without contacting the first puddle with a solid structure or
displacing the first puddle with a liquid; and
        removing at least a portion of the second puddle from the second specimen so as to at
least partially uncover the second specimen without contacting the second puddle with a solid
structure or displacing the second puddle with a liquid.
[0008] In a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for processing
one or more microscope slides, the method comprising:
        delivering a liquid from a fluid dispense mechanism at anti-splatter fluid exit speed; and
        directing the liquid flowing at the anti-splatter fluid exit speed toward an upper surface
of a microscope slide such that the microscope slide carries a collected volume of the liquid at
least partially supported on the upper surface by surface tension;
        wherein the anti-splatter fluid exit speed is less than a splattering fluid exit speed at
which the directed liquid would tend to cause at least a portion of the collected volume to
splatter from the upper surface, wherein the anti-splatter fluid exit speed is greater than a
trampoline fluid exit speed at which at least a portion of the directed liquid would tend to
bounce off a surface of the collected volume of liquid.

                                                   4
[0009] In a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for processing a
specimen on an upper surface of a microscope slide, the method comprising:
         robotically moving the microscope slide to a processing position;
         dispensing a liquid barrier material from a fluid dispense mechanism and onto the
microscope slide at the processing position to form a barrier comprised of the barrier material
along at least a portion of a label of the microscope slide; and
         delivering a reagent onto the microscope slide such that the reagent contacts the
specimen while the barrier covers the at least the portion of the label.
[0010] In a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for processing a
specimen on a microscope slide, the method comprising:
         robotically delivering a microscope slide to a processing position;
         outputting a reagent from a plurality of outlets of a fluid dispense mechanism aligned
with a width of an upper surface of the microscope slide at the processing position, the width of
the upper surface being substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the microscope
slide; and
         moving the outlets in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the slide
to distribute the reagent within a mounting area of the upper surface so as to form a layer of the
reagent that contacts a specimen located at the mounting area.
[0011] In a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system for processing a
specimen on a microscope slide, the system comprising:
         a transporter device; and
         an automated slide processing module positioned to receive a slide carrier from the
transporter device, the automated slide processing module including a holding chamber, and
         a dispenser assembly movable along at least most of a length of an upper surface of a
microscope slide held by the slide carrier when the slide carrier is located within the holding
chamber, the dispenser assembly including a plurality of outlets configured to be aligned with a
width of an upper surface of the microscope slide such that the outlets apply a reagent across
most or all of the width of the upper surface, the width of the slide is perpendicular to the length
of the slide.
[0012] In a sixth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system, comprising:
         a transporter device; and

                                                    5
        a stainer module configured to receive a slide carrier from the transporter device, the
stainer module including:
               a plurality of fluid lines; and
               a head assembly movable to dispense reagent along a slide carried by the slide
carrier and including a manifold, the manifold including:
                         a distribution chamber;
                         a plurality of inlets opening into the distribution chamber; and
                         a plurality of outlets from the distribution chamber;
               wherein the head assembly is coupled to the plurality of fluid lines and configured
to individually dispense reagent from each of the fluid lines.
[0013] In a seventh aspect of the present invention, there is provided a microscope slide
processing system, comprising:
        a transporter device; and
        a stainer module configured to receive a slide carrier from the transporter device, the
stainer module including:
               a plurality of first fluid lines;
               a plurality of second fluid lines; and
               a dispenser head movable relative the slide carrier, if any, positioned in the stainer
module, wherein the dispenser head comprises: a plurality of first nozzles;
        a first manifold configured to distribute fluid from each of the first fluid lines to the first
nozzles;
        a plurality of second nozzles; and
        a second manifold configured to distribute fluid from each of the second fluid lines to the
second nozzles.
[0014] In an eighth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for processing a
plurality of microscope slides carrying specimens, the plurality of microscope slides including a
first microscope slide and a second microscope slide, the method comprising:
        moving a head assembly of a stainer module relative to the first microscope slide
positioned at a processing zone within the stainer module so as to apply one or more reagents
onto the first microscope slide; and

                                                   6
        after applying the one or more reagents onto the first microscope slide, moving the first
microscope slide away from the processing zone and moving the second microscope slide to the
processing zone, and
        moving the head assembly relative to the second microscope slide while the second
microscope slide is positioned at the processing zone so as to apply one or more reagents onto
the second microscope slide.
[0015] In a ninth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method for processing a
plurality of microscope slides carrying specimens using a stainer module, the method
comprising:
        delivering a slide carrier tray carrying the microscope slides into the stainer module, the
stainer module including a movable dispenser apparatus having head assemblies;
        processing at least one of the microscope slides by delivering one or more liquids from
the dispenser assembly while the slide carrier tray obstructs a first set of vertical delivery paths
from a first set of the head assemblies and obstructs a second set of vertical delivery paths from
a second set of the head assemblies;
        moving the slide carrier tray to a first purge position to unobstruct the first set of vertical
delivery paths such that the collection pan collects liquid outputted by the first set of the head
assemblies; and
        moving the slide carrier tray to a second purge position to unobstruct the second set of
vertical delivery paths such that the collection pan collects liquid outputted by the second set of
the head assemblies, wherein the first set is different from the second set.
[0016] In a tenth aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for processing a
plurality of microscope slides, the apparatus comprising:
        a stainer module including:
               a tray holder configured to receive and hold a tray carrying a first microscope slide
and a second microscope slide in a chamber of the stainer module; and
               a head assembly movable relative to a processing zone in the stainer module so as
to deliver one or more liquids outputted from the head assembly along the first microscope slide
positioned at the processing zone;
        wherein the tray holder is movable to transport the first microscope slide away from the
processing zone and to transport the second microscope slide to the processing zone after
delivering the one or more liquids onto the first microscope slide.

                                                   7
[0017] In an eleventh aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
processing a plurality of microscope slides, the apparatus comprising:
        a stainer module including:
               a plural of fluid lines;
               a tray holder configured to receive and hold a tray carrying a first microscope slide
and a second microscope slide in the stainer module; and
               a head assembly including a dispenser head and a plurality of valves mounted on
the dispenser head, the valves control which fluid from the plurality of fluid lines flows through
and out of the head, wherein the dispenser head carries the valves and is movable relative to tray
holder so as to deliver one or more fluids outputted from the dispenser head along the first
microscope slide.
[0018] At least some embodiments are an automated system configured to perform one or more
slide processing operations on slides bearing biological samples. The system can provide high
sample throughput while also minimizing or limiting the potential for cross-contamination of
slides. The automated systems can include features that facilitate consistency, controllability of
processing time, and/or processing temperature.
[0019] At least some embodiments are a method for drying a plurality of specimens carried by a
plurality of microscope slides. The method includes positioning a slide carrier at a first position
while the slide carrier holds the microscope slides. Each of the specimens can be carried by one
of the microscope slides. The slide carrier can be robotically moved to move the slide carrier
into a circulation loop defined by a heater apparatus. The specimens and/or microscope slides
can be heated while the slide carrier is located in the circulation loop. In certain embodiments,
the specimens and/or microscope slides can be convectively, conductively, and/or radiantly
heated.
[0020] In some embodiments, a heater apparatus for heating a plurality of specimens carried by
a plurality of microscope slides includes a housing, a blower, and a door assembly. The housing
can at least partially define a circulation loop. The blower can be positioned to produce a fluid
flow along the circulation loop. The door assembly is moveable between a first position and a
second position. In some embodiments, the apparatus includes a heat source configured to heat
the fluid flow such that the specimens are convectively heated by the fluid flow when the door
assembly holds a slide carrier along the circulation loop.

                                                   8
[0021] The apparatus, in some embodiments, can be configured to provide conductive and/or
radiant heating. Conductive heating can be provided via a plate with a resistive heater. One or
more lamps can provide radiant heating. The apparatus can controllably increase or decrease the
temperature of the specimens. In some embodiments, when in the first position, the door
assembly can be configured to receive the slide carrier that carries the microscope slides. When
in the second position, the door assembly can be configured to hold the slide carrier at a
vertically-oriented position along the circulation loop. The door assembly can also be moved to
other positions.
[0022] In some embodiments, a method for thermally processing coverslips is provided. One or
more specimens can be covered by a coverslip and carried by one of a plurality of microscope
slides. The method includes positioning a slide carrier at a first position while the slide carrier
holds the microscope slides. The slide carrier can be robotically positioned at a second position
within a circulation loop defined by a heater apparatus. In some embodiments, convective
heating is used to heat the coverslips and/or microscope slides positioned within the circulation
loop. Conductive and/or radiant heating can also be used. For example, convective
heating/cooling can be used for one or more periods of time and radiant heating can be used for
one or more periods of time.
[0023] At least some embodiments can be a method for processing a specimen carried by a slide
within an automated histological system. The method includes automatically dispensing a first
liquid so as to form a first puddle on the slide. The first puddle has a shape maintained at least
partially by surface tension and can be one of a staining reagent and a counterstaining reagent.
The specimen is stained with the first liquid while the specimen is in contact with the first
puddle. At least a portion of the first puddle is removed from the specimen so as to at least
partially uncover the specimen a first time. The specimen is contacted with an intermediate fluid
after at least partially uncovering the specimen the first time. The specimen is at least partially
uncovered a second time after contacting the intermediate fluid and the specimen. A second
liquid is automatically dispensed so as to form a second puddle on the slide. The second puddle
has a shape maintained at least partially by surface tension, and the second liquid can be the
other of the staining reagent and the counterstaining reagent. The specimen can be stained by the
second liquid while the specimen is in contact with the second puddle, for example, after at least
partially uncovering the specimen the second time.

                                                    9
[0024] In some embodiments, a method for processing specimens carried by slides within an
automated histological system includes dispensing a liquid so as to form a first puddle on a first
slide. The liquid can be one of a staining reagent and a counterstaining reagent. Liquid can be
dispensed so as to form a second puddle on a second slide. The first and second specimens can
be stained (e.g., non-immunohistochemically stained) while the first and second specimens are
in contact with the first and second puddles, respectively. At least a portion of the first puddle is
removed from the first specimen so as to at least partially uncover the first specimen without
contacting the first puddle with a solid structure and/or displacing the first puddle with a liquid.
At least a portion of the second puddle can be removed from the second specimen so as to at
least partially uncover the second specimen without contacting the second puddle with a solid
structure or displacing the second puddle with a liquid. In some embodiments, the first and
second puddles are freestanding puddles.
[0025] At least some embodiments are a method that includes delivering a liquid from a fluid
dispense mechanism at an anti-splatter fluid exit speed. The liquid flows at the anti-splatter fluid
exit speed and is directed toward a microscope slide (e.g., an upper surface of the slide) such
that the microscope slide carries a collected volume of the liquid. The liquid can be at least
partially supported on the slide by, for example, surface tension. In some embodiments, the anti
splatter fluid exit speed is less than a splattering fluid exit speed at which the directed liquid
would tend to cause at least a portion of the collected volume to splatter from the upper surface.
In some embodiments, the anti-splatter fluid exit speed is greater than a trampoline fluid exit
speed at which at least a portion of the directed liquid would tend to bounce off a surface of the
collected volume of liquid.
[0026] In some embodiments, a method for processing one or more microscope slides includes
delivering a liquid at an anti-splatter fluid flow rate that is less than a splattering fluid flow rate
at which the directed liquid would tend to cause at least a portion of the collected volume to not
stay on the slide. For example, the antisplatter fluid flow rate can be sufficiently low to prevent
appreciable splattering of the collected liquid. In some embodiments, the anti-splatter flow rate
is greater than a trampoline flow rate at which at least a portion of the directed liquid would tend
to bounce off a surface of the collected volume of liquid. The anti-splatter flow rate can be
selected based on characteristics of the liquid.

                                                  10
[0027] In yet other embodiments, a method for processing a specimen on an upper surface of a
microscope slide includes moving the microscope slide to a processing position. A liquid barrier
material can be dispensed onto the microscope slide at the processing position to form a barrier
comprised of the barrier material along at least a portion of a label of the microscope slide. A
liquid (e.g., reagent) can be delivered onto the microscope slide such that the liquid contacts the
specimen while the barrier covers at least the portion of the label. In some embodiments, the
microscope slide can be robotically moved to the processing position using an automated
mechanism, such as a transport mechanism.
[0028] In yet further embodiments, a method for processing a specimen on a microscope slide
includes dispensing reagent from outlets of a fluid dispense mechanism aligned with a width of
an upper surface of the microscope slide. The width of the upper surface can be substantially
perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the microscope slide. The outlets can be moved in a
direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the slide to distribute the reagent
within a mounting area of the upper surface so as to form a layer of the reagent that contacts a
specimen located at the mounting area.
[0029] At least some embodiments are a system for processing a specimen on a microscope
slide includes a transporter device, an automated slide processing module, and a dispenser
assembly. The automated slide processing module can be positioned to receive a slide carrier
from the transporter device and can include a dispenser assembly movable along a microscope
slide held by the slide carrier when the slide carrier is located within a holding chamber. The
dispenser assembly includes a plurality of outlets configured to be aligned with a width of an
upper surface of the microscope slide such that the outlets apply a reagent across most or all of
the width of the upper surface.
[0030] In some embodiments, a system comprises a transporter device and a stainer module
configured to receive a slide carrier from the transporter device. In certain embodiments, the
stainer module includes one or more fluid lines and a head assembly movable to dispense
reagent along a slide carried by the slide carrier. The head assembly can be coupled to the fluid
lines and can be configured to dispense reagent from one or all of the fluid lines. In one
embodiment, a manifold of the head assembly includes a distribution chamber, a plurality of
inlets opening into the distribution chamber, and a plurality of outlets from the distribution

                                                      11
chamber. The fluid can be delivered through the manifold and dispensed from the head
assembly.
[0031] In yet further embodiments, a microscope slide processing system comprises a
transporter device and a stainer module configured to receive a slide carrier from the transporter
device. The stainer module can include a plurality of manifolds and a plurality of nozzles in
fluid communication with the manifolds. In some embodiments, the stainer module includes a
plurality of first fluid lines, a plurality of second fluid lines, and a dispenser head movable
relative the slide carrier, if any, positioned in the stainer module. The dispenser head can
comprise a plurality of first nozzles, a first manifold configured to distribute fluid from each of
the first fluid lines to the first nozzles, a plurality of second nozzles, and a second manifold
configured to distribute fluid from each of the second fluid lines to the second nozzles. The
dispenser head can include additional manifolds and/or nozzles to distribute liquid from any
number of fluid lines.
[0032] At least some embodiments are an automated slide processing apparatus for staining a
specimen on a microscope slide located within the slide processing apparatus. The slide
processing apparatus includes a liquid removal device, a gas knife, and a suction element. The
liquid removal device is movable relative to the slide. In some embodiments, the gas knife
generates a gas curtain and a low pressure region to facilitate liquid removal. In some
embodiments, the gas knife is configured to generate a gas curtain that tends to collect liquid on
an upper surface of the slide at a collection zone at least partially defined by the gas curtain as
the liquid removal device moves relative to the slide. A suction element is positioned to remove
liquid collected at the collection zone from the upper surface as the liquid removal device moves
relative to the slide.
[0033] In some embodiments, a slide processing apparatus for staining a specimen on a
microscope slide located within the slide processing apparatus comprises a fluid removal device
movable relative to the slide. The fluid removal device includes a fluid knife configured to
output one or more gas flows to urge a volume of liquid on an upper surface of the slide toward
a collection zone on the upper surface. The collection zone can be at least partially defined by
the one or more gas flows. In certain embodiments, the collection zone is a central collection
zone. In other embodiments, the collection zone is at other locations along the slide.

                                                  12
[0034] In another embodiment, a slide processing apparatus comprises a suction element and a
fluid knife movable relative to a microscope slide to captivate at least a portion of a volume of
liquid on the slide. The suction element and the gas knife are configured to cooperate to draw
most or all of the volume of liquid into the suction element. In some embodiments, the slide
processing apparatus includes a plurality of suction elements to draw in liquid at different
locations.
[0035] In yet another embodiment, a method for processing a specimen on a microscope slide
includes applying a liquid onto the slide to cover the specimen with the liquid. A stream of fluid
is delivered toward an upper surface of the slide to move the applied liquid along the upper
surface while confining the applied liquid such that the confined liquid is increasingly spaced
apart from longitudinal edges of the slide. The confined liquid is removed from the upper
surface of the slide.
[0036] In some embodiments, a method for processing a specimen on a microscope slide
includes applying a liquid onto the slide and directing a non-planar or multiplanar gas curtain
toward an upper surface of the slide. A vertex section of the gas curtain can be moved along a
central region of the upper surface and toward an end of the slide so as to urge the applied liquid
toward the central region of the slide. In other embodiments, the vertex section of the gas curtain
can be moved along other regions of the upper surface.
[0037] In particular embodiments, a method for processing a specimen on a microscope slide
includes delivering the slide into a stainer module. Liquid is applied onto the slide to contact the
specimen with the liquid. The liquid is blown along and removed from an upper surface of the
slide. The slide can then be removed from the stainer module. In some embodiments, the slides
are robotically delivered into and/or removed from the stainer module.
[0038] At least some embodiments are a method that includes moving a head assembly of a
stainer module relative to a first microscope slide positioned at a processing zone within the
stainer module so as to apply one or more reagents onto the first microscope slide. After
applying the one or more reagents onto the first microscope slide, the first microscope slide is
moved away from the processing zone and a second microscope slide is moved to the processing
zone. The head assembly is moved relative to the second microscope slide while the second

                                                   13
microscope slide is positioned at the processing zone so as to apply one or more reagents onto
the second microscope slide.
[0039] In some embodiments, a method for processing a plurality of microscope slides carrying
specimens using a stainer module includes delivering a slide carrier tray carrying the microscope
slides into the stainer module. The stainer module includes a movable dispenser apparatus
having head assemblies. At least one of the microscope slides is processed by delivering one or
more liquids from the dispenser assembly while the slide carrier tray obstructs a first set of
vertical delivery paths from a first set of the head assemblies and obstructs a second set of
vertical delivery paths from a second set of the head assemblies. The slide carrier tray can be
moved to a purge position to unobstruct the first set of vertical delivery paths such that the
collection pan collects liquid outputted by the first set of the head assemblies. The slide carrier
tray can be moved to a second position to unobstruct the second set of vertical delivery paths
such that the collection pan collects liquid outputted by the second set of the head assemblies.
The first set can be different from the second set.
[0040] In additional embodiments, an apparatus for processing a plurality of microscope slides
includes at least one stainer module. The stainer module can include a tray holder and a head
assembly. The tray holder can be configured to receive and hold a tray carrying a first
microscope slide and a second microscope slide in a chamber of the stainer module. The head
assembly is movable relative to a processing zone in the stainer module so as to deliver one or
more liquids outputted from the head assembly along the first microscope slide positioned at the
processing zone. In some embodiments, the tray holder is movable to transport the first
microscope slide away from the processing zone and to transport the second microscope slide to
the processing zone after delivering the one or more liquids onto the first microscope slide.
[0041] In yet additional embodiments, an apparatus for processing a plurality of microscope
slides comprises a stainer module including fluid lines, a tray holder, and a head assembly. The
tray holder is configured to receive and hold a tray carrying a first microscope slide and a
second microscope slide in the stainer module. The head assembly includes a dispenser head and
one or more valves mounted on the dispenser head. The valves can control which fluid from the
plurality of fluid lines flows through and out of the head. The dispenser head can carry the
valves and is movable relative to tray holder so as to deliver one or more fluids outputted from
the dispenser head along the microscope slides.

                                                   14
[0042] At least some embodiments are directed to a method for processing specimens carried by
slides within an automated histological staining system. The method includes moving a slide
carrier toward and into a temperature-controlled internal environment of a stainer within the
system. The slide carrier carries a first slide and a second slide, and the first and second slides
can carry a first specimen and a second specimen, respectively. The first and second specimens
are stained with at least one of a staining reagent and a counterstaining reagent while the first
and second slides are within the internal environment and while an average temperature of the
internal environment is greater than ambient temperature. The slide carrier can be moved out of
the internal environment after staining one or both specimens.
[0043] In some embodiments, an automated histological staining system comprises a main
housing and a stainer. The stainer includes a stainer housing defining an internal environment of
the stainer, one or more heaters configured to internally heat the stainer, and a transporter. The
transporter can be configured to move a slide carrier robotically within the main housing toward
the stainer. In one embodiment, the transporter moves the slide carrier between multiple
modules in the main housing.
[0044] At least some embodiments are directed to a method for processing specimens in an
automated histological staining system. The method comprises robotically moving a slide carrier
into a stainer of the system. The slide carrier carries slides which respectively carry the
specimens, and the specimens are at least partially embedded in paraffin. Liquids are
automatically dispensed onto the slides according to a predetermined recipe for at least
deparaffinizing, staining, and counterstaining the specimens. The slide carrier can be robotically
moved out of the stainer after automatically dispensing the liquids. In some embodiments, a
total of all liquid dispensed onto the slides after moving the slide carrier into the stainer and
before moving the slide carrier out of the stainer has a greater volumetric concentration of
polyol than of monohydric alcohol.
[0045] In one embodiment, a method for processing specimens within an automated histological
staining system comprises contacting the specimens with a staining reagent. The specimens can
be contacted by a washing liquid to at least partially remove the staining reagent from the
specimens. The specimens can be contacted with a counterstaining reagent after contacting the
specimens and the washing liquid. The specimens can be contacted with the washing liquid to
differentiate counterstaining of the specimens after contacting the specimens and the

                                                  15
counterstaining reagent. In some embodiments, one or more of the staining reagent, washing
liquid, and/or counterstaining reagent has a greater volumetric concentrations of polyol than of
monohydric alcohol. In one embodiment, the staining reagent, the washing liquid, and the
counterstaining reagent each have greater volumetric concentrations of polyol than of
monohydric alcohol.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0046] Many aspects of the present disclosure can be better understood with reference to the
following drawings. The relative dimensions in the drawings may be to scale with respect to
some embodiments. With respect to other embodiments, the drawings may not be to scale. For
ease of reference, throughout this disclosure identical reference numbers may be used to identify
identical or at least generally similar or analogous components or features.
[0047] Figure 1 is a front elevation view of an automated slide processing system in accordance
with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0048] Figure 2 is a front elevation view of the automated slide processing system of Figure 1
showing internal components of the system.
[0049] Figure 3 is a cross-sectional perspective view of a dryer apparatus heating specimen
bearing microscope slides in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0050] Figure 4A is a side elevation view of a dryer apparatus having a door in an open
configuration in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0051] Figure 4B is an enlarged perspective view of a door assembly of the dryer apparatus of
Figure 4A.
[0052] Figure 5 is a perspective view of the dryer apparatus of Figure 4A in an open
configuration holding a slide carrier.
[0053] Figure 6A is an enlarged cross-sectional side elevation view of the dryer apparatus of
Figure 4A in a closed configuration supporting the slide carrier of Figure 5 in accordance with
an embodiment of the present technology.

                                                 16
[0054] Figure 6B is an enlarged cross-sectional side elevation view of a portion of Figure 6B.
[0055] Figure 7 is an enlarged cross-sectional side elevation view of a portion of a dryer
apparatus door assembly and a slide carrier in a substantially vertical position in accordance
with another embodiment of the present technology.
[0056] Figure 8 is a perspective view of the dryer apparatus of Figure 4A in an open
configuration holding a slide carrier in accordance with an embodiment of the present
technology.
[0057] Figure 9 is a cross-sectional side elevation view of the dryer apparatus of Figure 4A in a
closed configuration without a slide carrier in accordance with an embodiment of the present
technology.
[0058] Figure 10 is a perspective view of a curing oven in a closed configuration in accordance
with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0059] Figure 11 is a perspective view of the curing oven of Figure 10 in an open configuration
in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0060] Figure 12 is a perspective view of the curing oven with a door assembly supporting a
slide carrier holding microscope slides with coverslips in accordance with an embodiment of the
present technology.
[0061] Figure 13 is a cross-sectional side elevation view of a curing oven in a closed
configuration in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0062] Figure 14 is a perspective view of a curing oven in an open configuration holding a slide
carrier with cured coverslipped slides in accordance with an embodiment of the present
technology.
[0063] Figure 15 is an isometric view of a stainer module in an open configuration in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0064] Figure 16 is an isometric view of the stainer module holding a tray.

                                                17
[0065] Figure 17 is a bottom view of the stainer module holding the tray.
[0066] Figure 18 is a bottom view of the stainer module in a closed configuration in accordance
with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0067] Figure 19 is an isometric view of the stainer module of Figure 15 ready to process
specimen-bearing slides positioned underneath a dispenser apparatus.
[0068] Figure 20 is a top plan view of the stainer module of Figure 15.
[0069] Figure 21 is a cross-sectional side elevation view of the stainer module taken along line
21-21 of Figure 20.
[0070] Figures 22A and 22B are detailed elevation views of head assemblies processing
specimen-bearing microscope slides.
[0071] Figure 23 is an isometric view of a tray holding microscope slides in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
[0072] Figures 24-26 are perspective views of stages of applying substances to microscope
slides.
[0073] Figure 27 is a top plan view of lower components of the stainer module along line 27-27
of Figure 21.
[0074] Figure 28 is a cross-sectional side elevation view of a liquid collector taken along line
28-28 of Figure 27.
[0075] Figures 29A-3 lB are top plan and side elevation views show stages of a purge/prime
process in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0076] Figure 32 is an isometric view of a dispenser apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
[0077] Figure 33 is a side elevation view of a head assembly dispensing liquid onto a
microscope slide in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.

                                                18
[0078] Figure 33A is a detailed view of a nozzle of the head assembly of Figure 33.
[0079] Figure 34 is an isometric view of a head assembly in accordance with an embodiment of
the present technology.
[0080] Figure 35 is a bottom view of the head assembly of Figure 34 and a microscope slide.
[0081] Figure 36 is a side elevation view of the head assembly dispensing liquid onto a label of
a microscope slide in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0082] Figure 36A is a detailed view of a nozzle directing a stream of liquid toward the label.
[0083] Figure 37 is a side elevation view of the head assembly dispensing liquid onto a
mounting area of the microscope slide.
[0084] Figure 38 is a side elevation view of the head assembly dispensing liquid onto an end of
the microscope slide.
[0085] Figures 39, 40, and 41 are isometric, side, and front views, respectively, of the head
assembly in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0086] Figure 42A is a cross-sectional perspective view of the head assembly taken along line
42A-42A of Figure 41.
[0087] Figure 42B is a detailed view of manifolds of the head assembly of Figure 42A.
[0088] Figure 43 is a cross-sectional elevation view of the head assembly taken along line 43-43
of Figure 40.
[0089] Figure 44A is a cross-sectional perspective view of the head assembly taken along line
44A-44A of Figure 41.
[0090] Figure 44B is a detailed view of manifolds of the head assembly of Figure 44A.
[0091] Figure 45 is a cross-sectional elevation view of the head assembly taken along line 45-45
of Figure 40.

                                                19
[0092] Figures 46A-46F are cross-sectional elevation views of the head assembly taken along
line 46-46 of Figure 40.
[0093] Figure 47 is an isometric cross-sectional view of the head assembly taken along line 47
47 of Figure 40.
[0094] Figures 48A-C are cross-sectional views of the head assembly taken along line 48-48 of
Figure 41.
[0095] Figure 49 is an isometric view of a head assembly in accordance with an embodiment of
the present technology.
[0096] Figure 50 is a top plan view of the head assembly of Figure 49.
[0097] Figure 51 is an isometric view of a dispenser head in accordance with an embodiment of
the present technology.
[0098] Figure 52 is a cross-sectional perspective view of the dispenser head taken along line 52
52 of Figure 50.
[0099] Figure 53 is an isometric view of a liquid distributor device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
[0100] Figure 54 is a cross-sectional elevation view of a nozzle apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
[0101] Figure 55 is an isometric view of a dispenser apparatus in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology.
[0102] Figures 56-58 are side elevation views illustrating stages of a liquid removal process in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0103] Figures 59-61 are isometric, front, and bottom views, respectively, of a head assembly in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.

                                                 20
[0104] Figure 62 is a partial cross-sectional side view of a liquid removal device positioned
above a microscope slide.
[0105] Figure 63 is a partial cross-sectional side view of the liquid removal device sucking
liquid from the slide.
[0106] Figure 64A is an isometric view of a liquid removal device producing a gas curtain
positioned along a microscope slide in accordance with an embodiment of the present
technology.
[0107] Figure 64B is a top plan view of the gas curtain and the slide of Figure 64A.
[0108] Figure 65A is an isometric view of the liquid removal device collecting liquid using the
gas curtain.
[0109] Figure 65B is a top plan view of the gas curtain and slide of Figure 65A.
[0110] Figure 66A is an isometric view of the liquid removal device captivating liquid at an end
of the slide.
[0111] Figure 66B is a top plan view of the gas curtain and slide of Figure 66A.
[0112] Figures 67-70 are side elevation views illustrating stages of removing and dispensing
liquids in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0113] Figure 71 is an isometric view of a liquid removal device with a linear gas knife in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0114] Figure 72 is an isometric view of the liquid removal device of Figure 71 collecting liquid
along the slide.
[0115] Figure 73 is an isometric view of the liquid removal device of Figure 71 removing liquid
captivated at a corner of the slide.
[0116] Figure 74 is a bottom view of a liquid removal device with a gas knife having elongated
slots in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.

                                                 21
[0117] Figure 75 is a bottom view of a liquid removal device with two gas knives in accordance
with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0118] Figure 76 is an isometric view of two gas knives in accordance with an embodiment of
the present technology.
[0119] Figures 77 and 78 are side elevation views of two gas knives captivating liquid on a
microscope slide.
[0120] Figure 79 is an isometric view of a stainer configured in accordance with an embodiment
of the present technology.
[0121] Figure 80 is a cross-sectional side elevation view taken along the line 80-80 in Figure 79
showing an internal environment of the stainer.
[0122] Figures 81 and 82 are cross-sectional plan views taken, respectively, along the lines 81
81 and 82-82 in Figure 80.
[0123] Figure 83 is a flow chart illustrating a method for operating the stainer shown in Figures
79-82 in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology.
[0124] Figures 84 and 85 are plots of average temperature and average airflow velocity,
respectively, within the internal environment relative to time during the method corresponding
to the flow chart shown in Figure 83.
[0125] Figure 86 is a flow chart illustrating a portion of the method corresponding to the flow
chart shown in Figure 83 during which specimens on slides carried by a slide carrier are
processed within the internal environment.
[0126] Figures 87 and 88 are plots of average temperature and average airflow velocity,
respectively, within the internal environment relative to time during the method corresponding
to the flow chart shown in Figure 86.
[0127] Figure 89 is a perspective view of a liquid supply in accordance with one embodiment of
the present technology.

                                                  22
[0128] Figure 90 is an isometric exploded view of a container in accordance with one
embodiment of the present technology.
[0129] Figure 91 is a partial cross-sectional side elevation view of the container of Figure 90.
[0130] Figure 92 is an isometric view of a waste container in accordance with one embodiment
of the present technology.
[0131] Figure 93 is a cross-sectional side elevation view of a sensor of the waste container of
Figure 92.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0132] Increasing the consistency and controllability of certain attributes (e.g., stain intensity) of
histologically processed specimens is often desirable. Processing time (i.e., the duration of a
given histological process) and processing temperature (i.e., the temperature at which a given
histological process is carried out) are two variables that affect most, if not all, of these
attributes. Automated histological systems configured in accordance with at least some
embodiments of the present technology include features that facilitate consistency and/or
controllability of processing time and/or processing temperature. For example, at least some of
these systems include stainers having processing heads capable of executing precisely controlled
liquid dispensing and removing operations. These stainers can also have internal environments
that can be maintained at elevated baseline temperatures. The performance (e.g., with respect to
quality and/or versatility) of these and other systems configured in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology is expected to far exceed that of conventional
counterparts. Furthermore, systems configured in accordance with at least some embodiments of
the present technology can include features that provide other desirable enhancements, such as
reduced processing costs, reduced waste generation, and increased throughput.
[0133] Processing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with at least some embodiments
of the present technology can differ from corresponding conventional processing liquids. For
example, processing liquids selected or formulated in accordance certain embodiments of the
present technology are less volatile than corresponding conventional liquids. For this reason
and/or other reasons, these liquids may be well suited for use in stainers maintained at elevated
baseline temperatures. In contrast, corresponding conventional liquids may tend to evaporate at

                                                  23
unacceptably high rates when used in these stainers. Evaporation of processing liquids in
automated histological systems is generally undesirable. Furthermore, processing liquids
selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can be less
toxic than corresponding conventional processing liquids. This can facilitate disposal of the
processing liquids and/or reduce or eliminate the release of noxious fumes from systems in
which the processing liquids are used. In at least some cases, some or all processing liquids used
with an automated histological system configured in accordance with an embodiment of the
present technology have relatively low concentrations of monohydric alcohol (e.g., ethanol). For
example, these processing liquids can include greater volumetric concentrations of polyol (e.g.,
propylene glycol) than of monohydric alcohol. This can reduce evaporation, enhance certain
aspects of specimen processing, and decrease process complexity, among other advantages.
Furthermore, processing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the
present technology can include other features that provide these and/or other desirable
enhancements.
[0134] Specific details of several embodiments of the present technology are disclosed herein
with reference to Figures 1-93. It should be noted that other embodiments in addition to those
disclosed herein are within the scope of the present technology. For example, embodiments of
the present technology can have different configurations, components, and/or procedures than
those shown or described herein. Moreover, a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand
that embodiments of the present technology can have configurations, components, and/or
procedures in addition to those shown or described herein and that these and other embodiments
can be without several of the configurations, components, and/or procedures shown or described
herein without deviating from the present technology.
Selected Examples of System Architecture
[0135] Figure 1 is an elevation view an automated slide processing system 2 ("system 2") in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology. The system 2 can include an access
port 3 and an input device in the form of a touch screen 5. A user can load the system with slide
carrying trays ("slide trays"), such as by placing the slide trays into the access port 3. A given
slide tray can carry slides respectively carrying specimens to be processed. Before, during, or
after loading the system, the user use the touch screen 5 to select processes (e.g., protocols,
recipes, etc.) to be performed on the specimens. The system 2 can then automatically process the

                                                  24
specimens, apply coverslips to the slides, and return the slide tray to the access port 3.
Thereafter, the coverslipped slides (e.g., slides carrying coverslips permanently coupled to the
slides) can be retrieved from the access port 3 for subsequent analysis, pathologist interpretation,
and/or archiving.
[0136] Figure 2 is a side elevation view of system 2 showing some of its internal components.
The system 2 can include a housing 7 and modules (e.g., workstations) 4, 6, 8 and 10 disposed
within the housing 7. Also within the housing 7, the system 2 can include a transporter 12, a
liquid supply 14, a pressurization apparatus 16, and a controller 18. The housing 7 can maintain
a generally contaminate-free internal environment and/or help maintain a desired internal
temperature suitable for operating one or more of the modules 4, 6, 8, 10. A slide tray holding
specimen-bearing slides can be carried by the transporter 12 between the modules 4, 6, 8, 10 to
dry the specimens, stain the specimens, and apply coverslips to the slides. The specimens can be
individually processed on slide without the use of shared baths of processing liquids. In this
way, cross-contamination, carryover of processing liquids, excessive waste (e.g., liquid waste),
inconsistent processing liquid performance and other disadvantages of dip and dunk machines
can be reduced or avoided. Furthermore, stain intensity and/or other post-processing attributes
of the specimens can be highly controllable and precisely executable. The transporter 12 and
modules 4, 6, 8 and 10 can be under the control of the controller 18, which can be controlled by
a user using the touch screen 5 (Figure 1).
[0137] The module 4 can be a heater apparatus in the form of a dryer ("dryer 4"), modules 6 can
be stainers ("stainers 6"), module 8 can be a coverslipper ("coverslipper 8"), and module 10 can
be a heater apparatus in the form of a curing unit ("curing unit 10"). The modules can be
arranged in a vertical stack with the dryer 4 and curing unit 10 positioned higher than the
stainers 6. This can be useful, for example, because the dryer 4 and the curing unit 10 can
generate heat, which can be released through the top of the housing 7. The stainers 6 can be
connected to a fluidics manifold 19 that supplies liquids, such as staining reagent (e.g.,
hematoxylin reagent) and counterstaining reagent (e.g., eosin reagent) from the liquid supply 14.
[0138] The fluidics manifold 19 can include, without limitation, one or more lines, valves,
orifices, sensors, pumps, filters, and/or other components capable of controllably delivering
liquid. An electronics manifold (not shown) can communicatively couple the modules to the
controller 18 to provide power to and control over components of the modules and components

                                                  25
thereof. In one embodiment, individual modules are connected to the fluidics manifold 19 and
the electrical manifold through common interfaces and plugs, respectively. The
interchangeability afforded by using common interfaces and plugs may make it possible to add
and remove modules quickly and easily, thereby facilitating system reconfiguration,
maintenance, and/or repair.
[0139] The transporter 12 can robotically move slide trays from module to module in an
efficient manner so to enhance system throughput. The transporter 12 can comprise, without
limitation, one or more elevators (e.g., rail and carriage assemblies), robotic arms, motors (e.g.,
stepper motors, drive motors, etc.), tray interfaces or holders (e.g., forks, clamps, etc.), and/or
sensors, as well as other components for providing motion. In at least some embodiments, the
transporter 12 includes an elevator and an inserter (e.g., an X-Y shuttle table) to function as an
X-Y-Z transport mechanism (e.g., X--left to right; Y--front to back; Z--up and down). Sensors
(not shown) can be placed adjacent to the transporter 12 to detect the position of the transporter
12 and used to index the transporter 12 at sensing locations to provide precise slide-tray
positioning.
[0140] Sensors can be located at various locations throughout the system 2, including on the
transporter 12, within the modules, and on the slide trays. In some embodiments, sensors
(including, without limitation, strain gauges, accelerometers, contact sensors, optical sensors, or
other sensing devices capable of sensing certain events) can be used to detect collisions,
impacts, or other events within the system 2. The sensors can output one or more signals that are
received by the controller 18, which can determine whether a given event requires user
notification or other action. For example, if an unexpected slide tray impact is detected, the
controller 20 18 can alert a user to open the housing 7 to visually inspect the tray to determine
whether slides are properly positioned on the tray. Sensors can be mounted to a ceiling 13 of the
housing 7 to help prevent contact between the ceiling 13 and the slide trays and/or slides.
[0141] A holding station 23 with vertically spaced apart shelves 24 (one identified) can be
positioned adjacent to and in front of the transporter 12. An uppermost shelf 24 can be
positioned underneath the dryer 4 and a lowermost shelf can be positioned above the access port
3. The transporter 12 can robotically move slide trays from the shelves 24 to the dryer 4 to dry
wet biological specimens, bake biological specimens onto slides, or otherwise thermally process
specimen-bearing slides. In some embodiments, the dryer 4 convectively heats specimen-

                                                  26
bearing slides while holding the slides at orientations that facilitate drying. High convective
flow rates can be used to provide substantially uniform heating of the specimen-bearing slides to
reduce (e.g., minimize) temperature differences across the specimens and/or slides due to, for
example, the respective locations of the specimens and/or the slides in a slide tray.
[0142] The controller 18 can be part of a laboratory information management system that can be
connected, for example, to additional automated staining systems. The controller 18 can include,
without limitation, one or more printed circuit boards including any number of microprocessors
that control, for example, the supply of processing liquids to the modules and module operation.
Additionally or alternatively, printed circuit boards, microprocessors, power sources, memory,
readers (e.g., label readers) and can be part of the individual modules and in communication
with the controller 18 or another controller, such as a remote controller. The controller 18 can
command system components and can generally include, without limitation, one or more central
processing units, processing devices, microprocessors, digital signal processors (DSPs),
application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), readers, and the like. To store information, the
controller 18 can include, without limitation, one or more storage elements 21 (illustrated in
phantom), such as volatile memory, non-volatile memory, read-only memory (ROM), random
access memory (RAM), or the like. The stored information can include heating programs,
staining programs, curing programs, cover slipping programs, optimization programs, specimen
processing programs (e.g., arbitrary user-defined sets of operations and/or pre-defined sets of
operations), calibration programs, indexing programs, purge/prime programs, or other suitable
executable programs. Specimen-processing programs can include recipes or protocols that can
be selected based on user preferences, such as pathologist preferences. Optimization programs
can be executed to optimize performance (e.g., enhance heating, reduce excess processing-liquid
consumption, increase productivity, enhance processing consistency, or the like). System
processing may be optimized by determining, for example, an optimum schedule to (1) increase
processing speeds, (2) reduce the time of heating cycles in the dryer 4 and/or in the curing unit
10, (3) increase throughput (e.g., increase the number of slides processed in a certain length of
time), (4) improve stain consistency and/or quality, and/or (5) reduce liquid waste.
[0143] The liquid supply 14 can include slots for holding supply containers 27 (one identified)
and can include container identifiers, such as identifiers with of RFID antennae that can read
RFID tags associated with the supply containers 27. The supply containers 27 can include,
without limitation, one or more human readable labels, machine readable labels (e.g., a barcode

                                                   27
to be read by the system 2), or other types of labels. For example, the supply containers 27 can
include RFID tags encoded with information (e.g., container contents information, manufacture
dates, expiration dates, etc.) about a particular processing liquid. One example of a container is
discussed in connection with Figures 90 and 91, and one example of a liquid supply is discussed
in connection with Figure 89. The liquid supply 14 can also include, without limitation, sensors
(e.g., pressure sensors, temperature sensors, etc.), pumps (e.g., pneumatic pumps), valves,
filters, lines, and/or other fluidic components that can cooperate to supply liquids to the stainers
6, for example.
[0144] The pressurization apparatus 16 can be located below the liquid supply 14 and can
include a plurality of pumps, compressors, vacuum devices (e.g., a blower), and/or other devices
capable of pressurizing fluids and/or providing a vacuum (including a partial vacuum).
Pressurized air can be delivered to, for example, air knives of the stainers 6, and vacuum level
pressures can be used by liquid removal devices of the stainers 6.
[0145] Liquid waste can be delivered through lines and into waste containers 32, 34. This waste
can be generated within the system 2 from a variety of sources. For example, liquid waste
collected in the slide trays can be removed and routed to the waste containers 32, 34.
Periodically removing this liquid waste can be useful to keep the waste from spilling out of the
slide trays during handling. In the dryer 4, the slide trays may collect mounting media (e.g.,
water), which can be sucked from 20 the slide trays and pumped to one of the waste containers
32, 34. In the stainers 6, the slide trays can collect processing liquids that fall off the slides, as
well as liquids that inadvertently drip from nozzles of dispenser apparatuses. In the coverslipper
8, the slide trays can collect coverslipping liquids used to apply coverslips to the slides. The
mounting media, processing liquids, coverslipping 25 liquids, and any other collected waste
liquids can be pumped to the waste containers 32, 34. A door 35 (Figure 1) of the housing 7 can
be opened to access and empty the waste containers 32, 34.
[0146] In operation, the slide trays can be loaded into the system 2 via the access port 3.
Referring now to Figure 2, the transporter 12 can retrieve the slide trays from the access port 3
and transport the slide trays to desired locations. The system 2 can individually process a
particular specimen-bearing slide and/or slide tray according to an arbitrary user-defined set of
operations, a pre-defined set of operations, or other sets of operations. The slide trays can be
transported to an interrogation station where the slides in the tray are analyzed by detectors (e.g.,

                                                  28
optical sensors, cameras, etc.). The slide tray may then be moved to the dryer 4 where
specimens are dried and/or adhered to the slides. In some processes, the dryer 4 can help remove
paraffin from paraffin-embedded specimens by melting and spreading the paraffin across the
surfaces of the slides. The resulting thin layers of paraffin, having greater surface area once
spread across the slides, may be more easily removed by deparaffinizing liquid applied to the
slides within the stainers 6. Once the specimens and/or slides have been at least partially dried,
the slide tray can be moved to one of the stainers 6 where the biological specimens are
processed. The stainers 6 can perform deparaffinizing, staining, conditioning (e.g., solvent
exchange), and other specimen processing operations by individually applying fresh liquids to
the specimens. This can facilitate control over the post-processing characteristics of the
specimens. The stainers 6 can controllably dispense fresh processing liquids onto the slides
without splattering onto adjacent slides and can controllably remove the processing liquids from
the slides. The controlled dispensing/removal can be used to efficaciously process specimens
while also reducing volumes of liquid waste by, for example, minimizing or otherwise limiting
volumes of liquid waste collected by slide trays. The illustrated system 2 includes three stainers
6 that respectively provide parallel processing of three slide trays to increase system throughput,
but a greater or lesser number of stainers can be used to prevent undue limiting of the
throughput of the system based on operation of the stainers 6.
[0147] As used herein, the terms "reagent" and "processing liquid" refer to any liquid or liquid
composition used in a specimen processing operation that involves adding liquid or liquid
composition to a slide. Examples of reagents and processing liquids include solutions,
emulsions, suspensions, and solvents (either pure or mixtures thereof). These and other
examples can be aqueous or non-aqueous. Further examples include solutions or suspensions of
antibodies, solutions or suspensions of nucleic acid probes, and solutions or suspensions of dye
or stain molecules (e.g., H&E staining solutions, Pap staining solutions, etc.). Still further
examples include solvents and/or solutions for deparaffinizing paraffin-embedded biological
specimens, aqueous detergent solutions, and hydrocarbons (e.g., alkanes, isoalkanes and
aromatic compounds such as xylene). Still further examples include solvents (and mixtures
thereof) used to dehydrate or rehydrate biological specimens. The stainers 6 can receive a wide
range of reagents and processing liquids from the containers 27.
[0148] The term "staining" is used herein generally refers to any treatment of a biological
specimen that detects and/or differentiates the presence, location, and/or amount (such as

                                                     29
concentration) of a particular molecule (such as a lipid, protein or nucleic acid) or particular
structure (such as a normal or malignant cell, cytosol, nucleus, Golgi apparatus, or cytoskeleton)
in the biological specimen. For example, staining can provide contrast between a particular
molecule or a particular cellular structure and surrounding portions of a biological specimen,
and the intensity of the staining can provide a measure of the amount of a particular molecule in
the specimen. Staining can be used to aid in the viewing of molecules, cellular structures and
organisms not only with bright-field microscopes, but also with other viewing tools, such as
phase contrast microscopes, electron microscopes, and fluorescence microscopes. Some staining
performed by the system 2 can be used to visualize an outline of a cell. Other staining performed
by the system 2 may rely on certain cell components (such as molecules or structures) being
stained without or with relatively little staining other cell components. Examples of types of
staining methods performed by the system 2 include, without limitation, histochemical methods,
immunohistochemical methods, and other methods based on reactions between molecules
(including non-covalent binding interactions), such as hybridization reactions between nucleic
acid molecules. Particular staining methods include, but are not limited to, primary staining
methods (e.g., H&E staining, Pap staining, etc.), enzyme-linked immunohistochemical methods,
and in situ RNA and DNA hybridization methods, such as fluorescence in situ hybridization
(FISH).
[0149] After processing the specimens, the transporter 12 can transport the slide trays from the
stainer 6 to the coverslipper 8. The coverslipper 8 can apply solvent to the slides and can place
coverslips with pre-applied adhesive onto the slides. In some embodiments, the slide tray holds
a plurality of slides in, for example, a substantially horizontal position, and coverslips are
individually added to the slides. In one embodiment, the coverslipper 8 is substantially as
described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0092024A1 or U.S. Pat. No.
7,468,161, which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties. The coverslippers
described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0092024A1 or U.S. Pat. No.
7,468,161 and their operation can be implemented to enhance coverslip handling by, for
example, detecting broken coverslips, facilitating single coverslip pickup, increasing
coverslipper placement precision, and/or increasing system throughput.
[0150] Once coverslips are placed onto the slides, the transporter 12 can transport the slide tray
from the coverslipper 8 to the curing unit 10 where coverslips are cured onto the slides (at least
partially) and the tray itself is dried (at least partially) if the tray has collected liquid. During

                                                  30
curing, the slides can be held in substantially horizontal positions to expose surface areas of the
coverslips and slides to convective flows. This may facilitate quick and efficient curing of
adhesive. Even if coverslipping solvent underneath a given coverslip is not completely removed,
a skin of adhesive can form around the coverslip that holds the coverslip in place during
subsequent handling by, for example, a health care professional, such as a pathologist. In other
embodiments, the curing unit 10 can include one or more radiant heaters or conductive heaters,
as well as combinations of convective heaters and radiant or conductive heaters. Once the slides
are coverslipped, the slide tray can be moved from the curing unit 10 back to the access port 3
for retrieval.
[0151] The system 2 can have any number of modules arranged in any suitable relationship
relative to each other. In the illustrated embodiment, three stainers 6 and the curing unit 10 are
positioned substantially directly above and below one another in a vertical stack. Additionally or
alternatively, modules can be arranged side-by-side in a horizontal configuration (e.g., the dryer
4 positioned next to the curing unit 10). The modules can also be arranged in a sloped vertical
stack with workstations arranged side-by-side at any intermediate level in the sloped stack.
Examples of modules that can be included in the disclosed automated slide processing systems
include, but are not limited to, a heater apparatuses (e.g., convection or radiant heaters), a reader
(e.g., code reader), a stainer module, a coverslipper module, and a combination module, such as
a combined dryer and deparaffinizer, a combined deparaffinizer/stainer, a combined
deparaffinizer/stainer/solvent exchanger), and other types of workstations (including
workstations disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,468,161) that can perform one or more slide
processing operations (such as two or more) in a single workstation. Example heater apparatus
are discussed in connection with Figures 3-14 and example stainers are discussed in connection
with Figures 15-88. Additional modules can be added to the automated slide processing system
2 to provide any number of functionalities for automated processing of specimens with minimal
or no human intervention during normal operation.
[0152] The slide trays may have any suitable shape, and the slides held in a given slide 35 tray
can be arranged in any suitable manner to hold any suitable number of slides, for example, 5 or
more slides, 10 or more slides, 20 or more slides, or 30 or more slides. Several examples of slide
trays of different shapes and holding capacities are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7,468,161, which
is incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments, the slide trays are generally
rectangular trays configured to hold two rows of slides that are held side-by-side on both sides

                                                    31
of the central long axis of the slide tray so that the long dimensions of the slides are disposed
outward from the long central axis of the tray. The rectangular trays can have a bottom and
sidewalls that define a reservoir for liquid collection. In other embodiments, the slide tray is a
circular slide tray configured to hold slides in radial positions in which the long dimensions (or
longitudinal axes) of the slides are disposed inward from the outer edge of the tray toward the
center of the tray. In yet other embodiments, the tray can be a generally square tray configured
to hold slides in two or three rows. The configuration of the slide tray can be selected based on
the dimensions of the slides, dimensions of the modules, and/or the configuration of the
transporter 12.
[0153] The slide trays can hold specimen slides in a spaced apart arrangement and in
substantially horizontal positions. Holding all the slides in separation and in essentially the same
plane (e.g., a horizontal plane during staining) can limit or prevent cross-contamination of slides
during, for example, drying, deparaffinizing, staining, washing and solvent exchanging, and
other acts that involve dispensing liquids onto slide surfaces. Although the terms "slide tray" or
"tray" are used herein for ease of reference to items that carry slides, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise, other slide carriers capable of holding an array of slides can be utilized. The
system 2 can be used with a variety of slide carriers that have, without limitation, slide retainers
(e.g., clamps, suction cups, etc.), slide standoffs, suction devices (e.g., tubes, nozzles, etc.) used
to remove liquids from the trays, or other features for holding, manipulating, or otherwise
processing slides.
[0154] The term "slide" refers to any substrate (e.g., substrates made, in whole or in part, glass,
quartz, plastic, silicon, etc.) of any suitable dimensions on which a biological specimen is placed
for analysis, and more particularly to a "microscope slide" such as a standard 3 inch by 1 inch
microscope slide or a standard 75 mm by 25 mm microscope slide. Examples of biological
specimens that can be placed on a slide include, without limitation, a cytological smear, a thin
tissue section (such as from a biopsy), and an array of biological specimens, for example a tissue
array, a DNA 35 array, an RNA array, a protein array, or any combination thereof. Thus, in one
embodiment, tissue sections, DNA samples, RNA samples, and/or proteins are placed on a slide
at particular locations.
[0155] The term "biological specimen" refers to any specimen (e.g., sample) including
biomolecules (e.g., proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates, and combinations

                                                  32
thereof) that is obtained from (or includes) any organism, including viruses. Biological
specimens can include tissue samples (e.g., tissue sections), cell samples (e.g., cytological
smears such as Pap or blood smears or samples of cells obtained by microdissection), samples of
whole organisms (e.g., samples of yeast, bacteria, etc.), or cell fractions, fragments or
organelles, such as those obtained by lysing cells and separating their components by
centrifugation or otherwise. Other examples of biological specimens include, without limitation,
blood, serum, urine, semen, fecal matter, cerebrospinal fluid, interstitial fluid, mucous, tears,
sweat, pus, biopsied tissue (e.g., obtained by a surgical biopsy or a needle biopsy), nipple
aspirates, milk, vaginal fluid, saliva, swabs (e.g., buccal swabs), or any material containing
biomolecules derived therefrom.
Selected Examples of Drying and Curing Ovens and Associated Methods
[0156] Figure 3 is a cross-sectional perspective view of a heater apparatus in the form of a dryer
apparatus 1100 ("apparatus 1100") in a closed configuration holding a slide carrier 1200
configured in accordance with an embodiment of the present 20 technology. Generally, the
apparatus 1100 can heat a flow of gas that becomes a heated turbulent gas flow for promoting a
generally uniform heat distribution across the flow. The turbulent gas flow can be converted to a
laminar gas flow that flows across and heats specimen-bearing slides S (one identified) carried
by the slide carrier 1200. The specimen-bearing slides S can be vertically-oriented to promote
draining of liquid, such as residual mounting media (e.g., water), from the slides S. The
upwardly directed laminar gas flow can flow across the specimens to inhibit, limit, or
substantially prevent downward movement of the specimens relative to the slides S due to, for
example, gravity while the specimens dry.
[0157] The apparatus 1100 can include a housing 1122, a blower 1110, and a heater 1116. 30
The housing 1122 can have one or more walls 1119 and a door assembly 1101 that define an
interior space 1123. The interior space 1123 can be a chamber divided by a septum 1112 into a
back chamber 1142 and a carrier-receiving or front chamber 1140 ("front chamber 1140") that
are fluidly connected to form a circulation loop 1121 within the housing 1122. The cross
sectional area (i.e., the area generally perpendicular to the direction of the gas flow) of the front
chamber 1140 can be less than the cross-sectional area of the back chamber 1142 such that a
relatively high speed flow travels over the slides S while a relatively low speed flows travels
along the back chamber 1142. The door assembly 1101 can move the slide carrier 1200 into a

                                                 33
vertically-oriented position within the front chamber 1140 to convectively heat the specimen
bearing slides S. The blower 1110 can include, without limitation, one or more fans, pumps, or
other pressurization devices suitable for forced flow convection. In some embodiments, the
blower 1110 is positioned along the circulation loop 1121 and is configured to direct the gas
flow towards the heater 1116.
[0158] The heater 1116 can be configured to raise an average temperature of the gas flowing
along the circulation loop 1121. As the gas flows along the heater 1116, the heater 1116 can
transfer thermal energy to the gas flow and can be positioned within the back chamber 1142
opposite from an upper row of slides (separated by the septum 1112) to improve heating of an
upper row of slides S. Such positioning of the heater 1116 can offset the potential reduction in
the temperature of the gas passing over the upper row of slides caused by evaporation of liquid
on a lower row of slides. In some embodiments, the heater 1116 can include, without limitation,
one or more resistive heater elements and one or more heat transfer elements (e.g., fins, tubes,
etc.). In other embodiments, the heater 1116 can include both a resistive heater and a non
resistive heaters, such as Peltier devices.
[0159] The apparatus 1100 can include flow modifiers configured to alter the characteristics of
the gas flow along various portions of the circulation loop 1121. For example, as shown in
Figure 3, the apparatus 1100 can include a flow modifier 25 in the form of a turbulence
promoter 1118 positioned downstream of the heater 1116. The turbulence promoter 1118 can
include one or more baffles, perforated plates, ribs, bumps, grooves and/or any structure
configured to create eddies, swirling, or other generally turbulent or chaotic states of gas motion.
As used herein, "turbulent" refers to a gas flow having a Reynolds number greater than 4,000.
By way of example, the majority of the gas flow in a turbulent flow portion 1143 along a
substantial majority (e.g., at least 90%, 95%, or 98%) of the cross-sectional area perpendicular
to the direction of flow can have a Reynolds number greater than 4,000. In some embodiments,
the turbulence promoter 1118 extends between the septum 1112 and the back wall 1119 and
across the back chamber 1142. In other embodiments, the turbulence promoter 1118 can be
positioned along an interior surface 1151 of the housing 1122 and/or a surface of the septum
1112 and extend into, but not necessarily across, the circulation loop 1121. The turbulent gas
flow created by the turbulence promoter 1118 can induce mixing of gas along the turbulent flow
portion 1143 of the back chamber 1142, thereby improving heat transfer efficiency by, for
example, doubling or tripling the heat transfer efficiency within the circulation loop 1121. In

                                                  34
some embodiments, the turbulence promoter 1118 is configured to produce sufficient turbulence
that the gas flow exiting the turbulent flow portion 1143 has a substantially uniform temperature
across the flow (i.e., a substantially uniform temperature in a direction perpendicular to the
direction of flow). In other embodiments, the flow modifier can have other configurations to
promote, for example, mixing of the gas flow.
[0160] Additionally, the apparatus 1100 can include a flow modifier in the form of a laminar
flow promoter 1114 positioned downstream of the turbulent flow portion 1143. The laminar
flow promoter 1114 can include one or more guide vanes, tapered channels, arcuate surfaces,
and/or any structure configured to create a substantially laminar gas flow. As used herein,
"laminar flow" or "substantially laminar flow" refers to a gas flow having a Reynolds number
less than 2,100. The circulation loop 1121 can have one or more laminar flow portions 1156. In
some embodiments, the majority of the gas flow along a majority (e.g., at least 60%) of the
cross-sectional area perpendicular to the direction of flow has a Reynolds number less than
2,100. For example, the portion of the circulation loop 1121 containing the laminar flow
promoter 1114 (e.g., between the turbulent flow portion 1143 and the front chamber 1140) can
be a laminar flow portion. Also, at least a portion of the front chamber 1140 (e.g., between the
specimen-bearing faces of the slides S and the septum 1112) can be a laminar flow portion. In
some embodiments, the apparatus 1100 can have a transitional gas flow (e.g., a gas flow having
a Reynolds number between 2,100 and 4,000) in at least a portion of the turbulent and/or
laminar flow portions.
[0161] As shown in Figure 3, the laminar flow promoter 1114 can be positioned at a bend 1153
in the circulation loop 1121 to guide the heated gas from the turbulent flow portion 1143 to the
front chamber 1140. In some embodiments, the laminar flow promoter 1114 can be a plurality of
spaced apart, arcuate members 1145a, 1145b, 1145c that can reduce the head loss around the
bend 1153. Once 35 downstream of the arcuate members 1145a- 1145c, the gas can flow
upwardly along the lengths of the slides S (e.g., substantially parallel to longitudinal axes As of
the slides S (one identified)) to, for example, evaporate liquid on the slides S, thermally process
the specimens (e.g., melt wax in the specimen), and/or dry the specimens (as discussed in
greater detail below with reference to Figures 6A-7). In other embodiments, the laminar flow
promoter 1114 can be positioned anywhere along the circulation loop 1121, such as along a
relatively straight section of the circulation loop 1121.

                                                 35
[0162] In some embodiments, the laminar flow promoter 1114 can also accelerate the gas flow
to produce a relatively high speed laminar flow and increase the rate of convective heating
and/or evaporation rate. For example, in particular embodiments, the arcuate members 1145 a
1145c can define channels 1147 (one identified) that narrow in the downstream direction. As the
gas flows through the channels 1147, the flow can be accelerated to produce a high speed flow.
In some embodiments, a ratio of the flow speed in the front chamber 1140 to the flow speed in
the back chamber 1142 is equal to or greater than 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. The ratio can be selected based
on the desired specimen heating rates, evaporation rates, or the like.
[0163] One exemplary drying process is discussed below with reference to Figures 4A-9.
Generally, the slide carrier 1200 can be moved to a loading position while the slide carrier 1200
holds the slides S. The slide carrier 1200 is robotically moved from the loading position to a
processing position to move the slide carrier 1200 into the circulation loop 1121. The processing
position can be angled relative to the loading position to facilitate drying of the specimens. The
specimen-bearing microscope slides S are heated while the slide carrier 1200 is held at the
processing position. Details of the drying process are discussed below.
[0164] Figure 4A is a side view of the apparatus 1100 in an open configuration before a slide
carrier 1200 (shown schematically) has been placed on the door assembly 1101 by the
transporter 12 (shown schematically), and Figure 4B is an enlarged top perspective view of the
door assembly 1101. Referring to Figures 330 4B together, the door assembly 1101 can be
disposed at a front portion 1103 (Figures 4A and 4B) of the apparatus 1100 and can include a
door 1102, an actuation device 1108, and a kinematic mount 1104. The door 1102 is moveable
between a closed configuration (e.g., Figure 3) and an open configuration (e.g., Figures 4A-4B).
The door 1102 can have an interior surface 1130 that faces an interior portion of the housing
1122 (within the circulation loop 1121) when the door 1102 is in the closed configuration and an
exterior surface 1132 (Figure 4A) that faces outwardly when the door 1102 is in the closed
configuration. The door 1102 can be automatically moved between the closed and open
configurations via the actuation device 1108. If the apparatus 1100 shuts down (e.g., during a
power outage), a user can manually open the door 1102 to retrieve any slide carrier in the
apparatus 1100.
[0165] The actuation device 1108 can pivotally couple the door 1102 to the housing 1122. In
some embodiments, the actuation device 1108 includes a mount 1111, a drive device 1113

                                                 36
(Figure 4B), and a rotatable arm 1107 (Figure 4A). The mount 1111 is connected to the housing
1122 such that drive device 1113 is capable of rotating the arm 1107 (Figure 4A) about a pin
1109 of the mount 1111. The drive device 1113 can include, for example, one or more drive
motors, stepper motors, or other devices capable of rotating the arm 1107. The configuration of
the actuation device 1108 can be selected based on the desired motion of the door 1102.
[0166] The kinematic mount 1104 can be coupled to the door 1102 and can include supports
1106 (one identified) configured to hold and stabilize the slide carrier 1200 at a wide range of
positions, including a horizontal position and a vertically-oriented position (for example, as
shown in Figure 3). The kinematic mount 1104 can also include one or more kinematic mount
sensors 1105 configured to detect the presence and/or position of the slide carrier 1200. In some
embodiments, the sensor(s) 1105 can detect the presence and/or position of the slide carrier
1200 and also help inhibit or limit movement of the slide carrier 1200. For example, the
sensor(s) 1105 can be magnetic sensors that are capable of detecting the presence/position of the
slide carrier 1200 via a magnetic force. The magnetic force can help prevent sliding of the slide
carrier 1200 relative to the kinematic mount 1104. Other types of mounts can be used to hold the
slide carrier 1200, if needed or desired.
[0167] Referring now to Figure 4A, when the door 1102 is in the open configuration, the door
1120 can be substantially horizontal and configured to receive the slide carrier 1200 from the
transporter 12. The term "substantially horizontal" with reference to the door assembly 1101
generally refers to an angle within about +/- 2 degrees of horizontal, for example, within about
+/- 1 degree of horizontal such as within about +/- 0.8 degrees of horizontal. When the door
1102 is substantially horizontal it can have an orientation such that the interior 1130 and exterior
1132 35 surfaces of the door 1102 are generally facing up and down, respectively.
[0168] Once the transporter 12 delivers the slide carrier 1200 to the apparatus 1100 vicinity, the
transporter 12 can place the slide carrier 1200 onto the kinematic mount 1104. At this point,
both the transporter 12 and the kinematic mount 1104 can be engaged with the slide carrier
1200. If needed, the transporter 12 can reposition the slide carrier 1200 relative to the door 1102
and/or kinematic mount 1104 based on signals received from the kinematic mount sensors 1105
and/or transporter sensors (not shown). Once a desired positioning is achieved, the transporter
12 relinquishes the slide carrier 1200 to the door assembly 1101, as shown in Figure 5.

                                                   37
[0169] Referring now to Figure 5, the door 1102 in the open configuration can support the slide
carrier 1200 in a substantially horizontal position such that such that the largest surfaces of the
slides (collectively referred to as "S") are generally facing up and down. In the illustrated
embodiment, the slide carrier 1200 is shown including a first row 1201 of slides S (one
identified) and a second row 1203 of slides S (one identified). In other embodiments, however,
the slide carrier 1200 can contain more or less than two rows (e.g., a single row, three rows, etc.)
and/or each row can include any number of slides (e.g., one, five, ten, twelve, etc.).
[0170] Figure 6A is a cross-sectional side view of the apparatus 1100 after the door 1102
carrying the slide carrier 1200 has rotated upwardly to an vertically-oriented, closed
configuration. Figure 6B is an enlarged cross-sectional side view of a portion of the door
assembly 1101 holding the slide carrier 1200. Referring to Figures 6A-6B together, the slide
carrier 1200 is enclosed within the housing 1122 and holds the slides S within the front chamber
1140 of the circulation loop 1121. The blower 1110 pushes a gas (e.g., air or other suitable gas)
over the heater 1116, through and/or over the turbulence promoter 1118, through and/or over the
laminar flow promoter 1114, and upwardly along the specimen-carrying faces of the slides S to
convectively heat extraneous liquid on the slides S and/or specimens carried by the slides S.
Once the gas leaves the front chamber 1140, the gas can be re-circulated by the blower 1110. In
the illustrated embodiment, the gas flow moves through the circulation loop 1121 in a generally
counterclockwise direction. However, in other embodiments, the gas flow can be in a clockwise
direction. The flow rate across the slides S can be generally uniform, and can be between 1.8
m/s and 2.9 m/s (e.g., 2.8 m/s). Because the laminar gas flow can travel across the specimens
without pushing the specimens off the slides S, relatively high flow rates can be used. If the flow
rate is too low, extraneous liquid can remain on the slides, thereby allowing specimen migration
(e.g., migration of a distance equal to or greater than 2 mm) and possibly staining. If the flow
rate is too high, the gas flow can cause specimen migration (e.g., the gas can push specimens up
the slides a distance equal to or greater than 2 mm) or in some instances, damage the specimens.
The blower 1110 can selectively increase or decrease the flow rate to achieve target processing
(e.g., evaporation rates, draining rates, etc.) while limiting or preventing specimen migration
and/or damage.
[0171] As discussed, drying of the specimens and/or slides is achieved by convective heating
using the heater 1116 and the blower 1110. Generally, the temperature of the gas flow within the
circulation loop 1121 can be maintained within a desired processing temperature range, such as

                                                   38
a range of about 650C to about 800C (e.g., about 72-730C). As such, during the drying process
the slides S and/or specimens are uniformly heated such that at any point during the drying
process, the temperature of the individual slides S are within 5oC of one another (including
none, all or a subset of the slides being at substantially the same temperature). Achieving an
appropriate temperature can be advantageous because, for example, if the temperature is not low
enough, the slides and/or specimens may not be dried within the allotted time for the drying
process. Moreover, delivering a heated gas flow having an average temperature greater than
650C allows liquid within and/or underneath any wax or other material associated with the
specimen to evaporate.
[0172] Referring now to Figure 6B, the slide carrier 1200 can be vertically-oriented such that an
axis A of the slide carrier 1200 and/or longitudinal axes As (one identified) of the respective
slides S are oriented at angle 0 with respect to a horizontal plane H. As used herein, "vertically
oriented" can refer to both an inclined/angled 25 position and a substantially vertical position.
As used herein, an "inclined" or "angled" position refers to an orientation of the slide carrier
1200 and/or slides S where the slide carrier 1200 and/or longitudinal axis As (one identified) of
the slides S are positioned at an angle 0 that is between 70 degrees and 90 degrees (e.g., between
77 degrees and 84 degrees, 80 degrees, 90 degrees, etc.). As used herein, the term "substantially
vertical" refers to an orientation of the slide carrier 1200 and/or slides S where the slide carrier
1200 and/or longitudinal axes As of the slides S are positioned at an angle 0 that is within about
+/- 2 degrees of 90 degrees (including 90 degrees), for example, within about +/- 1 degree of 90
degrees such as within about +/- 0.8 degrees of 90 degrees. In either position, the first row 1201
of slides is positioned vertically above the second row 1203 of slides such that a first end
(1201a, 1205a) of each slide S is vertically above a second end (1201b, 1205b) of the same slide
S. The vertically-oriented slide carrier 1200 and/or slides S leverage the effect of gravity to pull
extraneous liquid off the slides S, thereby expediting the drying time. Accordingly, the methods
of the present technology are faster and more effective than conventional horizontal slide drying
methods. For example, the drying time (i.e., the time between when the door 1102 receives a
slide carrier 1200 to when the transporter 12 removes the slide carrier 1200) can be between 2
minutes and 8 minutes (e.g., 3 minutes, 4 minutes, 4.5 minutes, 5 minutes, etc.). For example, in
one embodiment the drying time can be 4 minutes and 52 seconds.
[0173] As discussed above, placing the slide carrier 1200 and/or slides S at a vertically-oriented
position during drying utilizes gravity to effectively drain freestanding liquid on the mounting

                                                   39
surfaces of the slides S. However, such a position also raises the possibility of a portion of a
specimen in the first or upper row 1201 falling and contaminating a slide S in the second or
lower row 1203. Such cross-contamination can impair subsequent analysis of the specimens.
Accordingly, the position and the configuration of the slide carrier 1200 can be adjusted to
increase drying efficiency while avoiding or limiting cross-contamination of the slides S. For
example, Figure 6B shows the slide carrier 1200 and slides S in an inclined position. The
labeled ends of the slides S can be lower than their non-labeled ends such that labels (e.g.,
adhesive bar code labels) can inhibit or limit migration of the specimens, if the specimens slide
along the mounting surfaces of the slides. Thus, the labels can serve as physical barriers to keep
the specimens on the slides. In the illustrated embodiment, the slide carrier 1200 includes one or
more standoffs 1202 that separate the slides S from a surface 1204 of the slide carrier 1200 and
the upper and lower slides S are horizontally spaced apart from one another. As such, liquid
and/or specimens dripping from the upper row 1201 (depicted schematically as "D") can fall
directly downward onto the inclined surface 1204 of the slide carrier 1200, thereby avoiding
cross-contamination of the lower slide S. In comparison, Figure 7 shows the slide carrier 1200
and slides S in a substantially vertical position. Here, the slide carrier 1200 includes one or more
barriers 1602 between adjacent rows of slides S. As gravity pulls liquid off of the specimens
and/or slides S, the liquid D can be caught by the barrier(s) 1602, thereby preventing cross
contamination of the lower slides S. The apparatus 1100 of 35 Figures 3-6 can be modified to
hold the slide carrier 1200 in such vertical orientation shown in Figure 7.
[0174] Referring again to Figures 6A and 6B, ambient air can enter the circulation loop 1121
via an opening 1606 to compensate for increased humidity within the housing 1122 due to
evaporation of liquid of the wet specimen-bearing slides S. The ambient air can have a relatively
low humidity to help limit the humidity levels within the housing 1122 and thereby limit the
humidity of the gas flow along the circulation loop 1121. In some embodiments, the housing
1122 and/or sidewalls 1119 can be substantially sealed to retain heat, although during the
opening and closing of the door 1102, gas and thermal energy is necessarily exchanged with the
external environment. This exchange allows the relative humidity within the interior space 1123
(Figure 6A) and/or circulation loop 1121 to equilibrate to an appropriate level and prevents
moisture build-up as wet specimens are introduced.
[0175] Once the drying cycle is complete, the slide carrier 1200 is rotated downwardly to a
substantially horizontal position, as shown in Figure 8. The transporter 12 can position itself

                                                 40
adjacent to the door 1102 and subsequently removes the slide carrier 1200 from the door
assembly 1101. In some embodiments, the transporter 12 can have one or more extensions that
project into the space between the slide carrier 1200 and the interior surface 1130 of the door
1102 and engage a downward-facing surface of the slide carrier 1200. At this stage, both the
transporter 12 and the kinematic mount 1104 can confirm engagement with the slide carrier
1200. The transporter 12 can then automatically remove the slide carrier 1200 from the
kinematic mount 1104 and remove the slide carrier 1200 from the immediate vicinity of the
apparatus 1100. Feedback from the kinematic mount sensors 1105 and/or transporter sensors
(not shown) can help guide the slide carrier removal process.
[0176] Figure 9 is a cross-sectional side view of the apparatus 1100 in the closed configuration,
either after the slide carrier 1200 has been removed and the door 1102 has closed, or before the
door 1102 opens to receive a slide carrier 1200 from the transporter 12. Regardless, when the
apparatus 1100 is in the closed configuration and the slide carrier 1200 is not present, the heater
1116 can continuously or periodically generate heat to maintain a desired standby temperature.
Accordingly, when a subsequent slide carrier is introduced, there is less lag time for the
apparatus 1100 to recover to a desired operating temperature.
[0177] In some embodiments, the apparatus 1100 can include additional features. For example,
in some embodiments, the apparatus 1100 can include heater safety features. For example, the
apparatus 1100 can include a heat sensor (not shown) on the heater 1116 that monitors a
temperature of the heater 1116 and cuts power to the heater 1116 if the heater 1116 goes above a
specified temperature. Additionally, the heater 1116 itself can include a switch (e.g., a
mechanical switch, electromechanical switch, etc.) that breaks the power circuit path if the
heater 1116 goes above a specified temperature. If the heater temperature returns to an
appropriate level (e.g., below the specified temperature), the switch can close the circuit, thereby
enabling power delivery to the heater 1116. The apparatus 1100 can include additional features
to ensure robust drying. For example, the apparatus 1100 can include one or more layers of
insulation that surround the housing 1122 and/or walls 1119 to retain heat and maintain proper
heat distribution. Additionally, the apparatus 1100 can include one or more dehumidifying
elements that limit the humidity in the housing 1122 to enhance drying.
[0178] Figure 10 is a perspective view of another embodiment of a heater apparatus in the form
of curing oven 1800 ("oven 1800"), in a closed configuration in accordance with an embodiment

                                                  41
of the present technology. The oven 1800 is generally identical to the apparatus 1100 discussed
in connection with Figures 3-9, except as detailed below. The oven 1800 is configured to
thermally process slides carrying coverslips to cure the coverslips onto the slides in order to
protect the specimens. The oven 1800 can also alleviate any "carrier messiness" (i.e., free
standing extraneous liquid on the slides and/or slide carrier) by heating the slides and/or slide
carrier and evaporating superfluous liquids (if present). Moreover, a substantially horizontal
position can be advantageous to help maintain the positioning or placement of the coverslip on
the slide (and likewise avoid coverslip migration). The oven 1800 can include a housing 1822
having one or more walls 1819 (Figure 13) and a door assembly 1801. The door assembly 1801
can hold a slide carrier to keep the coverslipped slides in substantially horizontally orientations
or other suitable orientations. An actuation device 1808 of the door assembly 1801 can include
one or more rails, carriages, drive mechanisms, or other components suitable for vertically
moving a door 1802 between a closed configuration (e.g., Figure 10) and an open configuration
(e.g., Figure 11).
[0179] One exemplary curing process is discussed below with reference to Figures 11-14.
Generally, a slide carrier 1200 is moved to the door assembly 1801 while the slide carrier 1200
holds the coverslipped slides CS. The slide carrier 1200 is moved robotically by the door
assembly 1801 from a first position (e.g., a horizontal lowered position) to a second position
(e.g., a horizontal raised position) to move the slide carrier 1200 into a circulation loop. The
coverslipped slides CS are heated while the slide carrier 1200 into a circulation loop. Details of
the oven 1800 and the curing process are discussed below.
[0180] Figure 11 is a perspective view of the curing oven 1800 in an open configuration before
a slide carrier 1200 (shown schematically) has been placed on the door assembly 1801 by the
transporter 12 (shown schematically). As shown in Figure 11, the door assembly 1801 can be
disposed at a bottom portion 1803 of the oven 10 1800 and can include the door 1802 and the
actuation device 1808. The door 1802 can have an interior surface 1830 that faces an interior
portion of the housing 1822 and an exterior surface 1832 that faces outwardly. In some
embodiments, including the illustrated embodiment, a kinematic mount 1804 is carried by door
1802 and can include vertically oriented supports 1805 (one identified) configured to hold and
stabilize a slide carrier 1200.

                                                   42
[0181] When the door 1802 is in the open configuration, the door 1802 can be substantially
horizontal and configured to receive the slide carrier 1200 from the transporter 12. Once the
transporter 12 delivers the slide carrier 1200 to the curing oven 1800 vicinity, the transporter 12
places the slide carrier 1200 on the kinematic 20 mount 1804. At this point, both the transporter
12 and the kinematic mount 1804 can be engaged with the slide carrier 1200. Once a desired
positioning is achieved, the transporter 12 relinquishes the slide carrier 1200 to the door 1802, as
shown in Figure 12.
[0182] Figure 13 is a cross-sectional side view of the curing oven 1800 after the door 1802
carrying the slide carrier 1200 has moved to the closed configuration. The slide carrier 1200 is
enclosed within the housing 1822 such that the coverslips and slides (together referred to as
"coverslipped slides CS") are exposed to laminar flow in the circulation loop 1821. In operation,
the blower 1810 pushes a gas over the heater 1816, through and/or over the vertically oriented
turbulence promoter 1818, through and/or over the laminar flow promoter 1814, and along the
specimen carrying face of the coverslipped slides CS to convectively heat and/or cure the
coverslipped slides CS. The flow rate across the coverslipped slides CS can be generally
uniform, and on average can be between 5 m/s and 7 m/s (e.g., 6 m/s). If the flow rate is too low,
the flow rate may not efficiently cure the coverslips (i.e., cure the adhesive/glue carried by the
coverslips) in the allotted processing time and/or extraneous liquid may be left on the slide
carrier 1200 and/or coverslipped slides CS. Insufficient curing and/or drying can affect
archiveability (i.e., specimens can be stored upright in common slide drawers without being
stuck together, the stain can be retained and the coverslip adhered to the specimen for at least 10
years). If the flow rate is too high, the flow rate can cause specimen or coverslip migration or in
some instances, damage the specimens. Accordingly, the flow rate can be selected based on the
desired curing time while limiting or preventing migration of the specimens and/or coverslips.
[0183] Achieving an appropriate curing temperature can be advantageous because, for example,
if the temperature rises above a specified threshold, the temperature can affect the material
properties of the coverslip material. For example, without being bound by theory, it is believed
that going above certain temperatures can cause the coverslip to embed deeply into the
specimen, causing the coverslip to remain in the specimen during de-stain and therefore
negatively impact re-stains. Additionally, the higher the temperature in the oven 1800, the
higher the temperature of the slide carrier 1200, possibly requiring a "cool down" period (or a
longer cool down period) due to the fact that the slide carrier 1200 must be at an acceptable

                                                 43
handling temperature when exiting the oven 1800. A long cool down time can impact
throughput. Also, maintaining an average curing temperature of less than 100'C can be
advantageous to avoid burning or permanently damaging the specimens and/or slides. If the
temperature is not low enough, the slides and/or specimens may not be dried within the allotted
time for the curing process. During the curing process the slide carrier 1200 can be enclosed or
positioned within the circulation loop 1821 such that the cover-slipped slides CS are
convectively heated. Accordingly, the methods of the present technology may be faster and
more effective than conventional horizontal drying methods. For example, the curing time (i.e.,
the time between when the door 1802 receives a slide carrier 1200 to when the transporter 12
removes the slide carrier 1200) can be between 2 minutes and 8 minutes (e.g., 3 minutes, 4
minutes, 4.5 minutes, 5 minutes, etc.). For example, in one embodiment the curing time can be 4
minutes and 52 seconds. Generally, the average temperature of the gas flow within the
circulation loop 1821 can be between 90'C and 1 10 C. However, other temperatures can be
achieved to cure other types of adhesives used with coverslips.
[0184] Once the curing cycle is complete, the slide carrier 1200 is lowered for removal by the
transporter 12, as shown in Figure 14. The transporter 12 positions itself adjacent to the door
1802 and subsequently removes the slide carrier 1200 from the door assembly 1801. In some
embodiments, the transporter 12 can have one or more extensions that project into the space
between the slide carrier 1200 and the interior surface 1830 of the door 1802 and engage a
downward-facing surface of the slide carrier 1200. At this stage, both the transporter 12 and the
kinematic mount 1804 can confirm engagement with the slide carrier 1200. The transporter 12
can then automatically remove the slide carrier 1200 from the door assembly 1801 and transport
the slide carrier 1200 away from the immediate vicinity of the oven 1800. Feedback from the
kinematic mount sensors and/or transporter sensors (not shown) can help guide the slide carrier
removal process.
[0185] The curing oven 1800 can include additional features to ensure robust curing. For
example, the oven 1800 can include a layer of insulation that surrounds the housing 1822 and/or
sidewalls 1819 to retain heat and maintain proper heat distribution. The housing 1822 and/or
sidewalls 1819 are substantially sealed to retain heat, although during the opening and closing of
the door 1802, gas is necessarily exchanged with the external environment. This exchange
allows the relative humidity within the interior space 1823 and/or circulation loop 1821 to

                                                 44
equilibrate to an appropriate level and prevents moisture build-up as wet specimens are
introduced.
Selected Examples of Tray and Slide Handling in Stainers
[0186] Figure 15 is an isometric view of a stainer module 2010 in an open configuration in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology. The stainer module 2010 can include
a tray handler 2020, a housing 2022, and a dispenser apparatus 2024. The tray handler 2020 can
move a slide carrier in the form of a portable tray (not shown in Figure 15) through an opening
2023 of the housing 2022 and can position the tray underneath the dispenser apparatus 2024.
The dispenser apparatus 2024 can include four head or manifold assemblies 2018a, 2018b,
2018c, 2018d (collectively "head assemblies 2018") that provide valve-controlled, pressurized
liquid delivery onto specimen-bearing microscope slides carried by the tray. To maintain a high
processing throughput, the head assemblies 2018 can be purged/primed while the tray remains
positioned in the stainer module 2010. In dispense processes, the head assemblies 2018 can
individually dispense predetermined volumes of fresh liquid onto slides and can remove the
liquid from the slides to perform multi-step staining protocols. After processing the slides, the
tray handler 2020 can move the tray out of the housing 2022.
[0187] The tray handler 2020 can include a tray holder transport mechanism 2030 ("transport
mechanism 2030") and a tray holder in the form of a kinematic mount 2040. The transport
mechanism 2030 can include, without limitation, a home flag and a relative encoder used to
accurately position the kinematic mount 2040. The kinematic mount 2040 can include arms
2041a, 2041b, 2041c (collectively "arms 2041"), supports 2042a, 2042b, 2042c (collectively
"supports 2042"), and a sensor 2046. In some embodiments, the supports 2042 are mount balls
connected to free ends of the arms 2041 to provide multi-dimensional constraints (e.g., three
dimensional constraints). When the supports 2042 interface with the tray, the sensor 2046 can
detect the presence and/or position of the tray.
[0188] The transport mechanism 2030 and kinematic mount 2040 can minimize or limit
unintended motion of the tray that affects spacing between upper surfaces of the slides and the
head assemblies 2018. Increased spacing can lead to splattering of liquids, whereas decreased
spacing may result in physical contact between the head assemblies 2018 and the specimen
bearing slides. Splattering can lead to increased overall processing liquid waste and

                                                   45
understaining of specimens. If the splattered liquid lands on adjacent slides, the specimens on
the adjacent slides may be improperly stained. If the tray experiences significant pitch motion
(e.g., pitch motion about the illustrated X-axis) and/or roll motion (e.g., roll motion about the
illustrated Y-axis), the head assemblies 2018 may contact and break slides and/or may dislodge
specimens. Unintended yaw motion (e.g., rotation about the illustrated Z-axis) of the tray can
affect distances (e.g., X-axis distances and Y-axis distances) between the edges of slides and the
head assemblies 2018, which can result in processing liquid being directly dispensed into the
tray. Because the desired volume of processing liquid is not delivered onto the slides, the
specimens could be understained. The transport mechanism 2030 and kinematic mount 2040 can
cooperate to inhibit, limit, or substantially eliminate unintentional motion of the tray (e.g., pitch
motion, roll motion, and/or yaw motion) to inhibit, limit, or prevent one or more of the
following: splattering of liquids, physically contact between the head assemblies 2018 and the
specimen-bearing slides, dislodging of specimens, and misaligning slides. By dispensing all (or
substantially all) of the liquid directly onto the slides, the liquids can be efficiently used, and the
trays can remain substantially free of liquid throughout processing. As such, volumes of
processing liquid used by the stainer module 2010 can be significantly less than volumes of
liquid used by conventional automated slide stainers.
[0189] Figure 16 is an isometric view of the stainer module 2010 after a tray transporter 2052
(shown schematically in phantom line) has placed a tray 2050 onto the kinematic mount 2040.
The tray transporter 2052 can reposition the tray 2050 based on signals from the sensor 2046
(Figure 15). The tray 2050 can hold slides in substantially horizontal orientations such that large
surfaces of the slides are generally facing up and down. The term "substantially horizontal"
generally refers to an angle within about +/-3 degrees of horizontal, for example, within about
+/-1 degree of horizontal, such as within about +/-0.8 degrees of horizontal. Substantially
horizontal also refers to ranges of small angles from horizontal, for example, angles between
about 0.1 degrees and 1.8 degrees from horizontal, such as angles between about 0.2 degrees
and about 1.2 degrees, for example angles between about 0.3 degrees and about 0.8 degrees. In
particular embodiments, an angle with upper surfaces of substantially horizontal slides relative
to an imaginary horizontal plane can be between about 0 degrees and about 3 degrees along its
short axis, and an angle with respect to the imaginary horizontal plane of between about 0
degrees and 2 degrees along its long axis, again with the large surfaces of the slides generally
facing up and down. The illustrated tray 2050 is capable of holding twenty slides, but it is
shown holding only two slides 2053, 2054.

                                                   46
[0190] Figure 17 is a bottom view of the stainer module 2010 holding the tray 2050. The 20 tray
2050 can include receiving features 2092a, 2092b, 2092c (collectively "receiving features
2092") that interface with respective supports 2042a, 2042b, 2042c (Figure 15). The receiving
features 2092 can be curved features, recesses, elongate slots, or other features that engage the
supports 2042. In one embodiment, the receiving features 2092 are partially spherical surfaces
or arcuate grooves along 25 which the supports 2042 can slide to provide self-leveling of the
tray 2050, thereby keeping the tray 2050 substantially horizontal throughout process.
[0191] The transport mechanism 2030 can include, without limitation, one or more motors 2088
(e.g., drive motors, stepper motors, etc.) and a drive device 2089. The drive device 2089 can
include, without limitation, rails, carriages, extendable arms, belts, chains, gear mechanisms, or
combinations thereof to provide translation of the tray 2050 along a single axis or multiple axes.
The transport mechanism 2030 can move the tray 2050 from a tray load/unload position (shown
in Figures 16 and 17) to a processing position (shown in Figure 18) with a chamber 2080
(Figure 16) of the stainer module 2010. Due to small gaps between slide surfaces and the head
assemblies 2018, interferences are possible if a slide is misaligned within the tray 2050 or if the
tray 2050 is misaligned on the kinematic mount 2040, and such interferences may result in a
shut-down event. In the event of shut down of the stainer module 2010, a user can manually
manipulate the transport mechanism 2030 to position the tray 2050 at an accessible position
suitable for manually retrieving and/or repositioning the tray 2050.
[0192] Figure 18 shows the stainer module 2010 after the transport mechanism 2030 has
positioned the tray 2050 generally underneath the dispenser apparatus 2024. Figure 19 is an
isometric view of the dispenser apparatus 2024 ready to process slides. The dispenser apparatus
2024 and the tray 2050 can be moved in orthogonal directions to accurately position the slides
relative to paths of travel of the head assemblies 2018. After processing the slides, the dispenser
apparatus 2024 can be held stationary or moved while the tray 2050 is indexed relative to the
head assemblies 2018. The next four slides can be processed. This process can be repeated until
all the slides carried by the tray 2050 are processed.
[0193] Referring to Figures 19 and 20, a dispenser drive mechanism 2128 ("drive mechanism
2128") can move the dispenser apparatus 2024 in the Y-axis direction (i.e., a direction parallel to
the illustrated Y-axis). The paths of travel of the head assemblies 2018 can be aligned with the
long axes of the slides extending in the Y-axis direction such that the head assemblies 2018

                                                 47
sweep along the lengths of the slides. In various embodiments, the drive mechanism 2128 can
include, without limitation, one or more rails, carriages, extendable arms, gear mechanisms, or
combinations thereof to provide translation along a single axis. In some embodiments, including
the illustrated embodiment, the drive mechanism 2128 includes a motor 2131 and a translator
device 2132. The translator device 2132 25 includes a rail 2135 and a carriage 2136 (Figure 19)
movable along the rail 2135. A frame 2108 of the dispenser apparatus 2024 can carry the head
assemblies 2018 and is coupled to the carriage 2136.
[0194] The head assemblies 2018b, 2018c can apply liquids to slides positioned under an
opening 2120 in a plate 2124, and the head assemblies 2018d, 2018a can apply liquids to slides
positioned under an opening 2122 (Figure 20) in the plate 2124. The transport mechanism 2030
can move the tray 2050 in the X-axis direction (i.e., a direction parallel to the illustrated X-axis
as indicated by arrows 2123, 2125 in Figure 20) to sequentially position slides under the head
assemblies 2018. Single-axis motion of the tray 2050 can facilitate lateral alignment of the slides
with the head assemblies 2018. Figure 21 shows the head assemblies 2018c, 2018d positioned
above the tray 2050. Figure 22A is a detailed view of the head assembly 2018 positioned above
a slide 2160 at a processing zone 2170. (Hoses and other components of the stainer module are
not shown to avoid obscuring features in the images.) The head assembly 2018 can include a
dispenser head 2141, valves 2143, 2145, and lines 2147. Figure 22B shows tray 2050 moved to
position another slide at the processing zone 2170.
[0195] Figures 23-26 are views of stages of applying substances to microscope slides.
Generally, slides can be sequentially positioned underneath and individually processed by the
head assemblies 2018. Slide processing is discussed in connection with a single head assembly
2018. However, multiple head assemblies 2018 can simultaneously or sequentially process
slides in a similar manner. Figure 23 shows twenty slides spaced apart from one another in two
rows. When the tray 2050 is in substantially horizontal orientation, the mounting areas of the
slides can face upwardly. However, the slides can be held in other arrangements and at different
orientations, if needed or desired.
[0196] Referring to Figures 22A and 24, the head assembly 2018 is ready to process slides at
the processing zone 2170 (illustrated in phantom line). Each distributed dispense can form a
relatively thick film (or puddle) over any specimens on the slide 2160 (Figure 22A) to incubate
in a desired mode, such as a quasi-static mode. Each 20 dispense, for example, can form a

                                                 48
puddle having a shape at least partially maintained by surface tension. In some embodiments,
the head assembly 2018 can move lengthwise along the stationary slide 2160 at a speed in a
range of about 1 inch/second to about 15 inches/second and can be accelerated up to 100
inch/second 2 .Other speeds can be used to match liquid flow/valve times for dispensing or
homing operations. For example, the head assembly 2018 can be moved relatively slowly (e.g.,
1 inch/second to about 2 inches/second) during homing operations, such as movement of the
head assembly 2018 to a home position. In other embodiments, the head assembly 2018 can
move lengthwise along the slide 2160 while the slide 2160 moves in the X-direction, Y
direction, and/or Z-direction. For example, the slide 2160 can be moved in the X-direction to
periodically or continuously laterally reposition the slide 2160 during the dispensing process.
[0197] Figure 25 shows the head assembly 2018 after processing the slide 2160. The head
assembly 2018 can then process a slide 2210 position at the processing zone 2170, and after
processing the slide 2210, the tray 2050 can be moved in the X-direction (indicated by arrow
2192) to move the slides 2270, 2271 to the processing zone 2170. In some embodiments, tray
movement can occur after the Y-axis motion of the head assembly 2018 has been initiated or
completed to minimize the potential of interference impacts and/or to enhance system
throughput. The head assembly 2018 can be moved to a "safe" position to provide interference
points that are spaced apart from the path of the tray 2050, which can be moved at a speed
selected to keep processing times as low as possible without compromising controlled liquid
distribution. For example, the tray 2050 can move at a speed in a range of about 5 inches/second
to about 6 inches/second. Other speeds can be used, if needed or desired. Figures 22B and 26
shows one of the head assemblies 2018 ready to process the slide 2270. A puddle 2240 is shown
dispensed on a surface of the slide 2160. Each of the head assemblies 2018 can sequentially
process the slides within a given quadrant. In some embodiments, the tray 2050 is moved during
the dispense process. For example, the trays 2050 can be moved relative to the head assembly
2018 while the head assembly 2018 dispenses liquid to form, for example, zig-zag shaped
puddles (as viewed from above), serpentine puddles, or other shaped puddles. The movement of
the tray 2050 and head assembly 2018 can be coordinated to produce a wide range of different
shaped puddles.
[0198] Figure 27 is a view of the stainer module 2010 taken along line 27-27 of Figure 21 with
tray not shown. Figure 28 is a cross-sectional view of a liquid collector 2300 taken along line
28-28 of Figure 27 and a front view of two head assemblies 2018d, 2018c. Referring now to

                                                  49
Figure 27, the liquid collector 2300 can be a tray or a pan with spaced apart reservoirs 2310a,
23 1Ob, 2310c, 2310d (collectively "reservoirs 2310") positioned to collect liquid from the head
assemblies 2018a, 2018b, 2018c, 2018d, respectively. The description of one reservoir 2310
applies equally to the other reservoirs 2310, unless indicated otherwise.
[0199] Referring now to Figure 28, the reservoir 2310d can include a drain 2314 and a sloped
surface 2330 for directing liquid to the drain 2314. The drain 2314 can be fluidically coupled to
a waste module (or waste container) or other component by one or more lines. Liquid can be
continuously or periodically drained from the reservoir 231 Od. In some embodiments, the
reservoir 2310d has a conical shape. In other embodiments, the reservoir 2310d has a frusto
conical shape, but the reservoir 231 Od can have other configurations. The head assemblies 2018
can dispense liquid directly into the reservoirs 2310 to perform, for example, purge/prime
cycles.
[0200] Figures 29A-29B show stages of a purge/prime cycle in accordance with an embodiment
of the present technology. Generally, sets of head assemblies 2018 can sequentially dispense
liquid directly into the reservoirs 2310. When the tray 2050 is positioned to expose about half of
the reservoirs 2310, one pair of head assemblies 2018 can dispense liquid into exposed
reservoirs 2310. The tray 2050 can be moved to expose the other half of the reservoirs 2310.
Another pair of head assemblies 2018 can dispense liquid into those exposed reservoirs 2310.
The head assemblies 2018 can sequentially dispense liquid while the tray 2050 is positioned
within the stainer module 2010 to minimize, limit, or avoid off-line times, excessive handling,
and/or tray handoffs. As such, a high level of throughput can be maintained, even if a large
number of purge/prime cycles are performed. Additionally, transport problems caused by
repeatedly transporting trays into and out of the stainer module can be avoided. In a purging
process, the reservoirs 2310 can collect streams of liquid from the head assemblies 2018
produced when liquid is pumped through the dispenser heads 2141 to clean any air bubbles from
internal passages. In a priming process, the reservoirs 2310 can collect any excess liquid when
overfilling the head assemblies 2018 with processing liquid to be dispensed. After performing
the purge/prime process, the tray 2050 can be returned to the slide processing position to
position slides underneath each of the head assemblies.
[0201] Figures 29A and 29B show the tray 2050 at a slide processing position. Referring to
Figure 29B, processing liquid can be delivered onto four slides while the tray 2050 obstructs a

                                                    50
set of vertical delivery paths 2380 from the head assembly 2018d and obstructs a set of vertical
delivery paths 2382 from the head assembly 2018c. Although the delivery paths 2380 are
illustrated as a single dashed line, each delivery path 2380 can extend from one nozzle of the
head assemblies 2018 to one of the reservoirs 2310. The tray 2050 can collect dispensed liquid
that is not collected by the slides. For example, the tray 2050 can catch liquid that falls from the
slides or drops that fall from the head assemblies 2018 (e.g., drops that fall while the tray 2050
is moved to index the slides).
[0202] The tray 2050 can be moved from the slide processing position (Figures 29A and 29B)
to a purge/prime position 2404 (Figures 30A and 30B) for unobstructing the delivery paths
2380. The head assemblies 2018d, 2018a (head assembly 2018a is behind the head assembly
2018d in Figure 30B) can output liquid along the unobstructed delivery paths 2380. The
reservoirs 2310a (Figure 30A), 2310d can collect the liquid. The tray 2050 can be moved from
the purge/prime position 2404 (Figures 30A and 30B) to another purge/prime position 2410
(Figures 3 1A and 3 1B) for unobstructing the set of vertical delivery paths 2382. A purge/prime
cycle can be performed by the head assemblies 2018b, 2018c (head assemblies 2018b is behind
head assembly 2018c in Figure 31B). In some embodiments, streams of processing liquid are
delivered along the vertical delivery paths 2382.
Selected Examples of Liquid Dispensing in Stainers
[0203] Figure 32 is an isometric view of a dispenser apparatus 3024 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology. The dispenser apparatus 3024 can provide valve
controlled, pressurized liquid delivery and controlled movements of head or manifold
assemblies 3018a, 3018b, 3018c, 3018d (collectively "head assembles 3018"). A liquid handling
system 3013 can deliver liquid to the dispenser apparatus 3024 and can include, without
limitation, a liquid source 3014 and a liquid conveyance system 3015 including conduits or
other suitable liquid conveyance elements. A controller 3017 can command the dispenser
apparatus 3024 to dispense and distribute protocol-driven liquids over processing zones (i.e.,
specimen staining areas of a tray). Controlled liquid distribution can be achieved by, for
example, wetting label areas of microscope slides with flowable 20 hydrophobic substances
(e.g., to create barriers on label areas of the slides), employing specific liquid exit velocities
(e.g., non-dribbling liquid exit velocities), dispensing specific volumes of liquid (e.g., volumes
of liquid less than an upper volume limit), moving a tray at target speeds and accelerations,

                                                 51
dispensing at appropriate dispense locations along the slides, and/or dispensing from target
dispense heights (e.g., heights suitable to minimize or limit splashing, splattering, bouncing of
liquid, etc.).
[0204] The head assembly 3018a can move in a direction substantially parallel to a longitudinal
axis 3021 of the slide 3020 held by a tray (not shown) while the head assembly 3018a dispenses
liquid. Figure 33 is a side view of the head assembly 3018a with a liquid dispense mechanism
3019 ("dispenser mechanism 3019") dispensing liquid 3030 to form an open-thick film that
covers a specimen 3034 located on an upper surface 3044 of the slide 3020. The dispenser
mechanism 3019 can include a dispenser head 3141, arrays of nozzles 3052, 3054, and shared
manifolds within the dispenser head 3141. A line 3059 of the liquid conveyance system 3015
can deliver liquid from a liquid source 3058 (e.g., multiple containers respectively carrying
processing liquids) to the dispenser mechanism 3019. The liquid flows through the dispenser
head 3141 and exits via the nozzles 3052. Figure 33A shows a flat or non-beveled end of the
nozzle 3052 through which the stream of liquid flows. A line 3063 of Figure 33 can deliver
liquid from a liquid source 3062 to the dispenser mechanism 3019. The liquid flows through the
dispenser head 3141 and exits via the nozzles 3054. In some embodiments, the dispenser head
3141 has an internal shared manifold comprised of two separate manifolds, each shared by
multiple liquids to isolate incompatible liquids to prevent undesirable liquid interactions. In one
embodiment, one manifold shares 10 up to four compatible liquids that are sequentially
dispensed via the nozzles 3052 and the other manifold shares up to four compatible liquids that
are sequentially dispensed via the nozzles 3054.
[0205] Figures 34 and 35 are isometric and bottom views, respectively, of the head assembly
3018a. The description of the array of nozzles 3052 applies equally to the array of nozzles 3054,
except as indicated otherwise. Referring to Figure 35, the array of nozzles 3052 can be a row
that spans widthwise (slide edge to slide edge) relative to specimen locations along the slide
3020 (illustrated in phantom line) such that the array of nozzles 3052 is generally aligned with a
width W of the microscope slide 3020. The nozzles 3052 can be evenly or unevenly spaced
apart in a direction (indicated by arrow 3060) that is generally parallel to the slide width W. An
angle, if any, defined by the direction of spacing and the slide width W can be less than about 5
degrees, 3 degrees, or 2 degrees. A length L of the array of nozzles 3052 can be less than the
slide width W such that all of the liquid streams are directed toward the upper surface 3044 of
the slide 3020. In some embodiments, the array length L is about 70%, 80%, 90%, or 95% of the

                                                  52
slide width W. However, other array lengths can be used to direct streams of liquid toward an
interior region of the slide 3020 to keep the liquid spaced apart from the edges of the slide 3020.
If the dispensed liquid reaches a position near the edges of the slide 3020 (e.g., up to about 0.05
inches from the edge of the slide 3020), surface tension can help keep the liquid from falling off
the slide 3020. The nozzles 3052 are spaced apart in a generally linear arrangement. In other
embodiments, the nozzles 3052 are spaced apart in a U-shaped arrangement, V-shaped
arrangement, saw-tooth arrangement (e.g., with different sized nozzles 3052), or other suitable
arrangement with any desired number of nozzles 3052 and 35 any desired nozzle geometries.
[0206] Figures 36-38 show stages of dispensing liquid in accordance with an embodiment of the
present technology. Generally, the dispenser mechanism 3019 can deliver liquid at an anti
splatter liquid exit speed to minimize or limit splattering to avoid misprocessing nearby
specimen-bearing microscope slides. In "painting" dispense processes, the dispenser mechanism
3019 can produce continuous, unbroken lines of liquid on the upper surface 3044. In "multi
step" dispense processes, liquid can be dispensed in short bursts at specific target locations
along the slide 3020. The lines of liquid or discrete volumes can spread out along the upper
surface 3044 to cover the specimen 3034 with liquid. In some embodiments, the dispensed
liquid can form a matrix of liquid volumes or lanes of liquid volumes capable of dynamically
transforming into a consolidated film (e.g., a thick film or a puddle). Because dispense positions
relative to the length of the slide 3020 can vary between liquids, the lengthwise dispense
positions can be selected based on individual liquid characteristics, as well as variability in slide
dimensions and slide placement (e.g., placement of slides in the slide carrier/tray).
[0207] Figures 36 and 36A show the nozzles 3052 located above a label area of the slide 3020.
Referring to Figure 36A, the nozzles 3052 are oriented vertically to define a flow path 3102,
which is substantially perpendicular to the upper surface 3044 of the slide 3020. The term
"substantially perpendicular" generally refers to an angle within about +/- 5 degrees of 90
degrees. For example, an angle a defined by the flow path 3102 and the upper surface 3044 can
be within about +/- 5 degrees of 90 degrees, such as within about +/- 3 degrees of 90 degrees. If
the slide 3020 is horizontal, the flow path 3102 can be in a substantially vertical orientation. The
term "substantially vertical" generally refers to ranges of small angles from vertical, for
example, angles between about 0 degrees and 3 degrees from vertical, such as angles less about
2 degrees from vertical, for example, angles less than 1 degree from vertical. The orientation of
the nozzles 3052 can be selected based on the desired liquid interaction with the liquid on the

                                                    53
slide 3020. By way of example, the nozzles 3052 can be at non-vertical orientations to, for
example, produce streams of liquid that push liquid along the slide 3020. In some embodiments,
the nozzles 3052 can be at substantially vertical orientations, and the nozzles 3054 can be at
non-vertical orientations.
[0208] Figure 36 shows a slide retainer 3110 ("retainer 3110") of a tray (not shown) holding the
slide 3020. If liquid contacts the retainer 3110, the liquid may tend to wick along the retainer
3110. This wicking may reduce the liquid available for specimen processing and/or cause the
formation of undesirable liquid residues. The reductions in liquid available for specimen
processing due to wicking may be relatively imprecise and may adversely affect the precision of
specimen processing. To avoid wicking, the dispenser mechanism 3019 can dispense liquid
3030a onto the label 3026 to form a barrier that keeps subsequently dispensed liquid from
contacting the retainer 3110. The liquid 3030a can comprise, without limitation, hydrophobic
substances, wax, deparaffinizing liquid, or other suitable substances. The liquid 3030a can be
selected to hydrophobically repel later dispensed aqueous liquids. The barrier can be temporary,
with the residue of the liquid 3030a eventually evaporating. Alternatively, the liquid 3030a can
be selected to solidify to form a physical barrier after being dispensed.
[0209] Figure 37 shows a barrier 3104 comprised of the liquid 3030a. The barrier 3104 covers
an edge 3116 of the label 3026 and can extend along most of a width WL (Figure 32) of the label
3026. In some embodiments, the barrier 3104 extends along a majority of the width WL. For
example, the barrier 3104 can extend along at least about 70%, 80%, 90%, or 95% of the width
WL. In one embodiment, the entire label 3026 can be covered by the barrier 3104. The label
3026 can include machine-readable code (such as a one- or multi-dimensional bar code or info
glyph, an RFID tag, a Bragg-diffraction grating, a magnetic stripe or a nano-barcode) with
coded instructions that specify the type, sequence, and timing of the liquid(s) delivered for
treatment of a particular specimen. In some embodiments, the label 3026 is a bar code label
adhered to the upper surface 3044.
[0210] The dispenser mechanism 3019 can dispense liquid 3030b (e.g., staining reagent) at an
exit speed (i.e., an anti-splatter exit speed) that is less than a splattering exit speed at which the
liquid 3030b would tend to splatter a liquid film or puddle at least partially supported on the
upper surface 3044 by surface tension. In some embodiments, the liquid 3030b is delivered at an
anti-splatter exit speed greater than 50 cm/second, greater than 57 cm/second, within a range

                                                  54
from 50 cm/second to 60 cm/second, within a range from 54 cm/second to 57 cm/second, above
30 another suitable threshold or within another suitable range. The corresponding volumetric
flow rate can be, for example, from 0.9 to 1.4 pL/second, such as from 1.1 to 1.2 pL/second. In
one embodiment, 100 pL to 1500 pL of liquid 3030b can be applied to the upper surface 3044 in
less than about 5 seconds without any splattering. In some embodiments, 100 pL of liquid
3030b can be delivered onto the upper surface 3044 in less than about 0.1 second, and 1500 pL
of the liquid 3030b can be delivered onto the upper surface 3044 in less than about 1.5 seconds.
By minimizing or limiting splattering, substantially all of the dispensed liquid 3030b is collected
on the upper surface 3044. For example, at least about 90% (e.g., at least about 99%) by volume
of the dispensed liquid 3030b can be collected on the upper surface 3044. Thus, less than about
10% (e.g., less than about 1%) by volume of the dispensed liquid 3030b falls into the tray or
splatter onto adjacent slides. In a particular embodiment, from about 99% to about 99.9% or
100% by volume of the dispensed liquid 3030b is collected on the upper surface 3044.
[0211] Additionally or alternatively, the liquid 3030b can be delivered at a liquid exit speed
greater than a trampoline liquid exit speed. The trampoline liquid exit speed is a flow rate at
which at least a significant portion of the stream 3130 would tend to bounce off a surface 3122
of the film or puddle on the slide 3020. The exit speed of the stream 3130 can be sufficiently
high to avoid trampoline effects but sufficiently low to avoid appreciable splattering. In some
embodiments, the liquid 3030b can exit the nozzles 3052, with inner diameters of about 0.24
inch (0.6 mm), at a flow speed in a range about 55 cm/second to about 60 cm/second. In one
embodiment, the liquid 3030b exits the nozzles 3052 at a flow speed equal to about 57
cm/second. The exit speed of the stream 3130 can be selected based on, for example, the number
of nozzles, nozzle inner diameters, liquid pressures, orientation of the nozzles, height of the
nozzles, characteristics of the liquid 3030b (e.g., viscosity, density, surface tension, etc.), surface
characteristics of the slide 3020, and/or environmental characteristics (e.g., surrounding air flow,
temperature, humidity, etc.). In some embodiments, at least one nozzle 3052 is spaced apart
from the upper surface of the microscope slide by a distance in a range from about 5 mm to
about 10 mm.
[0212] Figure 38 shows the nozzles 3052 dispensing the liquid 3030b onto an end portion 3150
of the slide 3020 and a film of liquid 3030b covering most of a longitudinal length of a
processing area 3098 (Figure 32), such as a mounting region or a staining area. The speed of the
dispenser mechanism 3019, path of the dispenser 30 mechanism 3019, liquid volumetric flow

                                                   55
rate, and/or dispense timing can be selected based on the desired liquid coverage. The dispenser
mechanism 3019 can move back and forth along the slide 3020 while dispensing liquid
continuously or periodically to maintain desired coverage. In such processes, the dispensed
streams of liquid can combine with film or puddle upon contact.
[0213] The process of Figures 36-38 can be used to dispense a wide range of liquids. By
intentionally over-wetting with deparaffinizing liquid (or other oily hydrophobic liquid), a
sufficient volume of deparaffinizing liquid can be dispensed at the processing area 3098 (Figure
32) to provide appropriate liquid spreading to, for example, create the barrier 3104 (Figures 37
and 38) in order to mitigate unintentional liquid wicking along the retainer 3110 (Figure 36).
Relatively large deparaffinizing liquid volumes (e.g., 0.92 mL (+11%/-11%)) can be dispensed
for initial label and tissue area wetting, and the next largest deparaffinizing volume (e.g.,
0.58mL (+20%/-20%)) can be used for second dispenses (including key deparaffinization
dispenses), and relatively small deparaffinizing volumes (e.g., 0.44mL (+59%/-62%)) can be
used for additional deparaffinizing dispenses. Other volumes of deparaffinizing liquids can be
dispensed in other sequences. Conditioning liquid (e.g., transfer or bridging liquid) can be
dispensed to maintain a minimum kinetic liquid thickness above the specimen 3034, but the
volume of conditioning liquid can be sufficiently low to prevent spreading to the label area,
which can affect the barrier 3104. In some embodiments, conditioning liquid comprising
di(propylene glycol) propyl ether can be delivered with a liquid exit speed equal to about 54
cm/second in order to dispense a volume of about 0.4mL (+50%/-50%). In some embodiments,
washing liquid can be delivered with a liquid exit speed equal to about 57 cm/second to dispense
a volume of about 1.OmL (+10%/- 10%), 0.9mL (+22%/-22%), or 1.1mL (+10%/- 10%). The
liquid exit speed of staining reagent (e.g., hematoxylin reagent) can be equal to about 57
cm/second to dispense a volume of about 1.05mL (+14/-14%). The liquid exit speed of stain
setting reagent can be equal about 57 cm/second in order to dispense a volume of about 1.2mL
(+16/-16%). The liquid exit speed of counterstaining reagent (e.g., eosin reagent) can be equal to
about 57 cm/second in order to dispense a volume of about 1.35mL (+11/-11%). Other liquid
exit speeds can be selected based on, for example, liquid characteristics, spacing between slides,
target processing volumes, target dispense times, target processing times, and/or other
processing parameters.
[0214] Dispense locations, both along the slide length and width, can be registered with respect
to particular slide boundaries in order to achieve desired coverage (e.g., full and uniform liquid

                                                 56
coverage of the processing area) while limiting or preventing unintentional liquid contact. The
width of the head assembly 3018, number of nozzles (e.g., number of nozzles 3052, number of
nozzles 3054, etc.), the spacing between nozzles (e.g., spacing between nozzles 3052, 3054),
tray movements, and dispense volumes can be selected to accommodate the spreadability of the
dispensed volume and positional tolerances impacted by tray handling. In general, both
"painting" dispense routines or "multi-step" dispense routines can achieve liquid coverage of the
entire processing area (or at least about 90%, 95 %, or 100% of the area of the processing area
3098 of Figure 32), but painting dispenses may have less splash potential than multi-step
dispenses. This is because painting dispenses may have limited breaks in liquid flow between
the nozzles and dispensed liquid. Painting dispenses can also reduce or limit processing times
due to the coordinated relatively high speed movement of the head assemblies 3018. In contrast
to painting dispenses which rely on liquid flow rates/valve timing matched to movement of the
head assembly 3018, multi-step dispenses can depend on multiple dispenses with relatively
short valve times and can be generally implemented independent of movement speed of the head
assembly 3018. For hematoxylin and eosin staining, both painting and multi-step dispense
routines can be used to promote uniform and consistent stain quality. Multi-step dispense and
assisted liquid movement (e.g., airknife assisted liquid movement) can enhance rinsing (e.g.,
rinsing after applying hematoxylin). The total time to accomplish dispensing and liquid removal
can impact the ability to achieve a desired overall processing time, as well as the ability to
support short incubation times (e.g., 2 minutes, 1 minute, 30 seconds, 20 seconds, etc.). The
dispense process discussed in connection with Figures 36-38 can be modified to reduce
processing times. For example, specimen 3034 can be processed without utilizing the liquid
3030a discussed in connection with Figures 36 and 37. The dispenser mechanism 3019 can
initially dispense liquid 3030b (Figure 37) onto a region of the upper surface 3044 spaced apart
from the label 3026 to prevent physical contact between the label 3026 (or retainer 3110) and
the liquid 3030b.
[0215] Referring again to Figure 32, the controller 3017 can contain instructions for
commanding the four head assemblies 3018 to process up to four slides in parallel using,
without limitation, label-to-end dispense routines (discussed with respect to Figure 36), end-to
label dispense routines, end-to-label-to-middle dispense routines, or other dispense routines. In
end-to-label dispense routines, liquid can be applied to the entire length of the slide 3020. In
end-to-label-to-middle dispense routines, liquid can be delivered while moving the head
assembly 3018 along the entire length of the slide 3020. After liquid is applied along the length

                                                   57
of the slide 3020, the head assembly 3018 can be moved back to the middle of the slide while
continuing to dispense liquid. The controller 3017 can adjust processing based on one or more
signals from sensors that detect overflow from either a liquid collector (e.g., a purge tray or a
purge pan) or slide tray, as well as sensors that can detect, without limitation, inadequate flow
velocity (e.g., low flow velocity due to contamination), nozzle blockages, changes in valve
timing (e.g., valve timing that may affect processing reliability), wicking along slide retainment
features (e.g., retainer 3110, clips or posts of a tray, etc.), contamination (e.g., non-nominal slide
surface contamination), and/or stainer module's inability to remove bubbles/air pockets along
flow paths using, for example, dispense routines, such as purge cycles, prime cycles,
combinations thereof (e.g., purge/prime cycles). In the event of stainer module 3010 shut down
or the detection of liquid overflow, all liquid dispense valves of the head assemblies 3018 can be
shut off.
[0216] The stainer module 3010 can process trays independent of the slide positional content
within the trays. The controller 3017 can execute instructions to move the head assemblies 3018
independent of whether a slide is underneath the head assembly 3018. Movements and delays
for dispensing and removing liquids can be performed for all slide positions for consistent
processing between trays. However, the stainer module 3010 only dispenses liquid at slide
positions at which a slide is positioned. Thus, processing times for filled trays (i.e., trays
completely filled with microscope slides) can be the same as processing times for partially filled
trays.
[0217] The dispenser apparatus 3024 can have head assemblies with different configurations.
Figures 39-48C show one embodiment of the head assembly 3018 and its components and
functionality. Valves and liquid components are generally discussed in connection with Figures
39-41. Manifolds and vacuum features are generally discussed in connection with Figures 42A
48C. Figures 49-53 show another head assembly and its components and functionality. A person
skilled in the relevant art will understand that the stainer module 3010 may have other
embodiments of head assemblies without several of the features described below with reference
to Figures 39-53.
[0218] Referring now to Figures 39-41 together, the head assembly 3018 can include an array of
lines 3160a, 3160b, 3160c, 3160d (collectively "lines 3160") and an array of lines 3162a, 3162b,
3162c, 3162d (collectively "lines 3162"). The lines 3160, 3162 can include one or more flow

                                                    58
elements that facilitate controlled liquid dispensing. Such flow elements can be orifices
configured to produce generally uniform liquid pressures within the dispenser head 3141. In
some embodiments, the orifices can be configured to induce most of the pressure drop (e.g., at
least about 80% of a total pressure drop) along the respective line at one location to minimize or
limit pressure variation, if any, induced from other system geometry (e.g., tubing lengths,
elevation, fittings, valves, etc.) resulting in controlled/low variation liquid dispensing. In one
embodiment, the orifices include a jewel orifice and a housing holding the jewel orifice. The
jewel orifice can be a ruby orifice having an opening with an inner diameter of about 0.18 inch
(0.3046 mm). Other orifices with different configurations and diameters can also be used.
 [0219] The head assembly 3018 can include valves 3170a, 3170b, 3170c, 3170d (collectively
 "valves 3170") and valves 3172a, 3172b, 3172c, 3172d (collectively "valves 3172") that are
staggered to allow increased routing density in the dispenser head 3141, but other mounting
arrangements can be used. The configurations of the valves 3170, 3172 can be selected based
on, for example, material compatibility, operating pressures, target response times, etc. By
mounting the valves 3170, 3172 directly to the dispenser head 3141, drops caused by "pumping"
action from movement of the head assembly 3018 can be reduced or avoided. The valves 3170,
3172 can be operated to dispense liquid at appropriate exit velocities and to prime the nozzles
3052, 3054 prior to dispensing on-slide. Periodic purging/priming cycles can be performed to
mitigate nozzle occlusion/plugging caused by, for example, hematoxylin precipitate or bluing
stain salts. In a single liquid dispense state, the head assembly 3018 can dispense processing
liquid from only one of the lines 3160, 3162. For example, the valve 3170a can be in an open
state to dispense processing liquid from the line 3160a while the valves 3170b, 3170c, 3170d
and valves 3172 are in closed states. After dispensing the processing liquid, the valve 3170a can
be switched from the open state to a closed state, and one of the valves 3170b, 3170c, 3170d can
be switched from the closed state to an open state to dispense another liquid. In a mixed liquid
dispense state, two or more valves (e.g., two or more valves 3170 or two or more valves 3172)
can be in open states to deliver multiple liquids into a single manifold in which the liquids mix.
The mixture can flow out of the manifold and the head assembly 3018. In some stain routines,
the head assembly 3018 can switch between single liquid dispense states and mixed liquid
dispense states.
 [0220] Figure 42A is a cross-sectional view of the head assembly 3018 taken along line 42A
42A of Figure 41. The head assembly 3018 includes a manifold 3166 for distributing liquid

                                                 59
from the lines 3160 to the nozzles 3052 and a manifold 3164 for distributing liquid from the
lines 3162 to the nozzles 3054. Liquids delivered through the lines 3160 may be incompatible
with the liquids delivered through the lines 3162. The two manifolds 3164, 3166 can physically
separate liquids that have high potential for undesirable interactions. If stain-setting reagent
(e.g., bluing) and hematoxylin contact each other, hematoxylin, even at relatively low
concentrations, can precipitate out and occlude or plug the nozzles. If stain-setting reagent
contacts certain washing or conditioning liquids, there may be unintended stain artifacts. To
avoid these problems, stain-setting reagent can flow through the manifold 3166 and hematoxylin
reagent, washing liquid, and conditioning liquid can flow through the manifold 3164. The
assignment of liquids (e.g., deparaffinizing liquid, conditioning liquid, washing liquid, and
hematoxylin reagent sharing one manifold while eosin reagent, stain-setting reagent, and stain
differentiating reagent share another manifold) not only keeps appropriate liquids separated
from each other but also may allow for efficient liquid exchange. Conditioning liquid,
deparaffinizing liquid, washing liquid, and hematoxylin reagent can be delivered through the
lines 3162a, 3162b, 3162c, 3162d, respectively. Stain-setting reagent, eosin reagent, washing
liquid (e.g., washing liquid compatible with bluing), and stain-differentiating reagent (e.g., acid
wash) can be delivered through the lines 3160a, 3160b, 3160c, 3160d, respectively. Other
assignments of liquids to the lines 3160, 3162 can be selected based on the compatibility of the
liquids in a given staining protocol.
[0221] Figure 42B is a detailed view of the manifold 3166. Figure 43 is a cross-sectional view
of the head assembly 3018 taken along line 43-43 of Figure 40. The manifold 3166 can include
a distribution chamber 3186, inlets 3188a-d (collectively "inlets 3188"), and outlets 3189. Each
valve 3170 can control liquid flow through a respective inlet 3188, which opens into the
distribution chamber 3186. The size, shape, and configuration of the distribution chamber 3186
can be selected based on, for example, the desired liquid flow through the manifold 3166.
Processing liquids can be individually delivered through respective inlets 3188 and into the
distribution chamber 3186, which in turn distributes the processing liquid to the outlets 3189.
The number of inlets, location of the inlets, and dimensions (e.g., 30 diameters) of inlets can be
selected based on the desired flow through the manifold 3166.
[0222] Referring now to Figures 42A and 42B, the line 3059c can deliver liquid (represented by
arrows) from a liquid source 3058c to the line 3160c. The liquid flows through the line 3160c
and proceeds along a valve feed passageway 3181 c. The valve 3170c, in an open state, delivers

                                                   60
the liquid into a valve outlet passageway 3182c. Referring now to Figure 42B, the liquid flows
along the valve outlet passageway 3182c, through the inlet 3188c, and into the distribution
chamber 3186. The liquid flows through the distribution chamber 3186, outlets 3189, and
channels 3191 and exits via the row of nozzle outlets 3212.
[0223] As shown in Figure 42B, the nozzle 3052 can extend slightly into the distribution
chamber 3186 to mitigate burrs or other features that may impede liquid flow and can be made,
in whole or in part, of metal (e.g., stainless steel, aluminum, or the like), plastic, or other
materials suitable for contacting the processing liquids and can have lengths in a range of about
5 mm to about 25 mm. For example, the nozzles 3052 can be hollow metal needles.
Additionally, the nozzles 3052 can comprise one or more coatings to enhance performance.
Inner surfaces and/or outer surfaces of the nozzles 3052 can include a hydrophobic coating to
avoid hanging drops. Non-stick coatings (e.g., polytetrafluoroethylene coatings), low friction
coatings, or other types of coatings can be used to reduce liquid carryover between dispense
cycles. The inner diameters of the nozzles 3052, 3054 can be small enough and the liquid supply
pressure high enough to achieve desired exit velocities/flow rates for each type of liquid. In
some embodiments, for example, the inner diameters of the nozzles 3052, 3054 can be 0.24 inch
(0.6 mm), but other inner diameters can be selected based on desired back pressures.
[0224] The nozzles 3052 may have some variation in tolerance due to manufacturing tolerances
that affects where hanging drops tend to form. This is because hanging drops tend to form on the
nozzle 3052 with the largest inner diameter. One of the nozzles 3052 (or a group of nozzles
3052) can have slightly larger inner diameters to promote hanging drops, if any, at that larger
diameter nozzle 3052. In some embodiments, six nozzles 3052 can have inner diameters of
0.233 inch +/- 0.005 inch (0.69 mm +/- 0.13 mm) and the inner diameter of another nozzle 3052
can be 0.263 inch +/- 0.005 inch (0.69 mm +/- 0.13 mm) such that the 0.263 inch diameter
nozzle 3052 will be the largest, even if all the other nozzles 3052 are at extreme ends of their
tolerance ranges. The largest inner diameter nozzle 3052 will have the least resistance to liquid
flow and droplets, if any, will preferentially form on the outlet of that nozzle 3052. In some
embodiments, the largest inner diameter nozzle 3052 can be positioned and/or oriented to keep
hanging drops from falling onto a slide. For example, the largest inner diameter nozzle 3052 can
be angled such that its outlet 3212 is spaced away from the slide (e.g., to the side of the slide).
During high flow periods (e.g., during dispensing), the liquid can impinge upon the upper
surface of the slide, but during low flows periods, any drops at the outlet 3212 of the largest

                                                  61
diameter nozzle 3052 will fall without contacting the slide, thus not interfering with the
incubating liquid.
[0225] Figure 44A is a cross-sectional view of the head assembly 3018 taken along line 44A
44A of Figure 41. Figure 44B is a detailed view of the manifold 3164. Figure 45 is a cross
sectional view of the head assembly 3018 taken along line 45-45 of Figure 40. Referring to
Figure 44B, the manifold 3164 can include a distribution chamber 3196, inlets 3198a-d
(collectively "inlets 3198"), and outlets 3199. Each valve 3172 can control liquid flow through a
respective inlet 3198, which opens into the distribution chamber 3196. Referring now to Figures
44A and 44B, the line 3162b delivers liquid (represented by arrows) to a valve feed passageway
3190b. The liquid proceeds along the valve feed passageway 3190b to the valve 3172b, which in
turn delivers the liquid into a valve outlet passageway 3192b. The liquid flows into the
distribution chamber 3196 and exits via the nozzles 3054.
[0226] Figures 46A-46F show stages of operation of the head assembly 3018. Generally, when
switching to a new liquid, vacuum valves 3200, 3202 are energized (i.e., opened) to remove
liquid from the manifold 3166. A valve connected to one of the lines 3160 can be opened to
displace the previous processing liquid and fill the manifold 3166 with new liquid. Dead legs
can be minimized and a liquid exchange process can be performed to inhibit, limit, or
substantially eliminate cross-contamination and/or carry-over. To reduce purge/prime volumes
for liquid exchanges, the manifolds 3164, 3166 can be configured to provide uniform
flowthrough of liquids to limit or prevent pockets of low flow velocities. By dispensing
lengthwise on slides and matching the manifold sizes to the width of the slide, manifold
volumes can be further reduced. A single purge/prime cycle can generally include (1) a purge
process involving drawing a vacuum and/or rinsing of a manifold with the next liquid to be
dispensed and (2) a prime cycle involving dispensing of the next liquid through the manifold
and the nozzles. Liquid exchanges can include multiple exchange steps. For example, an
exchange from hematoxylin to washing liquid can include multiple exchanges (e.g., three
minicycle exchange processes) with wait times to more efficiently clean the manifold. Stages of
sequentially dispensing two liquids are discussed in connection with Figures 46A-46F.
[0227] Figure 46A is a cross-sectional view of the head assembly 3018 taken along line 46-46
of Figure 40. Valve 3170c (Figure 39) can be in an open state to dispense liquid (represented by
arrows 3221) from the nozzles 3052. Figure 46B shows the manifold 3166 filled with liquid and

                                                  62
all of the valves 3170 in a closed state. Figure 46C shows the liquid being evacuated from the
distribution chamber 3186 by opening the valves 3200, 3202. After evacuating the distribution
chamber 3186, the valve 3170b (Figure 39) can be turned on to deliver another liquid into the
distribution chamber 3196. Figure 46D shows exchanging of liquid 3221 with another liquid
represented by dashed line arrows 3222. The liquid 3222 flows toward the valves 3200, 3202
until the manifold 3166 is completely filled with the liquid 3222, which can also flow through
the nozzles 3052. Figure 46E shows the nozzles 3052 filled with the liquid 3222 and all of the
valves 3170 closed. Once the nozzles 3052 are positioned above the slide to be processed, the
valve 3170b can be opened to dispense the liquid 3221, as shown in Figure 46F. The liquid
exchange process described in connection with Figures 46A-46F can be performed to dispense
liquid from any one of the lines 3160, 3162.
[0228] Figure 47 is a cross-sectional view of the head assembly 3018 taken along line 4747 of
Figure 40. The head assembly 3018 can include a vacuum chamber 3230 in fluid
communication with a vacuum source 3240. The vacuum source 3240 can draw a vacuum via a
line 3250 to draw fluid out of the vacuum chamber 3230. In some embodiments, the vacuum
source 3240 can include, without limitation, one 20 or more pressurization devices, pumps, or
other types of devices capable of drawing vacuum pressure greater than -0.3 psi with a 4 L/min
flow rate, although other vacuum pressures and flow rates can be used. In some embodiments, a
vacuum can draw liquid away from the outlets of the nozzles to mitigate hanging drops.
Additionally or alternatively, vacuums can be used to remove liquid from the head assembly
3018 to, for example, perform a rinse/purge cycle, a calibration routine, etc. The line 3250 can
include, without limitation, one or more valves (e.g., one-way valves, check valves, etc.),
connectors, sensors, orifices, and/or other fluidic components.
[0229] Figure 48A is a cross-sectional view of the head assembly 3018 taken along line 48-48
of Figure 41. Figures 48B and 48C are detailed views of portions of the head assembly 3018 in
two different evacuation states. In the evacuation state shown in Figure 48B, the valve 3202 and
the valve 3200 (Figure 47) allow liquid flow between the manifold 3166 and the vacuum
chamber 3230. The liquid Li (represented by arrows) is drawn upwardly through the nozzles
3052 and into the 35 distribution chamber 3186. Liflows through a passageway 3260 and into
the valves 3200, 3202, which in turn delivers Li into a passageway 3262. Li flows through the
passageway 3262, the vacuum chamber 3230, and the line 3250 (Figure 47), thereby evacuating
the manifold 3166. In the evacuation state shown in Figure 48C, the valve 3202 has been opened

                                                  63
to allow liquid flow between the manifold 3164 and the vacuum chamber 3230. Liquid L2 is
drawn upwardly through the nozzles 3054 and into the distribution chamber 3196. L2 flows
through a passageway 3264 and into the valve 3202, which in turn delivers the L 2 into the
passageway 3262. L2 flows through the passageway 3262, the vacuum chamber 3230, and the
line 3250 (Figure 47), thereby evacuating the manifold 3164. In some modes of operation, one
of the manifolds 3164, 3166 can be empty and maintained under vacuum while the other
manifold 3164, 3166 is filled with processing liquid. Thus, only one processing liquid will be
ready to be dispensed at any given time. The vacuum can be used to avoid or limit hanging
drops or other problems that may adversely affect staining.
[0230] The dual manifolds 3164, 3166 and vacuum chamber 3230 can help minimize the
complexity and improve reliability of fluidic and wire routing management and also flow
characteristic differences between slide tray quadrants and between stainer modules. The
manifolds 3164, 3166, their associated valves (e.g., valves 3170, 3172), wires, lines (e.g., lines
3160, 3162), and fluidic connections can move along slides multiple times throughout a protocol
to consistently distribute liquids along each slide, regardless of the slide location. An energy
chain bend radius, flexible and material compatible tubing, and a fluidic design can be selected
such that each individual dispense line has the bulk of the pressure drop as defined by a
precision restrictor orifice, as discussed above, and that the shared delivery lines have as little
pressure drop as possible.
[0231] Figure 49 is an isometric view of a head assembly 3300 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology. Figure 50 is a top plan view of the head assembly 3300.
Referring to Figures 49 and 50 together, the head assembly 3300 can include a dispenser
mechanism 3310 and a liquid removal device 3320. The dispenser mechanism 3310 includes a
dispenser head 3330 and valves 3340a, 3340b, 3340c, 3340d (collectively "valves 3340")
positioned in a radial arrangement. The valves 3340 control liquid delivery from lines 3350a,
3350b, 3350c, 3350d (collectively "lines 3350"). A vacuum can be drawn via lines 3362, 3364
to evacuate liquid from the dispenser head 3330. Referring now to Figures 49 and 51, the liquid
removal device 3320 has a line 3380 (Figure 49) fluidically coupled to the nozzle 3387 (Figure
51) and lines 3382, 3384 (Figure 49) fluidically coupled to a V-shaped airknife 3389 (Figure
51), respectively. Air delivered via the lines 3382, 3384 (Figure 49) exits the airknife 3389
(Figure 51).

                                                 64
[0232] Figure 52 is a cross-sectional view of the head assembly 3300 taken along line 52-52 of
Figure 50. A manifold 3420 includes an inlet 3412, distribution chamber 3430, and a liquid
distributor device 3440. The distribution chamber 3430 can have a relatively small volume to
minimize or limit the volume of liquid within the head assembly 3300. The inlets 3412 can be
circumferentially positioned about the distribution chamber 3430 to help equalize the pressure
within the distribution chamber 3430. When the valve 3340b is in an open state, liquid from the
line 3350b flows through passageways 3400, 3410, and the inlet 3412. The liquid flows through
the distribution chamber 3430 and the liquid distributor device 3440 exits via nozzles 3460.
[0233] Figure 53 is an isometric view of the liquid distributor device 3440 in accordance with
an embodiment of the present technology. The liquid distributor device 3440 can include a
bundle of lines 3492 and a flow separator 3490. In some embodiments, each line 3492
fluidically couples one manifold outlet 3432 of the flow separator 3490 to one nozzle. The
liquid distributor device 3440 can have other configurations to distribute liquid to other types of
nozzles.
[0234] Figure 54 is a cross-sectional view of a nozzle apparatus 3500 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology. The nozzle apparatus 3500 can include a main body
3504 and nozzles 3506 coupled the main body 3504. The nozzle apparatus 3500 can be
incorporated into the head assemblies disclosed herein to produce generally uniform flows.
Liquid can flow through a main passageway 3510 and nozzle channels 3512 (one identified) of
the nozzles 3506. In some embodiments, each line 3492 can be positioned in one of the channels
3512. However, other components and configurations can be used to dispense liquid.
Selected Examples of Liquid Removal in Stainers
[0235] Automated histological systems configured in accordance with at least some
embodiments of the present technology include stainers having configured to remove dispensed
liquid volumes at precisely controlled times without displacing the liquid volumes with other
liquids. For example, a processing head configured in accordance with a particular embodiment
of the present technology uses an air knife and an associated vacuum port to respectively gather
and remove dispensed liquid volumes. This manner of dispensing and removing liquid volumes
may facilitate washing and other specimen-processing operations using stationary puddles or
thick films with shapes maintained at least partially by surface tension. At least partially

                                                 65
uncovering a specimen by manipulating a previously dispensed processing liquid before
contacting the specimen with another processing liquid is expected to enhance the consistency
and controllability of processing times. By way of theory, and not to limit the scope of the
present technology, this advantage may be associated with reducing timing imprecisions
associated with imprecise dilution of processing liquids occurring during direct liquid-to-liquid
exchanges. Alternatively or in addition, washing a specimen in a stationary pool of liquid may
cause residue to be released from the specimen more evenly and precisely than would occur if
the specimen were washed in a flowing stream of liquid. Other mechanisms are also possible.
Furthermore, the liquid removal features can have different or additional advantages, such as
reducing liquid waste.
[0236] Figure 55 is an isometric view of a dispenser apparatus 4024 that includes four head
assemblies 4018a, 4018b, 4018c, 4018d (collectively "head assembles 4018"). Figures 56-58
illustrate stages of a liquid removal process performed by the head assembly 4018a. With
reference to Figures 55-58 together, the head assembly 4018a can be positioned above a
microscope slide 4020 ("slide 4020") to dispense liquid onto an upper surface of the slide 4020.
After the liquid has contacted the specimen for a desired length of time, the head assembly
4018a can blow the liquid along the slide 4020 (e.g., lengthwise) and draw a partial vacuum to
contactlessly remove collected liquid from the slide 4020. For example, the head assembly
4018a can move (as indicated by arrows) relative to the slide 4020 while blowing the liquid and
simultaneously draw the partial vacuum. Thereafter, additional liquids can be sequentially
applied to and removed from the slide 4020. In some cases, dispensing a subsequent liquid
begins while a previously dispensed liquid is being removed, such as in the same pass of the
head assembly 4018a over the length of the slide 4020. In other cases, removal of a previously
dispensed liquid can be complete when dispensing a subsequent liquid begins.
[0237] Referring to Figure 56, a sufficient volume of liquid 4340 can be located on the upper
surface 4044 of the slide 4020 to maintain a desired liquid volume (e.g., a kinetic liquid volume)
throughout most or all of a target time period (e.g., a target incubation time) for contact between
the specimen and the liquid 4340. The volume of liquid 4340 can provide sufficient mass for
wholly or incrementally processing the specimen 4034 in a desired manner during a
predetermined specimen-processing protocol. A flow generator 4352 (e.g., a pump, an air
compressor, a blower, a fan, etc.) can pressurize gas (e.g., air, nitrogen, or other gas) that is
delivered to a liquid removal device 4330 of the head assembly 4018a. The liquid removal

                                                   66
device 4330 receives the pressurized gas and produces a gas curtain 4360 (represented by
arrows). As the head assembly 4018a moves (indicated by the arrow 4025) away from an initial
position, the gas curtain 4360 pushes the volume of liquid 4340 (e.g., a puddle or a thick film of
liquid 4340) toward the end 4143 of the stationary slide 4020 and can also urge the liquid 4340
toward a suction element 4370 of the liquid removal device 4330.
[0238] Figure 57 shows the liquid removal device 4330 at an intermediate position generally
midway between the slide ends 4143, 4366. The volume of liquid 4340 is contained on a section
of the upper surface 4044 in front of the gas curtain 4360 and a section of the mounting area
behind the gas curtain 4360 can be substantially free of the liquid 4340. The suction element
4370 can draw a partial vacuum to suck the liquid 4340 from the slide 4020. The head assembly
4018a can continue to move toward the slide end 4143 as and/or until the volume of liquid 4340
is captivated at the slide end 4143. Figure 58 shows the volume of liquid 4340 captivated by the
gas curtain 4360 at an edge 4147 along the slide end 4143. The liquid 4340 can be sucked into
the suction element 4370 to limit the volume of liquid 4340, if any, that falls from the slide 4020
into a tray (not shown) carrying the slide 4020. In some embodiments, substantially no liquid
4340 falls from the slide 4020 to keep substantially all processing liquids on-slide.
[0239] Figures 59, 60, and 61 are isometric, bottom, and front views of the head assembly
4018a in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology. A gas knife 4350 can be V
shaped to partially surround the suction element 4370. The gas knife 4350 can be used with a
variety of suitable gases, such as air, nitrogen, air/nitrogen mixtures, or other gases compatible
with processing liquids and tissue specimens. As such, although the term "airknife" may be used
herein for ease of reference, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the term refers to gas
knives capable of producing gas curtains comprised of any suitable gases. Thus, the gas knife
4350 can output streams of air (e.g., ambient air, filtered air, etc.) to produce an air curtain,
streams of nitrogen to produce a nitrogen curtain, or streams of other gases to produce other
types of gas curtains.
[0240] Referring now to Figure 59, the gas knife 4350 can include a manifold with side portions
4390a, 4390b and a vertex portion 4392. The side portions 4390a, 4390b are generally similar to
one another, and accordingly, the description of one side portion applies equally to the other side
portion, unless indicated otherwise. The side portion 4390a can have a number of holes 4400a
(one identified) selected based on, for example, the desired width of the gas curtain 4360. In

                                                    67
some embodiments, the side portion 4390a has about 10 to about 20 holes. In one embodiment,
including the illustrated embodiment, the side portion 4390a has sixteen linearly arranged holes
4400a. To produce a generally uniform substantially V-shaped gas curtain, the holes 4400a,
4400b (collectively "holes 4400") can have a generally uniform pitch (i.e., distances between the
centers of adjacent holes 4400). To produce a non-uniform V-shaped gas curtain, the holes 4400
can be unevenly spaced apart. Other numbers, patterns, and spacings of the holes 4400 can be
selected based on the desired configuration and shape of the gas curtain.
[0241] Referring now to Figure 60, an angle       P can be defined by the series   of holes 4400a and
the series of holes 4400b and can be selected based on geometric factors, such as the width of a
corresponding slide surface and the geometric relationship between the holes 4400 and the
suction element 4370. In addition or alternatively, the angle     P can be selected based on the
properties (e.g., viscosity, spreadability, etc.) of the liquid to be collected. In some
embodiments, the angle     P is in a range from about 80 degrees to about 100 degrees. In one
embodiment, the angle P is about 90 degrees (i.e., 90 degrees +/- 3 degrees). In other
embodiments, the angle P is greater than 100 degrees to collect a relatively large volume of
relatively low viscosity liquid. In yet other embodiments, the angle P is less than 80 degrees to
collect a small volume of relatively high viscosity liquid.
[0242] A width    Wh  of the set of holes 4400 is measured in a direction generally perpendicular to
either the path of travel of the head assembly 4018a during use or the direction of the
longitudinal axis of the slide. In some embodiments, the width       Wh  is selected such that the gas
curtain 4360 extends across the majority of width of the slide 4020. For example, the width         Wh
can be equal to or greater than about 25 mm, 30 mm, 40 mm, 50 mm, for slides having widths of
25 mm, 30 mm, 40 mm, 50 mm, respectively.
[0243] The suction element 4370 can be positioned generally along a centerline 4413 of 35 the
dispenser head 4141 of the head assembly 4018a. However, the suction element 4370 can be
located at other locations, if needed or desired. The suction element 4370 can include a tubular
body 4410 and an inlet port 4412. The tubular body 4410 is spaced apart from the gas knife
4350 such that the inlet port 4412 is positioned directly between the two series of holes 4400a,
4400b. In some embodiments, the inlet 4112 can be positioned rearwardly of the distal or
forward holes 4400a, 4400b (i.e., the two holes 4400a, 4400b identified in Figure 60), which
produce leading portions of the gas curtain. The inlet port 4412 can have a circular opening with

                                                  68
a maximum width in a range of about 0.5 mm to about 2 mm, from about 0.5 mm to about 4
mm, from about 3.2 mm to about 4 mm, or within another suitable range. In other embodiments,
the inlet port 4412 can have noncircular openings (e.g., elliptical openings, polygonal openings,
etc.) to achieve a desired vacuum level. Furthermore, the opening of the inlet port 4412 can be
flared or annular.
[0244] Figure 61 shows the suction element 4370 extending downwardly past the holes 4400a,
4400b and bottom surface of the gas knife 4350. A line 4357 fluidically couples a vacuum
source 4353 to the suction element 4370. The vacuum source 4353 can include one or more
pumps or pressurization devices capable of drawing a partial vacuum such that the flow rate
through the suction element 4370 is at or above a target flow rate (e.g., 30 liters/minute, 40
liters/minute, 50 liters/minute). In some embodiments, the vacuum source 4353 produces a
vacuum pressure in a range of about -10 psi to about -0.5 psi (e.g., -2.2 psi +/-0.2 psi) for
producing a flow rate through the suction element 4370 in a range of about 37 liters/minute to
50 liters/minute. Other arrangements (e.g., fluidic systems, vacuum sources, etc.) can be used to
provide vacuum pressure to the head assembly 4018a.
[0245] Figures 62 and 63 are partial cross-sectional side views of the liquid removal device
4330 positioned above the slide 4020. An angle a (i.e., gas knife angle of attack) between the
gas curtain 4360 and the upper surface 4044 of the slide 4020 can be selected based on, without
limitation, working pressures, height of the head assembly 4018a, travel speeds of the head
assembly, and/or characteristics of the liquid 4340. In some embodiments, the gas curtain 4360
is not perpendicular to the upper surface 4044 of the slide 4020. For example, the angle a can be
in a range from about 70 degrees to about 80 degrees. In one embodiment, the angle a is about
4075 degrees (e.g., 75 degrees +/- 2 degrees) such that the gas curtain 4360 can effectively push
the volume of liquid 4340 along the upper surface 4044 without pushing an appreciable volume
of the liquid 4340 off the slide 4020, even when leading portions of the gas curtain 4360 are
moved beyond the distal end 4143 of the slide 4020. In one embodiment, the angle a can be
about 70 degrees (e.g., 70 degrees +/- 2 degrees) to enhance pushing of relatively high viscosity
liquids. A constant angle a across the width of the slide 4020 can be selected to push a volume
of liquid with generally uniform properties. In other embodiments, a varying angle a can be
selected to push a volume of liquid with non-uniform properties. For example, a portion of the
gas curtain defining a relatively small angle a can be well suited to push a low viscosity liquid
and a portion of the gas curtain defining a relatively large angle a can be well suited to push a

                                                  69
high viscosity liquid. Other angles of attack can also be used because the distribution of residual
liquid on the slide 4020 can be largely influenced by the gas knife angle a, as well as
movements of the head assembly across the slide 4020 and the height of the head assembly
relative to a slide 4020.
[0246] Figure 63 shows the suction element 4370 drawing a partial vacuum sufficient to draw
the liquid 4340 upwardly through the inlet port 4412 without a solid structure of the head
assembly contacting the volume of liquid 4340 and/or the slide 4020. The gas knife pressures
can be sufficiently low to minimize or limit overwetting and sufficiently high to keep residual
volumes at or below a target level. A height H of the inlet port 4412 can be about 0.8 mm to
about 3 mm to achieve relatively low residual volume levels on the slide 4020. In one
embodiment, the height H is in a range of about 1 mm to about 2 mm (i.e., 1 mm to 2 mm
0.5 mm), but other heights can be selected based on the vacuum level. In some embodiments,
the flow rate through the suction element 4370 can be in a range of about 37 liters/minute to
about 50 liters/minute at a dynamic pressure between about -1 psi to about -0.2 psi, such as
about -0.38 to about -0.3 psi for a height H equal to or less than about 3 mm. However, other
heights and pressures can be used based on the liquid properties that impact fluid dynamics,
such as viscosity, surface tension, density, or the like. In some embodiments, the suction
element 4370 is configured to produce a vacuum level in a range of about 12 mmHg to about 35
mmHg. The operation of the vacuum source 4353 can be adjusted to achieve such vacuum
levels or other desired vacuum levels.
[0247] Figures 64A-66B illustrate stages of removing the liquid 4340 from the slide 4020. After
the liquid 4340 has contacted the specimen 4034 for a desired length of time, the gas knife 4350
can deliver one or more streams of gas toward the slide 4020 to produce the gas curtain 4360.
The gas knife 4350 can be configured to produce the gas curtain 4360 using no more than one
stream of gas or using two or more streams of gas. Before, during, and/or after moving the
liquid removal device 4330, the head assembly 4018 can contactlessly remove liquid 4340 from
the slide 4020 using the suction element 4370. As the gas knife 4350 moves relative to the slide
4020, for example, the gas curtain 4360 can confine and move the volume of liquid 4340 away
from longitudinal edges 4540, 4542 of the slide 4020 while the suction element 4370 draws a
partial vacuum to remove the liquid 4340 from the slide 4020 without physically contacting the
slide 4020. Different stages of the liquid removal process are discussed below.

                                                   70
[0248] Figure 64A shows the liquid removal device 4330 and the substantially V-shaped gas
curtain 4360 positioned along the slide 4020. Figure 64B is a top plan view of the gas curtain
4360 and the slide 4020. Referring to Figures 64A and 64B together, the liquid removal device
4330 is located at an initial position and directs the gas curtain 4360 (shown in Figure 64B)
toward the upper surface 4044. The volume of liquid 4340 can be a film (e.g., a thick-film) or
puddle with a shape at least partially maintained by surface tension. The gas curtain 4360 in the
initial position can be located along the label 4026. In other embodiments, most or all of the gas
curtain 4360 in the initial position can be located beyond the label end 4366 of the slide 4020 to
enable liquid removal from the most or all of the label 4026. Vacuum collection, however, can
be delayed to start beyond the retaining features (e.g., slide retainer, clips, clamps, etc.) that hold
the label end 4364 of the slide 4020 so as to prevent liquid 4340 from being actively pulled into
retaining features of the slide tray. In yet other embodiments, the gas curtain 4360 in the initial
position can be located along the mounting area of the slide 4020, and vacuum collection can
begin prior to or after moving the gas curtain 4360 along the slide 4020.
[0249] The gas consumption/flow rate of the gas knife 4350 can be in a range of about 8
liters/minute to about 9 liters/minute, for example, about 8.6 liters/minute to provide an input
gas knife pressure of about 7 psi +/- 0.2 psi. Excessively high gas knife pressures and/or flow
rates could lead to loss of removed liquid distribution (overwetting) and excessively low
pressures and/or flow rates could lead to residual high residual volumes. The gas knife 4350 and
suction element 4370 cooperate to produce a pressure differential to urge the proximal region
4580 of the volume of liquid 4340 away from the longitudinal edges 4540, 4542. In some
embodiments, the gas knife 4350 and the suction element 4370 produce a low pressure region
4380 (Figure 64A) at least partially defining a collection zone 4550 (illustrated in phantom line)
in which the liquid 4340 tends to collect. The collection zone 4550 can be positioned directly
below the inlet port 4412 of the suction element 4370. For example, the inlet port 4412 can be
positioned proximate to the vertex 4596 (Figure 64B) of the gas curtain 4360 such that most of
the collection zone 4550 is positioned generally underneath the inlet port 4412. The vertex 4596
can be angled or curved.
[0250] Referring now to Figure 64B, the gas curtain 4360 has curtain portions 4590, 4592 and a
vertex section 4596. The curtain portions 4590, 4592 can be positioned along imaginary planes
4594, 4595 that intersect at an angle tO in a range from about 80 degrees to about 100 degrees.
The vertex section 4596 can be moved along a central region 4600 of the upper surface 4044

                                                   71
such that the curtain portions 4590, 4592 confine the proximal region 4580 of the volume of
liquid 4340. As the liquid removal device 4330 moves lengthwise along the slide 4020, a
pressure differential can urge the liquid 4340 toward a central longitudinal axis 4021 of the slide
4020, as well as the collection zone 4550. In some embodiments, the gas curtain 4360 can be a
generally uniform gas curtain that extends across the width W of the slide 4020. For example,
the gas curtain 4360 can be generally uninterrupted and continuous gas curtain that extends
between the longitudinal edges 4540, 4542.
[0251] Figures 65A and 65B show the liquid removal device 4330 moving along a processing
path 4551 generally parallel to the longitudinal axis 4021 of the slide 4020. The suction element
4370 can provide a partial vacuum to produce a low pressure region at the collection zone 4550
where the suction (flow) of the liquid 4340 can occur. A pressure gradient between the low
pressure region and the ambient pressure, along with the gas flow interaction between the gas
knife 4350 and the suction element 4370, can urge the liquid 4340 toward the collection zone
4550. A region 4624 of the upper surface 4044 positioned behind the gas curtain 4360 can be
substantially free of the liquid 4340. There may be, however, a small volume of residual liquid
on the region 4624, but most of the total volume of the liquid 4340 on the slide 4020 can be
located between the gas curtain 4360 and the end 4143 of the slide 4020. Depending on the
characteristics (e.g., surface tension) of the liquid 4340, most or substantially all of the volume
of liquid 4340 can be kept in front of the gas curtain 4360 moving along processing path 4551.
As the gas curtain 4360 advances distally, the liquid 4340 tends to flow along the curtain
portions 4590, 4592, respectively, as indicated by arrows 4629, and the curtain portions 4590,
4592 can urge outer portions 4620, 4622 (Figure 65B) of the puddle of liquid 4340 away from
the longitudinal edges 4540, 4542, respectively, to reduce the likelihood of liquid 4340 falling
off the slide 4020. Advantageously, the lengthwise movement and position of the gas curtain
4360 allows the head assembly 4018 to be moved at relatively high speeds while keeping the
volume of liquid 4340 on the slide 4020.
[0252] The gas knife 4350 and suction element 4370 can be aligned with the slide 4020 such
that the liquid 4340 is effectively directed by the gas curtain 4360 toward the suction element
4370 because widthwise position of the liquid removal device 4330 relative to slide edges 4540,
4542 can impact residual volume and residual liquid distribution. As the liquid removal device
4330 moves relative to the slide 4020, the collection zone 4550 can be positioned generally
along the central region 4600 of the upper surface 4044. In some embodiments, the gas curtain

                                                  72
4360 and the collection zone 4550 can be centrally aligned above the slide 20 within +/- 0.05
inch (1.27 mm) of the longitudinal axis 4021. If the suction element 4370 is not close enough to
the upper surface 4044, higher residual volumes can also result. As such, the position of the
collection zone 4500, height of the gas knife 4350, height of the suction element 4370 can be
selected to achieve desired liquid removal (including amount and distribution of residual
volumes).
[0253] Figures 66A shows the liquid removal device 4330 positioned at the end 4143 of the
slide 4020. Figure 66B is a top plan view of the gas curtain 4360 of Figure 66A. The curtain
portions 4590, 4592 can extend outwardly past the longitudinal edges 4540, 4542, respectively,
and the edge 4147 such that the volume of liquid 4340 is contained by the gas curtain 4360 and
the slide edge 4147. The gas knife 4350 and vacuum can be turned off when the suction element
4370 reaches the end 4143 of the slide 4020 to prevent liquid overwetting to the back side of the
slide 4020 and, in some embodiments, also leaves a residual droplet (e.g., a small residual
droplet at location along the upper surface 4044 underneath the suction element 4370). The size
of the droplet can be minimized or limited by the configuration of gas knife 4350 and vacuum
characteristics defined by, for example, supply pressures, fluidic design, the geometrical
relationship between the gas knife 4350 and the vacuum, and/or the height of the suction
element 4370 and gas knife 4350 with respect to the upper surface 4044. If the suction element
4370 is too far off/beyond the upper surface 4044 (or off the edge 4147), liquid capture can be
affected and, in some embodiments, may lead to higher residual volumes and potential for
overwetting. Thus, the end position of the suction element 4370 can be selected to achieve
desired liquid removal while residual volumes and/or overwetting.
[0254] To minimize or limit the gap between the inlet port 4412 and the upper surface 4044 of
the slide 4020 at the distal end 4143 of the slide 4020, a fixed nominal vertical (e.g., Z-axis)
slope is designed into the gas knife assisted vacuum movement axis, bringing the suction
element 4370 closer to the upper surface 4044 at the slide end 4143 than at the label end 4366 to
achieve relatively small gaps while preventing interferences between the head assembly 4018
and slide and tray features. In some embodiments, the height of the suction element 4370 at the
end 4143 can be equal to or less than about 2 mm +1mm/-0.5mm.
[0255] The liquid removal process of Figures 64A-66B can be performed to remove most or
substantially all the volume of liquid 4340. In some embodiments, the liquid removal device

                                                  73
4330 can remove at least 90% of the volume of liquid on the upper surface 4044. In other
embodiments, the suction element 4370 and gas knife 4350 are configured to cooperate to
remove at least 95%, 98%, or 99% by volume of liquid 4340 from the upper surface 4044.
Additionally or alternatively, the liquid removal process can be controlled based on target
maximum residual volumes. In some embodiments, the liquid removal device 4330 can remove
a sufficient volume of the liquid 4340 such that a maximum residual volume on the upper
surface 4044 after liquid removal is less than the maximum residual volume. In one process, the
volume of liquid 4340 on the upper surface 4044 can be about 0.5mL to about 0.9mL of
processing liquid, and liquid removal device 4330 can remove a sufficient volume of liquid such
that the maximum residual volume of liquid 4340 on upper surface 4044 is equal to or less than
about 50pL. The liquid removal device 4330 can also remove other volumes of liquid to keep
the maximum residual volume of liquid on the slide 4020 at or below an acceptable volume,
such as 30pL for deparaffinizating liquids, conditioning liquids (e.g., bridging liquids), washing
liquids, and stain-differentiating reagents, 20pL for staining reagents (e.g., hematoxylin
reagents), counterstaining reagents (e.g., eosin reagents), and stain-setting reagents (e.g.,
bluing), and 10pL to limit or prevent interference with subsequent processing. For example, the
maximum residual volume of conditioning liquid can be kept sufficiently low to prevent
interference with subsequent coverslipping, enhance handability, meet archivalability
requirements, and/or limit the release of undesirable fumes.
[0256] In some embodiments, the gas knife 4350 and suction element 4370 cooperate to draw
the liquid 4340 from the slide 4020 while keeping a total volume of the liquid, if any, that falls
off the slide 4020 equal to or less than a maximum fall-off volume. The fall-off volume can be
equal to about 5%, 3%, or 2% by volume of a total volume of liquid 4340 on the slide 4020
prior the beginning the liquid removal process. As such, the gas knife 4350 and suction element
4370 can be configured to cooperate to draw at least about 95%, 97%, or 98% of the free
standing volume of the liquid 4340 (i.e., liquid 4340 located along the surface 4044 and not
incorporated into the specimen 4034) into the suction element 4370.
[0257] Figures 67-70 illustrate stages of removing the liquid 4340 and dispensing another liquid
4652. Generally, the head assembly 4018a can move and/or remove at least portion of the
volume of liquid 4340 from the specimen 4034 so as to at least partially uncover the specimen
4034. The head assembly 4018a can dispense liquid 4652 that contacts the uncovered specimen
4034. This process can be repeated to sequentially remove and dispense any number of liquids.

                                                  74
Figure 67 shows the specimen-bearing slide 4020 after the head assembly 4018a has begun
uncovering the specimen 4034. Once the nozzles 4052 or nozzles 4054 of the dispenser
mechanism 4019 are positioned above the slide 4020, another liquid can be dispensed. The head
assembly 4018a can move along the slide 4020 to further uncover the specimen 4034. Figure 68
shows the specimen-bearing slide 4030 after most of the specimen 4034 has been uncovered.
The nozzles 4052 are dispensing liquid 4652 onto the mounting area of the slide 4020 located
behind the gas curtain 4360, which serves as a barrier to prevent contact between the volume of
the liquid 4340 and the volume of the liquid 4652. As the head assembly 4018a moves and
continuously or intermittently dispenses liquid 4652 along the slide 4020, the liquid removal
device 4330 can continuously or intermittently remove the liquid 4340 from the slide 4020.
Figure 69 shows the liquid 4652 contacting the specimen 4034 and the suction element 4370
drawing the liquid 4340 from the end 4143 of the slide 4020. As the head assembly 4018a
continues to move past the end 4143 of the slide 4020, the dispenser mechanism 4019 can
deliver the liquid 4652 to cover the desired length of the mounting area of the slide 4020. Figure
70 shows the nozzles 4052 positioned generally above the end 4143 of the slide 4020. Most or
all of the mounting area of the upper surface 4044 can be covered by the volume of liquid 4340.
[0258] The removal and dispense process of Figures 67-70 can be used to remove the bulk of
staining, counterstaining, and stain-setting reagents without displacing these reagents with
continuously flowing washing liquid. This may improve stain quality, counterstain quality, stain
controllability, counterstain controllability, and/or other aspects of specimen processing. For
example, when the bulk of staining, counterstaining, and stain-setting reagents are displaced
with continuously flowing washing liquids, minor changes in the attributes (e.g., stain intensity,
counterstain intensity, stain hue, and/or counterstain hue) of specimens may occur. Although
often subtle, attribute changes during exchange periods may tend to be imprecise and/or
irregular. Therefore, reducing or eliminating attribute changes during exchange periods can be
desirable. In at least some cases, removing the bulk of staining, counterstaining, and stain
setting reagents with gas and then removing residual volumes of these reagents with generally
stationary volumes of washing liquid is expected to reduce or eliminate attribute changes during
exchange periods.
[0259] Figure 71 is an isometric view of a liquid removal device 4700 with a linear (e.g.,
uniplanar) gas knife 4710 and a suction element 4712. The gas knife 4710 has a plurality of
spaced apart holes configured to generate a gas curtain 4720. The illustrated linear gas curtain

                                                    75
4720 extends across the width W of the slide 4020 such that the gas curtain 4720 extends past
the edge 4540 of the slide 4020. The gas knife 4710 can be moved along a processing path 4729
that is generally parallel to a center line or central longitudinal axis 4021 of the slide 4020. The
advancing gas curtain 4720 can tend to urge a volume of liquid 4740 toward a low pressure
collection zone 4742 (illustrated in phantom line), which is positioned proximate to the edge
4542 of the slide 4020. The suction element 4712 has an inlet nozzle 4750 with an inlet port
4752 positioned to draw in liquid (e.g., collective liquid) at the collection zone 4742.
[0260] Figure 72 shows the liquid removal device 4700 pushing the liquid 4740 along the slide
4020 while the suction element 4712 sucks in liquid 4740. As the liquid removal device 4700
advances distally toward the end 4143 of the slide 4020, the liquid 4740 tends to flow along the
gas curtain 4720 as indicated by arrow 4770. As such, the liquid 4740 can be moved away from
the longitudinal edge 4540. If the liquid 4740 reaches the edge 4147, surface tension can help
keep the liquid 4740 on the upper surface 4044 of the slide 4020.
[0261] Figure 73 shows the inlet port 4752 positioned at a corner 4780 of the slide 4020. The
liquid 4740 is captured between the edges 4147, 4542. In some embodiments, the height of inlet
port 4752 can decrease as it approaches the comer 4780 to help pick up the volume of liquid
4740.
[0262] Liquid removal devices of the present technology can have a wide range of different
types of outlets and gas knives. Figure 74 is a bottom view of a liquid removal device 4800
including a nonlinear (e.g., multiplanar or nonplanar) gas knife 4810 and a suction element 4814
in accordance with an embodiment of the present technology. The gas knife 4810 can be V
shaped and has a series of elongated slots 4820 through which gas flows to produce a gas
curtain. In other embodiments, the gas knife 4810 can be a U-shaped gas knife. The dimensions
(e.g., lengths, widths, etc.) of the elongated slots 4820 can be selected to achieve a desired gas
curtain. The liquid removal devices can have any number of gas knives of different
configurations, including V-shape configurations, U-shape configurations, linear configurations.
Figure 75 is a bottom view of a liquid removal device 4840 with two gas knives 4842, 4844 in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology. A suction element 4852 is located
between the gas knives 4842, 4844, and a suction element 4845 is proximate to a vertex 4846 of
the gas knife 4844. In operation, the leading gas knife 4844 and suction element 4845 can

                                                   76
cooperate to remove most of a volume of liquid on a microscope slide. Residual volumes of
liquid can be subsequently removed using the trailing gas knife 4842 and suction element 4852.
[0263] The liquid removal devices discloses herein can include a plurality of suction elements
capable of simultaneously or sequentially removing liquid from a microscope slide. By way of
example, a plurality of suction elements can be positioned between the sides of a gas curtain.
The number, position, and spacing of the suction elements can be selected based on the
configuration of the gas curtain. For example, two suction elements can be used with a W
shaped gas knife that produces a W-shaped gas curtain. Other numbers of suction elements can
be utilized for gas knives having other configurations.
[0264] Figures 76 is an isometric view of two gas knives 4910, 4912 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology. Figures 77 and 78 are side views of the two gas knives
4910, 4912. Referring now to Figure 76, the gas knives 4910, 4912 are spaced apart to produce
gas curtains 4920, 4922, respectively, that define a containment gap 4914 for holding a volume
of liquid 4916 (e.g., a film, a puddle, etc.). The gas knives 4910, 4912 can move together to
translate the volume of liquid 4916 along the slide 4020. For example, the gas knives 4910,
4912 can move back and forth to translate the volume of liquid 4916 across one or more
specimens 4930 (one identified in Figures 77 and 78). Figure 77 shows the volume of liquid
4916 partially covering one specimen 4930, and Figure 78 shows the volume of liquid 4916
covering three specimens 4930. The distance D between the gas knives 4910, 4912 can be
increased or decreased to increase or decrease the size of the gap 4914.
[0265] The specific embodiments of the dispenser apparatuses and its features have been
described herein for purposes of illustration, but various features have not been described for
clarity and numerous modifications may be made without deviating from the disclosure. The
head assemblies, liquid removal devices, and their components configured in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology can be used with a variety of vacuum systems,
pressurized gas systems, and stainer modules. For example, the liquid removal device 4700
discussed in connection with Figures 71-73, liquid removal devices 4800, 4840 discussed in
connection 20 with Figures 74 and 75, and gas knives 4910, 4912 discussed in connection with
Figures 76-78 can be incorporated into a wide range of different types of head assemblies and in
fluid communication with different types of vacuum systems/pressurized gas systems, etc.

                                                  77
Selected Examples of Thermal Management in Stainers
[0266] Implementing enhanced consistency and controllability of processing temperature in an
automated histological staining system can be technically challenging for a number of reasons.
First, the temperature in a typical histology laboratory typically varies over time due to cycling
of heating and air-conditioning equipment and/or other factors. Second, automated histological
staining systems are often located near other equipment (e.g., autoclaves, hoods, etc.) that
inconsistently cause local heating and/or cooling. Third, temperature sensitivities among the
diverse components of an automated histological staining system and among the diverse
operations performed within an automated histological staining system can vary significantly.
As another consideration, the processing liquids used in conventional automated histological
staining systems tend to be highly volatile and, therefore, may evaporate at an unacceptably high
rate at high temperatures. Evaporation is generally undesirable because it tends to be associated
with inconsistent evaporative cooling of specimens during temperature-dependent processing,
premature drying of specimens and associated drying artifacts, noxious odors, and heightened
explosion risks, among other issues. Inconsistent evaporative cooling, furthermore, may be
proportionally more problematic at high temperatures than at low temperatures since wet bulb
depression increases proportionally with dry bulb temperature at constant relative humidity.
Issues at relatively low temperatures include, among others, poor (e.g., unacceptably slow)
reaction kinetics for at least some staining reactions.
[0267] Given the presence of some or all of the associated technical challenges stated above
and/or other technical challenges not stated herein, selecting a strategy for enhancing
consistency and controllability of processing temperature in an automated histological staining
system is not trivial. In a system configured in accordance with a particular embodiment of the
present technology, this strategy includes heating an internal environment of a stainer of the
system to cause a baseline (e.g., set-point, steady-state, and/or average) temperature of the
internal environment to be within a range of greater than ambient temperatures. Processing
specimens at elevated temperatures rather than at depressed temperatures can be advantageous,
for example, because it can sufficiently distinguish the processing from ambient thermal
variability (i.e., ambient thermal "noise") without unduly slowing the kinetics of staining and/or
other temperature-dependent specimen processing reactions. Processing specimens at elevated
temperatures can actually improve the kinetics of at least some specimen-processing reactions
and, therefore, may increase system throughput. As another potential advantage, maintaining an

                                                  78
internal environment of a stainer at a baseline temperature within a range of greater than
ambient temperatures may be achievable via heating without accompanying cooling. Avoiding
the complexity, bulk, power consumption, and/or other drawbacks of cooling systems can be a
significant benefit. In embodiments in which specimens are processed at elevated temperatures,
evaporation and other challenges of processing-liquid compatibility can be addressed, for
example, by the selection of different (e.g., less volatile) processing liquids. A more detailed
discussion of this and other aspects of processing liquids used in conjunction with automated
histological staining systems configured in accordance with at least some embodiments of the
present technology is provided below in a separate subsection.
[0268] A suitable elevated baseline temperature for specimen processing may be selected as an
upper limit of expected ambient temperatures plus a suitable buffer. Sustained temperatures in
most histology laboratory environments are expected to fall within a range from 15'C to 320 C.
Equipment commonly located near automated histological staining systems in these
environments is expected to increase the local temperature around the systems by from 00 C to
40 C in most cases. A suitable buffer can be, for example, from 1C to 14'C. In at least some
cases, the reliability of certain components (e.g., valves) within or near a stainer of an automated
histological staining system may begin to diminish unduly and/or other negative consequences
may be associated with temperatures over 430 C, 450 C, 50'C, or another suitable threshold. With
these and/or other considerations in mind, specimen processing (e.g., staining) in accordance
with at least some embodiments of the present technology is carried out at a baseline
temperature within a range from 37 0 C to 43 0 C. In a particular embodiment, a baseline
temperature of an internal environment within a stainer during specimen processing (e.g.,
staining) is about 40'C. In other embodiments, other suitable baseline temperatures can be used,
such as other suitable baseline temperatures within a range from 350 C to 50'C.
[0269] Stainers within systems configured in accordance with at least some embodiments of the
present technology are internally heated by different types of heaters. For example, a stainer
configured in accordance with a particular embodiment includes one or more heaters that
internally heat the stainer primarily by forced convection and one or more heaters that internally
heat the stainer primarily by natural convection and/or thermal radiation. These heaters may
operate simultaneously or non-simultaneously. When present, heaters that heat primarily by
different respective heating modalities may complement one another. For example, a forced
convection heater may be well suited for elevating the temperature of an internal environment of

                                                  79
a stainer to a desired baseline temperature relatively quickly, but also prone to promoting
undesirable evaporation of processing liquids used within the internal environment. In contrast,
a heater with a significant mass that is heated conductively and transfers heat to an internal
environment of a stainer primarily by natural convection and/or thermal radiation may reach a
desired baseline temperature relatively slowly, but may be well-suited to maintaining the
baseline temperature over time without promoting undesirable evaporation of processing liquids
used within the internal environment. Other synergies are also possible.
[0270] Figure 79 is an isometric view of a stainer 5000 configured in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology. Figures 80-82 are cross-sectional views that illustrate
components within an internal environment 5002 of the stainer 5000. In particular, Figure 80 is
a cross-sectional side view taken along the line 80-80 in Figure 79. Figures 81 and 82 are cross
sectional plan views taken, respectively, along the lines 81-81 and 82-82 in Figure 80. With
reference to Figures 79-82 together, the stainer 5000 can include a stainer housing 5004 that
defines the internal environment 5002. In the illustrated embodiment, the stainer 5000 includes a
plate 5006 horizontally disposed at an intermediate elevation within the internal environment
5002. The plate 5006 can act as a thermal mass with sufficient bulk to modulate the amplitude
and/or frequency of transient temperature non-uniformities within the internal environment
5002. For example, the plate 5006 can have a uniform or non-uniform thickness greater than 0.5
centimeter, such as greater than 1 centimeter. Furthermore, the plate 5006 can be made of a
thermally conductive material, such as aluminum. This may expedite heat transfer between the
plate 5006 and gas (e.g., air) within the internal environment 5002, which may, in turn, expedite
equilibration of temperature non-uniformities within the internal environment 5002. In other
embodiments, the plate 5006 can be replaced or supplemented with a thermal mass having
another suitable form, position, and/or composition. In still other embodiments, the stainer 5000
can be without a thermal mass.
[0271] The plate 5006 can at least partially compartmentalize the internal environment 5002
into an upper region 5002a and a lower region 5002b. For example, the plate 5006 can occupy at
least 50% by area of a planar division between the upper and lower regions 5002a, 5002b.
Alternatively, the internal environment 5002 can be uncompartmentalized or compartmentalized
by a compartmentalizing structure other than the plate 5006. The stainer 5000 can include a
portal 5008 through which a slide carrier 5009 can be received into the lower region 5002b. The
portal 5008 can include a door 5010 configured to open by tilting into the internal environment

                                                   80
5002 rather than by tilting away from the internal environment 5002. This can be useful, for
example, to prevent the door 5010 from obstructing movement of the slide carrier 5009 laterally
to a handoff position just outside the portal 5008 when the door 5010 is open. The portal 5008
can also include a door sensor 5011 configured to detect whether the door 5010 is open or
closed. For example, the door sensor 5011 can include two separate sensors that respectively
detect the presence of the door 5010 in an open configuration and a closed configuration. The
door sensor 5011 can be operably connected to a controller (not shown), which can use
information from the door sensor 5011 to manage robotic movement of the slide carrier 5009.
[0272] Once inside the internal environment 5002, the slide carrier 5009 can be supported
within the lower region 5002b below a pair of openings 5012 in the plate 5006. The stainer
5000 can include processing heads 5014 (e.g., head assemblies) disposed at least primarily
within the upper region 5002a. For example, the processing heads 5014 can extend from the
upper region 5002a into the lower region 5002b toward the slide carrier 5009 through the
openings 5012, such as two processing heads 5014 through one opening 5012 and another two
processing heads 5014 through the other opening 5012 or in another suitable arrangement.
Alternatively, the processing heads 5014 can be disposed entirely within the upper region 5002a.
The plate 5006 can have a first major surface 5016 facing downward toward the slide carrier
5009 and a second major surface 5018 facing upward. Specimens (not shown) carried by slides
5020 (one identified) on the slide carrier 5009 can be relatively near to the first major surface
5016 of the plate 5006. For example, the individual slides 5020 can have a major surface on
which a specimen is disposed, and the major surfaces of the slides 5020 can be less than 2
centimeters, less than 3 centimeters, and/or less than 5 centimeters from the first major surface
5016 of the plate 5006. In this vicinity, the temperature modulating effect of the plate 5006 may
be stronger than it is at other portions of the internal environment 5002.
[0273] The stainer 5000 can include one or more internal heaters. These heaters can be
individually configured to internally heat the stainer 5000 primarily by forced convection,
natural convection, thermal radiation, or a combination thereof. For example, the stainer 5000
can include one or more conductive heating elements 5022 operably coupled to the plate 5006.
In the illustrated embodiment, the stainer 5000 includes four conductive heating elements 5022
(individually identified as conductive heating elements 5022a-5022d) operably coupled to
laterally spaced apart portions of the plate 5006 along the second major surface 5018 of the plate
5006. In other embodiments, the stainer 5000 can include another suitable number, type, and/or

                                                  81
position of conductive heating elements 5022 or no conductive heating elements 5022. The
conductive heating elements 5022 can be independently controlled. For example, the stainer
5000 can include temperature sensors (not shown) operably associated with respective laterally
spaced apart portions of the plate 5006. These temperatures sensors can provide input to
respective feedback control loops that control operation of respective conductive heating
elements 5022. In addition or alternatively, the stainer 5000 can include a temperature sensor
5023 configured to measure an air temperature within the internal environment 5002.
[0274] The stainer 5000 can further include one or more forced-convection heaters 5024. In the
illustrated embodiment the stainer 5000 includes two forced-convection heaters 5024
(individually identified as forced-convection heaters 5024a and 5024b) disposed within the
lower region 5002b. In other embodiments, the stainer 5000 can include another suitable
number, type, and/or position of forced convection heaters 5024 or no forced-convection heaters
5024. The individual forced-convection heaters 5024 can include a heating element (not shown),
a heat sink 5026 operably (e.g., conductively) coupled to the heating element, and a fan 5028
configured to propel gas (e.g., air) over a surface of the heat sink 5026. The heat sinks 5026 can
made of a thermally conductive material (e.g., aluminum) and can include features with
relatively high surface area to promote heat transfer to the propelled gas. For example, the heat
sinks 5026 can include, respectively, arrays of upwardly extending cylindrical aluminum
whiskers 5029 (one identified). The fans 5028 can be laterally spaced apart from the slide carrier
5009 and configured to blow gas diagonally upward. For example, the fans 5028 can be oriented
to have a predominant output direction at an angle from 20 degrees to 70 degrees off horizontal,
such as from 30 degrees to 60 degrees off horizontal. Having this orientation, the fans 5028 may
tend to blow gas toward a gap between the slide carrier 5009 and the first major surface 5016 of
the plate 5006. In at least some cases, steady movement of gas through this gap may enhance
temperature uniformity within the gap.
[0275] Figure 83 is a flow chart illustrating a method 5100 for operating the stainer 5000 in
accordance with an embodiment of the present technology. With reference to Figures 79-83
together, the method 5100 can begin with the stainer 5000 in an inactive state (block 5102). In
this state, the stainer 5000 may consume little or no power. From the inactive state, the stainer
5000 can be warmed up (block 5104). Warming up the stainer 5000 can include operating the
conductive heating elements 5022 and/or the forced-convection heaters 5024 to achieve a
suitable baseline temperature within the internal environment 5002. In at least some cases, the

                                                  82
stainer 5000 is warmed-up while specimens destined for processing within the internal
environment 5002 undergo processing that does not involve use of the stainer 5000, such as
processing within a drying oven (not shown). This may allow the stainer 5000 to be warmed-up
without delaying processing of the specimens. After the stainer 5000 is warmed up, if
processing of specimens using the stainer 5000 is not yet needed, the stainer 5000 can be
maintained in a standby state (block 5106). While in the standby state, the internal environment
5002 can be vacant, but still maintained at a baseline temperature within a range of greater than
ambient temperatures. In some embodiments, the stainer 5000 is maintained in the standby state
at all times or nearly all times when a system including the stainer 5000 is powered on and the
stainer 5000 is not in use. This can be useful, for example, to allow the stainer 5000 to have a
relatively low wattage allocation while still being ready for processing specimens on demand in
an acceptable time period. When a system includes multiple stainers 5000 and in other cases, the
wattage allocation available for the stainer 5000 may be relatively small, such as 200 Watts or
less.
[0276] Processing specimens within the stainer 5000 can begin when the slide carrier 5009 is
introduced into the internal environment 5002 (block 5108). Introducing the slide carrier 5009
can include opening the portal 5008, moving (e.g., robotically moving) the slide carrier 5009
toward and into the internal environment 5002, and then closing the portal 5008. Once inside the
internal environment 5002, the specimens can be processed (block 5110). A description of
specimen processing in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present technology is
provided below with reference to Figure 86. In at least some cases, after the specimens have
been processed, the slide carrier 5009 is held for a period of time within the stainer 5000 (block
5112). This may be the case, for example, when a processing station to which the slide carrier
5009 is to be delivered after exiting the stainer 5000 is not yet available. When such a
processing station becomes available or at another suitable time, the slide carrier 5009 can be
removed from the stainer 5000 (block 5114). Removing the slide carrier 5009 can include
opening the portal 5008, moving (e.g., robotically moving) the slide carrier 5009 out of the
internal environment 5002, and then closing the portal 5008. Thereafter, the method 5100 can
include determining whether the stainer 5000 should be shut down. If not, the stainer 5000 can
be put back into the standby state until needed for processing additional specimens.
[0277] During all or a suitable portion of the method 5100, the stainer 5000 can be internally
heated, such as by operating the conductive heating elements 5022 and/or the forced-convection

                                                  83
heaters 5024. This can cause an average temperature within the internal environment 5002 to be
greater than an ambient temperature, such as an average environmental temperature around an
exterior of the stainer housing 5004 within a main housing (not shown) of a system including
the stainer 5000. Operation of the conductive heating elements 5022 and/or the forced
convection heaters 5024 can be controlled to manage the temperature within the internal
environment 5002. For example, the conductive heating elements 5022 and/or the forced
convection heaters 5024 can be operated bimodally, progressively, and/or in another suitable
manner using one or more feedback loops. Input to the feedback loops can include
measurements of air temperature (e.g., from the temperature sensor 5023), measurements of
solid-material temperatures (e.g., from one or more temperature sensors connected to the plate
5006), and/or measurements of other suitable dynamic characteristics corresponding to
operation of the conductive heating elements 5022 and/or the forced-convection heaters 5024.
In some embodiments, the conductive heating elements 5022 and the forced convection heaters
5024 operate collectively. In other embodiments, the conductive heating elements 5022 operate
collectively and the forced-convection heaters 5024 operate collectively independently from the
conductive heating elements 5022. In still other embodiments, one or more of the individual
conductive heating elements 5022 operates independently and/or one or more of the individual
forced-convection heaters 5024 operates independently. Independent operation of at least some
of the individual conductive heating elements 5022 and/or the individual forced-convection
heaters 5024 may facilitate modulation of temperature non-uniformities within the internal
environment 5002. For example, the individual conductive heating elements 5022 can be
operated asynchronously to at least partially compensate for detected temperature non
uniformities between different laterally spaced apart portions of the plate 5006. Alternatively or
in addition, the individual conductive heating elements 5022 and the individual forced
convection heaters 5024 can operate independently in some instances and collectively in other
instances. For example, if the air temperature within the internal environment 5002 exceeds a set
upper threshold, the conductive heating elements 5022 and the forced-convection heaters 5024
can all be shut off to prevent the stainer 5000 from overheating. If the measured temperature
continues to rise beyond another threshold, power to the stainer 5000 can be shut off. This can
be useful, for example, to reduce or eliminate the risk of thermally damaging specimens within
the internal environment 5002.
[0278] Figure 84 is a plot 5200 of average temperature within the internal environment 5002 (y
axis) relative to time (x-axis) during the method 5100. Similarly, Figure 85 is a plot 5300 of

                                                   84
average airflow velocity within the internal environment 5002 (y-axis) relative to time (x-axis)
during the method 5100. For simplicity of illustration, the average temperature scale, the
average airflow velocity scale, and the time scales in Figures 84 and 85 are arbitrary. With
reference to Figures 79-85 together, when the stainer 5000 is inactive, the average temperature
can be the same as or near an ambient temperature. During this period, the forced-convection
heaters 5024 can be off and the average airflow velocity can be low. In contrast, during the
warm-up period, the forced-convection heaters 5024 can be operated aggressively, the average
airflow velocity can be high, and the average temperature can increase. When the average
temperature reaches a suitable baseline temperature for the standby state, operation of the
conductive heating elements 5022 and the forced-convection heaters 5024 can be controlled
based on feedback. A duty cycle or other similar operational parameter of the forced-convection
heaters 5024 may be lower when the stainer 5000 is in the standby state than when the stainer
5000 is warming-up. Accordingly, as shown in Figure 85, the average airflow velocity when the
stainer 5000 is in the standby state can be less than it is when the stainer 5000 is warming up.
[0279] Shortly before the door 5010 is opened and the slide carrier 5009 is introduced into the
internal environment 5002, active circulation of gas within the internal environment 5002 can be
suspended or slowed to reduce heat loss through the portal 5008. For example, the forced
convection heaters 5024 can be turned off or operated at a relatively low level. This can persist
until the slide carrier 5009 is fully introduced into the internal environment 5002 and the door
5010 is again closed. As shown in Figure 85, the average airflow velocity while the slide carrier
5009 is being introduced can be relatively low, such as less than 0.1 meters per second. Even if
the forced-convection heaters 5024 are off while the slide carrier 5009 is being introduced,
natural convection, residual forced convection, and/or other phenomena may cause the average
airflow velocity to be greater than it is when the stainer 5000 is inactive. As shown in Figure 84,
with less heating from the forced-convection heaters 5024 and with some heat loss through the
portal 5008, the average temperature may decrease while the slide carrier 5009 is being
introduced. Thereafter, while the slide carrier 5009 is within the internal environment 5002 and
the specimens are being processed, the average temperature can be relatively high, such as about
40'C or another suitable specimen-processing temperature within one of the ranges of specimen
processing temperatures discussed above. The specimens can be at least substantially in thermal
equilibrium with the internal environment 5002 while they are processed. For example, an
average temperature difference between the specimens can be less than 3C (e.g., less than 2'C)
while the specimens are being processed. A more detailed breakdown of the average

                                                  85
temperature and the average airflow velocity while the specimens are being processed is
provided below with reference to Figures 87 and 88.
[0280] While the specimens are being held within the internal environment 5002 after
processing, active circulation of gas within the internal environment 5002 can be suspended or
slowed. For example, the forced-convection heaters 5024 can be turned off or operated at a
relatively low level. This can be useful, for example, to reduce unnecessary evaporation of
liquid (e.g., conditioning liquid) in which the specimens are immersed. While the slide carrier
5009 is being removed from the internal environment 5002, the forced-convection heaters 5024
can remain off or operating at a relatively low level to reduce heat loss through the portal 5008.
As shown in Figure 85, the average airflow velocity while the specimens are being held and
while the slide carrier 5009 is being removed can be relatively low, such as less than 0.1 meters
per second. As shown in Figure 84, with less heating from the forced-convection heaters 5024,
the average temperature can decrease while the specimens are being held. Then, with some heat
loss through the portal 5008, the average temperature can continue to decrease. After the slide
carrier 5009 is removed and the portal 5008 is closed, the average temperature can progress
toward the average temperature when the stainer 5000 is inactive or the average temperature
with the stainer 5000 is in the standby state depending on whether the stainer 5000 is needed for
processing additional specimens.
[0281] Figure 86 is a flow chart illustrating a specimen-processing method 5400 corresponding
to the specimen-processing portion of the method 5100 (Figure 83). The method 5400 can
include first deparaffinizing the specimens (block 5402). Next, the specimens can be
conditioned a first time (block 5404), such as by reducing the hydrophobicity of the specimens
and/or otherwise chemically preparing the specimens for staining. The specimens can then be
subjected to a first washing (block 5406). After the first washing, the specimens can be stained
(block 5408) (e.g., non-immunohistochemically stained) and then subjected to a second washing
(block 5410). In some cases, the stain is then differentiated and regressed (block 5412) and the
specimens are subsequently subjected to a third washing (block 5414). After the third washing,
or directly after the second washing if no stain differentiating and regressing is performed, the
stain can be set and its hue adjusted (block 5416), such as by bluing or purpling. The specimens
can then be subjected to a fourth washing (block 5418). Next, the specimens can be
counterstained (block 5420) and then subjected to a fifth washing (block 5422) that can also
serve to differentiate and regress the counterstain. Finally, the specimens can be conditioned a

                                                  86
second time (block 5424), such as by increasing the hydrophobicity of the specimens and/or
otherwise chemically preparing the specimens for coverslipping.
[0282] Figure 87 is a plot 5500 of average temperature within the internal environment 5002 (y
axis) relative to time (x-axis) during the method 5400. Similarly, Figure 88 is a plot 5600 of
average airflow velocity within the internal environment 5002 (y-axis) relative to time (x-axis)
during the method 5400. For simplicity of illustration, the average temperature scale, the
average airflow velocity scale, and the time scales in Figures 87 and 88 are arbitrary. With
reference to Figures 79-88 together, during the deparaffinizing, the first transfer, and the first
wash, the forced convection heaters 5024 can be operated aggressively, the average airflow
velocity can be relatively high, and the average temperature can steadily increase. By the 20
time the first wash is complete, the average temperature and the average airflow velocity can
stabilize at respective baseline values. If the deparaffinizing, the first transfer, and the first wash
are not included in the method 5400 (e.g., when the method 5400 is based on a "stain only"
recipe), the specimens can be held until the baseline temperature is reached.
[0283] During staining, active circulation of gas within the internal environment 5002 can be
suspended or slowed. For example, the forced-convection heaters 5024 can be turned off or
operated at a relatively low level. This can be useful, for example, to reduce unnecessary
evaporation of staining liquid in which the specimens are immersed during relatively long
incubations. As shown in Figure 88, the average airflow velocity during staining can be
relatively low, such as less than 0.1 meters per second. As shown in Figure 87, with less heating
from the forced-convection heaters 5024, the average temperature can decrease. During the
second wash, the average airflow velocity can be relatively high and the average temperature
can increase. Thereafter, the average airflow velocity and the average temperature can stabilize
at respective baseline values until the second transfer. During the second transfer, operation of
the forced-convection heaters 5024 can transition toward the operation described above with
reference to Figures 84 and 85 while the specimens are being held. For example, during the
second transfer, the forced-convection heaters 5024 can be turned off or operated at a relatively
low level.
[0284] In some embodiments, the average temperature during different portions of the method
5400 is adjustable to affect the attributes of specimens processed using the stainer 5000. For
example, the average temperature immediately before and/or during staining can be selected to

                                                 87
control the intensity of the resulting stain. Similarly, the average temperature immediately
before and/or during counterstaining can be selected to control the intensity of the resulting
counterstain. Alternatively or in addition, these average temperatures can be selected in
conjunction with one another so as to control the color balance of the stained specimens. For
example, the average temperature immediately before and/or during staining can be selected to
be the same as or different than the average temperature immediately before and/or during
counterstaining. In other embodiments, the average temperature during different portions of the
method 5400 can be non-adjustable.
[0285] Recipes according to which the specimens are processed may have one or more
temperature components. For example, a given recipe may specify an average temperature for
staining and an average temperature for counterstaining. When specimens are processed
according to the recipe, operation of the conductive heating elements 5022 and the forced
convection heaters 5024 can be controlled to achieve the specified temperatures. The average
temperatures can be calculated automatically based on a user's indication of a desired attribute
for the specimens. For example, a user may select from a list of specimen attributes (e.g., levels
of stain intensity) and the system may calculate appropriate temperatures alone or in conjunction
with appropriate times necessary for achieving the selected attributes. The attributes can
include, for example, stain intensity, staining hue, counterstain intensity, counterstaining hue,
and/or staining color balance. In other embodiments, average temperatures can be entered
manually. As with other suitable operations carried out within the system, a controller (not
shown) can use processing circuitry (also not shown) to execute computer-readable instructions
stored on memory (also not shown) in a non-transitory form to control heating and related
operations within the stainer 5000.
Selected Examples of Specimen-Processing Liquids
[0286] Specimen processing using an automated histological system may include contacting
specimens and a series of liquids. The series of liquids can include, for example, a
deparaffinizing liquid, a conditioning liquid, a staining reagent, a stain differentiating reagent, a
stain-setting reagent, a counterstaining reagent, a washing liquid, and a coverslipping liquid.
With reference to Figure 86, during deparaffinizing, a paraffin composition in which the
specimens are embedded can be at least partially removed so as to expose the specimens for
further processing.   In at least some cases, deparaffinizing includes iterations (e.g., 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,

                                                   88
or 10 another suitable number of iterations) of dispensing a deparaffinizing liquid onto slides
respectively carrying the specimens, allowing the dispensed deparaffinizing liquid to remain in
contact with a paraffin composition in which the specimens are embedded for a suitable period
of time so as to solubilize a portion of the paraffin composition (e.g., while the deparaffinizing
liquid is in the form of a puddle having a shape maintained at least partially by surface tension),
and then removing the dispensed deparaffinizing liquid along with a solubilized portion of the
paraffin composition. The time during which the dispensed deparaffinizing liquid is in contact
with the specimens can be, for example, a time within a range from 15 seconds to 45 seconds. In
a particular example, the time is 30 seconds. Conventional deparaffinizing liquids at least
typically include xylene, which has relatively high toxicity and volatility and a relatively low
flash point. Conventional alternatives to xylene include monoterpenes, such as limonene and
pinene. Although monoterpenes tend to be less toxic than xylene, other properties of
monoterpenes may be very similar to those of xylene. For example, monoterpenes may have
relatively high volatilities and relatively low flash points.
[0287] Operating stainers of automated histological systems at elevated baseline temperatures
may preclude or at least complicate the use of xylene, monoterpenes, and other conventional
deparaffinizing liquids, such as by exacerbating problematic evaporation of these
deparaffinizing liquids. The elevated baseline temperatures, however, may also facilitate the use
of different deparaffinizing liquids, such as deparaffinizing liquids that would be comparatively
poor solvents of paraffin compositions at ambient temperatures. Instead of xylene or
monoterpenes, deparaffinizing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with at least some
embodiments of the present technology include one or more alkanes, such as one or more
petroleum distillate alkanes. The toxicities and volatilities of these deparaffinizing liquids can be
lower and the flash points of these deparaffinizing liquids can be higher than those of
conventional deparaffinizing liquids, such as xylene and monoterpenes. Due to these and/or
other differences, deparaffinizing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology can be relatively well suited for use in stainers that
operate at elevated baseline temperatures.
[0288] In addition to or instead of being relatively well suited for use in stainers that operate at
elevated baseline temperatures, deparaffinizing liquids selected or formulated in accordance
with at least some embodiments of the present technology are well-suited for other uses for
which xylene, monoterpenes, and other conventional deparaffinizing liquids would be poorly

                                                 89
suited. As an example, deparaffinizing liquids selected or formulated in accordance at least
some embodiments of the present technology are well-suited for forming hydrophobic barriers
on specimen-bearing surfaces of slides. These hydrophobic barriers can at least partially block
undesirable migration of less hydrophobic (e.g., hydrophilic) liquids during specimen
processing subsequent to deparaffinizing. Forming hydrophobic barriers for reducing wetting of
labels on specimen-bearing surfaces of slides is discussed above with reference to Figures 36
38. Other uses for hydrophobic barriers are also possible.
[0289] Deparaffinizing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with at least some
embodiments of the present technology have a C9-C 18 alkane concentration greater than 50%
by volume, such as a C1 0-C 16 alkane concentration greater than 50% by volume. The alkane
concentration can include a single alkane or multiple alkanes. Furthermore, the alkanes can be
linear, branched, cyclic, or another suitable form. Deparaffinizing liquids selected or formulated
in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present technology have a C14-C16 alkane
concentration from 10% to 30% by volume and a C9-C15 alkane concentration from 7 0% to
90% by volume. For example, a deparaffinizing liquid selected or formulated in accordance with
a particular embodiment of the present technology includes 20% by volume C 14-C16 alkane
petroleum distillate and 80% by volume C9-C15 alkane petroleum distillate. Suitable C14-C16
alkane petroleum distillates include, for example, Linpar* 1416V available from Sasol Limited
(Johannesburg, South Africa). Suitable C9-C15 alkane petroleum distillates include, for
example, Drakesol* 165AT available from Calumet Specialty Products Partners, L.P.
(Indianapolis, Indiana). The flash points of these and other deparaffinizing liquids selected or
formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can be greater than 80'C,
such as greater than 100 C.
[0290] Instead of being completely free of terpenes, deparaffinizing liquids selected or
formulated in accordance with some embodiments of the present technology include a
monoterpene (e.g., limonene or pinene) or another suitable terpene together with a less volatile
component. The terpene, for example, can be well suited for dissolving paraffin and the less
volatile component can be well suited for forming a hydrophobic barrier. Examples of suitable
less volatile components include lipids, such as vegetable oils (e.g., peanut oil). A
deparaffinizing liquid selected or formulated in accordance with a particular embodiment of the
present technology includes 80% limonene and 20% vegetable oil. In at least some cases, these
deparaffinizing liquids may be biodegradable.

                                                  90
[0291] After deparaffinizing, the specimens may have a residual hydrophobicity that would be
incompatible with staining. The first conditioning of the specimens after deparaffinizing can
include reducing this hydrophobicity. In at least some cases, the first conditioning includes
dispensing a conditioning liquid onto the slides, allowing the dispensed conditioning liquid to
remain in contact with the specimens for a suitable period of time so as to wholly or
incrementally condition the specimens (e.g., while the conditioning liquid is in the form of a
puddle having a shape maintained at least partially by surface tension), and then removing the
dispensed conditioning liquid. The time during which the dispensed conditioning liquid is in
contact with the specimens can be, for example, a time within a range from 5 seconds to 15
seconds. In a particular example, the time is 10 seconds. The conditioning liquid can be a liquid
that is soluble in both a hydrophobic deparaffinizing liquid and water.
[0292] Conventional methods for conditioning specimens after deparaffinizing and before
staining at least typically include contacting specimens with anhydrous ethanol and then with
graded ethanol and water mixtures having decreasing concentrations of ethanol and increasing
concentrations of water. For example, a conventional method may include contacting specimens
with anhydrous ethanol, then a mixture of 95% ethanol and 5% water, and then a mixture of
90% ethanol and 10% water. The initial contact with anhydrous ethanol may serve to displace
the deparaffinizing liquid. The subsequent contact with graded ethanol and water mixtures may
serve to prepare the specimens for contact with aqueous solutions. Without the initial contact
with anhydrous ethanol, residual deparaffinizing liquid would likely persist. Without the
subsequent contact with graded ethanol and water mixtures (i.e., if the specimens were
contacted with an aqueous solution directly after being contacted with anhydrous ethanol),
delicate specimens would likely be damaged.
[0293] The use of anhydrous ethanol and graded ethanol and water mixtures for conditioning
deparaffinized specimens in conventional methods is problematic for several reasons. Ethanol,
like xylene and monoterpenes, has a relatively low flash point and a relatively high volatility.
For these and/or other reasons, ethanol may be poorly suited for use at elevated baseline
temperatures, which tend to exacerbate problematic evaporation. Problematic evaporation of
ethanol may even occur at ambient temperatures. Furthermore, anhydrous ethanol readily
absorbs moisture from air. For this reason, protocols associated with storage and use of
anhydrous ethanol tend to be burdensome. As yet another drawback, separate plumbing and/or
other separate components for anhydrous ethanol and for each different graded ethanol and

                                                  91
water mixture can appreciably increase the cost, complexity, and/or bulk of automated
histological systems.
[0294] Instead of anhydrous ethanol and graded ethanol and water mixtures, conditioning
liquids selected or formulated in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present
technology include one or more glycol ethers, such as one or more propylene-based glycol
ethers (e.g., propylene glycol ethers, di(propylene glycol) ethers, and tri(propylene glycol)
ethers, ethylene-based glycol ethers (e.g., ethylene glycol ethers, di(ethylene glycol) ethers, and
tri(ethylene glycol) ethers), and functional analogs thereof. The flash points and volatilities of
these conditioning liquids can be higher and lower, respectively, than those of conventional
conditioning liquids, such as ethanol and graded ethanol and water mixtures. Due to these and/or
other differences, conditioning liquids selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments
of the present technology can be relatively well suited for use at elevated baseline temperatures.
Furthermore, relative to anhydrous alcohol, conditioning liquids selected or formulated in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology may have longer shelf lives and may
have few, if any, special storage and use requirements.
[0295] In at least some cases, conditioning liquids selected or formulated in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology are configured for use in a single formulation. For
example, in these cases, it may be possible, without determent, to contact a specimen with one
or more volumes of a single formulation of a conditioning liquid so as to displace residual
quantities of a deparaffinizing liquid (e.g., a C9-C18 alkane) and then contact the specimen with
an aqueous wash without intervening contact between the specimen and a diluted formulation of
the conditioning liquid. The risk of damage to these specimens may be negligible or at least less
than it would be if the specimens were contacted with the same aqueous solution directly after
being contacted with anhydrous ethanol. Furthermore, the number of operations involved in
conditioning specimens using conditioning liquids selected or formulated in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology may be less than it would be using conventional
conditioning liquids. For example, conditioning specimens in methods in accordance with at
least some embodiments of the present technology includes three or fewer iterations of
dispensing a conditioning liquid onto slides respectively carrying the specimens, allowing the
dispensed conditioning liquid to remain in contact with the specimens for a suitable period of
time so as to wholly or incrementally condition the specimens, and then removing the dispensed
conditioning liquid. A specimen processing method in accordance with a particular embodiment

                                                 92
of the present technology includes two such iterations. In contrast, a typical conventional
specimen-processing method includes five or more corresponding iterations. The relatively low
number of iterations associated with conditioning in specimen processing methods in
accordance with at least some embodiments of the present technology can increase specimen
processing throughput and/or have other benefits.
[0296] Conditioning liquids selected or formulated in accordance with at least some
embodiments of the present technology have greater volumetric concentrations of polyol than of
monohydric alcohol or of water. For example, the conditioning liquids can be non-aqueous and
can include greater than 50% by volume glycol ether, such as greater than 50% by volume
di(propylene glycol) ether and/or tri(propylene glycol) ether. A non-aqueous conditioning liquid
selected or formulated in accordance with a particular embodiment includes at least substantially
exclusively a mixture of di(propylene glycol) methyl ether and di(propylene glycol) propyl
ether. A non-aqueous conditioning liquid selected or formulated in accordance with another
embodiment of the present technology includes at least substantially exclusively di(propylene
glycol) propyl ether. Suitable glycol ethers include, for example, DOWANOL products
available from Dow Chemical Company (Midland, Michigan). These and other conditioning
liquids selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can
have flash points greater than 70'C, such as greater than 80'C.
[0297] After deparaffinizing and conditioning, the first washing can include iterations (e.g., 2, 3,
or another suitable number of iterations) of dispensing a washing liquid onto the slides, allowing
the dispensed washing liquid to remain in contact with the specimens for a suitable period of
time so as to wholly or incrementally wash the specimens (e.g., while the washing liquid is in
the form of a puddle having a shape maintained at least partially by surface tension), and then
removing the dispensed washing liquid. The time during which the dispensed washing liquid is
in contact with the specimens can be, for example, a time within a range from 5 seconds to 15
seconds. In a specimen-processing method in accordance with a particular embodiment of the
present technology, this time is 10 seconds. Conventionally, pure deionized water is used as a
washing liquid. In contrast, washing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology can include deionized water along with a solvent. The
solvent, for example, can be a polyol, such as propylene glycol. For example, the washing liquid
can include from 40% to 60% by volume polyol, such as from 40% to 60% by volume
propylene glycol. As further discussed below, the solvent in the washing liquid can be the same

                                                  93
as, within the same chemical class as, or otherwise functionally analogous to solvents included
in other liquids that contact the specimens after the first washing. Including the solvent in the
washing liquid can be useful to condition the specimens for contacting these other liquids. As
discussed below, in at least some cases, the washing liquid is used for counterstain
differentiating and regressing in addition to washing. In these cases, the solvent concentration in
the washing liquid can be selected both to facilitate the performance of the washing liquid for
counterstain differentiating and regressing and to promote compatibility with other specimen
processing liquids.
[0298] Washing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with at least some embodiments of
the present technology include a surfactant to facilitate spreading of the washing liquids over the
specimen-bearing surfaces of the slides. The surfactant can be selected to have little or no
negative impact on specimen processing operations subsequent to the first washing. For
example, the surfactant can be non-ionic so as to reduce or prevent undesirable buffering. In at
least some cases, the surfactant includes an ethoxylated alcohol and/or a glycol ether. Suitable
ethoxylated alcohol surfactants include, for example, TOMADOL* 900 available from Air
Products and Chemicals, Inc. (Allentown, Pennsylvania) and Merpol SH* available from Stepan
Company (Northfield, Illinois). Suitable glycol ether surfactants include, for example,
TERGITOL* NP-9 available from Dow Chemical Company (Midland, Michigan).
[0299] After the first washing, staining the specimens can include dispensing a staining reagent
onto the slides, allowing the dispensed staining reagent to remain in contact with the specimens
for a suitable staining incubation time so as to stain the specimens (e.g., while the staining
reagent is in the form of a puddle having a shape maintained at least partially by surface
tension), and then removing the dispensed staining reagent. The staining incubation time can be,
for example, within a range from 1 minute to 20 minutes. In a specimen-processing method in
accordance with a particular embodiment of the present technology, the staining incubation time
is 2 minutes. The staining reagent can be selected or formulated to adequately stain nuclear
components of the specimens without causing unacceptable staining of non-nuclear components
of the specimens or other forms of unacceptable non-specific background staining. The staining
reagent can be a non-immunohistochemical staining reagent, such as a non
immunohistochemical staining reagent including hematoxylin/hematein, a mordant, and a
solvent. The solvent can serve to maintain hematein and hematein-mordant complexes in
solution. In conventional staining reagents, the solvent is often ethanol. As discussed above in

                                                   94
conjunction with the conditioning liquid, use of ethanol in automated histological systems, such
as automated histological systems including stainers configured to operate at elevated baseline
temperatures, can be problematic. Furthermore, staining incubations tend to be relatively long,
which may exacerbate the potential negative effect of ethanol's tendency to evaporate rapidly.
[0300] Instead of ethanol, staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with at least
some embodiments of the present technology include a polyol, such as ethylene glycol,
propylene glycol, or a combination thereof. For example, the staining reagents can include
greater than 10% by volume polyol, such as from 10% to 40% by volume polyol. As discussed
below, staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with at least some embodiments
of the present technology include relatively low concentrations of mordant. This can allow for
the use of relatively high concentrations of solvent, such as concentrations greater than 20% by
volume. In conventional staining reagents with average or high mordant concentrations, these
concentrations of solvent may prevent the mordant from adequately dissolving.
[0301] Variables that can affect the intensity and selectivity of hematoxylin stain include the pH
of the staining reagent, the concentration of mordant in the staining reagent, the concentration of
hematoxylin/hematein in the staining reagent, and the staining incubation temperature.
Independently, the pH of the staining reagent, the concentration of hematoxylin/hematein in the
staining reagent, and the staining incubation temperature tend to be directly proportional to the
rate at which stain intensity increases, while the concentration of mordant in the staining reagent
tends to be inversely proportional to the rate at which stain intensity increases. In general, the
rate at which stain intensity increases is inversely proportional to staining selectivity. Thus,
independently, the pH of the staining reagent, the concentration of hematoxylin/hematein in the
staining reagent, and the staining incubation temperature tend to be inversely proportional to
staining selectivity, while the concentration of mordant in the staining reagent tends to be
directly proportional to staining selectivity. The same correlations may also apply to the effect
of the pH of the staining reagent, the concentration of hematoxylin/hematein in the staining
reagent, and the concentration of mordant in the staining reagent on shelf-life.
[0302] Greater rates at which stain intensity increases, greater staining selectivity, and greater
shelf life all tend to be desirable properties. For example, greater rates at which stain intensity
increases may enhance specimen-processing throughput, greater shelf life may enhance
convenience for users, and greater staining selectivity may enhance stain quality. Although the

                                                  95
variables that affect these features can be considered independently, they may actually be highly
interrelated. Attributes of staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology may allow the staining reagents to take advantage of one
or more of the interrelationships among these variables to enhance the balance of staining speed,
staining selectivity, and shelf-life. Furthermore, staining reagents selected or formulated in
accordance with at least some embodiments of the present technology have properties that
facilitate adjusting hue and/or intensity of nuclear staining via time and/or temperature. These
staining reagents can be well suited for use in at least some stainers having temperature
controlled internal environments in automated histological systems configured in accordance
with embodiments of the present technology.
[0303] During hematoxylin staining, the stain intensity may increase steadily until equilibrium
is reached. At equilibrium, the rate of deposition of hematein-mordant complexes from the
staining reagent onto the specimen and the rate of release of hematein-mordant complexes from
the specimen into the staining reagent may be approximately equal. The stain intensity at
equilibrium tends to be highly dependent on the hematoxylin/hematein concentration in the
staining reagent. Staining reagents with relatively low hematoxylin/hematein concentrations
may reach equilibrium at relatively low stain intensities. Thus, these staining reagents may not
be capable of producing dark stains even after long staining incubation times. This, coupled with
the conventional assumption that the low staining incubation times for producing light stains
using staining reagents with relatively high hematoxylin/hematein concentrations are too
difficult to control, has motivated the conventional use of two or more different formulations of
hematoxylin/hematein staining reagents in order to produce a full range of hematoxylin stain
intensities. For example, a conventional set of staining reagents for producing a full range of
hematoxylin stain intensities at least typically includes one or more staining reagents with
relatively high hematoxylin/hematein concentrations for producing dark stains that cannot be
produced using staining reagents with relatively low hematoxylin/hematein concentrations and
one or more staining reagents with relatively low hematoxylin/hematein concentrations for
producing light stains considered too difficult to produce using staining reagents with relatively
high hematoxylin/hematein concentrations.
[0304] Automated histological systems configured in accordance with embodiments of the
present technology and sets of liquids selected or formulated for use with these systems can be
capable of reliably achieving a full range of hematoxylin stain intensities using a single

                                                  96
hematoxylin staining reagent formulation. For example, the control over staining incubation
time achievable with these systems may make it possible to reliably achieve light stains using
staining reagents with relatively high hematoxylin/hematein concentrations. Accordingly,
staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with at least some embodiments of the
present technology can have relatively high hematoxylin/hematein concentrations, such as
hematoxylin/hematein concentrations within a range from 5 to 6.5 grams per liter, within a
range from 5.75 to 6.3 grams per liter, or within another suitable range. In at least some cases,
the hematoxylin/hematein concentrations of the staining reagents are selected to be as high as
possible without unacceptably diminishing shelf life due to the formation of precipitate. The
staining reagents can further include sodium iodate or another suitable oxidizing agent to
chemically accelerate ripening of hematoxylin into hematein. The concentration of sodium
iodate in the staining reagents can be, for example, less than 10% by weight.
[0305] Use of staining reagents having relatively high hematoxylin/hematein concentrations can
advantageously reduce staining incubation times and thereby increase specimen-processing
throughput. It is expected that this advantage may exist even with respect to staining reagents
having relatively low pH. Thus, it may be possible to take advantage of the expected benefit of
relatively low pH on staining selectivity without unduly sacrificing staining speed. The pH of
staining reagents having relatively high hematoxylin/hematein concentrations and other staining
reagents selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can
be, for example, within a range from 2.4 to 2.6, within a range from 2.45 to 2.54, or within
another suitable range. In at least some cases, the pH is selected to be as low as possible without
risking unacceptable damage to specimens, such as damage due to acid hydrolysis of lipids
within the specimens. These staining reagents can be buffered or unbuffered. When buffered,
the staining reagents can include a suitable buffering agent, such as phthalic acid,
chloroacetates, sulfates, glycine, and alanine.
[0306] Staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with at least some embodiments
of the present technology have enhanced sensitivity to temperature. When used in temperature
controlled stainers of automated histological systems configured in accordance with at least
some embodiments of the present technology, staining incubation temperature can be used alone
or in conjunction with staining incubation time to control stain intensity. In general, higher
temperatures may cause staining speed to increase and staining selectivity to decrease and lower
temperatures may cause staining speed to decrease and staining selectivity to increase.

                                                   97
Temperature can also affect stain intensity at equilibrium. In at least some cases, temperature
dependent staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the
present technology have relatively low mordant concentrations. The stain intensity at
equilibrium using these staining reagents may be significantly more sensitive to temperature
than the stain intensity at equilibrium using staining reagents having higher mordant
concentrations.
[0307] It is expected that staining using a staining reagent having a relatively low mordant
concentration can be taken to equilibrium at different staining incubation temperatures to
achieve a full range of stain intensities. Alternatively, staining using these staining reagents can
be stopped before it reaches equilibrium and temperature and time can be used together to
achieve some or all intensities within the full range of stain intensities. In at least some cases,
staining incubation temperature and time can be modified readily. Thus, a user may be able to
use a single staining reagent and select temperature to favor staining speed at the expense of
some staining selectivity or to favor staining selectivity at the expense of some staining speed
depending on circumstances. Suitable concentrations of mordant in temperature-dependent
staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present
technology can be less than 150% (e.g., less than 125% or less than 100%) of the concentration
of hematoxylin/hematein in the staining reagents. The mordant can be an aluminum salt, such as
aluminum sulfate hydrate. Salts of other metals (e.g., iron, copper, vanadium, molybdenum,
tungsten, indium, nickel, zinc, barium, cobalt, and manganese) can be used instead of aluminum
salt to achieve different stain hues and/or selectivities.
[0308] Staining reagents selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present
technology can include other suitable components in addition to solvent, hematoxylin/hematein,
buffer, and mordant. For example, the staining reagents can include one or more antioxidants.
Antioxidants can be useful, for example, to reduce the formation of precipitate and thereby
extend the shelf life of staining reagents. When present, suitable antioxidants include, among
others, phenolic antioxidants, such as gallic acid and hydroquinone. As another example, the
staining reagents can include one or more stabilizers, such as beta-cyclodextrin or other suitable
cyclodextrins. A staining reagent selected or formulated in accordance with a particular
embodiment of the present technology includes 747 mL of deionized water, 252.7 mL of
ethylene glycol, 6.06 grams of hematoxylin, 0.65 grams of sodium iodate, 26.67 grams of
aluminum sulfate hydrate, 9.32 grams of hydroquinone, and 11.35 grams of beta-cyclodextrin.

                                                   98
[0309] After staining, the second washing can be used to remove residual staining reagent from
the specimens and to increase the pH of the liquid content of the specimens sufficiently to halt
further staining. The second washing can include use of the same washing liquid and protocol
discussed above for the first washing. After the second washing, stain differentiating can be
performed to at least partially remove stain from mucin and other non-nuclear portions of the
specimens. In at least some cases, stain regressing to lighten nuclear staining of the specimens
occurs in conjunction with stain differentiating. Stain differentiating and regressing can include
dispensing a stain-differentiating liquid onto the slides, allowing the dispensed stain
differentiating liquid to remain in contact with the specimens for a suitable period of time so as
to cause sufficient stain differentiating and regressing (e.g., while the stain-differentiating liquid
is in the form of a puddle having a shape maintained at least partially by surface tension), and
then removing the dispensed stain-differentiating liquid. The time during which the dispensed
stain differentiating liquid is in contact with the specimens can be, for example, a time within a
range from 30 to 120 seconds.
[0310] The stain-differentiating liquid can be acidic and can include deionized water, an acid
(e.g., acetic acid), and a solvent. As with the washing liquid and the staining reagent, the solvent
can be a polyol, such as ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, or a combination thereof. For
example, the stain-differentiating liquid can include greater than 10% by volume polyol, such as
from 10% to 40% by volume polyol. The use of at least some conventional stain-differentiating
liquids, especially in conjunction with relatively long stain-differentiating incubations, may
cause morphological damage to structures within specimens. The use of a polyol solvent in
stain-differentiating liquids configured in accordance with at least some embodiments of the
present technology may help to condition these structures against this type of morphological
damage. In addition or alternatively, stain differentiating liquids configured in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology can include relatively low concentrations of acid to
further reduce the possibility of causing morphological damage to structures within specimens.
For example, the pH of these stain-differentiating liquids can be greater than 2.5, such as greater
than 2.7. A stain-differentiating liquid selected or formulated in accordance with a particular
embodiment of the present technology includes about 700 mL deionized water, 4 mL glacial
acetic acid, and 250 mL of propylene glycol. The pH of the stain-differentiating liquid can be,
for example, within a range from 2.9 to 3.1.

                                                  99
[0311] In at least some cases, in addition to being used for stain differentiating and regressing,
the stain-differentiating liquid can be used to remove and/or reduce formation of hematoxylin
containing precipitates within components of automated histological systems. For example, in
these cases, the stain-differentiating liquid can be flushed through lines and other components of
the system that ordinarily carry the staining reagent to remove and/or reduce formation of
hematoxylin-containing precipitates. In addition to or instead of using the stain-differentiating
liquid, systems configured in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can use
one or more other cleaning liquids for this purpose and/or other purposes. A cleaning liquid
selected or formulated in accordance with a particular embodiment of the present technology
includes about 480 mL deionized water, 500 mL propylene glycol, and 16.67 mL 6N
hydrochloric acid. A cleaning liquid selected or formulated in accordance with another
embodiment of the present technology includes 450 mL deionized water, 500 mL propylene
glycol, 59 grams trisodium citrate dihydrate, and 50 mL IN hydrochloric acid.
[0312] After stain differentiating and regressing, the third washing can be used to remove
residual stain-differentiating liquid from the specimens. The third washing can include use of
the same washing liquid and protocol discussed above in the context of the first and second
washings. After the third washing, stain setting and hue adjusting (e.g., bluing or purpling) can
include exposing the specimens to an environment that tends to stabilize hematoxylin-mordant
DNA complexes and to change the stain hue. Stain setting and hue adjusting can include
dispensing a stain-setting reagent onto the slides, allowing the dispensed stain-setting reagent to
remain in contact with the specimens for a suitable period of time so as to cause sufficient stain
setting and hue adjusting (e.g., while the stain-setting reagent is in the form of a puddle having a
shape maintained at least partially by surface tension), and then removing the dispensed stain
setting reagent. The time during which the dispensed stain-setting reagent is in contact with the
specimens can be, for example, about 30 seconds. The stain-setting reagent can include an
alkaline solution (e.g., a buffered alkaline solution) and a solvent. As with the washing liquid,
the staining reagent, and the stain-differentiating liquid, the solvent can be a polyol, such as
ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, or a combination thereof. For example, the stain-setting
reagent can include greater than 10% by volume polyol, such as from 10% to 60% by volume
polyol. A stain-setting reagent selected or formulated in accordance with a particular
embodiment of the present technology includes about 700 mL deionized water, 12.1 grams of
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane, 28.4 mL of hydrochloric acid, and 250 mL of propylene
glycol.

                                                  100
[0313] The pH of the stain-setting reagent can be selected to change the hue of the stain. For
example, stain-setting reagents having higher pH can cause more rapid progression to a blue
color than stain-setting reagents having lower pH. Thus, given a set period of time during which
specimens are exposed to a stain-setting reagent, if the stain-setting reagent has a relatively high
pH (e.g., greater than 9), the resulting stain may be blue, whereas if the stain-setting reagent has
a relatively low pH (e.g., less than 8), the resulting stain may be purple. Furthermore, when the
period of time during which specimens are exposed to a stain-setting reagent is relatively long
and the stain-setting reagent has a relatively low pH (e.g., less than 8), the temperature during
stain setting and hue adjusting can be used to change stain hue, such as the relative level of
bluing. As discussed above in the context of changing temperature to adjust stain intensity,
temperature can be more convenient to adjust than the properties (e.g., pH) of a liquid used
during specimen-processing. Therefore, the ability to control hue via temperature can be a
useful feature. Temperature adjustment can also be used in conjunction with pH adjustment to
achieve a desired hue, such as a desired level of bluing.
[0314] After stain setting and hue adjusting, the fourth washing can be used to remove residual
stain-setting reagent from the specimens. The fourth washing can include use of the same
washing liquid discussed above in the context of the first, second, and third washings. In at least
some cases, the fourth washing includes a greater number of iterations than the first, second, and
third washings, such as three instead of two. After the fourth washing, counterstaining the
specimens can include dispensing a counterstaining reagent onto the slides, allowing the
dispensed counterstaining reagent to remain in contact with the specimens for a suitable
counterstaining incubation time so as to counterstaining the specimens (e.g., while the
counterstaining reagent is in the form of a puddle having a shape maintained at least partially by
surface tension), and then removing the dispensed counterstaining reagent. The counterstaining
incubation time can be, for example, a time within a range from 30 seconds to 5 minutes. In a
specimen-processing method in accordance with a particular embodiment of the present
technology, the counterstaining incubation time is 2 minutes.
[0315] The counterstaining reagent can be selected or formulated to adequately counterstain the
specimens, such as to allow for proper differentiation between cytoplasmic and connective
tissue. Furthermore, the counterstaining reagent can be further selected or formulated to achieve
a desired stain hue, such as to have a pH that causes a desired stain hue. Counterstaining
reagents selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can

                                                  101
include deionized water, a counterstaining dye (e.g., eosin), and a solvent to maintain the
counterstaining dye in solution. As with the washing liquid, the staining reagent, the stain
differentiating liquid, and the stain-setting reagent, the solvent can be a polyol, such as ethylene
glycol, propylene glycol, or a combination thereof. For example, the counterstaining reagent can
include greater than 30% by volume polyol, such as from 30% to 70% by volume polyol and, in
some cases, from 40% to 60% polyol. A counterstaining reagent selected or formulated in
accordance with a particular embodiment of the present technology includes about 500 mL
deionized water, 750 milligrams of eosin Y, 1 mL of glacial acetic acid, and 500 mL of
propylene glycol. The counterstaining reagent can have a pH, for example, within a range from
3.65 to 4.25. This pH may be lower than the pH of conventional eosin counterstaining reagents.
It may be possible, for example, to prevent eosin Y from converting into a free acid at lower pH
values (e.g., pH values less than 4) in propylene glycol than in ethanol. Counterstaining reagents
selected or formulated in accordance with other embodiments of the present technology can
include higher concentrations of eosin, such as a concentration of 5.4 grams of eosin Y per liter.
These counterstaining reagents, for example, can rely heavily on regression to achieve a desired
counterstain intensity.
[0316] After counterstaining, the fifth washing can be used to remove residual counterstaining
reagent from the specimens. The fifth washing can also be used to differentiate and regress the
counterstain. When the counterstain is an eosin counterstain, the counterstain differentiating can
cause erythrocytes, collagen, and cytoplasm of muscle or epithelial cells within the specimens to
be stained three different shades of pink, with cytoplasm having the lightest shade, erythrocytes
having the darkest shade, and collagen having an intermediate shade. Conventional counterstain
differentiating and regressing is at least typically carried out in conjunction with dehydrating
specimens. For example, conventional counterstain differentiating and regressing at least
typically includes contacting specimens with graded ethanol and water mixtures having
increasing concentrations of ethanol and decreasing concentrations of water and then contacting
the specimens with anhydrous alcohol.
[0317] The fifth washing can include use of the same washing liquid discussed above in the
context of the first, second, third, and fourth washings. In some cases, the duration of one or
more iterations of the fifth washing is adjustable to control the level of counterstain
differentiating and regressing. For example, the fifth washing can include a first iteration during
which the specimens are exposed to the washing liquid for about 20 seconds, followed by a

                                                  102
second iteration during which the specimens are exposed to the washing liquid for a period of
time within a range from 30 to 80 seconds. In a specimen-processing method in accordance with
a particular embodiment of the present technology, the period of time during which the
specimens are exposed to the washing liquid during the second iteration is 50 seconds. The first
iteration can function primarily to remove residual counterstaining reagent from the specimens.
The second iteration can function primarily to allow for variable differentiating and regressing
of the counterstain. Eosin staining tends to be relatively sensitive to unevenness associated with
evaporation during counterstain differentiating and regressing. Thus, in at least some cases, the
total time during which the specimens contact the washing liquid during the fifth washing is less
than 100 seconds. The performance of the washing liquid for counterstain differentiating and
regressing can influence its formulation. For example, water concentrations significantly greater
than 50% in the washing liquid may tend to cause non-standard counterstain differentiating,
such as cytoplasm of the specimens being darker than erythrocytes of the specimens. Water
concentrations significantly less than 50% in the washing liquid may tend to produce inadequate
levels of counterstain differentiating and regressing. Thus, as described above, the washing
liquid can have a water concentration of about 50%, 20 such as 50% +/-3%.
[0318] After the fifth washing, the specimens may have a residual hydrophilicity that would be
incompatible with coverslipping. The second conditioning of the specimens after the fifth
washing can include reducing this hydrophilicity. In at least some cases, the second conditioning
includes dispensing a conditioning liquid onto the slides, allowing the dispensed conditioning
liquid to remain in contact with the specimens for a suitable period of time so as to wholly or
incrementally condition the specimens (e.g., while the conditioning liquid is in the form of a
puddle having a shape maintained at least partially by surface tension), and then removing the
dispensed conditioning liquid. The time during which the dispensed conditioning liquid is in
contact with the specimens can be, for example, a time within a range from 5 seconds to 15
seconds. In a particular example, the time is 10 seconds. The conditioning liquid can be the
same conditioning liquid used during the first conditioning. In at least some cases, in addition to
being well suited for changing the hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity of specimens, the conditioning
35 liquid is well suited for protecting specimens during the time period between the fifth
washing and coverslipping. For example, di(propylene glycol) ethers and tri(propylene glycol)
ethers (e.g., tri(propylene glycol) butyl ether) and other conditioning liquids selected or
formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology may be superior to
xylene for preventing potentially destructive drying of tissue during this time period. Thus, use

                                                 103
of these conditioning liquids may reduce or eliminate restrictions on the length of this time
period. This can be useful, for example, to reduce time constraints on lockstep process
management and/or to provide a time window during which additional operations can be
performed on the specimens.
[0319] As discussed above, conventional conditioning of specimens for coverslipping is at least
typically carried out in conjunction with counterstain differentiating using graded ethanol and
water mixtures followed by anhydrous ethanol. Thereafter, the specimens are at least typically
contacted with xylene to stop the counterstain differentiating and to further condition the
specimens for interaction with a coverslipping adhesive. As discussed above in the context of
the first conditioning, however, use of ethanol and xylene in automated histological systems can
be problematic, particularly when the systems operate at elevated baseline temperatures.
Di(propylene glycol) ether and other conditioning liquids selected or formulated in accordance
with embodiments of the present technology may reduce or eliminate the need for ethanol. In at
least some cases, the conditioning liquids partially condition the specimens for coverslipping
and a coverslipping liquid is used in place of xylene after the conditioning liquid during the
second conditioning to further condition the specimens for interaction with a coverslipping
adhesive. The coverslipping liquid can be selected or formulated to be immiscible with water
(e.g., to reduce or eliminate leaching of dye from archived specimens) and to be volatile enough
to adequately cure during a drying process of reasonable duration (e.g., 5 minutes).
[0320] The coverslipping liquid can include a terpene, such as a monoterpene (e.g., limonene).
A coverslipping liquid selected or formulated in accordance with a particular embodiment of the
present technology includes about 100% d-limonene with a suitable preservative, such as 500
parts per million butylated hydroxytoluene. Use of monoterpenes in the coverslipping liquid
tends to be significantly less problematic than use of monoterpenes in the conditioning liquid.
For example, the amount of monoterpene coverslipping liquid sufficient to prepare specimens
for coverslipping following use of di(propylene glycol) ether conditioning liquid can be far less
than the amount of the di(propylene glycol) ether conditioning liquid used during the first
conditioning and the initial phase of the second conditioning. In at least some cases, the utilized
amount of monoterpene coverslipping liquid is low enough that it fully evaporates after its use
without causing noticeable noxious fumes. In these cases, since there may be no liquid
monoterpene waste, there may also be no need for special protocols, if any, for remediating
and/or handling of system waste liquids due to the presence of monoterpenes in these liquids.

                                                  104
[0321] In automated histological systems configured in accordance with embodiments of the
present technology, the coverslipping liquid can be applied to specimens within a stainer, within
a coverslipper after the specimens exit the stainer, or at another suitable location. Use of the
coverslipping liquid can include first dispensing the coverslipping liquid onto the slides and then
removing the dispensed coverslipping liquid. For example, the coverslipping liquid can be
dispensed near the edges of the slides and swept across the slides using an air knife. This can
serve to remove any residual conditioning liquid remaining on the slides. Thereafter, the
coverslipping liquid can be dispensed once, twice, three times, or another suitable number of
times near the centers of the slides and left in place while coverslips are applied to the slides.
[0322] As discussed above, staining reagents and counterstaining reagents selected or
formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can include non-ethanol
solvents to respectively maintain the stain and counterstain in solution. It can be advantageous
for these solvents to be common, such as the same, within the same chemical class, or otherwise
functionally analogous. Furthermore, it can be advantageous for one or more other liquids used
in conjunction with a given staining reagent and counterstaining reagent to include a solvent the
same as, within the same chemical class as, or otherwise functionally analogous to the common
solvent of the staining reagent and the counterstaining reagent. This use of a common solvent is
expected to enhance specimen-processing consistency and quality. This benefit, for example,
may be associated with enhanced efficiency and/or consistency with which a given liquid
displaces residual amounts of a previously dispensed liquid when the liquids have a common
solvent. Other supplemental or alternative benefits and mechanisms are also possible.
[0323] In sets of liquids selected or formulated in accordance with at least some embodiments
of the present technology, a staining reagent, a counterstaining reagent, and a washing liquid
individually include greater than 10% by volume polyol. In at least some of these and other sets
of liquids selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology, all,
all but one, or all but two of a staining reagent, a stain-differentiating liquid, a stain-setting
reagent, a counterstaining reagent, and a washing liquid include greater than 10% by volume
polyol, such as greater than 10% by volume of the same polyol, such as greater than 10% by
volume propylene glycol. In specimen-processing methods in accordance with at least some
embodiments of the present technology, a total of all liquid dispensed onto slides after the slides
are moved into a stainer (e.g., into a temperature-controlled internal environment of a stainer)
and before the slides exit the stainer has a greater volumetric concentration of polyol than of

                                                  105
monohydric alcohol. In at least some cases, the total liquid dispensed is at least substantially free
of monohydric alcohol or at least has a volumetric concentration of monohydric alcohol less
than 3%. Furthermore, the total liquid dispensed can be at least substantially free of xylene.
[0324] Due, at least in part, to use of relatively few (e.g., one) conditioning liquid formulations,
use of the same liquid for both washing and counterstain differentiating, the ability to achieve a
full range of staining intensities with relatively few (e.g., one) staining reagent formulation,
and/or other factors, specimen-processing methods in accordance with embodiments of the
present technology can include use of fewer different types of liquids than would be used during
conventional specimen-processing methods. Similarly, complete sets of liquids selected or
formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology can include fewer
constituent liquids than conventional sets with corresponding functionality. Liquids belonging to
sets of liquids selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology
can be respectively held in and drawn from different corresponding supply containers of
automated histological systems configured in accordance with embodiments of the present
technology. These systems can be fluidically self-contained and operable with fewer supply
containers, plumbing lines, and/or other liquid-handling components than are included in
conventional systems of corresponding functionality. Among other potential benefits, this can
reduce the cost, complexity, and/or bulk of automated histological systems configured in
accordance with at least some embodiments of the present technology.
[0325] The selection of processing liquids, the order in which the selected processing liquids are
dispensed, the number of dispensing and removing iterations for each processing liquid, and the
duration of liquid-to-specimen contact (e.g., incubation time) for each iteration can be based on
a predetermined recipe. In at least some cases, specimens immersed in a given liquid volume are
at least partially uncovered before being contacted with another liquid volume of the same
processing liquid (e.g., in a subsequent iteration of the same processing operation) or of a
different processing liquid (e.g., to begin a new processing operation). As discussed above, this
may enhance the performance (e.g., precision) of at least some specimen processing operations.
In some cases, these enhancements are more pronounced in the context of progressive staining
than in the context of regressive staining. As such, there may be less need for stain
differentiating and regressing in at least some specimen-processing methods in accordance with
embodiments of the present technology than there is in conventional specimen-processing
methods.

                                                   106
[0326] Specimen-processing methods in accordance with embodiments of the present
technology can include, within a stainer, automatically dispensing liquids of no more than 6
different formulations onto slides according to a predetermined recipe for at least
deparaffinizing, staining, stain setting, counterstaining, and counterstain differentiating
specimens carried by the slides. A complete set of liquids for executing a methods can include a
deparaffinizing liquid, a conditioning liquid, a staining reagent, a stain-setting reagent, a
counterstaining reagent, and a washing liquid. Similarly, specimen-processing methods in
accordance with embodiments of the present technology can include, within a stainer,
automatically dispensing liquids of no more than 7 different formulations onto slides according
to a predetermined recipe for at least deparaffinizing, staining, stain differentiating,
counterstaining, and counterstain differentiating specimens carried by the slides. A complete set
of liquids for executing these methods can include a deparaffinizing liquid, a conditioning
liquid, a staining reagent, a stain-differentiating liquid, a stain-setting reagent, a counterstaining
reagent, and a washing liquid. Other liquids that can be included in these and other sets of
liquids selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments of the present technology
include, for example, a coverslipping liquid and a cleaning liquid. In at least some cases, all
constituents of complete sets of liquids selected or formulated in accordance with embodiments
of the present technology are configured for use without dilution.
Selected Examples of Support Systems
[0327] Figure 89 is a perspective view of the liquid supply 6100 in accordance with an
embodiment of the technology. The liquid supply 6100 can include one or more pumps 6110,
filters 6112 (one identified), and a container bay 6120. The container bay 6120 can include a
series of container slots 6122 (one identified) for holding containers. Containers holding
processing liquids can be placed in the slots 6122 and connected to the various pumps 6110,
which pump the processing liquids to the stainers 6. Figure 89 shows a container 6130
positioned in a slot 6122 and another container 6132 ready to be inserted into another slot 6122.
When a container is empty, the liquid supply 6100 can automatically switch over to another
container and, in some embodiments, can alert a user so that the empty container can be
replaced with a new container without interrupting system workflow. Processing liquids used in
high quantities, such as deparaffinizing liquid and washing liquid, can be supplied from a bulk
liquid container or multiple containers. A wide range of different fittings can be used to
fluidically couple the containers to fluidic components of the liquid supply 6100.

                                                 107
[0328] The container 6132 can include one or more features for ensuring that correct liquids are
pumped into the appropriate components. The bay 6120 can include one or more readers
positioned to obtain processing-liquid information from each container, and such processing
liquid information can be part of a bar code, a magnetic element (e.g., a magnetic strip), or
RFID tag. Where an RFID tag is included on the container 6132, the bay 6120 can read the
RFID tag to confirm that the proper liquid has been installed in the appropriate bay. Referring to
Figures 2 and 89, the controller 18 (Figure 2) can receive the information from the bay 6120 to
(1) determine staining protocols based on available processing liquids, (2) track processing
liquid usage to determine scheduled container replacement, and/or (3) otherwise command
components of the system 2 based, at least in part, on the number and types of available
processing liquids.
[0329] Figure 90 is an isometric exploded view of the container 6132 in accordance with an
embodiment of the present technology. The container 6132 can include a hat assembly 6200 and
a receptacle 6202. The hat assembly 6200 can include arms 6210 for securely holding onto the
receptacle 6202 when arcuate members 6220 (one identified) of the arms 6210 are positioned in
a receiving feature 6230 (e.g., a through-holes, recesses, etc.) of the receptacle 6202. The arms
6210 can be biased inward to keep the arcuate members 6220 locked into the receiving feature
6230. A user can pull the arms 6210 apart until the arcuate members 6220 are moved out of the
receiving feature 6230 and can then move the hat assembly 6200 away from the receptacle
6202.
[0330] Figure 91 is a partial cross-sectional view of the container 6132. The hat assembly 6200
and receptacle 6202 can have mateable handles 6300, 6302, respectively. When assembled, a
user can conveniently grip the handles 6300, 6302 to manually transport the container 6132.
Other types of handle arrangements can also be used, if needed or desired. The hat assembly
6200 can include a conduit 6250 (e.g., a tubular member) extending downwardly through a
chamber 6252 of the receptacle 6202. An end 6254 of the conduit 6250 can be positioned at
least proximate to a bottom 6256 of the chamber 6252, or at any other desired location with the
chamber 6252. In some embodiments, the end 6254 can be positioned within at threshold
distance (e.g., 0.5 inch (1.3 cm)) of the bottom 6256. The conduit 6250 can have an angled
section 6261 such that the end 6254 is located adjacent to a side wall 6260 and positioned at the
deepest region of the chamber 6252 used to limit dead volume. The liquid can be drawn through
the conduit 6250 even when a minimal volume of liquid is held by the receptacle 6202. As

                                                 108
shown in Figure 91, a relatively deep region of the chamber 6252 can be positioned proximate to
a side wall 6260 of the receptacle 6202 to further minimize dead volumes, if any.
[0331] The systems disclosed herein can also use other types of containers, including bag-in
the-box containers that include, without limitation, collapsible bags, tubes sealed into the bags,
cover, and boxes. Non-exemplary embodiments of bag-in-the-box containers are disclosed in
U.S. Patent No. 7,303,725.
[0332] Figure 92 is an isometric view of a waste container in accordance with one embodiment.
The waste container 7100 can include one or more sensor assemblies 7110 capable sensing the
amount of liquid waste in a chamber 7111. Waste can be delivered through feed tubes 7113 into
the chamber 7111. The sensor assemblies 7110 can include sensors 7115 and guide rods 7120
along which sensors 7115 move in the vertical direction. The waste container 7100 can be part
of waste containers (e.g., waste containers 32, 34 of Figure 2) or at any other location within the
system 2.
[0333] Figure 93 is a cross-sectional view of the sensor 7115 in accordance with one
embodiment of the present technology. The sensor 7115 can float to sense the volume of waste
held in the chamber 7111 and can include a float sensor 7142 and a protective shield 7144. The
protective shield 7144 can keep particles (e.g., precipitate from staining reagent) from entering
an sensor chamber 7145. The sensor 7142 and the protective shield 7144 can slide together
along the rod 7120 while the protective shield 7144 prevents or limits substances (e.g., particles
that can affect operation of the sensor 7142) from entering the chamber 7145. Other
configurations of sensors can be utilized.
Conclusion
[0334] This disclosure is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present technology to the
precise forms disclosed herein. Although specific embodiments are disclosed herein for
illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are possible without deviating from the
present technology, as those of ordinary skill in the relevant art will recognize. In some cases,
well-known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid
unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the present technology. Although
steps of methods may be presented herein in a particular order, in alternative embodiments the
steps may have another suitable order. Similarly, certain aspects of the present technology

                                                  109
disclosed in the context of particular embodiments can be combined or eliminated in other
embodiments. Furthermore, while advantages associated with certain embodiments may have
been disclosed in the context of those embodiments, other embodiments can also exhibit such
advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages or other
advantages disclosed herein to fall within the scope of the present technology. For example,
while processing liquids selected or formulated in accordance with some embodiments of the
present technology are free of monohydric alcohol (e.g., ethanol) and/or xylene, processing
liquids selected or formulated in accordance with other embodiments of the present technology
may include monohydric alcohol (e.g., ethanol) and/or xylene. This disclosure and associated
technology can encompass a variety of embodiments not expressly shown or described herein.
[0335] Certain aspects of the present technology may take the form of computer executable
instructions, including routines executed by a controller or other data processor. In at least some
embodiments, a controller or other data processor is specifically programmed, configured,
and/or constructed to perform one or more of these computer-executable instructions.
Furthermore, some aspects of the present technology may take the form of data (e.g., non
transitory data) stored or distributed on computer-readable media, including magnetic or
optically readable and/or removable computer discs as well as media distributed electronically
over networks. Accordingly, data structures and transmissions of data particular to aspects of the
present technology are encompassed within the scope of the present technology. The present
technology also encompasses methods of both programming computer-readable media to
perform particular steps and executing the steps.
[0336] The methods disclosed herein include and encompass, in addition to methods of
practicing the present technology (e.g., methods of making and using the disclosed devices and
systems), methods of instructing others to practice the present technology. For example, a
method in accordance with a particular embodiment includes positioning a slide carrier at a first
position while the slide carrier holds a plurality microscope slides, robotically moving the slide
carrier from the first position to a second position to move the slide carrier into a circulation
loop defined by a heater apparatus, and convectively heating the slides while the slide carrier is
at the second position. A method in accordance with another embodiment includes instructing
such a method.

                                                    110
[0337] Throughout this disclosure, the singular terms "a," "an," and "the" include plural
referents unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Similarly, unless the word "or" is
expressly limited to mean only a single item exclusive from the other items in reference to a list
of two or more items, then the use of "or" in such a list is to be interpreted as including (a) any
single item in the list, (b) all of the items in the list, or (c) any combination of the items in the
list. Additionally, the terms "comprising" and the like are used throughout this disclosure to
mean including at least the recited feature(s) such that any greater number of the same feature(s)
and/or one or more additional types of features are not precluded. Directional terms, such as
"upper," "lower," "front," "back," "vertical," and "horizontal," may be used herein to express
and clarify the relationship between various elements. It should be understood that such terms
do not denote absolute orientation. Reference herein to "one embodiment," "an embodiment," or
similar formulations means that a particular feature, structure, operation, or characteristic
described in connection with the embodiment can be included in at least one embodiment of the
present technology. Thus, the appearances of such phrases or formulations herein are not
necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, various particular features,
structures, operations, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more
embodiments.

                                                   111
CLAIMS
1.     A method for processing specimens carried by slides within an automated histological
system, the method comprising:
       automatically dispensing a liquid so as to form a freestanding first puddle on a first slide,
the liquid being one of a staining reagent and a counterstaining reagent;
       automatically dispensing the liquid so as to form a freestanding second puddle on a second
slide;
       non-immunohistochemically staining the first and second specimens while the first and
second specimens are in contact with the first and second puddles, respectively;
       removing at least a portion of the first puddle from the first specimen so as to at least
partially uncover the first specimen without contacting the first puddle with a solid structure or
displacing the first puddle with a liquid; and
       removing at least a portion of the second puddle from the second specimen so as to at least
partially uncover the second specimen without contacting the second puddle with a solid
structure or displacing the second puddle with a liquid.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein non-immunohistochemically staining the first and second
specimens includes non-immunohistochemically staining the first and second specimens while a
specimen-bearing surface of the first slide and a specimen-bearing surface of the second slide are
horizontal.
3.     The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the liquid is a hematoxylin reagent.
4.     The method of any one of claims I to 3, wherein the method occurs without the first and
second specimens coming into simultaneously fluidic contact with the same volume of liquid.
5.     The method of any one of claims I to 4, wherein:
       removing at least a portion of the first puddle includes directing gas from a first processing
head toward the first puddle as the first processing head moves relative to the first slide along a
first processing path at least substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the first slide; and
       removing at least a portion of the second puddle includes directing gas from a second
processing head toward the second puddle as the second processing head moves relative to the
second slide along a second processing path at least substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of
the second slide.

                                                  112
6.     The method of claim 5, wherein:
       automatically dispensing the liquid so as to form the first puddle includes automatically
dispensing the liquid from a first dispenser of the first processing head; and
       automatically dispensing the liquid so as to form the second puddle includes automatically
dispensing the liquid from a second dispenser of the second processing head.
7.     An apparatus configured to perform any one of the methods of claims I to 6.
8.     A method for processing one or more microscope slides, the method comprising:
       delivering a liquid from a fluid dispense mechanism at anti-splatter fluid exit speed; and
       directing the liquid flowing at the anti-splatter fluid exit speed toward an upper surface of a
microscope slide such that the microscope slide carries a collected volume of the liquid at least
partially supported on the upper surface by surface tension;
       wherein the anti-splatter fluid exit speed is less than a splattering fluid exit speed at which
the directed liquid would tend to cause at least a portion of the collected volume to splatter from
the upper surface, wherein the anti-splatter fluid exit speed is greater than a trampoline fluid exit
speed at which at least a portion of the directed liquid would tend to bounce off a surface of the
collected volume of liquid.
9.     The method of claim 8, further comprising robotically delivering the microscope slide into
a stainer module that comprises the fluid dispense mechanism, and
       wherein the liquid is delivered from the fluid dispense mechanism after robotically
delivering the microscope slide into the stainer module.
10.    The method of claim 8 or 9, further comprising delivering 100 pL to 1500 pL of the liquid
onto the upper surface of the microscope slide in less than 0.1 to 1.5 seconds.
11.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the fluid exit speed of the liquid is equal
to or greater than 57 cm/second.
12.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein directing the liquid includes directing a
stream of the liquid toward the collected volume such that the stream combines with the
collected volume upon contact with the collected volume.

                                                 113
13.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein directing the liquid includes directing a
stream of the liquid toward the collected volume of the liquid such that the stream breaks the
surface tension of the collected volume of the liquid.
14.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 11, further comprising delivering the liquid from at
least one needle outlet that is spaced apart from the upper surface of the microscope slide by a
distance in a range from 5 mm to 10 mm.
15.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 14, wherein substantially all of the liquid directed
toward the microscope slide collects on the upper surface of the microscope slide.
16.    The method of claim 15, wherein at least 95% by volume of the liquid delivered toward the
upper surface of the microscope slide is collected on the upper surface.
17.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 14, wherein at least 90% by volume of the liquid
directed toward the upper surface is collected on the upper surface to form a film on the upper
surface.
18.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 17, wherein directing the liquid includes directing
the liquid from one or more vertically oriented nozzles positioned above the upper surface.
19.    The method of claim 18, wherein the liquid exiting the one or more vertically oriented
nozzles flows in a direction substantially perpendicular to the upper surface of the slide.
20.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 19, further comprising moving a dispenser head of
the fluid dispense mechanism in a direction substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the
microscope slide while directing the liquid from the dispenser head.
21.    The method of any one of claims 8 to 20, further comprising drawing at least a partial
vacuum to remove the liquid from the slide after delivering the liquid from the fluid dispense
mechanism.
22.    A method for processing a specimen on an upper surface of a microscope slide, the method
comprising:
       robotically moving the microscope slide to a processing position;

                                                  114
       dispensing a liquid barrier material from a fluid dispense mechanism and onto the
microscope slide at the processing position to form a barrier comprised of the barrier material
along at least a portion of a label of the microscope slide; and
       delivering a reagent onto the microscope slide such that the reagent contacts the specimen
while the barrier covers the at least the portion of the label.
23.    The method of claim 22, wherein robotically moving the microscope slide includes moving
the microscope slide into a chamber of a stainer module.
24.    The method of claim 22 or 23, wherein the liquid barrier material is hydrophobic.
25.    The method of any one of claims 22 to 24, wherein the barrier is positioned to inhibit
movement of the reagent toward a slide retainer holding an end portion of the microscope slide,
the label being located at the end portion of the microscope slide.
26.    The method of any one of claims 22 to 25, wherein dispensing the liquid barrier material
onto the microscope slide includes covering an edge of the label such that the barrier extends
across most or all of a width of the label substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the
microscope slide.
27.    The method of any one of claims 22 to 26, wherein dispensing the liquid barrier material
onto the microscope slide includes wetting a label area of the microscope slide with
deparaffinization solution during deparaffinization of the specimen.
28.    The method of any one of claims 22 to 27, further comprising performing a staining
protocol while the barrier covers the at least a portion of the label.
29.   A method for processing a specimen on a microscope slide, the method comprising:
      robotically delivering a microscope slide to a processing position;
       outputting a reagent from a plurality of outlets of a fluid dispense mechanism aligned with
a width of an upper surface of the microscope slide at the processing position, the width of the
upper surface being substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the microscope slide;
and
      moving the outlets in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the slide
to distribute the reagent within a mounting area of the upper surface so as to form a layer of the
reagent that contacts a specimen located at the mounting area.

                                                   115
30.    The method of claim 29, wherein the fluid dispense mechanism includes a row of nozzles
defining the outlets, the row of nozzles is parallel to the width of the upper surface.
31.    The method of claim 29 or 30, further comprising forming the layer of the reagent such
that the layer of the reagent extends across most or all of a length of the mounting area.
32.    The method of any one of claims 29 to 31, further comprising outputting the reagent from
the outlets while moving the outlets along most or all of a length of the upper surface.
33.    The method of any one of claims 29 to 32, further comprising:
       periodically moving the outlets toward a first end of the microscope slide; and
       periodically outputting the reagent from the outlets while periodically moving the outlets.
34.    A system configured to perform a method as in any one of claims 8 to 33, the system
including:
       a plurality of modules for automatically processing microscope slides, and
       at least one of the plurality of modules is the stainer module.
35.    The system of claim 34, further comprising a controller containing instructions that can be
executed to perform the method of any one of claims 8 to 33.
36.    A system for processing a specimen on a microscope slide, the system comprising:
       a transporter device; and
       an automated slide processing module positioned to receive a slide carrier from the
transporter device, the automated slide processing module including a holding chamber, and
       a dispenser assembly movable along at least most of a length of an upper surface of a
microscope slide held by the slide carrier when the slide carrier is located within the holding
chamber, the dispenser assembly including a plurality of outlets configured to be aligned with a
width of an upper surface of the microscope slide such that the outlets apply a reagent across
most or all of the width of the upper surface, the width of the slide is perpendicular to the length
of the slide.
37.    The system of claim 36, further comprising a fluid dispense mechanism comprising at least
one reagent container, the dispenser assembly, and a fluid system fluidically coupling the at least
one reagent container to the dispenser assembly.

                                                  116
38.    The system of claim 36 or 37, further comprising a controller in communication with the
automated slide processing module and configured to command the automated slide processing
module to deliver the reagent to form a layer of the reagent along most or all of the length of the
slide.
39.    The system of any one of claims 36 to 38, wherein the outlets are spaced apart from one
another in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to a direction of the length of the upper
surface.
40.    The system of any one of claims 36, 37 and 39, further comprising:
       a controller containing instructions for commanding dispenser heads of the dispenser
assembly to simultaneously process microscope slides held by the slide carrier.
41.    The system of any one of claims 36 to 40, wherein the dispenser assembly includes a
plurality of dispenser heads, the system further comprising:
       a controller containing instructions for commanding the automated slide processing
module to move all of the dispenser heads independent of whether a slide is underneath each of
the dispenser while the automated slide processing module performs a staining protocol.
42.    The system of any one of claims 36, 37 and 39, further comprising:
       a controller containing instructions for commanding the automated slide processing
module to perform a slide end-to-label dispense routine using the dispenser assembly.
43.    The system of any one of claims 36, 37 and 39, further comprising:
       a controller containing instructions for commanding the automated slide processing
module to perform a slide end-to-label-to-middle dispense routine using the dispenser assembly.
44.    The system of any one of claims 36, 37 and 39, further comprising:
       a controller containing instructions for commanding the automated slide processing
module to move the dispenser assembly away from a label of the microscope slide while
applying the reagent.

                                                     117
45.    The system of any one of claims 36, 37 and 39, further comprising:
       a controller containing instructions for commanding the automated slide processing
module to move the dispenser assembly toward a label of the microscope slide while applying
the reagent.
46.    A system, comprising:
       a transporter device; and
       a stainer module configured to receive a slide carrier from the transporter device, the
stainer module including:
              a plurality of fluid lines; and
              a head assembly movable to dispense reagent along a slide carried by the slide carrier
and including a manifold, the manifold including:
                          a distribution chamber;
                          a plurality of inlets opening into the distribution chamber; and
                          a plurality of outlets from the distribution chamber;
              wherein the head assembly is coupled to the plurality of fluid lines and configured to
individually dispense reagent from each of the fluid lines.
47.    The system of claim 46, wherein the plurality of fluid lines includes a first fluid line and a
second fluid line, wherein the plurality of inlets includes a first inlet and a second inlet, wherein
the first inlet delivers a first fluid from the first fluid line into the distribution chamber, and
wherein the second inlet delivers a second fluid from the second fluid line into the distribution
chamber.
48.    The system of claim 46 or 47, wherein the head assembly has a first dispense state for
dispensing only the first fluid and a second dispense state for dispensing only the second fluid.
49.    The system of any one of claims 46 to 48, wherein the plurality of fluid lines includes a
plurality of first fluid lines and a plurality of second fluid lines, wherein the manifold is a first
manifold configured to receive fluid from the first fluid lines such that fluid from one of the first
fluid lines exits the head assembly, and wherein the head assembly further includes a second
manifold configured to receive fluid from the second fluid lines such that fluid from one of the
second fluid lines exits the head assembly.

                                                    118
50.    The system of any of claims 46 to 49, wherein the head assembly is configured to
sequentially deliver individual reagents from respective fluid lines through respective inlets such
that only one reagent flows through the distribution chamber and the plurality of outlets.
51.    The system of any of claims 46 to 50, wherein the head assembly includes a plurality of
hollow nozzles through which fluid from the manifold exits the head assembly.
52.    A microscope slide processing system, comprising:
       a transporter device; and
       a stainer module configured to receive a slide carrier from the transporter device, the
stainer module including:
              a plurality of first fluid lines;
              a plurality of second fluid lines; and
              a dispenser head movable relative the slide carrier, if any, positioned in the stainer
module, wherein the dispenser head comprises: a plurality of first nozzles;
       a first manifold configured to distribute fluid from each of the first fluid lines to the first
nozzles;
       a plurality of second nozzles; and
       a second manifold configured to distribute fluid from each of the second fluid lines to the
second nozzles.
53.    The system of claim 52, wherein
       the first manifold includes a first distribution chamber, a plurality of first inlets opening
into the first distribution chamber, and a plurality of first manifold outlets, wherein the first
manifold is fluidically coupled to the first fluid lines such that individual reagents from the first
fluid lines flow through one of the respective first inlets, the first distribution chamber, and two
or more of the first nozzles to exit the dispenser head;
       the second manifold includes a second distribution chamber, a plurality of second inlets
opening into the second distribution chamber, and a plurality of second manifold outlets, wherein
the second manifold is fluidically coupled to the second fluid lines such that individual reagents
from the second fluid lines flow through one of the respective second inlets, the second
distribution chamber, and the second nozzles to exit the dispenser head.

                                                  119
54.    The system of claim 52 or 53, further comprising a vacuum source coupled to the dispenser
head, wherein the dispenser head includes a vacuum chamber in fluid communication with the
first and second manifolds and the vacuum source, wherein the dispenser head has a first
evacuation state for flowing fluid from the first manifold to the vacuum chamber and a second
evacuation state for flowing fluid from the second manifold to the vacuum chamber.
55.    The system of claim 54, wherein the vacuum source is configured to draw fluid out of the
vacuum chamber to remove fluid from the dispenser head.
56.    The system of any one of claims 52 to 55, wherein the dispenser head is configured to
dispense fluid from the first fluid lines onto a slide such that the dispensed fluid does not contact
fluid from the second fluid lines.
57.    The system of any one of claims 52 to 56, wherein the first and second manifolds keep
fluid from the first fluid lines from contacting fluid from the second fluid lines.
58.    The system of any one of claims 52 to 57, wherein the dispenser head has a first dispense
state for dispensing fluid flowing through the first manifold while drawing a vacuum in the
second manifold, and the dispenser head has a second dispense state for dispensing fluid flowing
through the second manifold while drawing a vacuum in the first manifold.
59.    A method for processing a plurality of microscope slides carrying specimens, the plurality
of microscope slides including a first microscope slide and a second microscope slide, the
method comprising:
       moving a head assembly of a stainer module relative to the first microscope slide
positioned at a processing zone within the stainer module so as to apply one or more reagents
onto the first microscope slide; and
       after applying the one or more reagents onto the first microscope slide, moving the first
microscope slide away from the processing zone and moving the second microscope slide to the
processing zone, and
       moving the head assembly relative to the second microscope slide while the second
microscope slide is positioned at the processing zone so as to apply one or more reagents onto
the second microscope slide.

                                                   120
60.     The method of claim 59, wherein moving the head assembly includes moving the head
assembly in a Y-axis direction, and wherein moving the first microscope slide away from the
processing zone includes moving the first microscope slide in an X-axis direction.
61.     The method of claim 59 or 60, wherein moving the head assembly relative to the first
microscope slide includes moving the head assembly at a speed in a range of 1 inch/second (25.4
mm/second) to 15 inches/second (25.4 mm/second).
62.     The method of any one of claims 59 to 61, wherein moving the first and second
microscope slides includes moving the tray relative to the head assembly while the tray carries
the microscope slides.
63.     The method of any one of claims 59 to 62, wherein the stainer module includes a dispenser
assembly and a collection pan, wherein a tray carrying the microscope slides is positioned
underneath head assemblies of the dispenser assembly, and wherein the method further
comprises:
       moving the tray to a first purge position to define unobstructed vertical paths from a first
set of the head assemblies such that the collection pan collects liquid outputted by the first set of
the head assemblies; and
       moving the tray to a second purge position to define unobstructed vertical paths from a
second set of the head assemblies such that the collection pan collects liquid outputted by the
second set of the head assemblies, wherein the first set is different from the second set.
64.     The method of claim 63, further comprising holding the collection pan stationary while the
tray is moved to the first purge position and/or the second purge position.
65.     The method of claim 63 or 64, further comprising:
       performing a first preparatory cycle with the head assemblies of the first set while the tray
is at the first purge position wherein the first preparatory cycle includes a prime cycle and/or a
purge cycle; and
       performing a second preparatory cycle with the head assemblies of the second set while the
tray is at the second purge position, wherein the first preparatory cycle includes a purge cycle
and/or a prime cycle.

                                                   121
66.    The method of any one of claims 63 to 65, wherein the first set includes about half of a
total number of the head assemblies of the dispenser assembly.
67.    The method of any one of claims 63 to 66, wherein the second set includes about half of a
total number of head assemblies of the dispenser assembly.
68.    The method of any one of claims 59 to 67, further comprising robotically delivering a slide
carrier to a kinematic mount of the stainer module such that three supports of the kinematic
mount interface with corresponding receiving features of the slide carrier, wherein the slide
carrier carries the microscope slides.
69.    The method of claim 68, wherein each of the receiving features includes a groove or
partially spherical surface located on a bottom of the slide carrier.
70.    A method for processing a plurality of microscope slides carrying specimens using a
stainer module, the method comprising:
       delivering a slide carrier tray carrying the microscope slides into the stainer module, the
stainer module including a movable dispenser apparatus having head assemblies;
       processing at least one of the microscope slides by delivering one or more liquids from the
dispenser assembly while the slide carrier tray obstructs a first set of vertical delivery paths from
a first set of the head assemblies and obstructs a second set of vertical delivery paths from a
second set of the head assemblies;
       moving the slide carrier tray to a first purge position to unobstruct the first set of vertical
delivery paths such that the collection pan collects liquid outputted by the first set of the head
assemblies; and
       moving the slide carrier tray to a second purge position to unobstruct the second set of
vertical delivery paths such that the collection pan collects liquid outputted by the second set of
the head assemblies, wherein the first set is different from the second set.
71.    The method of claim 70, further comprising holding the slide carrier tray underneath the
first and second sets of head assemblies while processing the microscope slides.
72.    The method of claim 70 or 71, further comprising holding the slide carrier tray to obstruct
the first and second sets of vertical delivery paths while processing the one or more of the
microscope slides.

                                                   122
73.    The method of any one of claims 70 to 72, further comprising holding the collection pan
stationary while the slide carrier tray is moved to the first position and/or the second position.
74.    The method of any one of claims 70 to 73, further comprising:
       performing a first purge cycle with the head assemblies of the first set while the slide
carrier tray is at the first purge position; and performing a second purge cycle with the head
assemblies of the second set while the slide carrier tray is at the second purge position.
75.    The method of any one of claims 70 to 74, further comprising holding the slide carrier tray
within the stainer module while (a) processing the microscope slides, (b) moving the slide carrier
tray to the first purge position, and (c) moving the slide carrier tray to the second purge position.
76.    The method of any one of claims 70 to 75, wherein the first set includes about half of the
total number of head assemblies of the dispenser assembly.
77.    The method of any one of claims 70 to 76, wherein the second set includes about half of
the total number of head assemblies of the dispenser assembly.
78.    The method of any one of claims 70 to 77, wherein the collection pan includes a plurality
of liquid collectors positioned such that each liquid collector receives and holds a volume of
liquid dispensed from one of the head assemblies.
79.    An apparatus configured to perform any one of the methods of claims 70 to 78.
80.    An apparatus for processing a plurality of microscope slides, the apparatus comprising:
       a stainer module including:
              a tray holder configured to receive and hold a tray carrying a first microscope slide
and a second microscope slide in a chamber of the stainer module; and
              a head assembly movable relative to a processing zone in the stainer module so as to
deliver one or more liquids outputted from the head assembly along the first microscope slide
positioned at the processing zone;
       wherein the tray holder is movable to transport the first microscope slide away from the
processing zone and to transport the second microscope slide to the processing zone after
delivering the one or more liquids onto the first microscope slide.

                                                  123
81.    The apparatus of claim 80, further comprising a tray transport mechanism movable to
robotically transport one or more trays to and from the stainer module.
82.    The apparatus of claim 80 or 81, wherein the stainer module further includes:
       a dispenser drive mechanism coupled to the head assembly and operable to move the head
assembly in a Y-axis direction; and a tray holder transport mechanism coupled to the tray holder
and operable to move the tray holder in a X-axis direction.
83.    The apparatus of any one of claims 80 to 82, wherein the tray holder includes a kinematic
mount configured to support the tray.
84.    An apparatus for processing a plurality of microscope slides, the apparatus comprising:
       a stainer module including:
              a plural of fluid lines;
              a tray holder configured to receive and hold a tray carrying a first microscope slide
and a second microscope slide in the stainer module; and
              a head assembly including a dispenser head and a plurality of valves mounted on the
dispenser head, the valves control which fluid from the plurality of fluid lines flows through and
out of the head, wherein the dispenser head carries the valves and is movable relative to tray
holder so as to deliver one or more fluids outputted from the dispenser head along the first
microscope slide.
85.    The apparatus of claim 84, wherein each of the valves controls flow of fluid from one of
the lines.
86.    The apparatus of claim 84 or 85, wherein the plurality of valves and the dispenser head are
configured to move together while delivering the one or more fluids.
87.    The apparatus of any one of claims 84 to 86, wherein the dispenser head is configured to
deliver fluid from the lines to the valves to dispense fluid delivered by the valves.
                                     Ventana Medical Systems, Inc.
                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                       SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-date>
                                                 1/60
                                            2
                                                             7
<removed-apn>
                                                                                           5
                                                                 ;~ ~,~ ,
                                                                            i
                              0
                              0
              3                        0
                                  ..
                                       o~
                                  ..
                                       0
              35 
                     y__I_~                              ~                      '1__L_f'
                                                FIG. ~

<removed-date>
                                    2/60
                               2
                                            10   ~
<removed-apn>
              23
                                                     fLi
                                                     27
                                                     14
                                                     J
                   ,~L   .~4
                                   FIG. 2

<removed-date>
                            3160
              1 100
<removed-apn>
                                   1110
                                    1 119
                                   '40
                                   ?00
                                   ~~ 1103
                                   2
                 1 14:             t 101
                                   i
                 1 15
                         1 147

<removed-date>
                                    4/60
              100
<removed-apn>
                                            --------------T -----J
                                            --------------~~-----J
                                                           ~2~~
                                                  FIG. 4A
                    Zvi   I IVV
                                  FIG. 4B

              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
         12
                                   5/60
FIG. 5

<removed-date>
                                               6/60
               1100
                          1122
<removed-apn>
                                        ~--- 1 i 19
                                    1 121
                                    j1606
                                                                   120ia
                                               ,..- 6B
                                                                 1201 
                                    ~- 7200
                                                             1202
                                    ~     S       1103            S--~       i     ~
               X 118
                                                                             1 1041
                      T                                    12016            ~ 1 1 l02
                                    ~L
                                     1 102
              t 142                     1(40
                                                1101
               1 119
                                         1107           1204
                                                       12Q5a -
                                                       1203 
                                                         1202
                          FIG. 6A
                                                            .,~~~          1 107
                                                                               H
                                    FIG. 68 A~-                            _.1~

<removed-date>
                      FIL:~~~
               120
<removed-apn>
              1201
              1201
              12OL                       FIG. ~
                                '104
              12011
                                1 102
                 C
                16i
                12~
              1203
              120.:
                 1~
              1203
                As
                12
                                 1 107
                                         H
                                       -~-    -

                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                   :.1
~_...
        ~:   21          m
                  1 19

<removed-date>
                                                           ~!7. ~~
                                               1810
                                                                                                    Fig. ~o
<removed-apn>
                 ~Soa                                                :,
                                                                                                                  12
                                                                                  r---------------~------~
                                                                                                                          j
              1803                                                               .L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
                                                                                 -r----------------T--~
                                                                                  L----------------~~c---~
                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                   ~2~0
                        1 V~L   ~vv-r
                                        1VOZ
                                                ~8o r                                            FIG. ~~
                            1800
                          Flv.     1L          1804 ~~u~                   C
                                                                          1801

<removed-date>
                                                        10/60
               1800
                           1821    1819 1842              1818    1816       ~ 1823          ~
<removed-apn>
                                                                ~~~
                                                                 \\\
                                                                 \
                                                                ~i.~                  ,,%,
                   ~                                                                  ~~~
              1819 ~g'14                                                         U               1810
                                         1802              1200         CS
                                  1801           1803
                                                                              FIG. ~~
                 Soo
                                                                 1822
                  S
                                         `~`~T   1802                          `"`'
                                                                                       FIG. ~4

                  <removed-apn>  <removed-date>
             2010
                                Z
                             Y` ~}  x
                             ' ~V%~    rn
                                       0
  204
2042a
      ~-za2o

<removed-date>
                                                                         12/60
                                                            2010                         e
                                                                                                    2080
                                                                           . ,,~_       Fi .
              FIG. ~6                                                                                        Z
                                                                                                       ~X
                                                                                                       Y
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                         %"
                                                                                                         ~
                                       2050
               ' 2053
              2052
                                 o 
                                       a,~ss~
                                        ~~  4a o
                % ~
               l.,                     d                o
              ~,           `~~        ~ oo a sd s s
                                           a        6
                   ~             ~
                       ~          ~                                                          2010
                       \~~       ' 2040                           2030
                             `'~~~ 2054                                                                2088
                                               .,,.,.,. ~n o~,.              fl~7:Z~7
                                                                                                                 ~X
              2                                                                                                  Y
                                                                                                                 2024
                                                                                          ~zoo
                                                                   ~n~~ 2030 2040
                                                                                                      2050
              / ~(~

<removed-date>
                                                                    13/60
<removed-apn>
                                                                  2132                                                     C
                              2108        2018c 2120         2128    2122                       2018d                      !l~' ~O
                      0           0       ,                      uo 00                          ,                 o
                     o        O                      e   .                     o       o                              e
                                                                                                 o
                   _ o                            2135
                                                            o             o                e
              21                                                       0                                                            21
                                      0       00                 o ~                       ~o
                          o
                                                          o                e                                                      2124
                                              00                                           .o
                                      o                           0
                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                          0
                       0 0             0      o      Q                     ~                ~             e           ~
                     0
                     o,~
                         00 00
                                      Oo o                         e               a
                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                         2018a
                                                                                                                          o0 00     X
                                  ~2018b          2123 2131 0                  2125

                    <removed-apn> <removed-date>
   2018d      2018c
                                        rn
                                        Q
27                                  27
      FIG. 2~

<removed-date>
                                            15/60
<removed-apn>
                                    2147
               2018                                                             2147
                 f                  ~                  ~n ~R
                                           ~x
              2050    2170   2160               205Q     L 1 bU   2j70   2270
                       FIG, 22A                                   FIG, 22B

<removed-date>
                                    16/60
                                      2050
              / ~~, 2~
<removed-apn>
                                                        FIG. 24
                  FIG. ZS
                                                        FIG. 26
                 2141-
                 2018    Z     22
                        Y X ,,.
                        ~
                    2170 -'~
                                             :~- 2270   Y
                                             2018

<removed-date>
                                17/60
                                                      2010
                                   2300
<removed-apn>
                     L31 VfJ
                                          2310a
                                                  FIG. 2~
              2314
                               FIG, 28

<removed-date>
                                                                                 18/60
                                                                                                                                                  2124
                                                              2120                            2122          2050
                     a              o       a o                          o ~oo~ o 0                 0                  ~ ~0                                           0
                     ~                                                                                                 0                          a              O
                                                     e                                                                                        a              0
<removed-apn>
                    ~                                                      o        0
                                                                            0
                                       o                                                                     -
                           a                     o                               0                                     0                           0         0         0
                                       o                      ~        Q                               4 0                       ~               0
              29B                                                           o
                           o            a        o                          o o a                                      m                           e
                                                           ~~,~                              yo
                                                            i  /                            ~' /        /                                                              o
                      O
                      O                     Oo   a        Q `~__ _         Oo o         OO    -                  00 0        0           o        O
                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                             0
                    o OO                    0o            OO =_ <U+FFFC>-          OO           OO   --= =               00                               OO
                           0                                        1~                   o
                                        ~o       0                               0                                                                                o    o
                     00                                       o a
                                                                                                                       o 0
                    0      0                         ~o             0
                      00   00   0                                                    0                                                                o    00   00
                                                 2310b                                                   2310a
                                                                                                                                  F ~~.                     29A
                                                             2310d                                          23 ~o~                        I`lL.~. ~yLj

<removed-date>
                                                                                    l~!1.1
                                                                                                                              2 X24
                                                                             2404                     2050
                                                          2120                               2122
                     e           a       o a                       o           ~00~ o                        ~ ~     ~                             o
                    o        ~                                                                 a o                            a              ~
                                                                                                              0 0
                                                                                                                         o            a
<removed-apn>
                    ~                                                         o        0
                                                         2300                                                                                     0
                         0           0
                             a             o                                        0                        0                0        0
                                                       --_..                                                                                      o
                                                         '~
                         o                ~          j~-....:.b )
                                                   o ~,= ~ ;
                                                       ~~~
                                                                ,                  O
                                                                                                                                                   o
              306                                            f                 a                                                                       3QB
                                                       2310c                                                                  B
                         o                                             :~
                      0               0
                                                         
                                                       Q,~~                   o ~          o ~~/
                                                                                                   o               a o
                                                                                                                              o
                                                                                                                              a
                    0 0 0             0                ~   ~-                  ~            o     - o
                                     o0 o                                         e                                                          o     0
                       o                                     o a                                               00
                    o     a                        a                   o                0       ~ ~                                o       00 00
                      00 00      0
                                               23lOb                                                   2310a
                                                                                                                              FIG. BOA
                                                            2310d                              2310c                              '' ~ - 

<removed-date>
                                                                          Zor6o
                                                                                                                     224
                                                                    2050
                                                       2120                            2122
                     o              a       a                                              0 0       ~ a     o                           0
                    o ~                                       o      oo~ o                           00             o             ~
                                                                                                                o           e
<removed-apn>
                    ~                                                o        0
                                                                      o            :- ~,                                                 o
                      o                                                            ,));
                                        a
                                                                                                                                        o
                      o                         0                 ,~,~ ~0 ~ ~
                                                              Q~0 (~~
                                                                                       ~!
                                                                                       G
                                                                                                                                         o
              31B                                                     o     23~Ob                                                                31B
                                                                      ~ m ~                              m
                                                                                           2310a
                                        o              ~_
                                            o           :._- ~~            o               _..._.-   0  0            0
                      0                  o            Q o ~. _.       o            o               o                 o
                    0 0                  0           0 - _-__-        o            o         == o                   o
                           o                                    ~~                 o
                                        ~o o                               e                   e                                             o
                     o ~'                                   ~ ~                                      00                             
                    0      0                        0           0                            ~ ~                         o       00 00
                       e o 00   0                                              0
                                                23104
                                                                     FIG. ~~A
                                                                                    2024
                                                    2018a, 20184                   ~    2018b, 2018c
                                                            23104                                2310c               l-1~1. ~ lL~

<removed-date>
                                    21/60
                                                                     3014
<removed-apn>
                             3026      ~                    3014
                      3021                   3063
                                                                   3062
                                            ~~
                                                                   3058
                                                            3059
                                                         3015
                                                                     3052
                                                                    ._J
                                                              ~~    ~1
                                                    3018a      ~      '
                                                                      3030
                                                    4
              FIG.                                           FIG. ~~A
                     JVJY    JVJV   JVJ9     JVGV

<removed-date>
                          22/60
                                  3018a
<removed-apn>
              flU. ..~4
                                          3018a
                                                  ~--r--
                                                      ~~
                                                  J   302 t

<removed-date>
                                    23160
                                            R I :.
<removed-apn>
              G
                  v"~ 3026
                             3052     3030a
                                              3102
                              ~,            ..
                    '
                    ~1                 ~     ~~~ X026
                         i            ~ ,.'      ~
                                      i
                    .~       ,a       i          ~- 3044
                              ~... _ _./~3020
                             flG. ~6A

<removed-date>
                                         24/60
                FlL
<removed-apn>
                                                 44
                      ~~~U   3116
              3026
                                    JV`v 3030b

<removed-date>
                       25/60
                     ~,~~a     3162c_.,,,
<removed-apn>
                31
              3170
                      3160a """
                      FIG. ~9

<removed-date>
                                    26/60
                                             45~
                                            4~                  3018
                                    43,46----~ ~        ,~
<removed-apn>
                                                                          IJ
                                            ~,....~~   3054
                        42A ~                45
                                                                FIG, 4D
                      44A ---~
                              ~ ~
                                                        :~
                 3
                 31
               3160                                     3160c
              3160a                                     3160d
                      44A---~
                                      48
                                                        FIG. 4 ~
                        42A

<removed-date>
                                              27/60
                                                                           3172b
                                3162a ~ ~h                                018
              3058c
                        3059c
<removed-apn>
                                                                         3170a 3170b
                                       ~`~
                                              ~                 3166
                                     3164
              FIG. 42A                    3054        3052
                                                             3166 ~~R~
                  31~                                                         82c
                                                                              3170c
                                                                             3018
                3160c
                                                                       FIG. 42B

<removed-date>
                ~:.1
<removed-apn>
                         ~l
                         3166
                         3186
                 3188c
              F/G. 4~

<removed-date>
                                      29/60
<removed-apn>
                                          ~v~~
              l ~~.   44A   3164
                                                 ~:
                                                 192b
              FIG, 44~             3164
                                          JVJY

<removed-date>
                      3172a   3172b   3172c   3172d
<removed-apn>
              ~:~:
              3198a
                                                  ~lyy 3196
                                 FIG. 45

                                         <removed-apn> <removed-date>
3200        3202     3200      3202      3240          3202
                 ..
                                    ~~ov    /            3t60
                 3018 3052                3052
         3221
FIG, 46A             FIG. 46B            FIG. 46~              W
3200        3202     3200      3202      3200          3202    0
                  56                                          ..
                               3052
FIG. 46D             F,~G, 46E           FIG. 46F

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        3~
           3230
FIG. 4 ~                               32/60

<removed-date>
                                                   33/60
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     ~
                                                                                     
                                        `~ ,v ~    3230      ~
                                                           48B, 49C
                        3262     3202
                                                                      L~ 3262 ~~n~
              1
                                                   31~
                  ~~
                               3230
                       3052
                       FIG. 48B                   3196
                                                             3054-~ 323Q
                                                                      FIG, 48C

<removed-date>
                               34/60
                                  3350c       ,,,,,,,,     _ ~~nn
<removed-apn>
                        3384
                                                         3300
                                          3340d
                                                                    3362
              52
               ~_
                                                         \~-- 3320
                                                                    3364
              FIG. 50
                               3382    3380     3384

<removed-date>
                                      35/60
                                  o           ~ 0
                                                  Q   3330
<removed-apn>
                                  0
                                                   0
                                                   1
                                                   O
                  3389                             O
               3387
                                      ~        ~
                                                        FIG. 57
                             ~.
                                                        3310
                      3320
                                                              3300
                                  3400 3412
                                                               3420
                                                               3430
                      3410
                                                               3440
              FIG. 52

<removed-date>
                           ~~y.~
                           3432
              O~~ `~
              \0~...>~f3490
                      d
                            _S- 3440
<removed-apn>
                          ~S- 3492
                            F/G. 5~
                                        ~~~n
                                               ~ 3500
               3512
                                                 _S- 3506
                                  FIG. 54

<removed-date>
                                           37/60
<removed-apn>
              40
                                                             1~Oi8d
                       i iv,   JJ
                                    4026       ~
                                                   4352
                                                          4147
              FIG. 5
                                                            4143

<removed-date>
                                38/60
                                        a
<removed-apn>
                                                          4018a
                                                         0
                                                          4044
                                                         ~a
              FIG. ~,   4366   4~6~            4024
                                                         4143
                                                                  4018a
                                                              330
                                                               4360
                                                              0
                                                              '
              FIG. 58                   4020    434U   4143

<removed-date>
                ~.1
<removed-apn>
                               018a
                               J
                               X370
                               4400b
                               ~
                               ]
                        4392
              FIG. 59

<removed-date>
                                           40/60
                                                      4390b
<removed-apn>
              4413
                     FIG. 60
                                                                          4353
                 4018a ---~        I             ~                      4357
                                                 ~ _. ! _i        I
                                           __
                                       ~~I~III~III~i'I~'
                                                -~~~J ~.-~    1-I i
                                                              ~~ 4350
                        4390a            4410           ~ 4390b
                                4400a            4412     4400b       FIG. 6~
                                                     4370

<removed-date>
                            41/60
              FIG,
<removed-apn>
                                    4020
              FIG. 6.
                                            4370
                     435E
                                            X340
                                     4020

<removed-date>
                                                           42/60
                                                                       4330
                                                       ~       4551
<removed-apn>
                                                       ~-
                         4370                          ~
                                                                       4350
                  4026
                                                ~                    ~ 4592
                                                      p '~
                                                      '       ~~ --~~ 4580
                                   4;f' _,                    r ~_~4034
                                   vc;                                    4340
                         4590--~ ~('                                                 4044
                             4360-                                 \                    4542
                                         4550
                                                                           ------~       4143
                                            4380
                                                      4540
                         FIG, 64A                            4020       4600
                                                                                      42'
                              4360
                      4592( 4594                    4580
                   4596                                             4622              4541
                                                    4600                      4340
                                                                                                 4143
                                            i                                           4044
                                                                                                  4600
                                     _,
              W          -      ~        -
                                     --r        --~~                                         ~      4021
                                       \.
                                     v      \                                                    4020
                                                                      4620
                  4026 4590                4550                                  4540
                                    4595
                                                     FIG. 64B

<removed-date>
                                                    :~1.1
                                  4551
<removed-apn>
                           4624                                                4330
                                                                             .~
                                                                      _ ~ 4629 4044
                                                 ~T
                                                 ~~
                                                .t i                                       4542
                                                        ~~~
                                    4360--~ l
                                       4550 ~~
                                            4629                                         4143
                                               4020                                  4340
                      FIG. 65A                               4540
                                                                      4021
                                                                       4629                 4542
                                         4624                   ~~5p           4622
                                                                 /I
                                                              ,% , ~'                    4044      4143
                                                            ,_1
                                    -           -       ~r      ~~_      -           -      -
              4551, 4021                    4034              ~ 4629
                                                                              4620
                                                              4364                       4340
                                                                                  4020          4540
                             FIG. 65B

<removed-date>
                               LCll:~7
<removed-apn>
                      4366
                                                                    4330
               4044
                                                                    4360
                                                             4143 4592
              FIG. 66A                          4340 ~'~~ 4(47
                                         4590
                                                             4360
                                                                     4592
                                          4542
                                                                      4143
                                                                      4340
                                                                      4147
                                         454v         4020
                                                                    4590
                             FIG. 668

<removed-date>
                          45/60
<removed-apn>
              FIG.                                      X020
                                                X30
                                                SD
                                                 4340
               /~. L Q            4034   4020
                     UO

<removed-date>
                               46/60
<removed-apn>
              FIG. 69   4020   4034       4143
              Fig ~0           4ozo ...

<removed-date>
                                                  47/60
                               4700 -Z_
                                4729
                                                  i
<removed-apn>
                                 y                                 4712
                              ~4710
                                    4720 ---Z__
                     4540 4740~
                                                                 4750
                                                                          FIG.   T
                   4143                     ~
                                            '~              i
                                                          4742
                              W \~'r" ~     4020
                               ~~ 1    4542
                                  4021
                   470(
                                                                          FIG. ~2
                     45
                   4147
                   4143
                              -~~     4542 Tv
              4700 -~Z_
                                                                          FIG. ~~
                          4
                                    T /TJ         -'

<removed-date>
                                48/60
<removed-apn>
                                                          ~:~/~
                                    O"O
                                                            f 4800
                           O~             ~O
                     OHO            O          OHO
              4820
                           4814
                               FIG. ~4
                                        4852 4842
                                                          ~--~ 4840
                               o        o
                     o   0a        Q         o 0
                                                     e0
              4846               o o
                             a                           4844
                           o       ~ e o
                     0o                       o 0
                                        4845
                               F~~. ~S

<removed-date>
                                     49/60
<removed-apn>
                      4020
                                                             4912
                4910~
                             U                       U
                                      4914
                                  491b ~,                  4922
                 4920
                                                                    FIG. ~~
                                   4020               4930
                                                              4912
                 4910
                                          D
                                                      ~J
                                          914
                                                        4922
                     4920--Z__~                      ~r_.~
                                                                    FIG. ~8
              4020                            4930

        <removed-apn> <removed-date>
             ~nnn
                            cn
                            0
                            rn
                            0
riv. r~

        <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
          5000
                              002
                                  rn
                              _~ 0~
                              ~
                              ~
                ~vcv ~~--~
        5029
~lG. 80

                                  <removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                              L8 ~l~
0
  90
  ti0
      rccus ~~~v~ ~~vy                 eGGU~
                       9ZZOS ZIOS

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                            ~000
    5011            ~~~,
~~:
                                       w
                                       rn
                                       0
         FIG. 82

<removed-date>
                                     54/60
                                                                         5100
                  START                               STOP
<removed-apn>
                              5102
                STAINER
                INACTIVE
                              5104                       YES
                STAINER
                WARM-UP
                                             N~   SHUT DOWN?
                              5106
                STAINER
                STANQBY
                                ~:                                5114
               INTRODUCE                             REMOVE
              SLIDE CARRIER                       SLIDE CARRIER
                           5110                                5112
                PROCESS                              HOLD
               SPECIMENS                           SPECIMENS
                                 FIG. 8~

                                              <removed-apn> <removed-date>
                     ~ D                              D
                     ~ m                            m m
                   n r
                     O                              v ~
                   ~~ m                               m
V i      STAINER           V i      STAINER
         INACTIVE                   INACTIVE
~1
         STAINER                    STAINER
        WARM-UP                    WARM-UP
         STAINER                    STAINER
        STANDBY                    STANDBY
     INTRODUCE                  INTRODUCE
    SLIDE CARRIER              SLIDE CARRIER                      rn
                                                                  0
        PROCESS                    PROCESS
       SPECIMENS                  SPECfMENS
           HOLD                       HOLD
        SPECIMEN                   SPECIMEN
       REMOVE                     REMOVE
    SLIDE CARRIER              SLIDE CARRIER
                         w                 _                    N
                                                                0
                         o                 ~                    0
                rr                         rr

<removed-date>
                                         56160
                                                           5400
                                                           i
                   START                                            STOP
<removed-apn>
                               5402                                            5424
                                                                  SECOND
              DEPARAFFINIZING                                   CONDITIONING
                               5404                                            5422
                   FIRST
                                                               FIFTH WASHING
               CONDITIONING
                               5406   DIFFERENTIATIpN/
                                      ~ REGRESSION? i
               FIRST WASHING                                            AINING
                                              YES
                              5408                  5412                       54!8
                                      DIFFERENTIATING/
                 STAINING                                      FOURTH WASHING
                                         REGRESSING
                              5410                  5414                       5416
                                                               STAIN SETTING/
              SECOND WASHING           THIRD WASHING
                                                               HUE ADJUSTING
                     FIG, g6

                                                                <removed-apn> <removed-date>
                           m a D                                      D
                           r ~ m
 ~,,,                      O T                                     m m
                           n O                                     ~
                                                                   -D ~
                                                                      D
                           ~~ m
 pp      DEPAR.                                  Op      DEPAR.
                                                 ~+~!
        FIRST                                           FIRST
     TRANSFER                                        TRANSFER
          FIRST                                           FIRST
          WASH                                            WASH
                -- ------------- ------------
          STAIN                                           STAIN
                -- ----------------- --------
        SECOND                                          SECOND
         WASH                                            WASH
                     ---     --- --- --------
           ACID                                            ACiD
          WASN                                            WASH                      c~
                ---------------- ---------
          THIRD                                           THIRD                     0
          WASH                                            WASH
                ---------------- ------------
       BLUING/                                         BLUING/
      PURPLING                                        PURPLING
                ---------------- ------------
        FOURTH                                          FOURTH
         WASH                                            WASH
COUNTERSTAIN                                    COUNTERSTAIN
          FIFTH                                           FIFTH
          WASH                                            WASH
                -- ------------- --------
      SECOND                                          SECOND
     TRANSFER                                        TRANSFER
                                              a                                cn
                                                                               cn
                                              0                                0
                                              0                                0

                      <removed-apn> <removed-date>
                      6 goo
      ~n    6110        ~
                                    20
b 130            bi32
         FIG. 89

<removed-date>
                                                   59/60
                                           6300
                                                6200
<removed-apn>                       ~- 6210
                                 6210
                  6220
                         6261
              1 / ~-- 6250      6302
                                            1132
                                                                     6300 ~~nn
                                                   6 l:
                                                                             302
                                           02
                                                                             02
                                           230
                                                  6260
                                                6252
                                                  6250
                 FIG. 90
                                                   625
                                                           6256   C/~, n
                                                                  /    7

<removed-date>
                               60/60
                                 7100
                                        3
<removed-apn>
              7120
                                        120
              7110                      I 11
              711:                      1 10
                                        715
                                                           7115
                                                           144
                     FIG. 92                              ~~io
                                                          7142
                                                          ~5
                                               ~~2o   FIG. 9~

