                                            ABSTRACT
         An electronic device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface displays a user
interface with a plurality of content units, where the content units are arranged along a first
axis in the user interface, and a respective content unit is associated with corresponding
metadata. The device detects a contact on the touch-sensitive surface and a first movement of
the contact. In response to detecting the first movement of the contact, the device moves a
first set of one or more of the content units perpendicular to the first axis in the user interface
in accordance with the first movement, and for one or more respective content units in the
first set of content units, the device displays metadata for the respective content unit adjacent
to the respective content unit that was not displayed immediately prior to detecting the first
movement of the contact.

 DEVICE, METHOD, AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR MOVING USER
                                    INTERFACE OBJECTS
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]          This relates generally to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces,
including but not limited to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces that detect inputs
for moving user interface objects.
[0001A]         Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2014/038943
(published as WO 2014/200676), filed on 21 May 2014.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0002]          The use of touch-sensitive surfaces as input devices for computers and other
electronic computing devices has increased significantly in recent years. Exemplary touch
sensitive surfaces include touch pads and touch screen displays. Such surfaces are widely
used to manipulate user interface objects displayed on the computer or other electronic
computing device.
[0003]          Exemplary user interface objects include digital images, video, text, icons,
control elements such as buttons and other graphics. But methods for manipulating user
interface objects are cumbersome and inefficient. For example, using a sequence of mouse
based inputs to select one or more user interface content units and move the selected user
interface content units is tedious and creates a significant cognitive burden on a user. In
addition, these methods take longer than necessary, thereby wasting energy. This latter
consideration is particularly important in battery-operated devices. Additionally, the
continuous display of metadata associated with a user interface content unit displayed in a
user interface is inefficient and can be distracting for users, which reduces the efficiency of
the user when using the device.
                                           SUMMARY
[0004]          Accordingly, there is a need for electronic devices with faster, more efficient
methods and interfaces for moving user interface objects. Such methods and interfaces
optionally complement or replace conventional methods for moving user interface objects.
Such methods and interfaces reduce the cognitive burden on a user and produce a more

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              2
efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated devices, such methods and
interfaces conserve power and increase the time between battery charges.
[00051          The above deficiencies and other problems associated with user interfaces
for electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces are reduced or eliminated by the
disclosed devices. In some embodiments, the device is a desktop computer. In some
embodiments, the device is portable (e.g., a notebook computer, tablet computer, or
handheld device). In some embodiments, the device has a touchpad. In some embodiments,
the device has a touch-sensitive display (also known as a "touch screen" or "touch screen
display"). In some embodiments, the device has a graphical user interface (GUI), one or
more processors, memory and one or more modules, programs or sets of instructions stored
in the memory for performing multiple functions. In some embodiments, the user interacts
with the GUI primarily through finger contacts and gestures on the touch-sensitive surface.
In some embodiments, the functions optionally include image editing, drawing, presenting,
word processing, website creating, disk authoring, spreadsheet making, game playing,
telephoning, video conferencing, e-mailing, instant messaging, workout support, digital
photographing, digital videoing, web browsing, digital music playing, and/or digital video
playing. Executable instructions for performing these functions are, optionally, included in a
non-transitory computer readable storage medium or other computer program product
configured for execution by one or more processors.
[0006]          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an
electronic device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. The method includes:
displaying, on the display, a user interface with a favored navigation axis. The method also
includes, while displaying the user interface on the display, detecting a contact on the touch
sensitive surface and detecting a first movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the first movement of the contact includes: a first component of the first
movement in a direction along the favored navigation axis, and a second component of the
first movement in a direction different from the favored navigation axis. The method further
includes in response to detecting the first movement of the contact: in accordance with a
determination that the first movement meets direction-lock termination criteria, moving one
or more user interface objects of the user interface in two dimensions in accordance with the
first component of the first movement and the second component of the first movement, and
in accordance with a determination that the first movement does not the meet direction-lock

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               3
termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the user interface in one
dimension along the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first component of the
first movement.
[00071          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
display unit configured to display a user interface with a favored navigation axis, a touch
sensitive surface unit configured to receive user contacts, and a processing unit coupled to
the display unit and the touch-sensitive surface unit. The processing unit is configured to
detect a contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit and detect a first movement of the
contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit, where the first movement of the contact includes
a first component of the first movement in a direction along the favored navigation axis, and
a second component of the first movement in a direction different from the favored
navigation axis. The processing unit is further configured to, in response to detecting the
first movement of the contact, in accordance with a determination that the first movement
meets direction-lock termination criteria, move one or more user interface objects of the
user interface in two dimensions in accordance with the first component of the first
movement and the second component of the first movement, and in accordance with a
determination that the first movement does not the meet direction-lock termination criteria,
move one or more user interface objects of the user interface in one dimension along the
favored navigation axis in accordance with the first component of the first movement.
[0008]          In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an
electronic device with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. The method includes:
displaying a user interface with a plurality of content units, where the plurality of content
units are arranged along a first axis in the user interface, and a respective content unit is
associated with corresponding metadata. The method also includes detecting a contact on
the touch-sensitive surface and detecting a first movement of the contact. The method
further includes, in response to detecting the first movement of the contact, moving a first
set of one or more of the content units perpendicular to the first axis in the user interface in
accordance with the first movement, and for one or more respective content units in the first
set of content units, displaying metadata for the respective content unit adjacent to the
respective content unit that was not displayed immediately prior to detecting the first
movement of the contact.

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                                4
[0009]          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
display unit configured to display a user interface with a plurality of content units arranged
along a first axis in the user interface, where a respective content unit is associated with
corresponding metadata, a touch-sensitive surface unit configured to receive user contacts,
and a processing unit coupled to the display unit and the touch-sensitive surface unit. The
processing unit is configured to detect a contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit and
detect a first movement of the contact. The processing unit is also configured to, in response
to detecting the first movement of the contact, move a first set of one or more of the content
units perpendicular to the first axis in the user interface in accordance with the first
movement, and for one or more respective content units in the first set of content units,
display metadata for the respective content unit adjacent to the respective content unit that
was not displayed immediately prior to detection of the first movement of the contact.
[0010]          In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
display, a touch-sensitive surface, one or more processors, memory, and one or more
programs; the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be
executed by the one or more processors and the one or more programs include instructions
for performing the operations of any of the methods described above. In accordance with
some embodiments, a graphical user interface on an electronic device with a display, a
touch-sensitive surface, a memory, and one or more processors to execute one or more
programs stored in the memory includes one or more of the elements displayed in any of the
methods described above, which are updated in response to inputs, as described in any of
the methods described above. In accordance with some embodiments, a computer readable
storage medium has stored therein instructions which when executed by an electronic
device with a display, a touch-sensitive surface, cause the device to perform the operations
of any of the methods referred described above. In accordance with some embodiments, an
electronic device includes: a display, a touch-sensitive surface, and means for performing
the operations of any of the methods described above. In accordance with some
embodiments, an information processing apparatus, for use in an electronic device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface, includes means for performing the operations of any
of the methods described above.
[0011]          Thus, electronic devices with displays, touch-sensitive surfaces are provided
with faster, more efficient methods and interfaces for moving user interface objects, thereby

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              5
increasing the effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction with such devices. Such
methods and interfaces may complement or replace conventional methods for moving user
interface objects.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]         For a better understanding of the various described embodiments, reference
should be made to the Description of Embodiments below, in conjunction with the
following drawings in which like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts
throughout the figures.
[0013]         Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating a portable multifunction device
with a touch-sensitive display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0014]         Figure 1B is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments.
[0015]         Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device having a touch screen in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0016]         Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.
[00171         Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications
on a portable multifunction device in accordance with some embodiments.
[00181         Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface for a multifunction device
with a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0019]         Figures 5A-5Q illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating content in
one or two dimensions in accordance with some embodiments.
[00201         Figures 6A-6R illustrate exemplary user interfaces for providing metadata
associated with a displayed content unit in accordance with some embodiments.
[0021]         Figures 6S-6T diagram exemplary relationships between user inputs and
movement of content units when navigating content in a user interface in accordance with
some embodiments.

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                               6
[0022]          Figures 7A-7C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of navigating content
in one or two dimensions in accordance with some embodiments.
[00231          Figures 8A-8C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of providing
metadata associated with a displayed content unit in accordance with some embodiments.
[00241          Figures 9-10 are functional block diagrams of electronic devices in
accordance with some embodiments.
                             DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0025]          Many electronic devices have graphical user interfaces that include a large
number of content units such as electronic messages, photos, audio files, video files, text,
hyperlinks, icons, control elements, and/or visual representations thereof. Many of these
content units have associated metadata (e.g., time and/or date stamps, file sizes, author
identification, status identification, and security settings), which may be informative to the
user. To simplify a user's interaction with user interfaces containing large numbers of
content units, electronic devices may display only a subset of all content units and/or
associated metadata on a display at any one time. A user may need to access content units
and/or associated metadata contained within a given user interface, but which are not
displayed at that time.
[0026]          Some methods for accessing additional content units and/or metadata
associated with displayed content units require a sequence of user inputs that navigate in a
menu system. For example, with these methods, a user may need to select a user interface
object to display a menu. The displayed menu may or may not include a menu option for
accessing additional content units and/or metadata associated with displayed content units.
When the displayed menu does not include the desired menu option, the user needs to
search through multiple menus and/or sub-menus to find a menu that has the correct menu
option. After displaying the menu that has the desired menu option, the user needs to select
the menu option to initiate gaining access to the desired content. Alternatively, an electronic
device may, by default, continuously display larger numbers of content units and/or
metadata associated with displayed content units. This clutters a display and can be
distracting for users, which reduces the efficiency of the user when using the device.

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              7
[00271           In embodiments described below, improved methods for accessing additional
content units present, but not displayed, in a graphical user interface are achieved by
providing user interfaces that allow unlocking of a predefined navigation direction using
simple user contacts on a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., where there is a favored navigation
axis, but some additional, infrequently accessed, information such as metadata is available
in response to navigation in a direction different from the favored navigation axis). In other
embodiments described below, improved methods for accessing metadata associated with
displayed content units are achieved by providing user interfaces that reveal hidden
metadata upon detection of simple user inputs, related to traditional navigation inputs, on a
touch-sensitive surface. These methods streamline to process of accessing additional user
interface content units and/or metadata associated with displayed content units without
overly cluttering the user interface display.
[0028]            Below, Figures 1A-IB, 2, and 3 provide a description of exemplary devices.
Figures 4A-4B and 5A-5Q illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating content in one
or two dimensions. Figures 4A-4B and 6A-6R illustrate exemplary user interfaces for
providing metadata associated with a displayed content unit. Figures 6S-6T diagram
exemplary relationships between user inputs and movement of content units when
navigating content in a user interface. Figures 7A-7C are flow diagrams illustrating a
method of navigating content in one or two dimensions. Figures 8A-8C are flow diagrams
illustrating a method of providing metadata associated with a displayed content unit. The
user interfaces in Figures 5A-5Q are used to illustrate the processes in Figures 7A-7C. The
user interfaces in Figures 6A-6R are used to illustrate the processes in Figures 8A-8C.
                                   EXEMPLARY DEVICES
[00291           Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which
are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description,
numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the
various described embodiments. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the
art that the various described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.
In other instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, circuits, and networks
have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the
embodiments.

  WO 2014/200676                                                             PCT/US2014/038943
                                                8
[00301           It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. are, in
some instances, used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be
limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another.
For example, a first contact could be termed a second contact, and, similarly, a second
contact could be termed a first contact, without departing from the scope of the various
described embodiments. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts, but they
are not the same contact.
[00311           The terminology used in the description of the various described
embodiments herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not
intended to be limiting. As used in the description of the various described embodiments
and the appended claims, the singular forms a         "an" and "the" are intended to include the
plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be
understood that the term "and/or" as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all
possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further
understood that the terms "includes," "including," "comprises," and/or "comprising," when
used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations,
elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
[00321           As used herein, the term "if' is, optionally, construed to mean "when" or
upono"   or "in response to determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the
context. Similarly, the phrase "if it is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is
detected" is, optionally, construed to mean "upon determining" or "in response to
determining" or "upon detecting [the stated condition or event]" or "in response to detecting
[the stated condition or event]," depending on the context.
[00331           Embodiments of electronic devices, user interfaces for such devices, and
associated processes for using such devices are described. In some embodiments, the device
is a portable communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also contains other
functions, such as PDA and/or music player functions. Exemplary embodiments of portable
multifunction devices include, without limitation, the iPhone®, iPod Touch®, and iPad®
devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. Other portable electronic devices, such as
laptops or tablet computers with touch-sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch screen displays and/or

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                               9
touch pads), are, optionally, used. It should also be understood that, in some embodiments,
the device is not a portable communications device, but is a desktop computer with a touch
sensitive surface (e.g., a touch screen display and/or a touch pad).
[0034]          In the discussion that follows, an electronic device that includes a display
and a touch-sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the
electronic device optionally includes one or more other physical user-interface devices, such
as a physical keyboard, a mouse and/or a joystick.
[00351          The device typically supports a variety of applications, such as one or more
of the following: a drawing application, a presentation application, a word processing
application, a website creation application, a disk authoring application, a spreadsheet
application, a gaming application, a telephone application, a video conferencing application,
an e-mail application, an instant messaging application, a workout support application, a
photo management application, a digital camera application, a digital video camera
application, a web browsing application, a digital music player application, and/or a digital
video player application.
[00361          The various applications that are executed on the device optionally use at
least one common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface. One
or more functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information
displayed on the device are, optionally, adjusted and/or varied from one application to the
next and/or within a respective application. In this way, a common physical architecture
(such as the touch-sensitive surface) of the device optionally supports the variety of
applications with user interfaces that are intuitive and transparent to the user.
[0037]          Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with
touch-sensitive displays. Figure 1A is a block diagram illustrating portable multifunction
device 100 with touch-sensitive displays 112 in accordance with some embodiments.
Touch-sensitive display 112 is sometimes called a "touch screen" for convenience, and is
sometimes known as or called a touch-sensitive display system. Device 100 includes
memory 102 (which optionally includes one or more computer readable storage mediums),
memory controller 122, one or more processing units (CPU's) 120, peripherals interface
 118, RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone 113, input/output (I/O)
subsystem 106, other input or control devices 116, and external port 124. Device 100

  WO 2014/200676                                                              PCT/US2014/038943
                                                10
optionally includes one or more optical sensors 164. Device 100 optionally includes one or
more intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of contacts on device 100 (e.g., a touch
sensitive surface such as touch-sensitive display system 112 of device 100). Device 100
optionally includes one or more tactile output generators 167 for generating tactile outputs
on device 100 (e.g., generating tactile outputs on a touch-sensitive surface such as touch
sensitive display system 112 of device 100 or touchpad 355 of device 300). These
components optionally communicate over one or more communication buses or signal lines
 103.
[0038]          As used in the specification and claims, the term "intensity" of a contact on a
touch-sensitive surface refers to the force or pressure (force per unit area) of a contact (e.g.,
a finger contact) on the touch sensitive surface, or to a substitute (proxy) for the force or
pressure of a contact on the touch sensitive surface. The intensity of a contact has a range of
values that includes at least four distinct values and more typically includes hundreds of
distinct values (e.g., at least 256). Intensity of a contact is, optionally, determined (or
measured) using various approaches and various sensors or combinations of sensors. For
example, one or more force sensors underneath or adjacent to the touch-sensitive surface
are, optionally, used to measure force at various points on the touch-sensitive surface. In
some implementations, force measurements from multiple force sensors are combined (e.g.,
a weighted average) to determine an estimated force of a contact. Similarly, a pressure
sensitive tip of a stylus is, optionally, used to determine a pressure of the stylus on the
touch-sensitive surface. Alternatively, the size of the contact area detected on the touch
sensitive surface and/or changes thereto, the capacitance of the touch-sensitive surface
proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto, and/or the resistance of the touch-sensitive
surface proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto are, optionally, used as a substitute
for the force or pressure of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are used directly
to determine whether an intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold
is described in units corresponding to the substitute measurements). In some
implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force or pressure are converted to
an estimated force or pressure and the estimated force or pressure is used to determine
whether an intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is a pressure
threshold measured in units of pressure).

  WO 2014/200676                                                             PCT/US2014/038943
                                               11
[00391          As used in the specification and claims, the term "tactile output" refers to
physical displacement of a device relative to a previous position of the device, physical
displacement of a component (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) of a device relative to another
component (e.g., housing) of the device, or displacement of the component relative to a
center of mass of the device that will be detected by a user with the user's sense of touch.
For example, in situations where the device or the component of the device is in contact
with a surface of a user that is sensitive to touch (e.g., a finger, palm, or other part of a
user's hand), the tactile output generated by the physical displacement will be interpreted by
the user as a tactile sensation corresponding to a perceived change in physical
characteristics of the device or the component of the device. For example, movement of a
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touch-sensitive display or trackpad) is, optionally, interpreted
by the user as a "down click" or "up click" of a physical actuator button. In some cases, a
user will feel a tactile sensation such as an "down click" or "up click" even when there is no
movement of a physical actuator button associated with the touch-sensitive surface that is
physically pressed (e.g., displaced) by the user's movements. As another example,
movement of the touch-sensitive surface is, optionally, interpreted or sensed by the user as
"roughness" of the touch-sensitive surface, even when there is no change in smoothness of
the touch-sensitive surface. While such interpretations of touch by a user will be subject to
the individualized sensory perceptions of the user, there are many sensory perceptions of
touch that are common to a large majority of users. Thus, when a tactile output is described
as corresponding to a particular sensory perception of a user (e.g., an "up click," a "down
click," "roughness"), unless otherwise stated, the generated tactile output corresponds to
physical displacement of the device or a component thereof that will generate the described
sensory perception for a typical (or average) user.
[00401          It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
multifunction device, and that device 100 optionally has more or fewer components than
shown, optionally combines two or more components, or optionally has a different
configuration or arrangement of the components. The various components shown in Figure
 1A are implemented in hardware, software, or a combination of both hardware and
software, including one or more signal processing and/or application specific integrated
circuits.

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              12
[0041]          Memory 102 optionally includes high-speed random access memory and
optionally also includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access to
memory 102 by other components of device 100, such as CPU 120 and the peripherals
interface 118, is, optionally, controlled by memory controller 122.
[0042]          Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals
of the device to CPU 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute
various software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform
various functions for device 100 and to process data.
[0043]          In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU 120, and memory
controller 122 are, optionally, implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104. In some
other embodiments, they are, optionally, implemented on separate chips.
[00441          RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from electromagnetic
signals and communicates with communications networks and other communications
devices via the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 optionally includes well-known
circuitry for performing these functions, including but not limited to an antenna system, an
RF transceiver, one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more oscillators, a digital signal
processor, a CODEC chipset, a subscriber identity module (SIM) card, memory, and so
forth. RF circuitry 108 optionally communicates with networks, such as the Internet, also
referred to as the World Wide Web (WWW), an intranet and/or a wireless network, such as
a cellular telephone network, a wireless local area network (LAN) and/or a metropolitan
area network (MAN), and other devices by wireless communication. The wireless
communication optionally uses any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols
and technologies, including but not limited to Global System for Mobile Communications
(GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE), high-speed downlink packet access
(HSDPA), high-speed uplink packet access (HSUPA), Evolution, Data-Only (EV-DO),
HSPA, HSPA+, Dual-Cell HSPA (DC-HSPDA), long term evolution (LTE), near field
communication (NFC), wideband code division multiple access (W-CDMA), code division
multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple access (TDMA), Bluetooth, Wireless
Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11 a, IEEE 802.1 1b, IEEE 802.11 g and/or IEEE 802.1 In),

   WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                                 13
voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a protocol for e-mail (e.g., Internet message
 access protocol (IMAP) and/or post office protocol (POP)), instant messaging (e.g.,
 extensible messaging and presence protocol (XMPP), Session Initiation Protocol for Instant
Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions (SIMPLE), Instant Messaging and
Presence Service impsS)), and/or Short Message Service (SMS), or any other suitable
 communication protocol, including communication protocols not yet developed as of the
 filing date of this document.
 [0045]            Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio
interface between a user and device 100. Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from
peripherals interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the
 electrical signal to speaker 111. Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human-audible
 sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by microphone
 113 from sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to audio data and
transmits the audio data to peripherals interface 118 for processing. Audio data is,
optionally, retrieved from and/or transmitted to memory 102 and/or RF circuitry 108 by
peripherals interface 11 8. In some embodiments, audio circuitry 110 also includes a headset
jack (e.g., 212, Figure 2). The headset jack provides an interface between audio circuitry
 110 and removable audio input/output peripherals, such as output-only headphones or a
headset with both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and input (e.g., a
microphone).
 [0046]            I/O subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as
touch screen 112 and other input control devices 116, to peripherals interface 118. I/O
 subsystem 106 optionally includes display controller 156, optical sensor controller 158,
intensity sensor controller 159, haptic feedback controller 161 and one or more input
 controllers 160 for other input or control devices. The one or more input controllers 160
receive/send electrical signals from/to other input or control devices 116. The other input
 control devices 116 optionally include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons, rocker buttons,
 etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click wheels, and so forth. In some alternate
 embodiments, input controller(s) 160 are, optionally, coupled to any (or none) of the
 following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, and a pointer device such as a mouse. The
one or more buttons (e.g., 208, Figure 2) optionally include an up/down button for volume

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                               14
control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more buttons optionally include
a push button (e.g., 206, Figure 2).
[00471          Touch-sensitive display 112 provides an input interface and an output
interface between the device and a user. Display controller 156 receives and/or sends
electrical signals from/to touch screen 112. Touch screen 112 displays visual output to the
user. The visual output optionally includes graphics, text, icons, video, and any combination
thereof (collectively termed "graphics"). In some embodiments, some or all of the visual
output corresponds to user-interface objects.
[0048]          Touch screen 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor or set of sensors that
accepts input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch screen 112 and
display controller 156 (along with any associated modules and/or sets of instructions in
memory 102) detect contact (and any movement or breaking of the contact) on touch screen
 112 and converts the detected contact into interaction with user-interface objects (e.g., one
or more soft keys, icons, web pages or images) that are displayed on touch screen 112. In an
exemplary embodiment, a point of contact between touch screen 112 and the user
corresponds to a finger of the user.
[0049]          Touch screen 112 optionally uses LCD (liquid crystal display) technology,
LPD (light emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting diode) technology,
although other display technologies are used in other embodiments. Touch screen 112 and
display controller 156 optionally detect contact and any movement or breaking thereof
using any of a plurality of touch sensing technologies now known or later developed,
including but not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and surface acoustic wave
technologies, as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one
or more points of contact with touch screen 112. In an exemplary embodiment, projected
mutual capacitance sensing technology is used, such as that found in the iPhone@, iPod
Touch,     and iPad® from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California.
[0050]          Touch screen 112 optionally has a video resolution in excess of 100 dpi. In
some embodiments, the touch screen has a video resolution of approximately 160 dpi. The
user optionally makes contact with touch screen 112 using any suitable object or appendage,
such as a stylus, a finger, and so forth. In some embodiments, the user interface is designed
to work primarily with finger-based contacts and gestures, which can be less precise than

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              15
stylus-based input due to the larger area of contact of a finger on the touch screen. In some
embodiments, the device translates the rough finger-based input into a precise
pointer/cursor position or command for performing the actions desired by the user.
[0051]          In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 optionally
includes a touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In some
embodiments, the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the touch
screen, does not display visual output. The touchpad is, optionally, a touch-sensitive surface
that is separate from touch screen 112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive surface formed
by the touch screen.
[0052]          Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various
components. Power system 162 optionally includes a power management system, one or
more power sources (e.g., battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power
failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a light
emitting diode (LED)) and any other components associated with the generation,
management and distribution of power in portable devices.
[00531          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more optical sensors 164.
Figure 1A shows an optical sensor coupled to optical sensor controller 158 in 1/O subsystem
 106. Optical sensor 164 optionally includes charge-coupled device (CCD) or
complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) phototransistors. Optical sensor 164
receives light from the environment, projected through one or more lens, and converts the
light to data representing an image. In conjunction with imaging module 143 (also called a
camera module), optical sensor 164 optionally captures still images or video. In some
embodiments, an optical sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen
display 112 on the front of the device, so that the touch screen display is enabled for use as
a viewfinder for still and/or video image acquisition. In some embodiments, another optical
sensor is located on the front of the device so that the user's image is, optionally, obtained
for videoconferencing while the user views the other video conference participants on the
touch screen display.
[0054]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more contact intensity sensors
 165. Figure IA shows a contact intensity sensor coupled to intensity sensor controller 159
in I/O subsystem 106. Contact intensity sensor 165 optionally includes one or more

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                               16
piezoresistive strain gauges, capacitive force sensors, electric force sensors, piezoelectric
force sensors, optical force sensors, capacitive touch-sensitive surfaces, or other intensity
sensors (e.g., sensors used to measure the force (or pressure) of a contact on a touch
sensitive surface). Contact intensity sensor 165 receives contact intensity information (e.g.,
pressure information or a proxy for pressure information) from the environment. In some
embodiments, at least one contact intensity sensor is collocated with, or proximate to, a
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112). In some embodiments, at
least one contact intensity sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen
display 112 which is located on the front of device 100.
[0055]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more proximity sensors 166.
Figure 1A shows proximity sensor 166 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
proximity sensor 166 is coupled to input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. In some
embodiments, the proximity sensor turns off and disables touch screen 112 when the
multifunction device is placed near the user's ear (e.g., when the user is making a phone
call).
[00561          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more tactile output generators
 167. Figure IA shows a tactile output generator coupled to haptic feedback controller 161 in
I/O subsystem 106. Tactile output generator 167 optionally includes one or more
electroacoustic devices such as speakers or other audio components and/or
electromechanical devices that convert energy into linear motion such as a motor, solenoid,
electroactive polymer, piezoelectric actuator, electrostatic actuator, or other tactile output
generating component (e.g., a component that converts electrical signals into tactile outputs
on the device). Contact intensity sensor 165 receives tactile feedback generation instructions
from haptic feedback module 133 and generates tactile outputs on device 100 that are
capable of being sensed by a user of device 100. In some embodiments, at least one tactile
output generator is collocated with, or proximate to, a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch
sensitive display system 112) and, optionally, generates a tactile output by moving the
touch-sensitive surface vertically (e.g., in/out of a surface of device 100) or laterally (e.g.,
back and forth in the same plane as a surface of device 100). In some embodiments, at least
one tactile output generator sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch
screen display 112 which is located on the front of device 100.

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                               17
[00571           Device 100 optionally also includes one or more accelerometers 168. Figure
 1A shows accelerometer 168 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
accelerometer 168 is, optionally, coupled to an input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106. In
some embodiments, information is displayed on the touch screen display in a portrait view
or a landscape view based on an analysis of data received from the one or more
accelerometers. Device 100 optionally includes, in addition to accelerometer(s) 168, a
magnetometer (not shown) and a GPS (or GLONASS or other global navigation system)
receiver (not shown) for obtaining information concerning the location and orientation (e.g.,
portrait or landscape) of device 100.
[0058]           In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102
include operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128,
contact/motion module (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions)
 132, text input module (or set of instructions) 134, Global Positioning System (GPS)
module (or set of instructions) 135, and applications (or sets of instructions) 136.
Furthermore, in some embodiments memory 102 stores device/global internal state 157, as
shown in Figures 1A and 3. Device/global internal state 157 includes one or more of: active
application state, indicating which applications, if any, are currently active; display state,
indicating what applications, views or other information occupy various regions of touch
screen display 112; sensor state, including information obtained from the device's various
sensors and input control devices 116; and location information concerning the device's
location and/or attitude.
[0059]           Operating system 126 (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X,
WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various software
components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks (e.g., memory
management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and facilitates
communication between various hardware and software components.
[00601           Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices
over one or more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for
handling data received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124 (e.g.,
Universal Serial Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to other
devices or indirectly over a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.). In some

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                                18
embodiments, the external port is a multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as, or
similar to and/or compatible with the 30-pin connector used on iPod (trademark of Apple
Inc.) devices.
[00611           Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects contact with touch screen 112
(in conjunction with display controller 156) and other touch sensitive devices (e.g., a
touchpad or physical click wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes various software
components for performing various operations related to detection of contact, such as
determining if contact has occurred (e.g., detecting a finger-down event), determining an
intensity of the contact (e.g., the force or pressure of the contact or a substitute for the force
or pressure of the contact), determining if there is movement of the contact and tracking the
movement across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., detecting one or more finger-dragging
events), and determining if the contact has ceased (e.g., detecting a finger-up event or a
break in contact). Contact/motion module 130 receives contact data from the touch-sensitive
surface. Determining movement of the point of contact, which is represented by a series of
contact data, optionally includes determining speed (magnitude), velocity (magnitude and
direction), and/or an acceleration (a change in magnitude and/or direction) of the point of
contact. These operations are, optionally, applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger
contacts) or to multiple simultaneous contacts (e.g., "multitouch"/multiple finger contacts).
In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 and display controller 156 detect contact
on a touchpad.
[0062]           In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 uses a set of one or more
intensity thresholds to determine whether an operation has been performed by a user (e.g.,
to determine whether a user has "clicked" on an icon). In some embodiments at least a
subset of the intensity thresholds are determined in accordance with software parameters
(e.g., the intensity thresholds are not determined by the activation thresholds of particular
physical actuators and can be adjusted without changing the physical hardware of device
 100). For example, a mouse "click" threshold of a trackpad or touch screen display can be
set to any of a large range of predefined thresholds values without changing the trackpad or
touch screen display hardware. Additionally, in some implementations a user of the device
is provided with software settings for adjusting one or more of the set of intensity thresholds
(e.g., by adjusting individual intensity thresholds and/or by adjusting a plurality of intensity
thresholds at once with a system-level click "intensity" parameter).

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                               19
[00631           Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects a gesture input by a user.
Different gestures on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns (e.g.,
different motions, timings, and/or intensities of detected contacts). Thus, a gesture is,
optionally, detected by detecting a particular contact pattern. For example, detecting a finger
tap gesture includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting a finger-up (lift
off) event at the same position (or substantially the same position) as the finger-down event
(e.g., at the position of an icon). As another example, detecting a finger swipe gesture on the
touch-sensitive surface includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting one or
more finger-dragging events, and subsequently followed by detecting a finger-up (lift off)
event.
[00641           Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for
rendering and displaying graphics on touch screen 112 or other display, including
components for changing the visual impact (e.g., brightness, transparency, saturation,
contrast or other visual property) of graphics that are displayed. As used herein, the term
"graphics" includes any object that can be displayed to a user, including without limitation
text, web pages, icons (such as user-interface objects including soft keys), digital images,
videos, animations and the like.
[0065]           In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing
graphics to be used. Each graphic is, optionally, assigned a corresponding code. Graphics
module 132 receives, from applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be
displayed along with, if necessary, coordinate data and other graphic property data, and then
generates screen image data to output to display controller 156.
[0066]           Haptic feedback module 133 includes various software components for
generating instructions used by tactile output generator(s) 167 to produce tactile outputs at
one or more locations on device 100 in response to user interactions with device 100.
[0067]           Text input module 134, which is, optionally, a component of graphics
module 132, provides soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts
 137, e-mail 140, IM 141, browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
[00681           GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this
information for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location-based
dialing, to camera 143 as picture/video metadata, and to applications that provide location-

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              20
based services such as weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and map/navigation
widgets).
[00691           Applications 136 optionally include the following modules (or sets of
instructions), or a subset or superset thereof:
    .   contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
    .   telephone module 138;
    .   video conferencing module 139;
    -   e-mail client module 140;
    .   instant messaging (IM) module 141;
    -   workout support module 142;
    .   camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
    -   image management module 144;
    .   browser module 147;
    .   calendar module 148;
    .   widget modules 149, which optionally include one or more of: weather widget 149
         1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4,
        dictionary widget 149-5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user
        created widgets 149-6;
    .   widget creator module 150 for making user-created widgets 149-6;
    .   search module 151;
    .   video and music player module 152, which is, optionally, made up of a video player
        module and a music player module;
    -   notes module 153;
    .   map module 154; and/or
    -   online video module 155.
[0070]           Examples of other applications 136 that are, optionally, stored in memory
102 include other word processing applications, other image editing applications, drawing

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              21
applications, presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital
rights management, voice recognition, and voice replication.
[00711           In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137 are, optionally,
used to manage an address book or contact list (e.g., stored in application internal state 192
of contacts module 137 in memory 102 or memory 370), including: adding name(s) to the
address book; deleting name(s) from the address book; associating telephone number(s), e
mail address(es), physical address(es) or other information with a name; associating an
image with a name; categorizing and sorting names; providing telephone numbers or e-mail
addresses to initiate and/or facilitate communications by telephone 138, video conference
 139, e-mail 140, or IM 141; and so forth.
[0072]           In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics
module 132, and text input module 134, telephone module 138 are, optionally, used to enter
a sequence of characters corresponding to a telephone number, access one or more
telephone numbers in address book 137, modify a telephone number that has been entered,
dial a respective telephone number, conduct a conversation and disconnect or hang up when
the conversation is completed. As noted above, the wireless communication optionally uses
any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and technologies.
[0073]           In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor 164, optical sensor
controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, contact
list 137, and telephone module 138, videoconferencing module 139 includes executable
instructions to initiate, conduct, and terminate a video conference between a user and one or
more other participants in accordance with user instructions.
[0074]           In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller
 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, e-mail client
module 140 includes executable instructions to create, send, receive, and manage e-mail in
response to user instructions. In conjunction with image management module 144, e-mail
client module 140 makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still or video images
taken with camera module 143.

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              22
[00751          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller
 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, the instant
messaging module 141 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters
corresponding to an instant message, to modify previously entered characters, to transmit a
respective instant message (for example, using a Short Message Service (SMS) or
Multimedia Message Service (MMS) protocol for telephony-based instant messages or
using XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS for Internet-based instant messages), to receive instant
messages and to view received instant messages. In some embodiments, transmitted and/or
received instant messages optionally include graphics, photos, audio files, video files and/or
other attachments as are supported in a MMS and/or an Enhanced Messaging Service
(EMS). As used herein, "instant messaging" refers to both telephony-based messages (e.g.,
messages sent using SMS or MMS) and Internet-based messages (e.g., messages sent using
XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS).
[00761          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller
 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135,
map module 154, and music player module 146, workout support module 142 includes
executable instructions to create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or calorie burning
goals); communicate with workout sensors (sports devices); receive workout sensor data;
calibrate sensors used to monitor a workout; select and play music for a workout; and
display, store and transmit workout data.
[0077]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical
sensor(s) 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and
image management module 144, camera module 143 includes executable instructions to
capture still images or video (including a video stream) and store them into memory 102,
modify characteristics of a still image or video, or delete a still image or video from
memory 102.
[00781          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and camera module 143, image
management module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g., edit), or
otherwise manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album), and store
still and/or video images.

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                                23
[00791          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
browser module 147 includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in accordance
with user instructions, including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying web pages
or portions thereof, as well as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
[0080]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, e-mail
client module 140, and browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes executable
instructions to create, display, modify, and store calendars and data associated with
calendars (e.g., calendar entries, to do lists, etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
[0081]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and
browser module 147, widget modules 149 are mini-applications that are, optionally,
downloaded and used by a user (e.g., weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator
widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, and dictionary widget 149-5) or created by the
user (e.g., user-created widget 149-6). In some embodiments, a widget includes an HTML
(Hypertext Markup Language) file, a CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) file, and a JavaScript
file. In some embodiments, a widget includes an XML (Extensible Markup Language) file
and a JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo! Widgets).
[0082]          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and
browser module 147, the widget creator module 150 are, optionally, used by a user to create
widgets (e.g., turning a user-specified portion of a web page into a widget).
[00831          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, search module 151 includes
executable instructions to search for text, music, sound, image, video, and/or other files in
memory 102 that match one or more search criteria (e.g., one or more user-specified search
terms) in accordance with user instructions.
[00841          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, and
browser module 147, video and music player module 152 includes executable instructions

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                              24
that allow the user to download and play back recorded music and other sound files stored
in one or more file formats, such as MP3 or AAC files, and executable instructions to
display, present or otherwise play back videos (e.g., on touch screen 112 or on an external,
connected display via external port 124). In some embodiments, device 100 optionally
includes the functionality of an MP3 player, such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
[0085]          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153 includes
executable instructions to create and manage notes, to do lists, and the like in accordance
with user instructions.
[00861          In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS
module 135, and browser module 147, map module 154 are, optionally, used to receive,
display, modify, and store maps and data associated with maps (e.g., driving directions; data
on stores and other points of interest at or near a particular location; and other location
based data) in accordance with user instructions.
[00871          In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, text
input module 134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, online video module
 155 includes instructions that allow the user to access, browse, receive (e.g., by streaming
and/or download), play back (e.g., on the touch screen or on an external, connected display
via external port 124), send an e-mail with a link to a particular online video, and otherwise
manage online videos in one or more file formats, such as H.264. In some embodiments,
instant messaging module 141, rather than e-mail client module 140, is used to send a link
to a particular online video.
[0088]          Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of
executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the
methods described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other
information processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of instructions)
need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus
various subsets of these modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in
various embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 optionally stores a subset of the

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                             25
modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 102 optionally stores
additional modules and data structures not described above.
[00891          In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a
predefined set of functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen
and/or a touchpad. By using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control
device for operation of device 100, the number of physical input control devices (such as
push buttons, dials, and the like) on device 100 is, optionally, reduced.
[00901          The predefined set of functions that are performed exclusively through a
touch screen and/or a touchpad optionally include navigation between user interfaces. In
some embodiments, the touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a
main, home, or root menu from any user interface that is displayed on device 100. In such
embodiments, a "menu button" is implemented using a touchpad. In some other
embodiments, the menu button is a physical push button or other physical input control
device instead of a touchpad.
[0091]          Figure lB is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 (in
Figures TA) or 370 (Figure 3) includes event sorter 170 (e.g., in operating system 126) and a
respective application 136-1 (e.g., any of the aforementioned applications 137-13, 155, 380
390).
[00921          Event sorter 170 receives event information and determines the application
 136-1 and application view 191 of application 136-1 to which to deliver the event
information. Event sorter 170 includes event monitor 171 and event dispatcher module 174.
In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes application internal state 192, which
indicates the current application view(s) displayed on touch sensitive display 112 when the
application is active or executing. In some embodiments, device/global internal state 157 is
used by event sorter 170 to determine which application(s) is (are) currently active, and
application internal state 192 is used by event sorter 170 to determine application views 191
to which to deliver event information.
[00931          In some embodiments, application internal state 192 includes additional
information, such as one or more of: resume information to be used when application 136-1
resumes execution, user interface state information that indicates information being

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                               26
displayed or that is ready for display by application 136-1, a state queue for enabling the
user to go back to a prior state or view of application 136-1, and a redo/undo queue of
previous actions taken by the user.
[0094]          Event monitor 171 receives event information from peripherals interface
 118. Event information includes information about a sub-event (e.g., a user touch on touch
sensitive display 112, as part of a multi-touch gesture). Peripherals interface 118 transmits
information it receives from I/O subsystem 106 or a sensor, such as proximity sensor 166,
accelerometer(s) 168, and/or microphone 113 (through audio circuitry 110). Information
that peripherals interface 118 receives from I/O subsystem 106 includes information from
touch-sensitive display 112 or a touch-sensitive surface.
[0095]          In some embodiments, event monitor 171 sends requests to the peripherals
interface 118 at predetermined intervals. In response, peripherals interface 118 transmits
event information. In other embodiments, peripheral interface 118 transmits event
information only when there is a significant event (e.g., receiving an input above a
predetermined noise threshold and/or for more than a predetermined duration).
[00961          In some embodiments, event sorter 170 also includes a hit view
determination module 172 and/or an active event recognizer determination module 173.
[00971          Hit view determination module 172 provides software procedures for
determining where a sub-event has taken place within one or more views, when touch
sensitive display 112 displays more than one view. Views are made up of controls and other
elements that a user can see on the display.
[00981          Another aspect of the user interface associated with an application is a set of
views, sometimes herein called application views or user interface windows, in which
information is displayed and touch-based gestures occur. The application views (of a
respective application) in which a touch is detected optionally correspond to programmatic
levels within a programmatic or view hierarchy of the application. For example, the lowest
level view in which a touch is detected is, optionally, called the hit view, and the set of
events that are recognized as proper inputs are, optionally, determined based, at least in part,
on the hit view of the initial touch that begins a touch-based gesture.

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                             27
[0099]          Hit view determination module 172 receives information related to sub
events of a touch-based gesture. When an application has multiple views organized in a
hierarchy, hit view determination module 172 identifies a hit view as the lowest view in the
hierarchy which should handle the sub-event. In most circumstances, the hit view is the
lowest level view in which an initiating sub-event occurs (i.e., the first sub-event in the
sequence of sub-events that form an event or potential event). Once the hit view is identified
by the hit view determination module, the hit view typically receives all sub-events related
to the same touch or input source for which it was identified as the hit view.
[00100]         Active event recognizer determination module 173 determines which view or
views within a view hierarchy should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In some
embodiments, active event recognizer determination module 173 determines that only the
hit view should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, active
event recognizer determination module 173 determines that all views that include the
physical location of a sub-event are actively involved views, and therefore determines that
all actively involved views should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other
embodiments, even if touch sub-events were entirely confined to the area associated with
one particular view, views higher in the hierarchy would still remain as actively involved
views.
[001011         Event dispatcher module 174 dispatches the event information to an event
recognizer (e.g., event recognizer 180). In embodiments including active event recognizer
determination module 173, event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to
an event recognizer determined by active event recognizer determination module 173. In
some embodiments, event dispatcher module 174 stores in an event queue the event
information, which is retrieved by a respective event receiver module 182.
[00102]         In some embodiments, operating system 126 includes event sorter 170.
Alternatively, application 136-1 includes event sorter 170. In yet other embodiments, event
sorter 170 is a stand-alone module, or a part of another module stored in memory 102, such
as contact/motion module 130.
[001031         In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes a plurality of event
handlers 190 and one or more application views 191, each of which includes instructions for
handling touch events that occur within a respective view of the application's user interface.

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               28
Each application view 191 of the application 136-1 includes one or more event recognizers
 180. Typically, a respective application view 191 includes a plurality of event recognizers
 180. In other embodiments, one or more of event recognizers 180 are part of a separate
module, such as a user interface kit (not shown) or a higher level object from which
application 136-1 inherits methods and other properties. In some embodiments, a respective
event handler 190 includes one or more of: data updater 176, object updater 177, GUI
updater 178, and/or event data 179 received from event sorter 170. Event handler 190
optionally utilizes or calls data updater 176, object updater 177 or GUI updater 178 to
update the application internal state 192. Alternatively, one or more of the application views
 191 includes one or more respective event handlers 190. Also, in some embodiments, one or
more of data updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a
respective application view 191.
[00104]         A respective event recognizer 180 receives event information (e.g., event
data 179) from event sorter 170, and identifies an event from the event information. Event
recognizer 180 includes event receiver 182 and event comparator 184. In some
embodiments, event recognizer 180 also includes at least a subset of: metadata 183, and
event delivery instructions 188 (which optionally include sub-event delivery instructions).
[00105]         Event receiver 182 receives event information from event sorter 170. The
event information includes information about a sub-event, for example, a touch or a touch
movement. Depending on the sub-event, the event information also includes additional
information, such as location of the sub-event. When the sub-event concerns motion of a
touch, the event information optionally also includes speed and direction of the sub-event.
In some embodiments, events include rotation of the device from one orientation to another
(e.g., from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation, or vice versa), and the event
information includes corresponding information about the current orientation (also called
device attitude) of the device.
[001061         Event comparator 184 compares the event information to predefined event or
sub-event definitions and, based on the comparison, determines an event or sub-event, or
determines or updates the state of an event or sub-event. In some embodiments, event
comparator 184 includes event definitions 186. Event definitions 186 contain definitions of
events (e.g., predefined sequences of sub-events), for example, event 1 (187-1), event 2

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              29
(187-2), and others. In some embodiments, sub-events in an event 187 include, for example,
touch begin, touch end, touch movement, touch cancellation, and multiple touching. In one
example, the definition for event 1 (187-1) is a double tap on a displayed object. The double
tap, for example, comprises a first touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a
predetermined phase, a first lift-off (touch end) for a predetermined phase, a second touch
(touch begin) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, and a second lift-off (touch
end) for a predetermined phase. In another example, the definition for event 2 (187-2) is a
dragging on a displayed object. The dragging, for example, comprises a touch (or contact)
on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a movement of the touch across touch
sensitive display 112, and lift-off of the touch (touch end). In some embodiments, the event
also includes information for one or more associated event handlers 190.
[001071          In some embodiments, event definition 187 includes a definition of an event
for a respective user-interface object. In some embodiments, event comparator 184 performs
a hit test to determine which user-interface object is associated with a sub-event. For
example, in an application view in which three user-interface objects are displayed on
touch-sensitive display 112, when a touch is detected on touch-sensitive display 112, event
comparator 184 performs a hit test to determine which of the three user-interface objects is
associated with the touch (sub-event). If each displayed object is associated with a
respective event handler 190, the event comparator uses the result of the hit test to
determine which event handler 190 should be activated. For example, event comparator 184
selects an event handler associated with the sub-event and the object triggering the hit test.
[00108]          In some embodiments, the definition for a respective event 187 also includes
delayed actions that delay delivery of the event information until after it has been
determined whether the sequence of sub-events does or does not correspond to the event
recognizer's event type.
[00109]          When a respective event recognizer 180 determines that the series of sub
events do not match any of the events in event definitions 186, the respective event
recognizer 180 enters an event impossible, event failed, or event ended state, after which it
disregards subsequent sub-events of the touch-based gesture. In this situation, other event
recognizers, if any, that remain active for the hit view continue to track and process sub
events of an ongoing touch-based gesture.

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              30
[00110]         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 includes metadata
 183 with configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how the event delivery
system should perform sub-event delivery to actively involved event recognizers. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
how event recognizers interact, or are enabled to interact, with one another. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate
whether sub-events are delivered to varying levels in the view or programmatic hierarchy.
[00111]         In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 activates event
handler 190 associated with an event when one or more particular sub-events of an event are
recognized. In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 delivers event
information associated with the event to event handler 190. Activating an event handler 190
is distinct from sending (and deferred sending) sub-events to a respective hit view. In some
embodiments, event recognizer 180 throws a flag associated with the recognized event, and
event handler 190 associated with the flag catches the flag and performs a predefined
process.
[00112]         In some embodiments, event delivery instructions 188 include sub-event
delivery instructions that deliver event information about a sub-event without activating an
event handler. Instead, the sub-event delivery instructions deliver event information to event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or to actively involved views. Event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or with actively involved views receive the
event information and perform a predetermined process.
[001131         In some embodiments, data updater 176 creates and updates data used in
application 136-1. For example, data updater 176 updates the telephone number used in
contacts module 137, or stores a video file used in video player module 145. In some
embodiments, object updater 177 creates and updates objects used in application 136-1. For
example, object updater 176 creates a new user-interface object or updates the position of a
user-interface object. GUI updater 178 updates the GUI. For example, GUI updater 178
prepares display information and sends it to graphics module 132 for display on a touch
sensitive display.
[00114]         In some embodiments, event handler(s) 190 includes or has access to data
updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178. In some embodiments, data updater

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                                31
 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a single module of a
respective application 136-1 or application view 191. In other embodiments, they are
included in two or more software modules.
[00115]          It shall be understood that the foregoing discussion regarding event handling
of user touches on touch-sensitive displays also applies to other forms of user inputs to
operate multifunction devices 100 with input-devices, not all of which are initiated on touch
screens. For example, mouse movement and mouse button presses, optionally coordinated
with single or multiple keyboard presses or holds; contact movements such as taps, drags,
scrolls, etc., on touch-pads; pen stylus inputs; movement of the device; oral instructions;
detected eye movements; biometric inputs; and/or any combination thereof are optionally
utilized as inputs corresponding to sub-events which define an event to be recognized.
[00116]          Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen
 112 in accordance with some embodiments. The touch screen optionally displays one or
more graphics within user interface (UI) 200. In this embodiment, as well as others
described below, a user is enabled to select one or more of the graphics by making a gesture
on the graphics, for example, with one or more fingers 202 (not drawn to scale in the figure)
or one or more styluses 203 (not drawn to scale in the figure). In some embodiments,
selection of one or more graphics occurs when the user breaks contact with the one or more
graphics. In some embodiments, the gesture optionally includes one or more taps, one or
more swipes (from left to right, right to left, upward and/or downward) and/or a rolling of a
finger (from right to left, left to right, upward and/or downward) that has made contact with
device 100. In some implementations or circumstances, inadvertent contact with a graphic
does not select the graphic. For example, a swipe gesture that sweeps over an application
icon optionally does not select the corresponding application when the gesture
corresponding to selection is a tap.
[00117]          Device 100 optionally also includes one or more physical buttons, such as
"home" or menu button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 is, optionally, used
to navigate to any application 136 in a set of applications that are, optionally executed on
device 100. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the menu button is implemented as a soft
key in a GUI displayed on touch screen 112.

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              32
[00118]         In one embodiment, device 100 includes touch screen 112, menu button 204,
push button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume adjustment
button(s) 208, Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card slot 210, head set jack 212, and
docking/charging external port 124. Push button 206 is, optionally, used to turn the power
on/off on the device by depressing the button and holding the button in the depressed state
for a predefined time interval; to lock the device by depressing the button and releasing the
button before the predefined time interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock the device or
initiate an unlock process. In an alternative embodiment, device 100 also accepts verbal
input for activation or deactivation of some functions through microphone 113. Device 100
also, optionally, includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of
contacts on touch screen 112 and/or one or more tactile output generators 167 for generating
tactile outputs for a user of device 100.
[00119]         Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments. Device 300
need not be portable. In some embodiments, device 300 is a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a multimedia player device, a navigation device, an
educational device (such as a child's learning toy), a gaming system, or a control device
(e.g., a home or industrial controller). Device 300 typically includes one or more processing
units (CPU's) 310, one or more network or other communications interfaces 360, memory
370, and one or more communication buses 320 for interconnecting these components.
Communication buses 320 optionally include circuitry (sometimes called a chipset) that
interconnects and controls communications between system components. Device 300
includes input/output (I/O) interface 330 comprising display 340, which is typically a touch
screen display. I/O interface 330 also optionally includes a keyboard and/or mouse (or other
pointing device) 350 and touchpad 355, tactile output generator 357 for generating tactile
outputs on device 300 (e.g., similar to tactile output generator(s) 167 described above with
reference to Figure 1A), sensors 359 (e.g., optical, acceleration, proximity, touch-sensitive,
and/or contact intensity sensors similar to contact intensity sensor(s) 165 described above
with reference to Figure 1A). Memory 370 includes high-speed random access memory,
such as DRAM, SRAM, DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices;
and optionally includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage
devices, optical disk storage devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              33
storage devices. Memory 370 optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely
located from CPU(s) 310. In some embodiments, memory 370 stores programs, modules,
and data structures analogous to the programs, modules, and data structures stored in
memory 102 of portable multifunction device 100 (Figure IA), or a subset thereof.
Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores additional programs, modules, and data
structures not present in memory 102 of portable multifunction device 100. For example,
memory 370 of device 300 optionally stores drawing module 380, presentation module 382,
word processing module 384, website creation module 386, disk authoring module 388,
and/or spreadsheet module 390, while memory 102 of portable multifunction device 100
(Figure 1A) optionally does not store these modules.
[001201          Each of the above identified elements in Figure 3 are, optionally, stored in
one or more of the previously mentioned memory devices. Each of the above identified
modules corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above. The
above identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be implemented as
separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various subsets of these
modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in various embodiments. In
some embodiments, memory 370 optionally stores a subset of the modules and data
structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores additional modules
and data structures not described above.
[00121]          Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") that
is, optionally, implemented on portable multifunction device 100.
[00122]          Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications
on portable multifunction device 100 in accordance with some embodiments. Similar user
interfaces are, optionally, implemented on device 300. In some embodiments, user interface
400 includes the following elements, or a subset or superset thereof:
     .   Signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s), such as cellular and
         Wi-Fi signals;
     .   Time 404;
     .   Bluetooth indicator 405;
     .   Battery status indicator 406;

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              34
    -   Tray 408 with icons for frequently used applications, such as:
            o   Icon 416 for telephone module 138, labeled "Phone," which optionally
               includes an indicator 414 of the number of missed calls or voicemail
               messages;
            o  Icon 418 for e-mail client module 140, labeled "Mail," which optionally
                includes an indicator 410 of the number of unread e-mails;
            o  Icon 420 for browser module 147, labeled "Browser;" and
            o  Icon 422 for video and music player module 152, also referred to as iPod
                (trademark of Apple Inc.) module 152, labeled "iPod;" and
    -   Icons for other applications, such as:
            o  Icon 424 for IM module 141, labeled "Text;"
            o  Icon 426 for calendar module 148, labeled "Calendar;"
            o  Icon 428 for image management module 144, labeled "Photos;"
            o  Icon 430 for camera module 143, labeled "Camera;"
            o  Icon 432 for online video module 155, labeled "Online Video"
            o  Icon 434 for stocks widget 149-2, labeled "Stocks;"
            o  Icon 436 for map module 154, labeled "Map;"
            o  Icon 438 for weather widget 149-1, labeled "Weather;"
            o  Icon 440 for alarm clock widget 149-4, labeled "Clock;"
            o  Icon 442 for workout support module 142, labeled "Workout Support;"
            o  Icon 444 for notes module 153, labeled "Notes;" and
            o  Icon 446 for a settings application or module, which provides access to
                settings for device 100 and its various applications 136.
[001231        It should be noted that the icon labels illustrated in Figure 4A are merely
exemplary. For example, icon 422 for video and music player module 152 are labeled
"Music" or "Music Player." Other labels are, optionally, used for various application icons.
In some embodiments, a label for a respective application icon includes a name of an

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                                35
application corresponding to the respective application icon. In some embodiments, a label
for a particular application icon is distinct from a name of an application corresponding to
the particular application icon.
[00124]         Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device
300, Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3)
that is separate from the display 450 (e.g., touch screen display 112). Device 300 also,
optionally, includes one or more contact intensity sensors (e.g., one or more of sensors 357)
for detecting intensity of contacts on touch-sensitive surface 451 and/or one or more tactile
output generators 359 for generating tactile outputs for a user of device 300.
[00125]          Although some of the examples which follow will be given with reference to
inputs on touch screen display 112 (where the touch sensitive surface and the display are
combined), in some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface that
is separate from the display, as shown in Figure 4B. In some embodiments the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) has a primary axis (e.g., 452 in Figure 4B) that
corresponds to a primary axis (e.g., 453 in Figure 4B) on the display (e.g., 450). In
accordance with these embodiments, the device detects contacts (e.g., 460 and 462 in Figure
4B) with the touch-sensitive surface 451 at locations that correspond to respective locations
on the display (e.g., in Figure 4B, 460 corresponds to 468 and 462 corresponds to 470). In
this way, user inputs (e.g., contacts 460 and 462, and movements thereof) detected by the
device on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) are used by the device to
manipulate the user interface on the display (e.g., 450 in Figure 4B) of the multifunction
device when the touch-sensitive surface is separate from the display. It should be
understood that similar methods are, optionally, used for other user interfaces described
herein.
[00126]         Additionally, while the following examples are given primarily with
reference to finger inputs (e.g., finger contacts, finger tap gestures, finger swipe gestures), it
should be understood that, in some embodiments, one or more of the finger inputs are
replaced with input from another input device (e.g., a mouse based input or stylus input).
For example, a swipe gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click (e.g., instead of a
contact) followed by movement of the cursor along the path of the swipe (e.g., instead of
movement of the contact). As another example, a tap gesture is, optionally, replaced with a

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                              36
mouse click while the cursor is located over the location of the tap gesture (e.g., instead of
detection of the contact followed by ceasing to detect the contact). Similarly, when multiple
user inputs are simultaneously detected, it should be understood that multiple computer
mice are, optionally, used simultaneously, or a mouse and finger contacts are, optionally,
used simultaneously.
[001271          As used herein, the term "focus selector" refers to an input element that
indicates a current part of a user interface with which a user is interacting. In some
implementations that include a cursor or other location marker, the cursor acts as a "focus
selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input) is detected on a touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touchpad 355 in Figure 3 or touch-sensitive surface 451 in Figure 4B) while the cursor
is over a particular user interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user
interface element), the particular user interface element is adjusted in accordance with the
detected input. In some implementations that include a touch-screen display (e.g., touch
sensitive display system 112 in Figure 1A or touch screen 112 in Figure 4A) that enables
direct interaction with user interface elements on the touch-screen display, a detected
contact on the touch-screen acts as a "focus selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press
input by the contact) is detected on the touch-screen display at a location of a particular user
interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user interface element), the
particular user interface element is adjusted in accordance with the detected input. In some
implementations focus is moved from one region of a user interface to another region of the
user interface without corresponding movement of a cursor or movement of a contact on a
touch-screen display (e.g., by using a tab key or arrow keys to move focus from one button
to another button); in these implementations, the focus selector moves in accordance with
movement of focus between different regions of the user interface. Without regard to the
specific form taken by the focus selector, the focus selector is generally the user interface
element (or contact on a touch-screen display) that is controlled by the user so as to
communicate the user's intended interaction with the user interface (e.g., by indicating, to
the device, the element of the user interface with which the user is intending to interact). For
example, the location of a focus selector (e.g., a cursor, a contact or a selection box) over a
respective button while a press input is detected on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a
touchpad or touch screen) will indicate that the user is intending to activate the respective
button (as opposed to other user interface elements shown on a display of the device).

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              37
                   USER INTERFACES AND ASSOCIATED PROCESSES
[00128]         Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UT") and
associated processes that may be implemented on an electronic device with a display and a
touch-sensitive surface, such as device 300 or portable multifunction device 100.
[001291         Figures 5A-5Q illustrate exemplary user interfaces for navigating content in
one or two dimensions in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these
figures are used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in
Figures 7A-7C.
[00130]         Figures 5A-5Q illustrate multifunction device 100 displaying user interface
500, including electronic messages 502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514, and 516. User
interface 100 has a primary (or favored) navigation axis oriented parallel to the long edge of
multifunction device 100 and a secondary navigation axis perpendicular to the primary
navigation axis. In some embodiments, the long axis of the device is the primary axis and
the short axis is the secondary axis when the device is used in a portrait orientation (e.g.,
with the long axis as vertical axis) because a user will typically be most interested in
scrolling the messages up and down to read the content of the conversation and will
typically be less interested in viewing metadata such as message times associated with the
messages and thus it is advantageous to make it easier to scroll the messages up and down
than moving to the side to reveal metadata. User interface 500 displays a subset of the
electronic messages on touch screen 112 at any one time. Additional electronic messages
can be accessed by scrolling the user interface along the primary axis. In some
embodiments, user interface 500 includes a default state in which navigating along the
secondary axis is locked (e.g., the user can scroll up and down to reveal additional
electronic messages, but is not provided with the option to scroll left and right). Upon
satisfaction of a predetermined direction-lock termination criteria, the user breaks the axis
scrolling lock, allowing navigation along the secondary scrolling axis.
[00131]         Figures 5A-5Q illustrate various embodiments where the user provides a
gesture input including movement (e.g., movement 522, 532, 542, 552, 562, 572, and/or
582) of a contact (e.g., contact 520, 530, 540, 550, 560, and/or 570) on touch screen 112,
the movement having a first component parallel to the primary scrolling axis (e.g., vectors
524, 634, 544, 554, 564, 574, and/or 584), a second component perpendicular to the primary

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              38
scrolling axis (e.g., vectors 526, 536, 546, 556, 566, and/or 576), and a corresponding vector
angle relative to the primary scrolling axis (e.g., angle 528, 538, 548, 558, 568, 578, and/or
588). In response to detecting the gesture, multifunction device 100 scrolls the electronic
messages (e.g., messages 502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514, and/or 516) by an amount that
corresponds to a magnitude of the first component vector of the movement. Where the
gesture input meets the predetermined direction-lock termination criteria, multifunction
device 100 also scrolls the electronic messages by an amount that corresponds to a
magnitude of the second component vector of the movement.
[00132]          In Figures 5B-5E and 5H-5M, the direction-lock termination criteria includes
a criterion that is met when a vector angle relative to the primary scrolling axis of the
gesture input (e.g., angle 528, 538, 558, 568, 578 and/or 588) is greater than predetermined
threshold angle 527 (e.g., for a predefined unit of motion such as movement by the contact
of 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50 pixels or for a predefined unit of time such as movement of the
contact over a period of 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 or 0.5 seconds). For example, in Figures 5B
5C, multifunction device 100 detects a gesture including movement 522 of contact 520 from
position 520-a on touch screen 112 in Figure 5B to position 520-b on touch screen 112 in
Figure 5C, movement 522 including first component vector 524, second component vector
526, and vector angle 528. In response, multifunction device 100 scrolls the electronic
messages down from the top of touch screen 112 along the primary scrolling axis by an
amount that corresponds to a magnitude of the first component vector of the movement
(e.g., message 508 is displayed at the top of touch screen 112 in Figure 5B and towards the
bottom of touch screen 112 in Figure 5C). Multifunction device 100 does not scroll the
electronic messages along the secondary scrolling axis because vector angle 528 is smaller
than predetermined threshold angle 527. In contrast, in Figures 5D-5E, where multifunction
device 100 detects a gesture including movement 532 of contact 530 from position 530-a on
touch screen 112 in Figure 5D to position 530-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 5E,
movement 532 including first component vector 534, second component vector 536, and
vector angle 538, the electronic messages are scrolled along the secondary scrolling axis
because vector angle 538 is greater than predetermined threshold angle 527 (e.g., message
510, located on the left side of touch screen 112 in Figure 5D, is scrolled to the right side of
touch screen 112 in Figure 5E).

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                                39
[001331          In Figures 5F-5G and 5N-5Q, the direction-lock termination criteria includes
a criterion that is met when a movement (e.g., movement 542) starts more than a
predetermined distance from the right edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., movement of contact
is initiated to the left of dotted line 529). For example, in Figures 5F-5G, multifunction
device 100 detects a gesture including movement 542 of contact 540 initiating from position
540-a on touch screen 112 in Figure 5F to position 540-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 5G,
movement 522 including first component vector 544, second component vector 546, and
vector angle 548. In response, multifunction device 100 scrolls the electronic messages
down from the top of touch screen 112 along the primary scrolling axis by an amount that
corresponds to a magnitude of the first component vector of the movement (e.g., message
508 is displayed at the top of touch screen 112 in Figure 5F and towards the bottom of touch
screen 112 in Figure 5G). Multifunction device 100 does not scroll the electronic messages
along the secondary scrolling axis because the movement was initiated less than the
predetermined distance from the right edge of touch screen 112 (e.g., was initiated to the
right of dotted line 529). In contrast, in Figures 5N-50, where multifunction device 100
detects a gesture including movement 592 of contact 590 from position 590-a on touch
screen 112 in Figure 5N to position 590-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 50, movement 592
including first component vector 594, second component vector 596, and vector angle 598,
the electronic messages are scrolled along the secondary scrolling axis because the
movement was initiated more than the predetermined distance from the right edge of touch
screen 112 (e.g., was initiated to the left of dotted line 529).
[001341          In Figures 5N-5Q, the predetermined distance from the right edge of the
screen, corresponding to a criterion of the direction-lock termination criteria (e.g., dotted
line 529), is selected such that the distance between the position where the movement starts
and the edge of the screen, when the criterion is met, is sufficient to fully display additional
information (e.g., metadata) in the area on the touch screen vacated by movement of the
messages along the secondary scrolling axis. For example, in Figures 5N-50, multifunction
device 100 detects a gesture including movement 592 of contact 590 from position 590-a on
touch screen 112 in Figure 5N to position 590-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 50,
movement 592 including first component vector 594, second component vector 596, and
vector angle 598. In response, multifunction device scrolls the messages along both the
primary scrolling axis (e.g., by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of first

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                              40
component vector 594) and the secondary scrolling axis (e.g., by an amount that
corresponds to a magnitude of second component vector 596) and displays metadata 501,
503, 505, 507, and 509, because movement of the messages along the secondary scrolling
axis, by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of second component vector 596, is
sufficient to allow display of the metadata to the left of the messages. In contrast, in Figures
5P-5Q, movement 513 of contact 511 is not sufficient to break the axis direction lock
because the distance between position 511-a and the right edge of the screen is not large
enough to allow display of the associated metadata.
[00135]          In Figures 5H-5J, multifunction device 100 rechecks to determine if
direction-lock termination criteria, including a criterion that is met when a vector angle
relative to the primary scrolling axis of the gesture input is greater than predetermined
threshold angle 527, has been met by second movement 562 of contact 550 after first
movement 552 of contact 550 does not satisfy the criteria. For example, multifunction
device 100 detects a gesture including movement 552 of contact 550 from position 550-a on
touch screen 112 in Figure 5H to position 550-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 51,
movement 552 including first component vector 554, second component vector 556, and
vector angle 558. In response, multifunction device 100 scrolls the electronic messages
down from the top of touch screen 112 along the primary scrolling axis by an amount that
corresponds to a magnitude of the first component vector 554 of the movement (e.g.,
message 508 is displayed at the top of touch screen 112 in Figure 5H and towards the
bottom of touch screen 112 in Figure 51). Multifunction device 100 does not scroll the
electronic messages along the secondary scrolling axis because vector angle 558 is smaller
than predetermined threshold angle 527. Multifunction device 100 then detects second
movement 562 of contact 550 from position 550-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 51 to
position 550-c on touch screen 112 in Figure 5J, movement 562 including first component
vector 564, second component vector 566, and vector angle 568. In response, multifunction
device 100 scrolls the electronic messages down from the top of touch screen 112 along the
primary scrolling axis by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of the first component
vector 564 of the movement, and along the secondary scrolling axis by an amount that
corresponds to a magnitude of the second component vector 566 because vector angle 568
is greater than predetermined threshold angle 527 (e.g., message 508, located on the right

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               41
side of touch screen 112 in Figure 51, is scrolled to the left side of touch screen 112 in
Figure 5J).
[001361          In Figures 5K-5M, the direction lock is broken for the entirety of a gesture
after detection of movement that satisfies the direction-lock termination criteria, including a
criterion that is met when a vector angle relative to the primary scrolling axis of the gesture
input is greater than predetermined threshold angle 527. For example, multifunction device
 100 detects a gesture including movement 572 of contact 570 from position 570-a on touch
screen 112 in Figure 5K to position 570-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 5L, movement 572
including first component vector 574, second component vector 576, and vector angle 578.
In response, multifunction device scrolls the messages along both the primary scrolling axis
(e.g., by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of first component vector 574) and the
secondary scrolling axis (by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of second
component vector 576) because the axis direction lock was broken by a determination that
vector angle 578 of movement 572 is greater than predetermined threshold angle 527.
Multifunction device 100 then detects second movement 582 of contact 570 from position
570-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 5L to position 570-c on touch screen 112 in Figure 5M,
movement 582 including first component vector 584, second component vector 586, and
vector angle 588. In response, multifunction device 100 scrolls the electronic messages
along both the primary scrolling axis (e.g., by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of
first component vector 586) and the secondary scrolling axis (e.g., by an amount that
corresponds to a magnitude of second component vector 586), despite that direction-lock
termination criteria is not met by second movement 582 of contact 570 (e.g., vector angle
588 of movement 582 is smaller than predetermined threshold angle 527), because the axis
direction lock was previously broken by detection of first movement 572 of contact 570.
[001371          Figures 6A-6R illustrate exemplary user interfaces for providing metadata
associated with a displayed content unit in accordance with some embodiments. The user
interfaces in these figures are used to illustrate the processes described below, including the
processes in Figures 8A-8C.
[00138]          Figures 6A-6R illustrate multifunction device 100 displaying user interface
600, including received electronic messages 604-1, 604-2, 602-3 having associated
metadata 620-1, 620-2, and 620-3, respectively and sent electronic messages 602-1, 602-2,

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                               42
602-3, 602-4, and 602-5 having associated metadata 621-1, 621-2, 621-3, 621-4, and 621-5,
respectively. Received messages 604 are displayed in a first region on the left side of touch
screen 112, while sent messages 602 are displayed in a second region on the right side of
the touch screen 112. User interface 100 has a primary navigation axis (e.g., a favored
navigation axis) oriented parallel to the long edge of multifunction device 100 and a
secondary navigation axis perpendicular to the primary navigation axis. In some
embodiments, the long axis of the device is the primary axis and the short axis is the
secondary axis when the device is used in a portrait orientation (e.g., with the long axis as
vertical axis) because a user will typically be most interested in scrolling the messages up
and down to read the content of the conversation and will typically be less interested in
viewing metadata such as message times associated with the messages and thus it is
advantageous to make it easier to scroll the messages up and down than moving to the side
to reveal metadata. User interface 600 displays a subset of the electronic messages on touch
screen 112 at any one time. In some embodiments, user interface 600 includes a default
state in which metadata associated with respective electronic messages are not displayed.
Upon execution of a gesture including movement of a gesture, where the movement has a
component that is perpendicular to the primary scrolling axis (e.g., left and/or right on the
touch screen) the user can slide over one or more electronic messages revealing the
associated metadata.
[001391          Figures 6A-61 illustrate various embodiments where the user provides a
gesture input including movement (e.g., movement 608 and/or 624) of a contact (e.g.,
contact 606 and/or 622) on touch screen 112, the movement having a first component
parallel to the primary scrolling axis (e.g., vectors 610 and/or 626), a second component
perpendicular to the primary scrolling axis (e.g., vectors 612 and/or 628), and a
corresponding vector angle relative to the primary scrolling axis (e.g., angle 614 and/or
630). In response to detecting the gesture, multifunction device 100 scrolls received
messages 604 along the secondary scrolling axis by an amount that corresponds to a
magnitude of the second component vector of the movement, revealing metadata at a
position on the display previously occupied by the respective received message.
[001401          In Figures 6B-6C, metadata is displayed for only received messages 604. In
contrast, in Figure series 6B and 6D, metadata is displayed for both received messages 604
and sent messages 602 after the received messages 604 are slid out the way. In some

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              43
embodiments, in response to detecting movement of contact 606, the received messages are
aligned with the sent messages along one edge of touch-screen (e.g., a right edge). In some
embodiments, after the received messages are aligned with the sent messages, the received
messages do not move further to the right in response to additional movement of contact
606 along the secondary scrolling axis (e.g., the received messages are configured to slide
between being aligned with the left side of touch screen 112 and the right side of touch
screen 112 but the device will not scroll the received messages off of the right side of touch
screen 112). In Figures 6E-6F, all electronic messages (e.g., received messages 604 and
sent messages 602) are additionally scrolled along the primary scrolling axis (e.g.,
vertically) by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of the first component vector of
the movement (e.g., vector 626). Thus, additional messages not originally displayed on
touch screen 112 are accessed, while at the same time revealing metadata about the
messages. In Figures 6G-6H, multifunction device 100 detects lift-off of contact 622 at
position 622-b, and in response, moves received messages 604 back from the right side of
touch screen 112 to the right side of touch screen 112, covering up the previously displayed
metadata (e.g., movements 636 and 638 of received messages 604-1 and 604-2,
respectively, from the right side of the display in Figure 6G to the left side of the display in
Figure 6H cause multifunction device to cease to display metatdata 620-1 and 620-2 in
Figure 6H). In Figure 61, as received message 604-2 scrolled from position 604-2-a in the
top panel to position 604-2-d in the bottom panel, metadata 620-2 is continuously revealed
on touch screen 112.
[001411         Figures 6J-6M illustrate various embodiments where received messages 604
are colored/shaded according to a gradient along the primary scrolling axis. In Figure 6J,
received messages 604 are colored/shaded according to the age of the message (e.g., newer
message 604-3 is colored/shaded darker than older message 604-1) or a position of the
message on touch screen 112. In some embodiments, the color of messages changes
gradually as they age (e.g., as the difference between the current time and a time at which
the message was sent or received increases), so that a stationary message will gradually
change color (e.g., fade from a dark blue to a lighter blue) over time. In some embodiments,
the color of the messages is determined by a predetermined gradient that is mapped to a
message display region of the message user interface, so that the color of a message changes
as it changes position on in the message display region (e.g., without regard to an age of the

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              44
message). In Figures 6J-6K, as the user scrolls the messages along the primary scrolling
axis (e.g., up and down touch screen 112), the coloring/shading of the received messages
604 are adjusted (e.g., as message 604-2 is scrolled from the middle of touch screen 112 in
Figure 6J to the bottom of touch screen 112 in Figure 6K, its coloring/shading becomes
darker). In Figures 6L-6M, the coloring/shading gradient of the messages is changes as the
device is tilted back and forth. For example, in Figure 6L, where multifunction device is
held relatively upright (e.g., at a 70 degree angle to the ground), the color/shading gradient
gets darker from top to bottom of touch screen 112. When multifunction device is tiled
back, as in Figure 6M, where the device in held relatively flat (e.g., at a 30 degree angle to
the ground), the color/shading gradient gets lighter from top to bottom of touch screen 112.
In some embodiments, the gradient gradually shifts as the device is tilted, so that the colors
of the messages changes smoothly as the device is tilted.
[00142]          Figures 6N-6R illustrate various embodiments where multifunction device
 100, after scrolling received messages 604 from the left side of touch screen 112 to the right
side of touch screen 112 in response to a first movement of an initial contact, detects a
second movement of the initial contact. In response, the device scrolls the messages (e.g.,
received messages 604 and sent messages 602) up and down touch screen 112 along the
primary scrolling axis by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of a first component of
the second movement parallel to the primary scrolling axis. In Figures 6N-60, the displayed
messages scroll at the same rate of movement. In Figures 6P-6R, received message 604-2 is
directly manipulated by movement 664 of contact 662, while sent message 602-4 and
received message 604-3 lag behind, creating gaps 672 and 674 in Figure 6Q. After
movement of contact 662 ends in Figure 6Q (but, optionally, while contact 662 is still
detected on touch screen 112), sent message 602-4 and received message 604-3 catch-up to
received message 604-2 on touch screen 112. In Figure 6S, sent message 602-4 and
received message 604-3 continue to travel at the same speed while catching-up after
movement of contact 662 has ended. In Figure 6T, sent message 602-4 and received
message 604-3 slow down while catching-up after movement of contact 662 has ended, as if
loosing inertia as they approach. While the examples above have been described with
reference to messages on the left side of touch screen 112 moving to the right to reveal
metadata displayed on a left side of the touch screen 112 (e.g., in response to a rightward
component of movement of a contact on touch screen 112), in some embodiments,

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               45
messages on a right side of touch screen 112 are moved to the left to reveal metadata
displayed on the right side of touch screen 112 (e.g., in response to a leftward component of
movement of a contact on touch screen 112) in an analogous manner.
[001431          Figures 7A-7C are flow diagrams illustrating a method 700 of navigating
content in one or two dimensions in accordance with some embodiments. The method 700
is performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction
device 100, Figure 1A) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments,
the display is a touch screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In
some embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some
operations in method 700 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is,
optionally, changed.
[00144]          As described below, the method 700 provides an intuitive way to navigate
content in one or two dimensions. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when
navigating content in one or two dimensions, thereby creating a more efficient human
machine interface. For battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to navigate
content in one or two dimensions faster and more efficiently conserves power and increases
the time between battery charges.
[00145]          In some embodiments, an electronic device (e.g., multifunction device 100 in
Figures 5A-5Q with a display and a touch-sensitive surface displays (702), on a display, a
user interface (e.g., user interface 500 in Figures 5A-5Q) with a favored navigation axis
(e.g., the primary scrolling axis in Figures 5A-5Q). In some embodiments, the favored
navigation axis is a preferred navigation axis or a default navigation axis that is the primary
axis along which information (e.g., electronic messages 502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514,
and/or 516 in Figures 5A-5Q and/or metadata 501, 503, 505, 507, and/or 509 in Figure 50)
accessed by the user is arranged and thus the device makes it easier to scroll along the
favored navigation axis to make it easier and more convenient for the user to use the user
interface for its primary purpose (e.g., scrolling through a conversation of electronic
messages, a set of photos or a list of turn by turn directions).
[00146]          While displaying the user interface (e.g., user interface 500) on the display
(e.g., touch screen 112) the device detects (706) a contact (e.g., contact 520, 530, 540, 550,
570, 590, and/or 511 in Figures 5A-5Q) on the touch-sensitive surface and the device

  WO 2014/200676                                                             PCT/US2014/038943
                                               46
detects (708) a first movement (e.g., movement 522, 532, 542, 552, 572, 592, and/or 513 in
Figures 5A-5Q) of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the first movement of
the contact includes: a first component (e.g., first vector component 524, 534, 544, 554,
574, 594, and/or 515 in Figures 5A-5Q) of the first movement in a direction along the
favored navigation axis (710), and a second component (e.g., second vector component 526,
536, 546, 556, 576, 596, and/or 517 in Figures 5A-5Q) of the first movement in a direction
different from (e.g., perpendicular to) the favored navigation axis (712).
[00147]          In response (714) to detecting the first movement (e.g., movement 522, 532,
542, 552, 572, 592, and/or 513 in Figures 5A-5Q) of the contact (e.g., contact 520, 530,
540, 550, 570, 590, and/or 511 in Figures 5A-5Q) : in accordance with a determination that
the first movement meets direction-lock termination criteria, the device moves (716) one or
more user interface objects (e.g., electronic message 502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514,
and/or 516 in Figures 5A-5Q and/or metadata 501, 503, 505, 507, and/or 509 in Figure 50)
of the user interface (e.g., laterally translating or scrolling the user interface) in two
dimensions in accordance with the first component of the first movement (e.g., first vector
component 524, 534, 544, 554, 574, 594, and/or 515 in Figures 5A-5Q) and the second
component of the first movement (e.g., second vector component 526, 536, 546, 556, 576,
596, and/or 517 in Figures 5A-5Q).
[001481          In response (714) to detecting the first movement (e.g., movement 522, 532,
542, 552, 572, 592, and/or 513 in Figures 5A-5Q) of the contact (e.g., contact 520, 530,
540, 550, 570, 590, and/or 511 in Figures 5A-5Q): in accordance with a determination that
the first movement does not the meet direction-lock termination criteria, the device moves
(718) one or more user interface objects (e.g., electronic message 502, 504, 506, 508, 510,
512, 514, and/or 516 in Figures 5A-5Q and/or metadata 501, 503, 505, 507, and/or 509 in
Figure 50) of the user interface (e.g., laterally translating or scrolling the user interface) in
one dimension along the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first component
(e.g., first vector component 524, 534, 544, 554, 574, 594, and/or 515 in Figures 5A-5Q) of
the first movement. In some embodiments, the one or more user interface objects are moved
(e.g., scrolled) in accordance with the first component of the first movement while ignoring
the second component of the first movement.

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              47
[00149]          In some embodiments, the direction-lock termination criteria include (720) a
criterion that is met when an angle (e.g., vector angle between the first movement of the
contact and the favored navigation axis (e.g., vector angle 528, 538, 548, 558, 568, 578,
588, 598, and/or 519 in Figures 5A-5Q) is greater than a predetermined angle (e.g., angle
527), for example 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 or 80 degrees. In some embodiments, the
direction-lock termination criteria are met when the first movement includes movement of
the contact at an angle of 70 degrees from the favored navigation axis over a predefined
distance (e.g., 20 pixels). In some embodiments, the same direction-lock termination criteria
apply to the second movement and other later respective movements of the same
continuously detected contact until the direction-lock termination criteria are met.
[001501          In some embodiments, the direction-lock termination criteria include (722) a
criterion that is met when the first movement (e.g., movement 542, 592, and/or 513 in
Figures 5F, 5N, and 5P, respectively) starts more than a predetermined distance from a
respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., the distance between dotted line 529 and
the right edge of touch screen 112 in Figures 5F-5G and/or 5N-5Q). In some embodiments,
the direction-lock termination criteria are not met unless the first movement includes
movement of the contact that starts from a location on the touch-sensitive surface that is
more than a predetermined distance from the left edge of the touch-sensitive surface. For
example, the predetermined distance is X pixels (e.g., X=100, X=200, or X=300, etc.)
where the touch-sensitive surface is a touchscreen display and user interface objects on the
display are configured to move to reveal an X pixel wide region displaying additional
information about the user interface objects. In some embodiments, the same direction-lock
termination criteria apply to the second movement and other later respective movements of
the same continuously detected contact until the direction-lock termination criteria are met.
[001511          In some embodiments, the user interface includes (724) one or more user
interface objects (e.g., electronic message 502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514, and/or 516 in
Figures 5N-5Q) that are configured to be moved in a first direction perpendicular to the
favored navigation axis to display additional information (e.g., metadata 501, 503, 505, 507,
and/or 509 in Figure 50) for the one or more user interface objects once the device detects
movement of the contact (e.g., contact 592 in Figures 5N-50) that meets the direction-lock
termination criteria, and movement (e.g., movement 592 in Figure 5N) of the contact toward
the respective edge corresponds to movement of the user interface objects in the first

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              48
direction. For example, for a device with a touch screen display the respective edge of the
touch screen display is an edge toward which the one or more user interface objects are
configured to be moved once the direction-lock mode has ended.
[00152]         In some embodiments, an amount of movement of the one or more user
interface objects (e.g., electronic message 502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514, and/or 516 in
Figures 5N-5Q) perpendicular to the favored navigation axis is proportional (726) to an
amount of movement of the contact toward the respective edge of the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., second vector component 596 in Figure 50). For example, when the
proportionality between movement of the contact and movement of the one or more user
interface objects is 1:1 on a touch screen display (e.g., touch-screen 112), the one or more
user interface objects are moved with direct manipulation. The predetermined distance is a
distance selected such that movement toward the respective edge of the touch-sensitive
surface from a point on the touch-sensitive surface that is less than the predetermined
distance from the respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface would not be sufficient to
fully display the additional information for the one or more user interface objects on the
display. For example, if 100 pixels of horizontal movement is needed to display the
additional information and movement of the contact from its current location to an edge of
the touch-sensitive surface would result in 90 pixels of horizontal movement of the one or
more user interface objects, then the device maintains the direction-lock mode and forgoes
moving the one or more user interface objects horizontally in the first direction, as the
additional information would not be completely displayed.
[001531         In some embodiments, after (728) determining that the first movement (e.g.,
movement 552 in Figure 5H) does not meet direction-lock termination criteria and while
continuing to detect the contact (e.g., contact 550 in Figures 5H-5J) on the touch-sensitive
surface: the device detects (730) a second movement (e.g., movement 562 in Figure 51) of
the contact (e.g., contact 550 in Figures 5H-5J) on the touch-sensitive surface, where the
second movement of the contact includes: a first component (e.g., first vector component
564 in Figure 51) of the second movement in a direction along the favored navigation axis,
and a second component (e.g., second vector component 566) of the second movement in a
direction different from (e.g., perpendicular to) the favored navigation axis.

  WO 2014/200676                                                              PCT/US2014/038943
                                                 49
[001541          In some embodiments, in response (732) to detecting the second movement
(e.g., movement 562 in Figure 51) of the contact (e.g., contact 550 in Figures 5H-5J), in
accordance with a determination that the second movement meets direction-lock
termination criteria, the device moves (734) one or more user interface objects (e.g.,
electronic message 502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514, and/or 516 in Figures 5H-5J) of the
user interface (e.g., laterally translating or scrolling the user interface) in two dimensions in
accordance with the first component (e.g., first vector component 574 in Figure 51) of the
second movement and the second component (e.g., second vector component 576) of the
second movement. For example, if the first movement of the contact did not break out of a
direction-lock mode where the user interface is scrolled in one dimension in accordance
with a favored navigation axis, then in response to detecting a subsequent input, the device
checks whether or not the direction-lock mode has been ended by the subsequent input.
[00155]          In some embodiments, in response (732) to detecting the second movement
(e.g., movement 562 in Figure 51) of the contact (e.g., contact 550 in Figures 5H-5J), in
accordance with a determination that the second movement does not meet direction-lock
termination criteria, the device moves (736) one or more user interface objects of the user
interface (e.g., laterally translating or scrolling the user interface) in one dimension along
the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first component of the second movement.
In some embodiments, the one or more user interface objects are moved (e.g., scrolled) in
accordance with the first component of the second movement while ignoring the second
component of the second movement. Thus, in some embodiments, the direction-lock criteria
apply to more than just the initial movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface.
[00156]          In some embodiments, after (738) determining that the first movement (e.g.,
movement 572 in Figure 5K) meets direction-lock termination criteria and while continuing
to detect the contact (e.g., contact 570 in Figures 5K-5M) on the touch-sensitive surface
(e.g., touch screen 112): the device detects (740) a third movement (e.g., movement 582 in
Figure 5L) of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, where the third movement of the
contact includes: a first component (e.g., first component vector 584) of the third movement
in a direction along the favored navigation axis; and a second component (e.g., second
component vector 586) of the third movement in a direction different from (e.g.,
perpendicular to) the favored navigation axis.

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                                50
[001571          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the third movement of the
contact, the device moves (742) one or more user interface objects (e.g., electronic message
502, 504, 506, 508, 510, 512, 514, and/or 516 in Figures 5K-5M), of the user interface (e.g.,
laterally translating or scrolling the user interface) in accordance with the third movement
(e.g., movement 582 in Figures 5K-5M) without regard to whether (or not) the third
movement meets the direction-lock termination criteria. For example, if the first movement
(e.g., movement 572 in Figure 5K) of the contact (e.g., contact 570 in Figures 5K-5M)
broke out of a direction-lock mode where the user interface is scrolled in one dimension in
accordance with a favored navigation axis, then in response to detecting a subsequent input
(e.g., movement 582 in Figure 5L) by the same continuous or unbroken contact (e.g.,
contact 570 in Figures 5K-5M), the device does not need to check whether or not the
direction-lock mode has been ended by the subsequent input. However, in some
embodiments, when the contact ends, the device goes back into the direction-lock mode and
the direction-lock termination criteria are applied to new contacts detected on the touch
sensitive surface.
[00158]          It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 7A-7C have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., method 800) are also applicable in an
analogous manner to method 700 described above with respect to Figures 7A-7C. For
example, the contacts, gestures, axes, and user interface objects, described above with
reference to method 700 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts,
gestures, axes and user interface objects, described herein with reference to other methods
described herein (e.g., method 800). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[00159]          Figures 8A-8C are flow diagrams illustrating a method 800 of providing
metadata associated with a displayed content unit. The method 800 is performed at an
electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100, Figure
 1A) with a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a
touch screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the display. In some
embodiments, the display is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              51
method 800 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations is, optionally,
changed.
[001601          As described below, the method 800 provides an intuitive way to provide
metadata associated with a displayed content unit. The method reduces the cognitive burden
on a user when providing metadata associated with a displayed content unit, thereby
creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery-operated electronic devices,
enabling a user to provide metadata associated with a displayed content unit faster and more
efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[001611          In some embodiments, an electronic device (e.g., multifunction device 100 in
Figures 6A-6R) with a display (e.g., touch screen 112 in Figures 6A-6R) and a touch
sensitive surface (e.g., touch screen 112 in Figures 6A-6R) displays (802) a user interface
(e.g., user interface 600 in Figures 6A-6R) with a plurality of content units (e.g., user
interface objects that are representations of or otherwise correspond to content including
one or more of: electronic messages such as instant messages, short message service (SMS)
messages or emails). The plurality of content units (e.g., sent electronic messages 602-1,
602-2, 602-3, 602-4, and/or 602-5 in Figures 6A-6R and/or received electronic messages
604-1, 604-2, and/or 604-3 in Figures 6A-6R) are arranged (804) along a first axis (e.g., a
vertical axis) in the user interface.
[00162]          In some embodiments, the first set of content units have a color (806)
determined based on a color gradient that changes from a first color (e.g., the dark shading
of received message 604-3 in Figure 6J) to a second color (e.g., the light shading of received
message 604-1 in Figure 6J) along the first axis (e.g., the primary scrolling axis). E.g., the
color gradient is mapped to the display and the messages are masked to reveal the color
gradient, so that as a message moves down the display the color of the message gradually
changes from the first color to the second color and messages at different positions on the
display have a different background color or color gradient. For example, In Figures 6J-6K,
received electronic messages are shaded according to a color gradient along the primary
scrolling axis such that messages received more recently are darker (e.g., received message
604-3 is heavily shaded in Figure 6J) than messages received earlier (e.g., received message
604-1 is lightly shaded in Figure 6J). In some embodiments, the coloring or shading of the
text bubbles fades as it goes back in time (e.g., such that the user can relatively determine

  WO 2014/200676                                                             PCT/US2014/038943
                                               52
how long ago the text with received/sent based on the coloring and/or shading). In some
embodiments, the most recent bubble (e.g., content unit) is darker than the earlier bubble
(e.g., received message 604-3 is darker than received messages 604-1 and 604-2 in Figure
6J). In some embodiments, the color can decay over time to indicate age (e.g., the coloring
and/or shading of a content unit can decrease over time regardless of whether additional
content units are formed afterwards).
[001631          In some embodiments, the device (e.g., multifunction device 100) detects
(808) a change in the orientation of the device (e.g., based on measurements from an
accelerometer, a gyroscope or other sensor from which orientation of the device can be
determined) In some embodiments, the change in orientation is a change in pitch of the
device (e.g., rotation around a horizontal axis of a display of the device). For example, the
device is initially held at a 70 degree angle (e.g., relative to the horizon) as depicted in
Figure 6L and is tilted back, according to tilting movement 652, to a 30 degree angle (e.g.,
relative to the horizon) as depicted in Figure 6M.
[00164]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the change in orientation of
the device, the device adjusts (810) the gradient in accordance with the change in
orientation of the device. (e.g., switching the first color with the second color or changing
the first color and/or the second color to a different color). In some embodiments, the
gradient changes continuously over time so that the content units appear to have a
shimmering effect (e.g., where the color of a displayed object changes as the viewing angle
of the displayed object changes) as the device is rotated. For example, as illustrated in
Figure 6L, received messages 604 are displayed on user interface 600 with a color/shading
gradient that changes from dark to light according to the respective messages' position
along the primary scrolling axis (e.g., received message 604-3, displayed at the bottom of
touch screen 112, is shaded dark and received message 604-1, displayed at the top of touch
screen 112 is lightly shaded). In response to detection of tilting movement 652,
multifunction device 100 changes the message shading in Figure 6M, such that received
messages displayed at the bottom of the display are lightly shaded and received messages
displayed at the top of the display are heavily shaded.
[001651          A respective content unit (e.g., a sent message 602 and/or received message
804 in Figures 6A-6R) is associated (812) with corresponding metadata (e.g., date and time

  WO 2014/200676                                                             PCT/US2014/038943
                                               53
metadata in Figures 6C-6D and 61 and/or message status in Figures 6F-6G and 6N-6R). In
some embodiments, the corresponding metadata is not initially displayed on the display
(e.g., the metadata is not initially displayed on the display prior to detecting an input that
meets metadata-display criteria), for example, in response to detection of a user input
including movement 608 of contact 606 on touch screen 112, multifunction device 100
displays date and time metadata 620-2 and 620-3 on touch screen 112 in Figure 6C that was
not displayed in Figure 6B.
[001661          In some embodiments, the metadata for the respective content unit includes
(814) one or more of: a time that corresponds to the respective content unit (e.g., a time at
which an electronic message was sent or received), a date that corresponds to the respective
content unit (e.g., a date at which an electronic message was sent or received), a read status
that corresponds to the respective content unit (e.g., whether an electronic message has been
read by the user or the recipient), a size of the respective content unit (e.g., a size of a
photo), a distance that corresponds to the respective content unit (e.g., a distance between
two steps of turn-by-turn directions where the two steps are represented by respective
content units), an author of the respective content unit (e.g., a sender of an electronic
message), a duration of the respective content unit (e.g., a length of a video or audio file), a
security setting of the respective content unit (e.g., a list of authorized users for a file), and a
privacy status of the respective content unit (e.g., a list of authorized viewers for a file).
[001671          In some embodiments, the plurality of content units are (816) electronic
messages (e.g., sent messages 602 and/or received messages 604 in Figures 6A-6R), the
respective content unit is a respective electronic message (e.g., received message 604-2 in
Figure 6C), and the metadata for the respective electronic message includes a time (e.g.,
2:58 on Mar. 17, 1876 in Figure 6C) at which the electronic message was sent or received.
[001681          In some embodiments, the plurality of content units are (818) representations
of digital photos (e.g., reduced-scale representations of the digital photos such as thumbnail
images), the respective content unit is a representation of a respective digital photo, and the
metadata for the representation of the respective digital photo includes image capture data
that is indicative of camera settings that were used to capture the respective digital photo.
[001691          In some embodiments, the plurality of content units are (820) steps in turn by
turn directions, the respective content unit is a respective step in the turn by turn directions,

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               54
and the metadata for the respective step includes an estimate of the time it will take to
complete the respective step.
[001701          The device (e.g., multifunction device 100) detects (822) a contact (e.g.,
contact 606, 622, and/or 642 in Figures 6B, 6E, and 6J, respectively) on the touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touch screen 112) and detects (824) a first movement (e.g., movement 608,
624, and/or 644 in Figures 6B, 6E, and 6J, respectively) of the contact, and in response
(826) to detecting the first movement of the contact, the device moves (828) a first set of
one or more of the content units (e.g., received messages 604 in Figures 6C and 6F)
perpendicular to the first axis (e.g., the primary scrolling axis) in the user interface (e.g.,
user interface 600) in accordance with the first movement (e.g., in accordance with a first
component of movement of the contact that corresponds to movement perpendicular to the
first axis in the user interface, for example first vector components 610 and 626 in Figures
6C and 6F, respectively).
[001711          In some embodiments, a respective content unit of the first set of content
units (e.g., received message 604-2 in Figure 61) corresponds (830) to respective metadata
(e.g., time and date stamp 620-2 in Figure 61), and moving the first set of content units
perpendicular to the first axis (e.g., movement 640 of received message 604-2 from position
604-2-a in the top panel of Figure 61 to position 604-2-d in the bottom panel of Figure 61)
includes revealing the respective metadata at a location that was previously occupied by the
respective content unit (e.g., time and date stamp 620-2 is continuously revealed at position
602-2-a on touch screen 112 previously occupied by received message 604-2). In some
embodiments (e.g., where there is no vertical movement of the set of content units), the
metadata corresponding to respective content units is displayed as being revealed from
"under" corresponding content units as they are moved perpendicular to the first axis (e.g.,
message 604-2 appears to have been covering time and date stamp 620-2 in a z-direction in
Figure 61). In some embodiments, the respective content units are displayed on a
background and the background is shifted to reveal the metadata "under" the background.
[00172]          In some embodiments, the plurality of content units (e.g., the sent and
received messages 602 and 604 in Figures 6A-6R) includes (832) a second set of one or
more content units (e.g., sent messages 602) displayed on the display (e.g., touch screen
 112). Moving the first set of content units (e.g., received messages 604 in Figures 6C and

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               55
6F) perpendicular to the first axis (e.g., the primary scrolling axis) includes moving the first
set of content units (e.g., received messages 604) without moving the second set of content
units (e.g., sent messages 602) perpendicular to the first axis.
[00173]          In some embodiments, in response to detecting the first movement of the
contact (e.g., movement 608 of contact 606 from position 606-a in Figure 6B to position
606-b in Figure 6D), the device displays (834) metadata for one or more of the content units
in the second set of content units (e.g., time and date stamps 621 for sent messages 602 in
Figure 6D) and one or more of the content units in the first set of content units (e.g., time
and date stamps 620 for received messages 604 in Figure 6D).
[00174]          In some embodiments, immediately prior to detecting the first movement of
the contact (e.g., as illustrated in Figure 6A), one or more of the first set of content units are
arranged (836) within a first region of the display (e.g., received messages 604 are displayed
on the left side of touch screen 112 in Figure 6A), and one or more of the second set of
content units are arranged within a second region of the display that is offset from the first
region (e.g., sent messages 602 are displayed on the right side of touch screen 112 in Figure
6A) in a direction perpendicular to the first axis. After detecting the first movement of the
contact (e.g., movement 608 or contact 606 from position 606-a on touch screen 112 in
Figure 6B to position 606-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 6C) one or more of the first set of
content units and the second set of content units are arranged (838) within the second region
of the display (e.g., received messages 604 and sent messages 602 are displayed on the right
side of touch screen 112 in Figures 6C-6D in a region of the display that was previously
occupied by the first set of content units), and metadata for the displayed content units is
displayed within the first region of the display (e.g., date and time stamps 620 and 621 are
displayed on the left side of touch screen 112 in Figures 6C-6D).
[001751          In some embodiments, the user interface (e.g., user interface 600) includes
(840) a plurality of messages in a conversation between a first user and a second user (e.g.,
received messages 604 from a first user and sent messages 602 from a second user in
Figures 6A-6R), and the first set of content units that moves perpendicular to the first axis
(e.g., the primary scrolling axis) in the user interface includes messages sent by the first user
(e.g., received messages 604 in Figures 6A-6R) and excludes messages sent by the second
user (e.g., sent messages 602 in Figures 6A-6R). For example, the messages of the second

  WO 2014/200676                                                              PCT/US2014/038943
                                              56
user (e.g., sent messages 602 in Figures 6A-6R) do not move perpendicular to the first axis
in the user interface in response to detecting the first movement of the contact. In some
embodiments, the messages of the second user (e.g., sent messages 602 in Figures 6A-6R)
remain stationary while the messages of the first user (e.g., received messages 604 in
Figures 6A-6R) move perpendicular to the first axis.
[001761          In response (826) to detecting the first movement of the contact, for one or
more respective content units in the first set of content units (e.g., received message 604-2
in Figure 6C), the device (e.g., multifunction device 100) displays (842) metadata (e.g., time
and date stamp 620-2 in Figure 6C) for the respective content unit adjacent to the respective
content unit (e.g., time and date stamp 620-2 is displayed next to received message 604-2 in
Figure 6C) that was not displayed immediately prior to detecting the first movement of the
contact (e.g., time and date stamp 620-2 was not displayed prior to detection of movement
608 of contact 606 in Figure 6B). In some embodiments, corresponding metadata is
displayed for each content unit in the set of content units in response to detecting the first
movement of the contact (e.g., time and date stamps 620 and 621 are displayed for each
message 602 and 604 displayed on touch screen 112 in Figure 6D). Thus, in some
embodiments, previously undisplayed metadata is displayed on the display in response to
detecting the first movement of the contact.
[001771          In some embodiments, in response (826) to detecting the first movement of
the contact (e.g., movement 624 including first component vector 626, second component
vector 628, and vector angle 630 of contact 622 from position 622-a in Figure 6E to position
622-b in Figure 6F), the device moves (844) the set of one or more of the content units (e.g.,
received messages 604 and sent messages 602 in Figure 6F) parallel to the first axis in the
user interface (e.g., "down" touch screen 112, along the primary scrolling axis) in
accordance with the first movement (e.g., in accordance with a second component of
movement of the contact that corresponds to movement in a direction parallel to the first
axis in the user interface, for example by an amount that corresponds to a magnitude of first
component vector 626).
[00178]          In some embodiments, while the metadata (e.g., read status 620 in Figures
6F-6G) for the respective content unit (e.g., received messages 604 in Figures 6F-6H) is
displayed, the device detects (846) liftoff of the contact (e.g., lift-off of contact 606 at

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               57
position 606-b on touch screen 112 in Figure 6G). In response to detecting liftoff of the
contact, the device ceases (848) to display the metadata (e.g., read status 620 is not
displayed on touch screen 112 in Figure 6H) for the respective content unit (e.g., received
messages 604). For example, the device slides the content unit back over the metadata for
the respective content unit (e.g., movements 636 and 638 of received messages 604-1 and
604-2 from the right side of touch screen 112 in Figure 6G to the left side of touch screen
 112 in Figure 6H). In some embodiments, the metadata displayed in response to detecting
the first movement of the contact ceases to be displayed in response to detecting liftoff of
the contact.
[00179]         In some embodiments, the device (e.g., multifunction device 100) detects
(850) a second movement of a contact (e.g., movement 656 of contact 654 from position
654-b on in Figure 6N to position 654-c in Figure 60) on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g.,
touch screen 112), where the second movement includes a respective component of
movement that corresponds to movement that is parallel to the first axis (e.g., first
component vector 658). In response (852) to detecting the second movement of the contact
(e.g., movement 656 of contact 654 in Figure 6N), the device determines (854) a magnitude
of the respective component of movement of the contact (e.g., determines a magnitude of
first component vector 658 in Figure 6N) on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments (e.g., when the contact is detected on a touch screen display and the second
direction is a vertical direction on the touch screen display), the respective component of
movement is a vertical component of movement of the contact on the touch screen display.
The device then moves (856) a first content unit (e.g., received message 604-2 in Figure
6N) in the plurality of content units (e.g., the messages in Figure 6N) parallel to the first
axis (e.g., along the primary scrolling axis from the bottom of touch screen 112 in Figure
6N to the top of touch screen 112 in Figure 60) by a first amount that is proportional to the
magnitude of the respective component of movement of the contact (e.g., the magnitude of
first component vector 658). In some embodiments, the proportional movement is a 1:1
proportion (e.g., the device enables the user to directly manipulate the respective content
unit by placing a contact on the respective representation and moving the contact upward on
the touch screen display). In some embodiments, the entire user interface scrolls (or a
content display region of the user interface that includes the content units) up or down in
accordance with the respective component of movement of the contact.

  WO 2014/200676                                                             PCT/US2014/038943
                                                58
[00180]         In some embodiments, in response (852) to detecting the second movement
of the contact (e.g., movement 664 of contact 662 from position 662-b on in Figure 6P to
position 662-c in Figure 6P), while moving the first content unit (e.g., received message
604-2), the device moves (858) a second content unit (e.g., sent message 602-4) that is
adjacent to the first content unit along the first axis (e.g., "up" the primary scrolling axis) by
a second amount that is less than the first amount (e.g., movement of sent message 602-4
from the bottom of touch screen 112 in Figure 6P to the middle of touch screen 112 in
Figure 6Q is less than the movement of received message 604-2 from the bottom of touch
screen 112 in Figure 6P to the top of touch screen 112 in Figure 6Q). In some embodiments,
the device moves (860) a third content unit (e.g., received message 604-3 in Figures 6P-6R)
that is adjacent to the second content unit along the first axis (e.g., the primary scrolling
axis) by a third amount that is less than the second amount (e.g., movement of received
message 604-3 from below the bottom of touch screen 112 in Figure 6P to the bottom of
touch screen 112 in Figure 6Q is less than the movement of sent message 602-4 from the
bottom of touch screen 112 in Figure 6P to the middle of touch screen 112 in Figure 6Q.
[00181]         In some embodiments, while moving the first content unit, the second
content unit and the third content unit are moved in proportion to the movement of the
contact on the touch-sensitive surface where the ratio of the movement of the content unit to
the movement of the contact is less than 1:1 (e.g., 0.9:1 or 0.8:1). In some embodiments,
content units that are "following" the first content unit in the direction of motion move at
the reduced proportionality amount while content units that are "leading" the first content
unit in the direction of motion move at the 1:1 proportionality amount (e.g., the content
units that are "leading" the first content unit are "pushed along" by the first content unit,
while the content units that are "following" the first content unit are dragged behind the first
content unit with progressively decreasing proportionality constants so that "following"
content units that are further away from the first content unit move more slowly than
"following" content units that are closer to the first content unit. In some embodiments,
content units that are "leading" the first content unit in the direction of motion move at an
increased proportionality amount (e.g., 1.1:1 or 1.2:1) so that "leading" content units that
are further away from the first content unit move more quickly than "leading" content units
that are closer to the first content unit. In some embodiments, while the contact is moving
the content units get farther apart and after the contact stops moving the content units get

  WO 2014/200676                                                              PCT/US2014/038943
                                                59
closer together (e.g., the content units that are further away from the first content unit
continue to move with some inertia so as to move closer to the first content unit). For
example, upon detection of lift-off of contact 662 at position 662-c in Figure 6Q, received
message 604-2 stops moving, but lagging content units 602-4 and 604-3 continue to move
according to movements 680 and 682, respectively, until they arrive at a position adjacent to
received message 604-2 in Figure 6R. In some embodiments, analogous operations to those
shown in Figures 6Q-6R are performed if contact 662 stops moving at position 662-c
instead of ceasing to be detected (e.g., while contact 662 is stationary or substantially
stationary).
[001821         In some embodiments, the first content unit, second content unit, and third
content unit all ultimately move by the same amount on the display in response to detecting
the second movement of the contact (e.g., by a predetermined amount of time after an end
of the second movement), however during the second movement, the first content unit,
second content unit, and third content unit move at different rates. For example, after the
second movement, the device detects liftoff of the contact from the touch-sensitive surface,
and at the time of liftoff of the contact, the first content unit has moved further than the
second content unit and the second content unit has moved further than the third content
unit; however, the second content unit and the third content unit continue moving after the
first content unit stops moving so that after a short period of time (e.g., 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5 or
 1 second after detecting liftoff of the contact) the first content unit, the second content unit,
and the third content unit have moved on the display by a same amount in response to
detecting the second movement of the contact.
[001831         It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 8A-8C have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate that
the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One of
ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations described
herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described herein with
respect to other methods described herein (e.g., method 700) are also applicable in an
analogous manner to method 800 described above with respect to Figures 8A-8C. For
example, the contacts, gestures, axes, and user interface objects described above with
reference to method 800 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts,

  WO 2014/200676                                                           PCT/US2014/038943
                                              60
gestures, axes, and user interface objects described herein with reference to other methods
described herein (e.g., method 700). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[001841          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 9 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 900 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 9 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described
embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible
combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00185]          As shown in Figure 9, an electronic device 900 includes a display unit 902
configured to display a user interface with a favored navigation axis, a touch-sensitive
surface unit 904 configured to receive user contacts; and a processing unit 906 coupled to
the display unit 902 and the touch-sensitive surface unit 904. In some embodiments, the
processing unit 906 includes a display enabling unit 908, a detecting unit 910, a determining
unit 912, and a moving unit 914.
[001861          The processing unit is configured to detect a contact (e.g., with the detecting
unit 910) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 904 and detect a first movement of the contact
(e.g., with the detecting unit 910) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 904, where the first
movement of the contact includes: a first component of the first movement in a direction
along the favored navigation axis; and a second component of the first movement in a
direction different from the favored navigation axis. The processing unit 904 is also
configured to, in response to detecting the first movement of the contact: in accordance with
a determination that the first movement meets direction-lock termination criteria, move one
or more user interface objects of the user interface in two dimensions in accordance with the
first component of the first movement and the second component of the first movement
(e.g., with the moving unit 914); and in accordance with a determination that the first
movement does not the meet direction-lock termination criteria, move one or more user
interface objects of the user interface in one dimension along the favored navigation axis in
accordance with the first component of the first movement (e.g., with the moving unit 914).

  WO 2014/200676                                                          PCT/US2014/038943
                                              61
[001871          In some embodiments, the processing unit 906 is further configured to, after
determining that the first movement does not meet direction-lock termination criteria and
while continuing to detect the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit, detect a second
movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit (e.g., with the detecting unit
910), where the second movement of the contact includes, a first component of the second
movement in a direction along the favored navigation axis, and a second component of the
second movement in a direction different from the favored navigation axis. The processing
unit 904 is also configured to, in response to detecting the second movement of the contact,
in accordance with a determination that the second movement meets direction-lock
termination criteria, move one or more user interface objects of the user interface in two
dimensions in accordance with the first component of the second movement and the second
component of the second movement (e.g., with the moving unit 914), and in accordance
with a determination that the second movement does not meet direction-lock termination
criteria, move one or more user interface objects of the user interface in one dimension
along the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first component of the second
movement (e.g., with the moving unit 914).
[00188]          In some embodiments, the processing unit 906 is further configured to, after
determining that the first movement meets direction-lock termination criteria and while
continuing to detect the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit, detect (e.g., with the
detecting unit 910) a third movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 904,
where the third movement of the contact includes a first component of the third movement
in a direction along the favored navigation axis, and a second component of the third
movement in a direction different from the favored navigation axis. The processing unit 906
is also configured to, in response to detecting the third movement of the contact, move one
or more user interface objects of the user interface in accordance with the third movement
without regard to whether the third movement meets the direction-lock termination criteria
(e.g., with the moving unit 914).
[00189]          In some embodiments, the direction-lock termination criteria include a
criterion that is met when an angle between the first movement of the contact and the
favored navigation axis is greater than a predetermined angle.

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               62
[00190]          In some embodiments, the direction-lock termination criteria include a
criterion that is met when the first movement starts more than a predetermined distance
from a respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface unit 904.
[00191]          In some embodiments, the user interface includes one or more user interface
objects that are configured to be moved in a first direction perpendicular to the favored
navigation axis to display additional information for the one or more user interface objects
once the device 900 detects movement of the contact that meets the direction-lock
termination criteria (e.g., with the detecting unit 910), and movement of the contact toward
the respective edge corresponds to movement of the user interface objects in the first
direction.
[00192]          In some embodiments, an amount of movement of the one or more user
interface objects perpendicular to the favored navigation axis is proportional to an amount
of movement of the contact toward the respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface unit
904, and the predetermined distance is a distance selected such that movement toward the
respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface unit 904 from a point on the touch-sensitive
surface unit 904 that is less than the predetermined distance from the respective edge of the
touch-sensitive surface unit 904 would not be sufficient to fully display the additional
information for the one or more user interface objects on the display unit 902.
[001931          In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 10 shows a functional block
diagram of an electronic device 1000 configured in accordance with the principles of the
various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry out
the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in
the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 10 are, optionally, combined or
separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described
embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible
combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[00194]          As shown in Figure 10, an electronic device 1000 includes a display unit
 1002 configured to display a user interface with a plurality of content units arranged along a
first axis in the user interface, wherein a respective content unit is associated with
corresponding metadata, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 configured to receive user

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                                63
contacts, optionally, an orientation-sensing unit 1006 configured to detect changing in
orientation of the electronic device 1000, and a processing unit 1008 coupled to the display
unit 1002, the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 and, optionally, the orientation-sensing unit
 1006. In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 includes a display enabling unit
 1010, a detecting unit 1012, a determining unit 1014, a moving unit 1016, a ceasing unit
 1018, and an adjusting unit 1020.
[00195]          The processing unit 1008 is configured to: enable display of a user interface
with a plurality of content units arranged along a first axis in the user interface (e.g., with
the display enabling unit 1010), wherein a respective content unit is associated with
corresponding metadata. The processing unit 1008 is also configured to detect a contact
(e.g., with the detecting unit 1012) on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004 and detect a first
movement of the contact (e.g., with the detecting unit 1012). The processing unit 1008 is
further configured to, in response to detecting the first movement of the contact, move a
first set of one or more of the content units perpendicular to the first axis in the user
interface in accordance with the first movement (e.g., with the moving unit 1016), and for
one or more respective content units in the first set of content units, display metadata for the
respective content unit adjacent to the respective content unit that was not displayed
immediately prior to detection of the first movement of the contact (e.g., with the display
enabling unit 1010).
[001961          In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to, in
response to detecting the first movement of the contact, move the set of one or more of the
content units parallel to the first axis in the user interface in accordance with the first
movement (e.g., with the moving unit 1016).
[00197]          In some embodiments, a respective content unit of the first set of content
units corresponds to respective metadata and moving the first set of content units
perpendicular to the first axis includes revealing the respective metadata at a location that
was previously occupied by the respective content unit.
[001981          In some embodiments, the plurality of content units includes a second set of
one or more content units displayed on the display unit 1002, and moving the first set of
content units perpendicular to the first axis includes moving the first set of content units
without moving the second set of content units perpendicular to the first axis.

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                                64
[00199]          In some embodiments, the processing unit is further configured, in response
to detecting the first movement of the contact, to display metadata for one or more of the
content units in the second set of content units and one or more of the content units in the
first set of content units (e.g., with the display enabling unit 1010).
[00200]          In some embodiments, immediately prior to detecting the first movement of
the contact, one or more of the first set of content units are arranged within a first region of
the display unit 1002, and one or more of the second set of content units are arranged within
a second region of the display unit 1002 that is offset from the first region in a direction
perpendicular to the first axis. After detecting the first movement of the contact, one or
more of the first set of content units and the second set of content units are arranged within
the second region of the display unit 1002, and metadata for the displayed content units is
displayed within the first region of the display unit 1002.
[00201]          In some embodiments, the processing unit if further configured to, while the
metadata for the respective content unit is displayed, detect liftoff of the contact (e.g., with
the detecting unit 1012), and in response to detecting liftoff of the contact, cease to display
the metadata for the respective content unit (e.g., with the ceasing unit 1018).
[00202]          In some embodiments, the metadata for the respective content unit includes
one or more of: a time that corresponds to the respective content unit; a date that
corresponds to the respective content unit; a read status that corresponds to the respective
content unit; a size of the respective content unit; a distance that corresponds to the
respective content unit; an author of the respective content unit; a duration of the respective
content unit; a security setting of the respective content unit; and a privacy status of the
respective content unit.
[002031          In some embodiments, the plurality of content units are electronic messages,
the respective content unit is a respective electronic message, and the metadata for the
respective electronic message includes a time at which the electronic message was sent or
received.
[002041          In some embodiments, the user interface includes a plurality of messages in a
conversation between a first user and a second user, and the first set of content units that
moves perpendicular to the first axis in the user interface includes messages sent by the first
user and excludes messages sent by the second user.

  WO 2014/200676                                                             PCT/US2014/038943
                                               65
[00205]         In some embodiments, the plurality of content units are representations of
digital photos, the respective content unit is a representation of a respective digital photo,
and the metadata for the representation of the respective digital photo includes image
capture data that is indicative of camera settings that were used to capture the respective
digital photo.
[00206]         In some embodiments, the plurality of content units are steps in turn by turn
directions, the respective content unit is a respective step in the turn by turn directions, and
the metadata for the respective step includes an estimate of the time it will take to complete
the respective step.
[00207]         In some embodiments, the first set of content units have a color determined
based on a color gradient that changes from a first color to a second color along the first
axis, and the processing unit 1008 is further configured to: detect a change in orientation of
the device (e.g., with the orientation sensing unit 1006 and detecting unit 1012), and in
response to detecting the change in orientation of the device, adjust the gradient in
accordance with the change in orientation of the device (e.g., with the adjusting unit 1020).
[002081         In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to
detect a second movement of a contact (e.g., with the detecting unit 1012) on the touch
sensitive surface unit 1004, where the second movement includes a respective component of
movement that corresponds to movement that is parallel to the first axis. The processing
unit is also configured to, in response to detecting the second movement of the contact:
determine a magnitude (e.g., with the determining unit 1014) of the respective component
of movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface unit 1004, and move a first
content unit in the plurality of content units parallel to the first axis by a first amount that is
proportional to the magnitude of the respective component of movement of the contact (e.g.,
with the moving unit 1016).
[00209]         In some embodiments, the processing unit 1008 is further configured to, in
response to detecting the second movement of the contact, while moving the first content
unit, move a second content unit that is adjacent to the first content unit along the first axis
by a second amount that is less than the first amount (e.g., with the moving unit 1016), and
move a third content unit that is adjacent to the second content unit along the first axis by a
third amount that is less than the second amount (e.g., with the moving unit 1016).

  WO 2014/200676                                                            PCT/US2014/038943
                                               66
[00210]           The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures IA and 3) or application specific chips.
[00211]           The operations described above with reference to Figures 7A-7C and 8A-8C
are, optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures 1A-IB, Figure 9, or Figure
 10. For example, detection operations 706, 708, 718, 730, 740, 808, 822, 824, 846, and 850,
moving operations 716, 718, 734, 736, 742, 828, 844, 856, 858, and 860, changing
operation 810, displaying operations 834 and 842, ceasing operation 848, and determining
operation 854 are, optionally, implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and
event handler 190. Event monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch
sensitive display 112, and event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to
application 136-1. A respective event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the
event information to respective event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact
at a first location on the touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation of the device)
corresponds to a predefined event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user
interface, or rotation of the device from one orientation to another. When a respective
predefined event or sub-event is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler
 190 associated with the detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally
uses or calls data updater 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state
 192. In some embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to
update what is displayed by the application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having
ordinary skill in the art how other processes can be implemented based on the components
depicted in Figures lA-1B.
[00212]           The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described
with reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not
intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many
modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments
were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its
practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best use the invention and
various described embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use
contemplated.

                                            CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      A method, comprising:
        at an electronic device with a touch-sensitive surface and a display:
                displaying, on the display, a user interface with a favored navigation axis; and
                while displaying the user interface on the display, detecting a contact on the
touch-sensitive surface and detecting a first movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the first movement of the contact includes:
                         a first component of the first movement in a direction along the
favored navigation axis; and
                         a second component of the first movement in a direction different from
the favored navigation axis; and,
                in response to detecting the first movement of the contact:
                         in accordance with a determination that the first movement meets
direction-lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the user
interface in two dimensions in accordance with the first component of the first movement and
the second component of the first movement; and
                         in accordance with a determination that the first movement does not
the meet direction-lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the
user interface in one dimension along the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first
component of the first movement.
2.      The method of claim 1, including, after determining that the first movement does not
meet direction-lock termination criteria and while continuing to detect the contact on the
touch-sensitive surface:
        detecting a second movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein
the second movement of the contact includes:
                a first component of the second movement in a direction along the favored
navigation axis; and
                a second component of the second movement in a direction different from the
favored navigation axis; and,
        in response to detecting the second movement of the contact:

                in accordance with a determination that the second movement meets direction
lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the user interface in
two dimensions in accordance with the first component of the second movement and the
second component of the second movement; and,
                in accordance with a determination that the second movement does not meet
direction-lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the user
interface in one dimension along the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first
component of the second movement.
3.      The method of claim 1, including, after determining that the first movement meets
direction-lock termination criteria and while continuing to detect the contact on the touch
sensitive surface:
        detecting a third movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the
third movement of the contact includes:
                a first component of the third movement in a direction along the favored
navigation axis; and
                a second component of the third movement in a direction different from the
favored navigation axis; and
        in response to detecting the third movement of the contact, moving one or more user
interface objects of the user interface in accordance with the third movement without regard
to whether the third movement meets the direction-lock termination criteria.
4.      The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the direction-lock termination criteria
include a criterion that is met when an angle between the first movement of the contact and
the favored navigation axis is greater than a predetermined angle.
5.      The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein the direction-lock termination criteria
include a criterion that is met when the first movement starts more than a predetermined
distance from a respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface.
6.      The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein:
        the user interface includes one or more user interface objects that are configured to be
moved in a first direction perpendicular to the favored navigation axis to display additional
information for the one or more user interface objects once the device detects movement of
the contact that meets the direction-lock termination criteria; and

         movement of the contact toward the respective edge corresponds to movement of the
user interface objects in the first direction.
7.       The method of claim 6, wherein:
         an amount of movement of the one or more user interface objects perpendicular to the
favored navigation axis is proportional to an amount of movement of the contact toward the
respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface; and
         the predetermined distance is a distance selected such that movement toward the
respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface from a point on the touch-sensitive surface that
is less than the predetermined distance from the respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface
would not be sufficient to fully display the additional information for the one or more user
interface objects on the display.
8.       An electronic device, comprising:
         a display;
         a touch-sensitive surface;
         one or more processors;
         memory; and
         one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory
and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for:
                 displaying, on the display, a user interface with a favored navigation axis; and
                 while displaying the user interface on the display, detecting a contact on the
touch-sensitive surface and detecting a first movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive
surface, wherein the first movement of the contact includes:
                         a first component of the first movement in a direction along the
favored navigation axis; and
                         a second component of the first movement in a direction different from
the favored navigation axis; and,
                 in response to detecting the first movement of the contact:
                         in accordance with a determination that the first movement meets
direction-lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the user
interface in two dimensions in accordance with the first component of the first movement and
the second component of the first movement; and,

                         in accordance with a determination that the first movement does not
the meet direction-lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the
user interface in one dimension along the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first
component of the first movement.
9.      The device of claim 8, including instructions for, after determining that the first
movement does not meet direction-lock termination criteria and while continuing to detect
the contact on the touch-sensitive surface:
        detecting a second movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein
the second movement of the contact includes:
                a first component of the second movement in a direction along the favored
navigation axis; and
                a second component of the second movement in a direction different from the
favored navigation axis; and
        in response to detecting the second movement of the contact:
                in accordance with a determination that the second movement meets direction
lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the user interface in
two dimensions in accordance with the first component of the second movement and the
second component of the second movement; and,
                in accordance with a determination that the second movement does not meet
direction-lock termination criteria, moving one or more user interface objects of the user
interface in one dimension along the favored navigation axis in accordance with the first
component of the second movement.
10.     The device of claim 8, including instructions for, after determining that the first
movement meets direction-lock termination criteria and while continuing to detect the contact
on the touch-sensitive surface:
        detecting a third movement of the contact on the touch-sensitive surface, wherein the
third movement of the contact includes:
                a first component of the third movement in a direction along the favored
navigation axis; and
                a second component of the third movement in a direction different from the
favored navigation axis; and,

         in response to detecting the third movement of the contact, moving one or more user
interface objects of the user interface in accordance with the third movement without regard
to whether the third movement meets the direction-lock termination criteria.
11.      The device of any of claims 8-10, wherein the direction-lock termination criteria
include a criterion that is met when an angle between the first movement of the contact and
the favored navigation axis is greater than a predetermined angle.
12.      The device of any of claims 8-11, wherein the direction-lock termination criteria
include a criterion that is met when the first movement starts more than a predetermined
distance from a respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface.
13.      The device of any of claims 8-12, wherein:
         the user interface includes one or more user interface objects that are configured to be
moved in a first direction perpendicular to the favored navigation axis to display additional
information for the one or more user interface objects once the device detects movement of
the contact that meets the direction-lock termination criteria; and
         movement of the contact toward the respective edge corresponds to movement of the
user interface objects in the first direction.
14.      The device of claim 13, wherein:
         an amount of movement of the one or more user interface objects perpendicular to the
favored navigation axis is proportional to an amount of movement of the contact toward the
respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface; and
         the predetermined distance is a distance selected such that movement toward the
respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface from a point on the touch-sensitive surface that
is less than the predetermined distance from the respective edge of the touch-sensitive surface
would not be sufficient to fully display the additional information for the one or more user
interface objects on the display.
15.      A computer program comprising instructions, which when executed by an electronic
device with a display, and a touch-sensitive surface, cause the device to perform any of the
methods of claims 1-7.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
