ABSTRACT
Methods for the treatment of systemic disorders treatable with mast cell stabilizers, including mast cell
related disorders, are provided.

              MAST CELL STABILIZERS TREATMENT FOR SYSTEMIC DISORDERS
                                           CROSS REFERENCE
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015213678, filed
February 9, 2015. The subject matter of this application is related to the applicant's International
Patent Application No. PCT/US2015/015029, filed February 9, 2015, which claims the benefit of U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/937,928, filed February 10, 2014; U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/971,709, filed March 28, 2014; U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/978,711, filed April 11, 2014;
and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/105,423, filed January 20, 2015, all of which are
incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.
                                 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Mast cells play a key role in the inflammatory process. They are found in the perivascular
spaces of most tissues and contain pro-inflammatory and vasoactive mediators, such as serine
proteases, tryptase, histamine, serotonin, proteoglycans, thromboxane, prostaglandin D2, leukotriene
C4, platelet-activating factor, and eosinophil chemotactic factor. When activated, mast cells rapidly
release granules and various hormone mediators into the interstitium, a process referred to as
degranulation. Degranulation of mast cells can be caused by physical or chemical injury, crosslinking
of immunoglobulin G receptors, or by activated complement proteins.
[0003] Systemic mast cell related disorders may result from excessive proliferation of mast cells or
abnormal release of pro-inflammatory and vasoactive mediators. Symptoms of systemic mast cell
related disorders include pruritus, flushing, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headaches, abdominal pain,
vascular instability, urticaria, itching, and anaphylaxis. Accumulation of mast cells in the skin,
gastrointestinal tract, bone marrow, liver, spleen, and lymph nodes may result in a particular systemic
mast cell related disorder, systemic mastocytosis, or mastocytosis.
[0004] The utility of mast cell stabilizers in the treatment of systemic mast cell related disorders,
such as mastocytosis, has been limited. For example, cromolyn sodium (also known as disodium
cromoglycate or DSCG) was first approved in 1973 and is widely considered safe, but it has found
limited utility because the amount of the compound that can be delivered systemically is inadequate.
An oral solution of cromolyn sodium is available for the treatment of systemic mast cell related
disorders, such as mastocytosis (Gastrocrom@). However, the oral solution is only modestly effective
for treating localized gastrointestinal symptoms, and it is not effective for the treatment of systemic
symptoms because of the low oral bioavailability of cromolyn sodium (less than 1%).
                                                      1

[0005] Efforts have been made to increase the oral bioavailability of cromolyn sodium in order to provide
systemically effective amounts for the treatment of systemic mast cell related disorders, but these efforts
have not yielded products that achieve significantly higher oral bioavailability of cromolyn sodium in a
practical, safe, and well-tolerated manner. Accordingly, a need exists for methods of delivering mast cell
stabilizers, such as cromolyn sodium, that achieve higher systemic levels than previously considered or
thought possible, in a practical, safe, and well-tolerated manner, in order to significantly improve clinical
outcomes for patients suffering from systemic mast cell related disorders.
                                       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006] One or more of the foregoing and further needs are satisfied by embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein. Specifically, disclosed herein are methods of treating a systemic mast cell related disorder
by delivering a systemically effective amount of a mast cell stabilizer to a patient. In certain embodiments,
the systemic mast cell related disorder is selected from the group consisting of a mast cell activation
syndrome; mastocytosis; idiopathic urticaria; chronic urticaria; atopic dermatitis; idiopathic anaphylaxis; Ig
E and non Ig-E mediated anaphylaxis; angioedema; allergic disorders; irritable bowel syndrome; mastocytic
gastroenteritis; mastocytic colitis; fibromyalgia; kidney fibrosis; atherosclerosis; myocardial ischemia;
hypertension; congestive heart failure; pruritus; chronic pruritus; pruritus secondary to chronic kidney
failure; heart, vascular, intestinal, brain, kidney, liver, pancreas, muscle, bone and skin conditions associated
with mast cells; CNS diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease; metabolic diseases such
as diabetes; sickle cell disease; autism; chronic fatigue syndrome; lupus; chronic lyme disease; interstitial
cystitis; multiple sclerosis; cancer; migraine headaches; psoriasis; eosinophilic esophagitis; eosinophilic
gastroenteritis; Churg-Strauss syndrome; hypereosinophilic syndrome; eosinophilic fasciitis; eosinophilic
gastrointestinal disorders; chronic idiopathic urticaria; myocarditis; Hirschsprung' s-associated enterocolitis;
postoperative ileus; wound healing; stroke; transient ischemic attack; pain; neuralgia; peripheral neuropathy;
acute coronary syndromes; pancreatitis; cutaneous mastocytosis; systemic mastocytosis; systemic indolent
mastocytosis; dermatomyositis; fibrotic skin diseases; pain associated with cancer; ulcerative colitis;
inflammatory bowel disease; radiation colitis; celiac disease; gluten enteropathy; radiation cystitis; painful
bladder syndrome; hepatitis; hepatic fibrosis; cirrhosis; rheumatoid arthritis; lupus erythematosus; and
vasculitis. In some embodiments, administration of a composition disclosed herein in a method disclosed
herein is well-tolerated by the patient. In some embodiments, the mast cell stabilizer is selected from
cromolyn sodium, cromolyn lysinate, ammonium cromoglycate, magnesium cromoglycate,
                                                            2

dihydropyridines such as nicardipine and nifedipine, lodoxamide, nedocromil, barnidipine, YC
114, elgodipine, niguldipine, ketotifen, methylxanthines, and quercetin. In some embodiments,
administration of a composition disclosed herein in a method disclosed herein does not cause one or
more adverse events selected from the group consisting of oropharyngeal pain, dysgeusia,
nasopharygitis, and abdominal discomfort.
[0007] In some embodiments, the methods disclosed herein comprise administering a composition
comprising a mast cell stabilizer to a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder, wherein
the bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer is greater than about 5%, and wherein administration
of the composition produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of the mast cell
stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, the composition is
administered by a route selected from inhalation administration, oral administration, parenteral
administration, subcutaneous administration, topical administration, buccal administration, nasal
administration, rectal administration, vaginal administration, and sublingual administration. In
some embodiments, the composition is administered with a dry powder inhaler, metered dose
inhaler, nebulizer, soft mist inhaler, or high efficiency nebulizer. In some embodiments wherein
the composition is administered with a dry powder inhaler, the composition comprises lactose. In
some embodiments wherein the composition is administered with a dry powder inhaler, the
composition does not comprise lactose. In some embodiments, a composition comprising a mast
cell stabilizer is administered once a day. In some embodiments, a composition comprising a mast
cell stabilizer is administered twice a day. In some embodiments, a composition comprising a mast
cell stabilizer is administered three times a day. In some embodiments, a composition comprising a
mast cell stabilizer is administered four times a day. In some embodiments, the composition
comprises about 1 mg to about 120 mg of cromolyn sodium. In some embodiments, the
composition comprises about 5 mg to about 80 mg of cromolyn sodium. In some embodiments, the
composition comprises about 20 mg to about 60 mg of cromolyn sodium. In some embodiments,
the composition comprises about 30 mg to about 50 mg of cromolyn sodium. In some
embodiments, the composition comprises about 40 mg of cromolyn sodium.
[0008] In some embodiments, disclosed herein is a method of treating a patient having a systemic
mast cell related disorder comprising administering to the patient a composition comprising a
nominal dose of a mast cell stabilizer with a high efficiency nebulizer, wherein administration of
the composition to the patient with a high efficiency nebulizer provides a systemically effective
amount of the mast cell stabilizer to treat the systemic mast cell related disorder. In certain
embodiments, the bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer is greater than about 5% of the nominal
                                                    3

dose administered with the high efficiency nebulizer. In certain embodiments, administration of the
composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with a high efficiency nebulizer produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(og) of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL
and/or an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 55 ng/mL. In certain
embodiments, administration of the composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with a high
efficiency nebulizer produces in a human subject group an average AUC(-E) of the mast cell
stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 55 ng/mL. In certain embodiments, the composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer
comprises a high concentration, hypotonic, room temperature stable solution formulation of the
mast cell stabilizer. In certain embodiments, the composition is stable at room temperature for
more than about two years. In some embodiments, the composition comprises one or more of
purified water, sodium chloride, mannitol, and sodium EDTA. In some embodiments, the
composition has an osmolality greater than about 70 mOsm/kg. In some embodiments, the
composition has a fill volume of about 0.1 mL to about 5 mL. In some embodiments, the
composition has a fill volume of about 2 mL or less. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered in less than about five minutes. In some embodiments, the composition is
administered in less than about three minutes. In some embodiments, the high efficiency nebulizer
emits droplets having an MMDAD of about 4.1 pm or less and a GSD of about 1.7. In some
embodiments, the high efficiency nebulizer emits droplets having an MMAD of about 3.5 gm or
less and a GSD of about 1.7. In some embodiments, the RF (5 3.3 tim) is at least about 30% and/or
the RF (S 5 4m) is at least about 65%. In some embodiments, the RF (S 3.3 4m) is at least about
45% and/or the RF (5 5 tm) is at least about 75%.
[0009] In some embodiments, the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium. In some embodiments,
the deposited lung dose of cromolyn sodium is at least about 25% after administration of the
composition to the patient with a high efficiency nebulizer. In some embodiments, administration
of the composition with a high efficiency nebulizer produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o.) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL, an average Cmax of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL, and a deposited lung dose of cromolyn sodium at
least about 25%. In some embodiments, the composition comprises greater than about 2%
cromolyn sodium. In some embodiments, the composition comprises about 4% cromolyn sodium.
In some embodiments, the median particle size of the cromolyn sodium aerosol is between about 3
pam and about 4 pm.
[0010] In certain embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a composition comprising a mast
cell stabilizer is administered with an inhalation device, wherein administration of the composition
                                                  4

with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o--) of the mast cell
stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments the mast cell stablizer is cromolyn sodium, and
administration of the composition with an inhalation device produces in a human subject group an
average AUC(o-.) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an average       Cmax of
the cromolyn sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments the mast cell stabilizer is
cromolyn sodium, and administration of the composition with an inhalation device produces in a
human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 200
ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL. In some
embodiments the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and administration of the composition
with an inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the cromolyn sodium greater than
about 150 ng/mL. In some embodiments the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
administration of the composition with an inhalation device produces in a human subject group an
average AUC(o-.) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL and an average       Cmax of
the cromolyn sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL. In some embodiments wherein the mast cell
stabilizer is cromolyn sodium and a nominal dose of 40 mg of cromolyn sodium is administered
with the inhalation device, administration of the composition with the inhalation device produces in
a human subject group an average AUC(o--) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 200
ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL. In some
embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium and a nominal dose of 40 mg of
cromolyn sodium is administered with the inhalation device, administration of the composition
with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the cromolyn sodium greater than
about 150 ng/mL. In some embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium and a
nominal dose of 80 mg of cromolyn sodium is administered with the inhalation device,
administration of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an
average AUC(o.) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL and an average        Cmax of
the cromolyn sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL. In some embodiments wherein the mast cell
stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a composition with an inhalation device provides a
bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject
group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL. In some
embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a composition
with an inhalation device provides a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and
                                                    5

produces in a human subject group an average AUC(.-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 200
ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a
composition with an inhalation device provides a bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about
5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.,) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 330
ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a
composition with an inhalation device provides a bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about
5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.,) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 525
ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a
composition with an inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(O.,) of cromolyn
sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL, and the composition has an RF (< 3.3 pm) of at least about 30%.
In some embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a composition
with an inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUCo.) of cromolyn sodium
greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL, and the composition has an RF (< 3.3 pm) of at least about 30%. In some
embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a composition with an
inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o., of cromolyn sodium greater than
about 330 ng*hr/mL, and the composition has an RF (< 3.3 [m) of at least about 40%. In some
embodiments wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, administration of a composition with an
inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.,) of cromolyn sodium greater than
about 525 ng*hr/mL, and the composition has an RF (< 3.3 tim) of at least about 40%. In some
embodiments the composition administered with an inhalation device is not co-administered with an oral
formulation of cromolyn sodium.
[0010a] Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follows.
[0010b] According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided a dosage form comprising:
         (a)     an aqueous pharmaceutical composition consisting of (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
                 weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A)
                 between about 0. 1% to about 0. 5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the
                 endpoints, and (B) optionally salts of EDTA; and
         (b)     an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
                 exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 pm) as measured
                 by USP <160 1> of at least about 60%.
[0010c] According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a dosage form comprising:
         (a)     an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
                 weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A)
                                                         6

                 between about 0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the
                 endpoints, and (B) optionally salts of EDTA; and
         (b)     an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
                 exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 prm) as measured
                 by USP <1601> of at least about 60%;
         wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average AUC(o-) of the cromolyn sodium
greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average C..axof the cromolyn sodium greater than about 55
ng/mL.
[0010d] According to a third embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of treating a patient
having a mast cell related disorder, comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective
amount of cromolyn sodium utilizing a dosage form comprising:
         (a)     an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
                 weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A)
                 between about 0.l1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the
                 endpoints, and (B) optionally salts of EDTA; and
         (b)     an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
                 exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 pIm) as measured
                 by USP <1601> of at least about 60%.
[0010e] According to a fourth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of treating an
inflammatory disorder in a patient, comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective
amount of cromolyn sodium utilizing a dosage form comprising:
         (a)     an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
                 weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A)
                 between about 0.l1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the
                 endpoints, and (B) optionally salts of EDTA; and
         (b)     an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said
                 aerosol exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 tm) as
                 measured by USP <1601> of at least about 60%.
10010f] According to a fifth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of treating fibrosis in a
patient, comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of cromolyn sodium
utilizing a dosage form comprising:
         (a)     an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
                 weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A)
                                                        6a

                   between about 0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the
                   endpoints, and (B) optionally salts of EDTA; and
          (b)      an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
                   exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 pLm) as measured
                   by USP <160 1> of at least about 60%.
[0010g] According to a sixth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a kit comprising the dosage
form of the first or second embodiments and a high-efficiency nebulizer.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
10011] Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as
commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which the inventions described herein belong. All
publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are hereby incorporated by
reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or patent application was specifically
and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
          Definition of Terms
10012] As used herein, the term "about" is used synonymously with the term "approximately."
Illustratively, the use of the term "about" with regard to a certain therapeutically effective
                                            [Text continues on page 7.]
                                                          6b

pharmaceutical dose indicates that values slightly outside the cited values, e.g., plus or minus 0.1%
to 10%, are also effective and safe.
[0013] As used herein, the terms "comprising," "including," "such as," and "for example" (or
"e.g.") are used in their open, non-limiting sense.
[0014] As used herein, the phrase "consisting essentially of' is a transitional phrase used in a claim
to indicate that the following list of ingredients, parts or process steps must be present in the
claimed composition, machine or process, but that the claim is open to unlisted ingredients, parts or
process steps that do not materially affect the basic and novel properties of the invention.
[0015] "Nominal dose," as used herein, refers to the loaded dose, which is the amount of mast cell
stabilizer in an inhalation device prior to administration to the patient. The volume of solution
containing the nominal dose is referred to as the "fill volume."
[00161 "AUCiast" as used herein refers to the area under the curve from time zero to time of last
measurable concentration of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API).
[00171 "AUCiastHEN" as used herein refers to the area under a blood plasma concentration curve up
to the last time point for the nominal dose of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) administered
with a high efficiency nebulizer.
[0018] "AUCiastco"      as used herein refers to the area under a blood plasma concentration curve up
to the last time point for a nominal dose of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) administered
with a conventional inhalation device.
[0019] "AUC(o.,)" as used herein refers to the total area under a blood plasma concentration curve
for an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API).
[0020] "AUC(o.) HEN" as used herein refers to the total area under a blood plasma concentration
curve for a nominal dose of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) administered with a high
efficiency nebulizer.
[0021] "AUC(0-->cony" as used herein refers to the total area under a blood plasma concentration
curve for a nominal dose of active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) administered with a
conventional inhalation device.
[0022] AUC(O--) can be determined by methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, the
AUC(o-.) of an API can be determined by collecting blood samples from a subject at various time
points after administration of an API to the subject, separating plasma from the blood samples,
extracting the API from the separated plasma samples, e.g., by solid-phase extraction, quantifying
the amount of the API extracted from each sample of separated plasma, e.g., by liquid
chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), plotting the concentration of API in
                                                    7

each sample versus the time of collection after administration, and calculating the area under the
curve.
[0023] "Substantially the same nominal dose" as used herein means that a first nominal dose of an
active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) contains approximately the same number of millimoles of
the mast cell stabilizer as a second nominal dose of the mast cell stabilizer.
[0024] "Bioavailability" as used herein refers to the amount of unchanged API that reaches the
systemic circulation, expressed as a percentage of the dosage of the API that is administered to a
subject. By definition, the bioavailability of an intravenous solution containing the active
pharmaceutical ingredient (API) is 100%. The bioavailability of an API can be determined by
methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, the bioavailability of an API can be
determined by collecting urine samples from a subject at various time points following
administration of the API to the subject, extracting the API from the urine samples, e.g., by solid
phase extraction, quantifying the amount of the API in each urine sample, adjusting the amount of
API collected from the urine by a factor based on the amount of API reaching systemic circulation
that is excreted in the urine, and calculating the percentage of the API administered to the subject
that reaches the systemic circulation of the subject. In a specific embodiment, the bioavailability of
cromolyn sodium can be determined as described in Walker et al., 24 J. Pharm.Pharmacol. 525-31
(1972). In the case of cromolyn sodium, the amount of the compound isolated from the urine is
multiplied by two to calculate the total amount reaching systemic circulation after administration
because the compound is known to be excreted unmetabolized in equal parts in the urine and feces,
i.e., approximately 50% of the amount of cromolyn sodium that reaches systemic circulation is
excreted in the urine and approximately 50% of the amount of cromolyn sodium that reaches
systemic circulation is excreted in the feces.
[0025] "Enhanced lung deposition" as used herein refers to an increase in drug deposition
(deposited lung dose) arising out of, for example, improved efficiency of drug delivery.
[0026] "Deposited dose" or "deposited lung dose" is the amount of mast cell stabilizer deposited in
the lung. The deposited dose or deposited lung dose may be expressed in absolute terms, for
example in mg or [ig of API deposited in the lungs. The deposited lung dose may also be expressed
in relative terms, for example calculating the amount of API deposited as a percentage of the
nominal dose.
[0027] "Cmax" as used herein refers to the maximum plasma concentration for an active
pharmaceutical ingredient (API).
[0028] "CmaxH"      as used herein refers to the maximum blood plasma concentration for a nominal
dose of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) administered with a high efficiency nebulizer.
                                                   8

[0029] "CmaxconyO"  as used herein refers to the maximum blood plasma concentration for a nominal
dose of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) administered with a conventional inhalation
device.
[0030] Cmax can be determined by methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, the
Cmax of an API can be determined by collecting blood samples from a subject at various time points
after administration of an API to the subject, separating plasma from the blood samples, extracting
the API from the separated plasma samples, e.g., by solid-phase extraction, quantifying the amount
of the API extracted from each sample of separated plasma, e.g., by LC-MS/MS, plotting the
concentration of API in each sample versus the time of collection after administration, and
identifying the peak concentration of the API on the curve.
[0031] "Enhanced pharmacokinetic profile" means an improvement in some pharmacokinetic
parameter. Pharmacokinetic parameters that may be improved include AUC (0-4 or 0-6 or 0-8 h),
AUCiast, AUC(o-.), Tmax, T1 /2 , and Cmax. In some embodiments, the enhanced pharmacokinetic
profile may be measured quantitatively by comparing a pharmacokinetic parameter obtained for a
nominal dose of an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) administered by one route of
administration, such as an inhalation device (e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer) with the same
pharmacokinetic parameter obtained with the same nominal dose of active pharmaceutical
ingredient (API) administered by a different route of administration, such as a different type of
inhalation device or an oral formulation (e.g., oral tablet, oral capsule, or oral solution).
[0032] "Blood plasma concentration" refers to the concentration of an active pharmaceutical
ingredient (API) in the plasma component of blood of a subject or patient population.
[0033] "Patient" or "subject" refers to the animal (especially mammal) or human being treated.
[0034] A "subject group" or "patient group" has a sufficient number of subjects or patients to
provide a statistically significant average measurement of the relevant pharmacokinetic parameter.
All members of the "subject group" or "patient group" have pharmacokinetic parameters for the
mast cell stabilizers that fall within statistically normal ranges (i.e., there are no outliers), and no
member is included on the basis of non-standard or unusual measurements.
[0035] "Nebulizer," as used herein, refers to a device that turns medications, compositions,
formulations, suspensions, and mixtures, etc. into a fine aerosol mist for delivery to the lungs.
[0036] "Drug absorption" or simply "absorption" typically refers to the process of movement of
drug from site of delivery of a drug across a barrier into a blood vessel or the site of action, e.g., a
drug being absorbed via the pulmonary capillary beds of the alveoli into the systemic circulation.
[0037] "Tmax" as used herein refers to the amount of time necessary for an active pharmaceutical
ingredient (API) to attain maximum blood plasma concentration.
                                                     9

[00381 "TmaxHE"     as used herein refers to the amount of time necessary for a nominal dose of an
active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) to attain maximum blood plasma concentration after
administration with a high efficiency nebulizer.
[00391 "Tmaxcony" as used herein refers to the amount of time necessary for a nominal dose of an
active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) to attain maximum blood plasma concentration after
administration with a conventional inhalation device.
[0040] The term "treat" and its grammatical variants (e.g., "to treat," "treating," and "treatment")
refer to administration of an active pharmaceutical ingredient to a patient with the purpose of
ameliorating or reducing the incidence of one or more symptoms of a condition or disease state in
the patient. Such symptoms may be chronic or acute; and such amelioration may be partial or
complete. In the present context, treatment entails administering a mast cell stabilizer to a patient
via any route of administration disclosed herein.
[0041] As used herein, the term "high concentration" refers to a concentration greater than     1%  by
weight. For example, in a specific embodiment, a "high concentration" formulation of cromolyn
sodium comprises cromolyn sodium at a concentration of greater than 1% by weight.
[0042] As used herein, the term "hypotonic" refers to a formulation that has a tonicity less than 295
mOsm/kg.
[0043] The term "prophylaxis" refers to administration of an active pharmaceutical ingredient to a
patient with the purpose of reducing the occurrence or recurrence of one or more acute symptoms
associated with a disease state or a condition in the patient. In the present context, prophylaxis
entails administering a mast cell stabilizer to a patient via any route of administration disclosed
herein. Thus, prophylaxis includes reduction in the occurrence or recurrence rate of a systemic
mast cell related disorder. However, prophylaxis is not intended to include complete prevention of
onset of a disease state or a condition in a patient who has not previously been identified as
suffering from the disease or the condition.
[0044] As used herein, a "systemically effective amount" is an amount of mast cell stabilizer in the
body of a patient as a whole that is effective for the treatment or prophylaxis of a systemic mast cell
related disorder. A "systemically effective amount" may be expressed, for example, as the mass of
a mast cell stabilizer, or concentration of a mast cell stabilizer, in a patient's plasma. A
"systemically effective amount" may differ depending on the specific mast cell stabilizer and the
specific systemic mast cell related disorder.
[0045] As used herein, a difference is "significant" if a person skilled in the art would recognize
that the difference is probably real. In some embodiments, significance may be determined
statistically, in which case two measured parameters may be referred to as statistically significant.
                                                   10

In some embodiments, statistical significance may be quantified in terms of a stated confidence
interval (CI), e.g., greater than 90%, greater than 95%, greater than 98%, etc. In some
embodiments, statistical significance may be quantified in terms of a p value, e.g., less than 0.5,
less than 0.1, less than 0.05, etc. The person skilled in the art will recognize these expressions of
significance and will know how to apply them appropriately to the specific parameters that are
being compared.
         Methods of Treating Systemic Mast Cell Related Disorders with Mast Cell Stabilizers
[0046] Disclosed herein are methods for the treatment or prophylaxis of systemic mast cell related
disorders comprising administering compositions comprising one or more mast cell stabilizers. As
used herein, a "systemic mast cell related disorder" is a disease or condition that is caused by or
associated with excessive proliferation or activation of mast cells or abnormal release of vasoactive
or pro-inflammatory mediators in the body as a whole, and is thus treatable by administration of a
systemically effective amount of a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium. A systemic mast
cell related disorder is distinct from a local mast cell related disorder, in which symptoms of the
disease or condition manifest in a particular region of the body. Systemic mast cell related
disorders include, but are not limited to, a mast cell activation syndrome; mastocytosis; idiopathic
urticaria; chronic urticaria; atopic dermatitis; idiopathic anaphylaxis; Ig-E and non Ig-E mediated
anaphylaxis; angioedema; allergic disorders; irritable bowel syndrome; mastocytic gastroenteritis;
mastocytic colitis; fibromyalgia; kidney fibrosis; atherosclerosis; myocardial ischemia;
hypertension; congestive heart failure; pruritus; chronic pruritus; pruritus secondary to chronic
kidney failure; heart, vascular, intestinal, brain, kidney, liver, pancreas, muscle, bone and skin
conditions associated with mast cells; CNS diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's
disease; metabolic diseases such as diabetes; sickle cell disease; autism; chronic fatigue syndrome;
lupus; chronic lyme disease; interstitial cystitis; multiple sclerosis; cancer; migraine headaches;
psoriasis; eosinophilic esophagitis; eosinophilic gastroenteritis; Churg-Strauss syndrome;
hypereosinophilic syndrome; eosinophilic fasciitis; eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders; chronic
idiopathic urticaria; myocarditis; Hirschsprung's-associated enterocolitis; postoperative ileus;
wound healing; stroke; transient ischemic attack; pain; neuralgia; peripheral neuropathy; acute
coronary syndromes; pancreatitis; cutaneous mastocytosis; systemic mastocytosis; systemic
indolent mastocytosis; dermatomyositis; fibrotic skin diseases; pain associated with cancer;
ulcerative colitis; inflammatory bowel disease; radiation colitis; celiac disease; gluten enteropathy;
radiation cystitis; painful bladder syndrome; hepatitis; hepatic fibrosis; cirrhosis; rheumatoid
arthritis; lupus erythematosus; and vasculitis.
                                                    11

[0047] In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein wherein the systemic mast cell
related disorder is a CNS disease such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, a mast cell
stabilizer is neuroprotective. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein wherein the
systemic mast cell related disorder is a CNS disease such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's
disease, a mast cell stabilizer crosses the blood brain barrier. In some embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is Alzheimer's disease, a mast cell
stabilizer prevents amyloid-beta protein polymerization and/or plaque formation. In some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is a
heart condition, a mast cell stabilizer is cardioprotective.
[0048] In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a composition comprising a mast
cell stabilizer is administered for the treatment or prophylaxis of a condition that is associated with
a systemic mast cell related disorder, including but not limited to autoimmune disorders,
inflammatory conditions, allergic diseases and conditions, and viral and bacterial infections.
[0049] In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, the number of mast cells in a patient
is stabilized after administration of a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer to the patient.
In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, the activity of mast cells is stabilized in a
patient after administration of a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer to the patient. In
some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, one or more of total tryptase and histamine in
a patient's blood, and prostaglandin D2, 11 beta-prostaglandin F2-alpha, and N-methylhistamine in
the patient's urine, is reduced after administration of a composition comprising a mast cell
stabilizer to a patient.
[0050] As used herein, a "mast cell stabilizer" refers to an agent that inhibits degranulation and/or
the release of pro-inflammatory and vasoactive mediators from mast cells. Mast cell stabilizers
include, but are not limited to, cromolyn, dihydropyridines such as nicardipine and nifedipine,
lodoxamide, nedocromil, barnidipine, YC- 114, elgodipine, niguldipine, ketotifen, methylxanthines,
quercetin, and pharmaceutically salts thereof. In some embodiments, the mast cell stabilizer is a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of cromolyn, such as cromolyn sodium, cromolyn lysinate,
ammonium cromonglycate, and magnesium cromoglycate. In some embodiments, mast cell
stabilizers include but are not limited to compounds disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,207,684;
4,634,699; 6,207,684; 4,871,865; 4,923,892; 6,225,327; 7,060,827; 8,470,805; 5,618,842;
5,552,436; 5,576,346; 8,252,807; 8,088,935; 8,617,517; 4,268,519; 4,189,571; 3,790,580;
3,720,690; 3,777,033; 4,067,992; 4,152,448; 3,419,578; 4,847,286; 3,683,320; and 4,362,742; U.S.
Patent Application Publication Nos. 2011/112183 and 2014/140927; European Patent Nos.
2391618; 0163683; 0413583; and 0304802; International Patent Application Nos.
                                                   12

W02010/042504; WO85/02541; WO2014/115098; WO2005/063732; WO2009/131695; and
WO2010/088455; all of which are incorporated by reference. Mast cell stabilizers, including
cromolyn and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, prodrugs, and adducts thereof, may be prepared by
methods known in the art.
[0051] In some embodiments, mast cell stabilizers described herein may be prepared as prodrugs.
A "prodrug" refers to an agent that is converted into the parent drug in vivo. The prodrug can be
designed to alter the metabolic stability or the transport characteristics of a drug, to mask side
effects or toxicity, to improve the flavor of a drug, or to alter other characteristics or properties of a
drug. In some embodiments, the prodrug has improved bioavailability relative to the parent drug.
In some embodiments, the prodrug has improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over
the parent drug. In some embodiments, prodrugs may be designed as reversible drug derivatives,
for use as modifiers to enhance drug transport to site-specific tissues. In some embodiments, a
prodrug of a mast cell stabilizer is an ester of the mast cell stabilizer, which is hydrolyzed to the
carboxylic acid, the parent mast cell stabilizer. In some embodiments, a prodrug comprises a short
peptide (polyaminoacid) bonded to an acid group, wherein the peptide is metabolized in vivo to
reveal the parent drug. In certain embodiments, upon in vivo administration, a prodrug is
chemically converted to the biologically, pharmaceutically or therapeutically active form of the
mast cell stabilizer. In certain embodiments, a prodrug is enzymatically metabolized by one or
more steps or processes to the parent mast cell stabilizer. In certain embodiments, the mast cell
stabilizer is a prodrug of cromolyn. In a specific embodiment, the prodrug of cromolyn is
cromoglicate lisetil.
[0052] To produce a prodrug, a pharmaceutically active mast cell stabilizer compound is modified
such that the active compound will be regenerated upon in vivo administration. In some
embodiments, prodrugs of mast cell stabilizers are designed by virtue of knowledge of
pharmacodynamic processes and drug metabolism in vivo. See, e.g., Nogrady (1985) Medicinal
Chemistry A BiochemicalApproach, Oxford University Press, New York, pages 388-392;
Silverman (1992), The Organic Chemistry of Drug Design and Drug Action, Academic Press, Inc.,
San Diego, pages 352-401, Saulnier et al., (1994), Bioorganic and Medicinal Chemistry Letters,
Vol. 4, p. 1985; Rooseboom et al., PharmacologicalReviews, 56:53-102, 2004; Miller et al., J.
Med. Chem. Vol.46, no. 24, 5097-5116, 2003; Aesop Cho, "Recent Advances in Oral Prodrug
Discovery", Annual Reports in Medicinal Chemistry, Vol. 41, 395-407, 2006.
[0053] In some embodiments, mast cell stabilizers described herein include isotopically-labeled
compounds, which are identical to those recited herein, but for the fact that one or more atoms are
replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass
                                                    13

number usually found in nature. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into the present
compounds include isotopes of hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine and chlorine, such as,
                        13                          18
for example, 2H, 3H,       C, 1C, 1N, 180,  o,  S,     F, 3 6 Cl, respectively. Certain isotopically labeled
compounds described herein, for example those with isotopes such as deuterium, i.e.,          2H, can afford
certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, such as, for example,
increased in vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements. In certain embodiments, the mast cell
stabilizer is isotopically labeled cromolyn, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, such as
cromolyn sodium. In some embodiments, the mast cell stabilizer is deuterium-labeled cromolyn
sodium.
[0054] In some embodiments, mast cell stabilizers described herein may be PEGylated, wherein
one or more polyethylene glycol (PEG) polymers are covalently attached to the mast cell
stabilizers. In some embodiments, pegylated mast cell stabilizers increase the half-life of the mast
cell stabilizers in the body. In some embodiments, pegylation of the mast cell stabilizers increases
the hydrodynamic size of the mast cell stabilizers and reduces their renal clearance. In some
embodiments, pegylation of the mast cell stabilizers increases the solubility of the mast cell
stabilizers. In some embodiments, pegylation of the mast cell stabilizers protects the mast cell
stabilizers from proteolytic degradation.
[0055] Mast cell stabilizers may be administered in the methods disclosed herein in a suitable dose
or nominal dose as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments, the mast
cell stabilizer is administered at a dosage or nominal dosage of less than about 1 mg/dose, about 1
mg/dose to about 100 mg/dose, about 1 mg/dose to about 120 mg/dose, about 5 mg/dose to about
80 mg/dose, about 20 mg/dose to about 60 mg/dose, about 30 mg/dose to about 50 mg/dose, or
greater than about 100 mg/dose. In some embodiments, the mast cell stabilizer is administered in
less than about 1 mg, about 1 mg, about 5 mg, about 10 mg, about 15 mg, about 20 mg, about 25
mg, about 30 mg, about 35 mg, about 40 mg, about 45 mg, about 50 mg, about 55mg, about 60 mg,
about 65 mg, about 70 mg, about 75 mg, about 80 mg, about 85 mg, about 90 mg, about 95 mg,
about 100 mg, about 105 mg, about 110 mg, about 115 mg, about 120 mg, about 125 mg, about 130
mg doses, about 135 mg, about 140 mg, about 145 mg, about 150 mg, about 200 mg, about 250 mg,
about 300 mg, about 350 mg, about 400 mg, about 450 mg, about 500 mg, about 550 mg, about 600
mg, about 650 mg, about 700 mg, about 750 mg, about 800 mg, about 850 mg, about 900 mg, about
950 mg, or about 1000 mg doses.
[0056]    In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, cromolyn sodium is administered
at a dosage or nominal dosage of less than about 1 mg/dose, about 1 mg/dose to about 100 mg/dose,
about 1 mg/dose to about 120 mg/dose, about 5 mg/dose to about 80 mg/dose, about 20 mg/dose to
                                                   14

about 60 mg/dose, or about 30 mg/dose to about 50 mg/dose, or greater than about 100 mg/dose. In
other embodiments, cromolyn sodium is administered in less than about 1 mg, about 1 mg, about 5
mg, about 10 mg, about 15 mg, about 20 mg, about 25 mg, about 30 mg, about 35 mg, about 40
mg, about 45 mg, about 50 mg, about 55mg, about 60 mg, about 65 mg, about 70 mg, about 75 mg,
about 80 mg, about 85 mg, about 90 mg, about 95 mg, about 100 mg, about 105 mg, about 110 mg,
about 115 mg, about 120 mg, about 125 mg, about 130 mg doses, about 135 mg, about 140 mg,
about 145 mg, about 150 mg, about 200 mg, about 250 mg, about 300 mg, about 350 mg, about 400
mg, about 450 mg, about 500 mg, about 550 mg, about 600 mg, about 650 mg, about 700 mg, about
750 mg, about 800 mg, about 850 mg, about 900 mg, about 950 mg, or about 1000 mg doses.
[0057] In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, further active agents other than a
mast cell stabilizer that are effective for the treatment or prophylaxis of a systemic mast cell related
disorder are administered or co-administered with the mast cell stabilizer. Such further active
agents may be administered separately, or may be incorporated into a composition comprising a
mast cell stabilizer. Such further active agents include, but are not limited to, leukotriene
antagonists, steroidal and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, anti-allergics, p-agonists,
anticolinergics, corticosteroids, testosterone derivatives, phosphodiesterase inhibitors, endothelin
antagonists, mucolytics, antibiotics, antifungals, antivirals, antioxidants, vitamins, heparinoids, oc
antitrypsin, lung surfactants, anti-inflammatory compounds, glucocorticoids, anti-infective agents,
antibiotics, antifungals, antivirals, antiseptics, vasoconstrictors, vasodilators, wound healing agents,
local anesthetics, peptides, and proteins.
[0058] Anti-inflammatory compounds which may be administered or co-administered with a mast
cell stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to betamethasone,
beclomethasone, budesonide, ciclesonide, dexamethasone, desoxymethasone, fluoconolone
acetonide, flucinonide, flunisolide, fluticasone, icomethasone, rofleponide, triamcinolone
acetonide, fluocortin butyl, hydrocortisone, hydroxycortisone- 17-butyrate, prednicarbate, 6
methylprednisolone aceponate, mometasone furoate, elastane-, prostaglandin-, leukotriene,
bradykinin-antagonists, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen and
indometacin.
[0059] Anti-allergic agents which may be administered or co-administered with a mast cell
stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to glucocorticoids,
nedocromil, cetirizine, loratidine, montelukast, roflumilast, ziluton, omalizumab, heparins and
heparinoids and other antihistamines, azelastine, cetirizine, desloratadine, ebastine, fexofenadine,
levocetirizine, loratadine.
                                                     15

[0060] Anti-infective agents which may be administered or co-administered with a mast cell
stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to benzylpenicillins
(penicillin-G-sodium, clemizone penicillin, benzathine penicillin G), phenoxypenicillins (penicillin
V, propicillin), aminobenzylpenicillins (ampicillin, amoxycillin, bacampicillin),
acylaminopenicillins (azlocillin, mezlocillin, piperacillin, apalcillin), carboxypenicillins
(carbenicillin, ticarcillin, temocillin), isoxazolyl penicillins (oxacillin, cloxacillin, dicloxacillin,
flucloxacillin), and amidine penicillins (mecillinam); cephalosporins, including cefazolins
(cefazolin, cefazedone); cefuroximes (cefuroxime, cefamandole, cefotiam), cefoxitins (cefoxitin,
cefotetan, latamoxef, flomoxef), cefotaximes (cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, ceftizoxime, cefinenoxime),
ceftazidimes (ceftazidime, cefpirome, cefepime), cefalexins (cefalexin, cefaclor, cefadroxil,
cefradine, loracarbef, cefprozil), and cefiximes (cefixime, cefpodoxim proxetile, cefuroxime axetil,
cefetamet pivoxil, cefotiam hexetil), loracarbef, cefepim, clavulanic acid/amoxicillin, ceftobiprole;
synergists, including beta-lactamase inhibitors, such as clavulanic acid, sulbactam, and tazobactam;
carbapenems, including imipenem, cilastin, meropenem, doripenem, tebipenem, ertapenem,
ritipenam, and biapenem; monobactams, including aztreonam; aminoglycosides, such as
apramycin, gentamicin, amikacin, isepamicin, arbekacin, tobramycin, netilmicin, spectinomycin,
streptomycin, capreomycin, neomycin, paromoycin, and kanamycin; macrolides, including
erythromycin, clarythromycin, roxithromycin, azithromycin, dithromycin, josamycin, spiramycin
and telithromycin; gyrase inhibitors or fluoroquinolones, including ciprofloxacin, gatifloxacin,
norfloxacin, ofloxacin, levofloxacin, perfloxacin, lomefloxacin, fleroxacin, garenoxacin,
clinafloxacin, sitafloxacin, prulifloxacin, olamufloxacin, caderofloxacin, gemifloxacin,
balofloxacin, trovafloxacin, and moxifloxacin; tetracyclins, including tetracyclin, oxytetracyclin,
rolitetracyclin, minocyclin, doxycycline, tigecycline and aminocycline; glycopeptides, including
vancomycin, teicoplanin, ristocetin, avoparcin, oritavancin, ramoplanin, and peptide 4;
polypeptides, including plectasin, dalbavancin, daptomycin, oritavancin, ramoplanin, dalbavancin,
telavancin, bacitracin, tyrothricin, neomycin, kanamycin, mupirocin, paromomycin, polymyxin B
and colistin; sulfonamides, including sulfadiazine, sulfamethoxazole, sulfalene, co-trimoxazole, co
trimetrol, co-trimoxazine, and co-tetraxazine; azoles, including clotrimazole, oxiconazole,
miconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole, fluconazole, metronidazole, tinidazole, bifonazole,
ravuconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, and ornidazole and other antifungals including
flucytosin, griseofluvin, tonoftal, naftifine, terbinafine, amorolfine, ciclopiroxolamin,
echinocandins, such as micafungin, caspofungin, anidulafungin; nitrofurans, including
nitrofurantoin and nitrofuranzone; polyenes, including amphotericin B, natamycin, nystatin,
flucocytosine; other antibiotics, including tithromycin, lincomycin, clindamycin, oxazolidinones
                                                     16

(linezolids), ranbezolid, streptogramine A+B, pristinamycin A+B, virginiamycin A+B,
dalfopristin/quinupristin (Synercid), chloramphenicol, ethambutol, pyrazinamide, terizidon, dapson,
prothionamide, fosfomycin, fucidinic acid, rifampicine, isoniazid, cycloserine, terizidone,
ansamycin, lysostaphin, iclaprim, mirocin B 17, clerocidin, filgrastim, and pentamidine; antivirals,
including aciclovir, ganciclovir, birivudine, valaciclovir, zidovudine, didanosine, thiacytidin,
stavudine, lamivudine, zalcitabine, ribavirin, nevirapirine, delaviridine, trifluridine, ritonavir,
saquinavir, indinavir, foscarnet, amantadine, podophyllotoxin, vidarabine, tromantadine, and
proteinase inhibitors; plant extracts or ingredients, such as plant extracts from chamomile,
hamamelis, echinacea, calendula, papain, pelargonium, essential oils, myrtol, pinen, limonen,
cineole, thymol, mentol, tee tree oil, alpha-hederin, bisabolol, lycopodin, vitapherole; wound
healing compounds including dexpantenol, allantoin, vitamins, hyaluronic acid, alpha-antitrypsin,
inorganic and organic zinc salts/compounds, interferones (alpha, beta, gamma), tumor necrosis
factors, cytokines, interleukins.
[0061] Mucolytics which may be administered or co-administered with a mast cell stabilizer in the
methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to DNase, P2Y2-agonists (denufosol),
heparinoids, guaifenesin, acetylcysteine, carbocysteine, ambroxol, bromhexine, lecithins, myrtol,
and recombinant surfactant proteins.
[0062] Local anesthetic agents which may be administered or co-administered with a mast cell
stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to benzocaine, tetracaine,
procaine, lidocaine and bupivacaine.
[0063] Peptides and proteins which may be administered or co-administered with a mast cell
stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to antibodies against toxins
produced by microorganisms, antimicrobial peptides such as cecropins, defensins, thionins, and
cathelicidins.
[0064] Immunomodulators which may be administered or co-administered with a mast cell
stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to methotrexate, azathioprine,
cyclosporine A, tacrolimus, sirolimus, rapamycin, mycophenolate, mofetil, cytostatics and
metastasis inhibitors, alkylants, such as nimustine, melphanlane, carmustine, lomustine,
cyclophosphosphamide, ifosfamide, trofosfamide, chlorambucil, busulfane, treosulfane,
prednimustine, thiotepa; antimetabolites, e.g. cytarabine, fluorouracil, methotrexate,
mercaptopurine, tioguanine; alkaloids, such as vinblastine, vincristine, vindesine; antibiotics, such
as alcarubicine, bleomycine, dactinomycine, daunorubicine, doxorubicine, epirubicine, idarubicine,
mitomycine, plicamycine; complexes of secondary group elements (e.g. Ti, Zr, V, Nb, Ta, Mo, W,
Pt) such as carboplatinum, cis-platinum and metallocene compounds such as titanocendichloride;
                                                   17

amsacrine, dacarbazine, estramustine, etoposide, beraprost, hydroxycarbamide, mitoxanthrone,
procarbazine, temiposide; paclitaxel, iressa, zactima, poly-ADP-ribose-polymerase (PRAP) enzyme
inhibitors, banoxantrone, gemcitabine, pemetrexed, bevacizumab, ranibizumab.
[0065] Proteinase inhibitors which may be administered or co-administered with a mast cell
stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein include but are not limited to alpha-anti-trypsin;
antioxidants, such as tocopherols, glutathion; pituitary hormones, hypothalamic hormones,
regulatory peptides and their inhibiting agents, corticotropine, tetracosactide,
choriogonandotropine, urofolitropine, urogonadotropine, somatotropine, metergoline,
desmopressine, oxytocine, argipressine, ornipressine, leuproreline, triptoreline, gonadoreline,
busereline, nafareline, goselerine, somatostatine; parathyroid gland hormones, calcium metabolism
regulators, dihydrotachysterole, calcitonine, clodronic acid, etidronic acid; thyroid gland
therapeutics; sex hormones and their inhibiting agents, anabolics, androgens, estrogens, gestagenes,
antiestrogenes; anti-migraine drugs, such as proxibarbal, lisuride, methysergide,
dihydroergotamine, ergotamine, clonidine, pizotifene; hypnotics, sedatives, benzodiazepines,
barbiturates, cyclopyrrolones, imidazopyridines, antiepileptics, zolpidem, barbiturates, phenyloin,
primidone, mesuximide, ethosuximide, sultiam, carbamazepin, valproic acid, vigabatrine;
antiparkinson drugs, such as levodopa, carbidopa, benserazide, selegiline, bromocriptine,
amantadine, tiapride; antiemetics, such as thiethylperazine, bromopride, domperidone, granisetrone,
ondasetrone, tropisetrone, pyridoxine; analgesics, such as buprenorphine, fentanyl, morphine,
codeine, hydromorphone, methadone; fenpipramide, fentanyl, piritramide, pentazocine,
buprenorphine, nalbuphine, tilidine; drugs for narcosis, such as N-methylated barbiturates,
thiobarbiturates, ketamine, etomidate, propofol, benzodiazepines, droperidol, haloperidol,
alfentanyl, sulfentanyl; antirheumatism drugs including tumor necrosis factor-alfa, nonsteroidal
antiinflammatory drugs; antidiabetic drugs, such as insulin, sulfonylurea derivatives, biguanids,
glitizols, glucagon, diazoxid; cytokines, such as interleukines, interferones, tumor necrosis factor
(TNF), colony stimulating factors (GM-CSF, G-CSF, M-CSF); proteins, e.g. epoetine, and
peptides, e.g. parathyrin, somatomedin C; heparine, heparinoids, urokinases, streptokinases, ATP
ase, prostacycline, sexual stimulants, and genetic material.
         Formulations for the Administration of Mast Cell Stabilizers
[0066] In some embodiments, formulations administered in the methods disclosed herein produce
in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 100
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 110 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
130 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 140 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 150 ng*hr/mL, greater than
                                                  18

about 160 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 170 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 180 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 190 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 225 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 250 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 275 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 300
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 325 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 350 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
375 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 400 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 425 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 450 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 475 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 500 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 525 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 550 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 575 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 600 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 625 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 650
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 675 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 700 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
725 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 750 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 775 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 800 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 825 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 850 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 875 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 900 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 925 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 950 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 975 ng*hr/mL, or greater than about 1000
ng*hr/mL after administration of the formulation to the patient. In some embodiments,
formulations administered in the methods disclosed herein produce in a human subject group an
average AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer of about 100 ng*hr/mL, about 110 ng*hr/mL, about 120
ng*hr/mL, about 130 ng*hr/mL, about 140 ng*hr/mL, about 150 ng*hr/mL, about 160 ng*hr/mL,
about 170 ng*hr/mL, about 180 ng*hr/mL, about 190 ng*hr/mL, about 200 ng*hr/mL, about 225
ng*hr/mL, about 250 ng*hr/mL, about 275 ng*hr/mL, about 300 ng*hr/mL, about 325 ng*hr/mL,
about 350 ng*hr/mL, about 375 ng*hr/mL, about 400 ng*hr/mL, about 425 ng*hr/mL, about 450
ng*hr/mL, about 475 ng*hr/mL, about 500 ng*hr/mL, about 525 ng*hr/mL, about 550 ng*hr/mL,
about 575 ng*hr/mL, about 600 ng*hr/mL, about 625 ng*hr/mL, about 650 ng*hr/mL, about 675
ng*hr/mL, about 700 ng*hr/mL, about 725 ng*hr/mL, about 750 ng*hr/mL, about 775 ng*hr/mL,
about 800 ng*hr/mL, about 825 ng*hr/mL, about 850 ng*hr/mL, about 875 ng*hr/mL, about 900
ng*hr/mL, about 925 ng*hr/mL, about 950 ng*hr/mL, about 975 ng*hr/mL, or about 1000
ng*hr/mL after administration of the formulation to the patient.
[0067] In some embodiments, formulations administered in the methods disclosed herein produce
in a human subject group an average AUC(o--) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 100
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 110 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
130 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 140 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 150 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 160 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 170 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 180 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 190 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 225 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 250 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 275 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 300
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 325 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 350 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
                                                 19

375 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 400 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 425 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 450 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 475 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 500 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 525 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 550 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 575 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 600 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 625 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 650
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 675 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 700 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
725 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 750 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 775 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 800 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 825 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 850 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 875 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 900 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 925 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 950 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 975 ng*hr/mL, or greater than about 1000
ng*hr/mL after administration of the formulation to the patient. In some embodiments,
formulations administered in the methods disclosed herein produce in a human subject group an
average AUC(o-) of cromolyn sodium of about 100 ng*hr/mL, about 110 ng*hr/mL, about 120
ng*hr/mL, about 130 ng*hr/mL, about 140 ng*hr/mL, about 150 ng*hr/mL, about 160 ng*hr/mL,
about 170 ng*hr/mL, about 180 ng*hr/mL, about 190 ng*hr/mL, about 200 ng*hr/mL, about 225
ng*hr/mL, about 250 ng*hr/mL, about 275 ng*hr/mL, about 300 ng*hr/mL, about 325 ng*hr/mL,
about 350 ng*hr/mL, about 375 ng*hr/mL, about 400 ng*hr/mL, about 425 ng*hr/mL, about 450
ng*hr/mL, about 475 ng*hr/mL, about 500 ng*hr/mL, about 525 ng*hr/mL, about 550 ng*hr/mL,
about 575 ng*hr/mL, about 600 ng*hr/mL, about 625 ng*hr/mL, about 650 ng*hr/mL, about 675
ng*hr/mL, about 700 ng*hr/mL, about 725 ng*hr/mL, about 750 ng*hr/mL, about 775 ng*hr/mL,
about 800 ng*hr/mL, about 825 ng*hr/mL, about 850 ng*hr/mL, about 875 ng*hr/mL, about 900
ng*hr/mL, about 925 ng*hr/mL, about 950 ng*hr/mL, about 975 ng*hr/mL, or about 1000
ng*hr/mL after administration of the formulation to the patient.
[0068] In some embodiments, formulations administered in the methods disclosed herein produce
in a human subject group an average Cmax of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 40 ng/mL,
greater than about 50 ng/mL, greater than about 60 ng/mL, greater than about 70 ng/mL, greater
than about 80 ng/mL, greater than about 90 ng/mL, greater than about 100 ng/mL, greater than
about 110 ng/mL, greater than about 120 ng/mL, greater than about 130 ng/mL, greater than about
140 ng/mL, greater than about 150 ng/mL, greater than about 160 ng/mL, greater than about 170
ng/mL, greater than about 180 ng/mL, greater than about 190 ng/mL, greater than about 200
ng/mL, greater than about 210 ng/mL, greater than about 220 ng/mL, greater than about 230
ng/mL, greater than about 240 ng/mL, greater than about 250 ng/mL, greater than about 260
ng/mL, greater than about 270 ng/mL, greater than about 280 ng/mL, greater than about 290
ng/mL, greater than about 300 ng/mL, greater than about 310 ng/mL, greater than about 320
ng/mL, greater than about 330 ng/mL, greater than about 340 ng/mL, greater than about 350
                                               20

ng/mL, greater than about 360 ng/mL, greater than about 370 ng/mL, greater than about 380
ng/mL, greater than about 390 ng/mL, or greater than about 400 ng/mL after administration of the
formulation to the patient. In some embodiments, formulations administered in the methods
disclosed herein produce in a human subject group an average Cmax of a mast cell stabilizer of about
50 mg/mL, about 60 ng/mL, about 70 ng/mL, about 80 ng/mL, 90 ng/mL, about 100 ng/mL, about
110 ng/mL, about 120 ng/mL, about 130 ng/mL, about 140 ng/mL, about 150 ng/mL, about 160
ng/mL, about 170 ng/mL, about 180 ng/mL, about 190 ng/mL, about 200 ng/mL, about 210 ng/mL,
about 220 ng/mL, about 230 ng/mL, about 240 ng/mL, about 250 ng/mL, 260 ng/mL, about 270
ng/mL, about 280 ng/mL, about 290 ng/mL, about 300 ng/mL, about 310 ng/mL, about 320 ng/mL,
about 330 ng/mL, about 340 ng/mL, about 350 ng/mL, about 360 ng/mL, about 370 ng/mL, about
380 ng/mL, about 390 ng/mL, or about 400 ng/mL after administration of the formulation to the
patient.
[0069] In some embodiments, formulations administered in the methods disclosed herein produce
in a human subject group an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than about 40 ng/mL, greater
than about 50 ng/mL, greater than about 60 ng/mL, greater than about 70 ng/mL, greater than about
80 ng/mL, greater than about 90 ng/mL, greater than about 100 ng/mL, greater than about 110
ng/mL, greater than about 120 ng/mL, greater than about 130 ng/mL, greater than about 140
ng/mL, greater than about 150 ng/mL, greater than about 160 ng/mL, greater than about 170
ng/mL, greater than about 180 ng/mL, greater than about 190 ng/mL, greater than about 200
ng/mL, greater than about 210 ng/mL, greater than about 220 ng/mL, greater than about 230
ng/mL, greater than about 240 ng/mL, greater than about 250 ng/mL, greater than about 260
ng/mL, greater than about 270 ng/mL, greater than about 280 ng/mL, greater than about 290
ng/mL, greater than about 300 ng/mL, greater than about 310 ng/mL, greater than about 320
ng/mL, greater than about 330 ng/mL, greater than about 340 ng/mL, greater than about 350
ng/mL, greater than about 360 ng/mL, greater than about 370 ng/mL, greater than about 380
ng/mL, greater than about 390 ng/mL, or greater than about 400 ng/mL after administration of the
formulation to the patient. In some embodiments, formulations administered in the methods
disclosed herein produce in a human subject group an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about
50 mg/mL, about 60 ng/mL, about 70 ng/mL, about 80 ng/mL, 90 ng/mL, about 100 ng/mL, about
110 ng/mL, about 120 ng/mL, about 130 ng/mL, about 140 ng/mL, about 150 ng/mL, about 160
ng/mL, about 170 ng/mL, about 180 ng/mL, about 190 ng/mL, about 200 ng/mL, about 210 ng/mL,
about 220 ng/mL, about 230 ng/mL, about 240 ng/mL, about 250 ng/mL, 260 ng/mL, about 270
ng/mL, about 280 ng/mL, about 290 ng/mL, about 300 ng/mL, about 310 ng/mL, about 320 ng/mL,
about 330 ng/mL, about 340 ng/mL, about 350 ng/mL, about 360 ng/mL, about 370 ng/mL, about
                                               21

380 ng/mL, about 390 ng/mL, or about 400 ng/mL after administration of the formulation to the
patient.
[0070] Mast cell stabilizers may be administered to a subject in the methods disclosed herein by
multiple administration routes, either alone or concurrently, including but not limited to oral, oral
inhalation, parenteral (e.g., intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular), implants such as osmotic
pumps and depot implants, intranasal, buccal, topical, rectal, transdermal, vaginal, or sublingual
administration routes. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, mast cell stabilizers
may be administered by a single route of administration. For example, in certain specific
embodiments, the methods disclosed herein comprise administration of a mast cell stabilizer, such
as cromolyn sodium, with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, without
coadministration of a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, by another route of
administration, e.g., an oral solution.
[0071] Mast cell stabilizers may be formulated into any suitable dosage form, including but not
limited to aerosols, aqueous oral dispersions, solid oral dosage forms, self-emulsifying dispersions,
solid solutions, liposomal dispersions, pegylated liposomes, liquids, gels, implants, depots, syrups,
elixirs, slurries, suspensions, lotions, gels, pastes, medicated sticks, balms, creams, ointments,
aerosols, controlled release formulations, fast melt formulations, effervescent formulations,
lyophilized formulations, tablets, powders, pills, dragees, capsules, delayed release formulations,
extended release formulations, pulsatile release formulations, multiparticulate formulations, mixed
immediate release formulations, controlled release formulations, enemas, rectal gels, rectal foams,
rectal aerosols, vaginal gels, vaginal foams, vaginal aerosols, suppositories, jelly suppositories, or
retention enemas. Such formulations may be manufactured in a conventional manner, such as, by
way of example only, conventional mixing, dissolving, granulating, dragee-making, levigating,
emulsifying, encapsulating, entrapping or compression processes.
[0072] In some embodiments, the formulations disclosed herein may include one or more inactive
ingredients or pharmaceutical excipients that provide suitable properties of the formulation. Such
inactive ingredients may include one or more of the following classes.
[0073] "Albumin" refers to a family of globular proteins, the most common of which is serum
albumin. Albumins are commonly found in blood plasma and function to regulate colloidal
osmotic pressure of the blood. Albumin proteins found in the plasma bind some pharmaceutical
compounds to form complexes. Complexation of albumin with pharmaceutical compounds, e.g.,
mast cell stabilizers, can influence the pharmaceutical compounds' plasma half-life and/or
biological half-life in the body by preventing metabolism and/or excretion of the complexed
                                                     22

compounds. In some embodiments, compositions disclosed herein include albumin and a mast cell
stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium.
[0074] "Antifoaming agents" reduce foaming during processing which can result in coagulation of
aqueous dispersions, bubbles in the finished film, or generally impair processing. Exemplary anti
foaming agents include silicon emulsions or sorbitan sesquoleate.
[0075] "Antioxidants" include, for example, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), sodium ascorbate,
ascorbic acid, sodium metabisulfite and tocopherol. In certain embodiments, antioxidants enhance
chemical stability where required.
[0076] "Binders" impart cohesive qualities and include, e.g., alginic acid and salts thereof;
cellulose derivatives such as carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose (e.g., Methocel@),
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose (e.g., Klucel@),
ethylcellulose (e.g., Ethocel@), and microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., Avicel@); microcrystalline
dextrose; amylose; magnesium aluminum silicate; polysaccharide acids; bentonites; gelatin;
polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer; crosspovidone; povidone; starch; pregelatinized
starch; tragacanth, dextrin, a sugar, such as sucrose (e.g., Dipac@), glucose, dextrose, molasses,
mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol (e.g., Xylitab@), and lactose; a natural or synthetic gum such as acacia,
tragacanth, ghatti gum, mucilage of isapol husks, polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g., Polyvidone CL,
Kollidon CL, Polyplasdone@ XL-10), larch arabogalactan, Veegum, polyethylene glycol,
waxes, sodium alginate, and the like.
[0077] "Carriers" or "carrier materials" include any commonly used excipients in pharmaceutics
and should be selected on the basis of compatibility with the specific mast cell stablizier and the
release profile properties of the desired dosage form. Exemplary carrier materials include, e.g.,
binders, suspending agents, disintegration agents, filling agents, surfactants, solubilizers,
stabilizers, lubricants, wetting agents, diluents, and the like. "Pharmaceutically compatible carrier
materials" may include, but are not limited to, acacia, gelatin, colloidal silicon dioxide, calcium
glycerophosphate, calcium lactate, maltodextrin, glycerine, magnesium silicate,
polyvinylpyrrollidone (PVP), cholesterol, cholesterol esters, sodium caseinate, soy lecithin,
taurocholic acid, phosphotidylcholine, sodium chloride, tricalcium phosphate, dipotassium
phosphate, cellulose and cellulose conjugates, sugars sodium stearoyl lactylate, carrageenan,
monoglyceride, diglyceride, pregelatinized starch, and the like. See, e.g., Remington: The Science
and PracticeofPharmacy,Nineteenth Ed (Easton, Pa.: Mack Publishing Company, 1995); Hoover,
John E., Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pennsylvania 1975;
Liberman, H.A. and Lachman, L., Eds., PharmaceuticalDosage Forms, Marcel Decker, New
                                                   23

York, N.Y., 1980; and PharmaceuticalDosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems, Seventh Ed.
(Lippincott Williams & Wilkins1999).
[0078] "Dispersing agents" and/or "viscosity modulating agents" include materials that control the
diffusion and homogeneity of a drug through liquid media or a granulation method or blend
method. In some embodiments, these agents also facilitate the effectiveness of a coating or eroding
matrix. Exemplary diffusion facilitators/dispersing agents include, e.g., hydrophilic polymers,
electrolytes, Tween @ 60 or 80, PEG, Tyloxapol, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP; commercially known
as Plasdone@), and the carbohydrate-based dispersing agents such as, for example, hydroxypropyl
celluloses (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L), hydroxypropyl methylcelluloses (e.g., HPMC K100,
HPMC K4M, HPMC Ki 5M, and HPMC Ki OOM), carboxymethylcellulose sodium,
methylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose
phthalate, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate (HPMCAS), noncrystalline cellulose,
magnesium aluminum silicate, triethanolamine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl
acetate copolymer (S630), 4-(1,1,3,3 -tetramethylbutyl)-phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and
formaldehyde (also known as tyloxapol), poloxamers (e.g., Pluronics F68@, F88@, and F108@,
which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide); and poloxamines (e.g.,
Tetronic 908@, also known as Poloxamine 908@, which is a tetrafunctional block copolymer
derived from sequential addition of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide to ethylenediamine (BASF
Corporation, Parsippany, N.J.)), polyvinylpyrrolidone K12, polyvinylpyrrolidone K17,
polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or polyvinylpyrrolidone K30, polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate
copolymer (S-630), polyethylene glycol, e.g., the polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight
of about 300 to about 6000, or about 3350 to about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, sodium
carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, polysorbate-80, sodium alginate, gums, such as, e.g.,
gum tragacanth and gum acacia, guar gum, xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars, cellulosics,
such as, e.g., sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
polysorbate-80, sodium alginate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan
monolaurate, povidone, carbomers, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), alginates, chitosans and combinations
thereof. Plasticizcers such as cellulose or triethyl cellulose can also be used as dispersing agents.
Dispersing agents particularly useful in liposomal dispersions and self-emulsifying dispersions are
dimyristoyl phosphatidyl choline, natural phosphatidyl choline from eggs, natural phosphatidyl
glycerol from eggs, cholesterol and isopropyl myristate.
[0079] "Diluent" refers to chemical compounds that are used to dilute the compound of interest
prior to delivery. Diluents can also be used to stabilize compounds because they can provide a
more stable environment. Salts dissolved in buffered solutions, including, but not limited to, a
                                                   24

phosphate buffered saline solution, are utilized as diluents in the art, and can also provide pH
control or maintenance. In certain embodiments, diluents increase bulk of the composition to
facilitate compression or create sufficient bulk for homogenous blend for capsule filling. Such
compounds include e.g., lactose, starch, mannitol, sorbitol, dextrose, microcrystalline cellulose
such as Avicel@; dibasic calcium phosphate, dicalcium phosphate dihydrate; tricalcium phosphate,
calcium phosphate; anhydrous lactose, spray-dried lactose; pregelatinized starch, compressible
sugar, such as Di-Pac@ (Amstar); mannitol, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate, sucrose-based diluents, confectioner's sugar;
monobasic calcium sulfate monohydrate, calcium sulfate dihydrate; calcium lactate trihydrate,
dextrates; hydrolyzed cereal solids, amylose; powdered cellulose, calcium carbonate; glycine,
kaolin; mannitol, sodium chloride; inositol, bentonite, and the like.
[0080] The term "disintegrate" includes both the dissolution and dispersion of the dosage form
when contacted with gastrointestinal fluid. "Disintegration agents" or "disintegrants" facilitate the
breakup or disintegration of a substance. Examples of disintegration agents include a starch, e.g., a
natural starch such as corn starch or potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or
Amijel@, or sodium starch glycolate such as Promogel or Explotab, a cellulose such as a wood
product, methylcrystalline cellulose, e.g., Avicel, Avicel PHiO, Avicel PH102, Avicel
PH105, Elcema P100, Emcocel@, Vivacel, Ming Tia, and Solka-Floc, methylcellulose,
croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose, such as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose
(Ac-Di-Sol), cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose, a cross-linked
starch such as sodium starch glycolate, a cross-linked polymer such as crosspovidone, a cross
linked polyvinylpyrrolidone, alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as sodium
alginate, a clay such as Veegum HV (magnesium aluminum silicate), a gum such as agar, guar,
locust bean, Karaya, pectin, or tragacanth, sodium starch glycolate, bentonite, a natural sponge, a
surfactant, a resin such as a cation-exchange resin, citrus pulp, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium lauryl
sulfate in combination starch, and the like.
[0081] An "enteric coating" is a substance that remains substantially intact in the stomach but
dissolves and releases the drug in the small intestine or colon. Generally, the enteric coating
comprises a polymeric material that prevents release in the low pH environment of the stomach but
that ionizes at a higher pH, typically a pH of 6 to 7, and thus dissolves sufficiently in the small
intestine or colon to release the active agent therein.
[0082] "Erosion facilitators" include materials that control the erosion of a particular material in
gastrointestinal fluid. Erosion facilitators are generally known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
Exemplary erosion facilitators include, e.g., hydrophilic polymers, electrolytes, proteins, peptides,
                                                   25

and amino acids. Combinations of one or more erosion facilitator with one or more diffusion
facilitator can also be used in the present compositions.
[0083] "Filling agents" include compounds such as lactose, calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate,
dibasic calcium phosphate, calcium sulfate, microcrystalline cellulose, cellulose powder, dextrose,
dextrates, dextran, starches, pregelatinized starch, sucrose, xylitol, lactitol, mannitol, sorbitol,
sodium chloride, polyethylene glycol, and the like.
[0084] "Flavoring agents" and/or "sweeteners" useful in the formulations described herein, include,
e.g., acacia syrup, acesulfame K, alitame, anise, apple, aspartame, banana, Bavarian cream, berry,
black currant, butterscotch, calcium citrate, camphor, caramel, cherry, cherry cream, chocolate,
cinnamon, bubble gum, citrus, citrus punch, citrus cream, cotton candy, cocoa, cola, cool cherry,
cool citrus, cyclamate, cylamate, dentomint, dextrose, eucalyptus, eugenol, fructose, fruit punch,
ginger, glycyrrhetinate, glycyrrhiza (licorice) syrup, grape, grapefruit, honey, isomalt, lemon, lime,
lemon cream, monoammonium glyrrhizinate (MagnaSweet@), maltol, mannitol, maple,
marshmallow, menthol, mint cream, mixed berry, neohesperidine DC, neotame, orange, pear,
peach, peppermint, peppermint cream, Prosweet@ Powder, raspberry, root beer, rum, saccharin,
safrole, sorbitol, spearmint, spearmint cream, strawberry, strawberry cream, stevia, sucralose,
sucrose, sodium saccharin, saccharin, aspartame, acesulfame potassium, mannitol, talin, sylitol,
sucralose, sorbitol, Swiss cream, tagatose, tangerine, thaumatin, tutti fruitti, vanilla, walnut,
watermelon, wild cherry, wintergreen, xylitol, or any combination of these flavoring ingredients,
e.g., anise-menthol, cherry-anise, cinnamon-orange, cherry-cinnamon, chocolate-mint, honey
lemon, lemon-lime, lemon-mint, menthol-eucalyptus, orange-cream, vanilla-mint, and mixtures
thereof.
[0085] "Lubricants" and "glidants" are compounds that prevent, reduce or inhibit adhesion or
friction of materials. Exemplary lubricants include, e.g., stearic acid, calcium hydroxide, talc,
sodium stearyl fumerate, a hydrocarbon such as mineral oil, or hydrogenated vegetable oil such as
hydrogenated soybean oil (Sterotex@), higher fatty acids and their alkali-metal and alkaline earth
metal salts, such as aluminum, calcium, magnesium, zinc, stearic acid, sodium stearates, glycerol,
talc, waxes, Stearowet@, boric acid, sodium benzoate, sodium acetate, sodium chloride, leucine, a
polyethylene glycol (e.g., PEG-4000) or a methoxypolyethylene glycol such as CarbowaxTM,
sodium oleate, sodium benzoate, glyceryl behenate, polyethylene glycol, magnesium or sodium
lauryl sulfate, colloidal silica such as SyloidTM, Cab-O-Sil@, a starch such as corn starch, silicone
oil, a surfactant, and the like.
[0086] "Plasticizers" are compounds used to soften the microencapsulation material or film
coatings to make them less brittle. Suitable plasticizers include, e.g., polyethylene glycols such as
                                                   26

PEG 300, PEG 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG 3350, and PEG 800, stearic acid, propylene glycol,
oleic acid, triethyl cellulose and triacetin. In some embodiments, plasticizers can also function as
dispersing agents or wetting agents.
[0087] In certain embodiments, compositions provided herein may also include one or more
preservatives to inhibit microbial activity. Suitable preservatives include mercury-containing
substances such as merfen and thiomersal; stabilized chlorine dioxide; octinidine; and quaternary
ammonium compounds such as benzalkonium chloride, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide and
cetylpyridinium chloride.
[0088] "Solubilizers" include compounds such as triacetin, triethylcitrate, ethyl oleate, ethyl
caprylate, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium doccusate, vitamin E TPGS, polysorbates (Tweens)
dimethylacetamide, N-methylpyrrolidone, N-hydroxyethylpyrrolidone, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cyclodextrins, ethanol, n-butanol, isopropyl
alcohol, cholesterol, bile salts, polyethylene glycol 200-600, glycofurol, transcutol, propylene
glycol, and dimethyl isosorbide and the like.
[0089] "Stabilizers" include compounds such as any antioxidation agents, e.g., citric acid, EDTA
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, buffers, acids, preservatives and the like.
[0090] "Suspending agents" include compounds such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, e.g.,
polyvinylpyrrolidone K12, polyvinylpyrrolidone K17, polyvinylpyrrolidone K25, or
polyvinylpyrrolidone K30, vinyl pyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (S630), polyethylene glycol,
e.g., the polyethylene glycol can have a molecular weight of about 300 to about 6000, or about
3350 to about 4000, or about 7000 to about 5400, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose acetate stearate, polysorbate-80,
hydroxyethylcellulose, sodium alginate, gums, such as, e.g., gum tragacanth and gum acacia, guar
gum, xanthans, including xanthan gum, sugars, cellulosics, such as, e.g., sodium
carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, polysorbate-80, sodium alginate,
polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, polyethoxylated sorbitan monolaurate, povidone and the
like.
[0091] "Surfactants" include compounds such as sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium docusate, Tween 60
or 80, triacetin, vitamin E TPGS, sorbitan monooleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate,
polysorbates, polaxomers, bile salts, glyceryl monostearate, copolymers of ethylene oxide and
propylene oxide, e.g., Pluronic@ (BASF), and the like. Some other surfactants include
polyoxyethylene fatty acid glycerides and vegetable oils, e.g., polyoxyethylene (60) hydrogenated
castor oil; and polyoxyethylene alkylethers and alkylphenyl ethers, e.g., octoxynol 10, octoxynol
                                                    27

40. In some embodiments, surfactants may be included to enhance physical stability or for other
purposes.
[0092] "Viscosity enhancing agents" include, e.g., methyl cellulose, xanthan gum, carboxymethyl
cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose
acetate stearate, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate, carbomer, polyvinyl alcohol, alginates,
acacia, chitosans, and combinations thereof
[0093] "Wetting agents" include compounds such as oleic acid, glyceryl monostearate, sorbitan
monooleate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate,
polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, sodium docusate, sodium oleate, sodium lauryl sulfate,
sodium doccusate, triacetin, Tween 80, vitamin E TPGS, ammonium salts and the like.
[0094] It should be appreciated that there is considerable overlap between classes of inactive
ingredients. Thus, the above-listed ingredients should be taken as merely exemplary, and not
limiting, of the types of inactive ingredients that can be included in formulations described herein.
The amounts of such inactive ingredients can be readily determined by one skilled in the art,
according to the particular properties desired.
[0095] In certain specific embodiments, formulations for administration of mast cell stabilizers in
the methods disclosed herein include, but are not limited to, Aararre, Acecromol, Acromax,
Acticrom, Aeropaxyn, Alercom, Alercrom, Alercrom Nasal, Alerg, Alerg AT, Alerg Nasenspray,
Alergocrom, Alerion, Allercrom, Allerg-Abak, Allergo-COMOD, Allergocomod, Allergocrom,
Allergocrom Kombi, Allergocrom Kombinationspackung, Allergojovis, Allergostop, Allergotin,
Allergoval, Allersol, Alloptrex, Apo-Cromolyn, Botastin, Brol-Eze, Chromosol Ophta, Clariteyes,
Clarityn Allergy Eyedrops, Clarityn Eye Drops, Claroftal, Clo-5, Coldacrom, Colimune, Croglina,
Crolidin, Crolom, Crom-Ophtal, Crom-Ophtal Kombipackung, Crom-Ophtal Sine, Cromabak,
Cromadoses, Cromal, Cromantal, Cromedil, Cromedil Unidose, Cromese, Cromex, Cromo, Cromo
Asma, Cromo EDP, Cromo Einzeldosis, Cromo Kombipackung, Cromo UD, Cromo-Comod,
Cromo-Pos, Cromo-Spray, Cromobene, Cromocato, Cromodyn, Cromoftal, Cromogen,
Cromoglicin, Cromohexal, Cromohexal Kombipackung, Cromohexal UD, Cromol, Cromolerg,
Cromolergin UD, Cromolind, Cromolux, Cromophtal, Cromopp, Cromoptic, Cromoptic Unidose,
Cromorhinol, Cromosan, Cromosoft, Cromosol, Cromosol UD, Cromovet, Cromunal, Cronacol,
Cronase, Cropoz, Cropoz G, Cropoz N, Crorin, Cusicrom, Cusilyn, Diffusyl, Dilospir, Dispacromil,
Dispacromil Sine, DNCG, DNCG PPS, Duobetic, Duracroman, Erystamine-K, Esirhinol, Exaler,
Farmacrom, Fenistil Eye Drops, Fenolip, Fintal, Fivent, Flenid, Flui-DNCG, Fluvet, Frenal, Gaster,
Gastrocrom, Gastrofrenal, Gelodrin, Gen-Cromoglycate, Gen-Cromoglycate Sterinebs, Gen
Cromolyn, Glicacil, Glicinal, Glinor, Hay-Crom, Hayfever Eye Drops, Hexacroman, Humex
                                                   28

Conjonctivite Allergique, Ifiral, Indoprex, Inostral, Intal, Intal 5, Intal Forte, Intal N, Intal Nasal,
Intal Nebulizador, Intal Nebulizer, Intal Spincaps, Intal Syncroner, Intercron, Introl, Iopanchol,
Kaosyl, Kiddicrom, Klonalcrom, Lecrolyn, Logomed Heuschnupfen-Spray, Lomudal, Lomudal
Nebuliser, Lomudal sans FCKW, Lomudas, Lomupren, Lomusol, Lomuspray, Maxicrom,
Multicrom, Multicrom Unidose, Nalcrom, Nalcron, Nasalcrom, Nasivin gegen Heuschnupfen,
Nasmil, Natriumcromoglicaat, Nebulasma, Nebulcrom, Novacro Novo-Cromolyn, Novo-Cromolyn
Nebulizer, Nu-Cromolyn Plast Ophtacalm, Ophtacalm Unidose, Opticrom, Opticrom Allergy,
Opticrom Aqueous, Opticrom UD, Opticron, Opticron Unidose, Optrex Hayfever Allergy,
Oralcrom, Otriven H, Otrivin Hooikoorts, Padiacrom, Pentacrom, Pentatop, PMS-Sodium
Cromoglycate, Poledin, Pollenase Allergy, Pollyferm, Prevalin, Primover, Prothanon Cromo,
Pulbil, Pulmosin, Renocil, Resiston Two, Rhinaris-CS Anti-Allergic Nasal Mist, Rilan, Rinil,
Rinilyn, Rinofrenal, Rynacrom, Rynacrom M, Sificrom, Sofro, Solu-Crom, Spaziron, Spralyn,
Stadaglicin, Steri-Neb Cromogen, Stop-Allerg, Taleum, Ufocollyre, Vekfanol, Vicrom, Vistacrom,
Vivicrom, Vividrin, Vividrin iso EDO, Viz-On, Zineli, or Zulboral.
         Solid Oral Formulations
[0096] In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms disclosed herein may be in the form of a
tablet, (including a suspension tablet, a fast-melt tablet, a bite-disintegration tablet, a rapid
disintegration tablet, an effervescent tablet, an osmotic pump tablet, or a caplet), a pill, a powder
(including a sterile packaged powder, a dispensable powder, or an effervescent powder), a capsule
(including both soft or hard capsules, e.g., capsules made from animal-derived gelatin or plant
derived HPMC, or "sprinkle capsules"), solid dispersion, solid solution, bioerodible dosage form,
controlled release formulations, pulsatile release dosage forms, multiparticulate dosage forms,
pellets, or granules. In some embodiments, systemically effective amounts of mast cell stabilizers
are achieved with solid oral formulations by including one or more of permeation enhancers and
enteric coatings in the solid oral formulations. In some embodiments, enteric coatings regulate the
delivery a mast cell stabilizer during its passage through the stomach and intestine.
[0097] The pharmaceutical solid dosage forms described herein can include a mast cell stabilizer
and one or more pharmaceutically inactive ingredients such as a compatible carrier, binder, filling
agent, suspending agent, flavoring agent, sweetening agent, disintegrating agent, dispersing agent,
surfactant, lubricant, colorant, diluent, solubilizer, moistening agent, plasticizer, stabilizer,
penetration enhancer, wetting agent, anti-foaming agent, antioxidant, preservative, or one or more
combination thereof.
                                                    29

[0098] In some embodiments, solid dosage forms, e.g., tablets, effervescent tablets, and capsules,
are prepared by mixing particles of a mast cell stabilizer with one or more pharmaceutical
excipients to form a bulk blend composition. When referring to these bulk blend compositions as
homogeneous, it is meant that the particles of the mast cell stabilizer are dispersed evenly
throughout the composition so that the composition may be readily subdivided into equally
effective unit dosage forms, such as tablets, pills, and capsules. The individual unit dosages may
also include film coatings, which disintegrate upon oral ingestion or upon contact with diluent.
These formulations can be manufactured by conventional pharmacological techniques, e.g., one or
a combination of: (1) dry mixing, (2) direct compression, (3) milling, (4) dry or non-aqueous
granulation, (5) wet granulation, and (6) fusion. See, e.g., Lachman et al., The Theory andPractice
ofIndustrialPharmacy (1986). Other methods include, e.g., spray drying, pan coating, melt
granulation, granulation, fluidized bed spray drying or coating (e.g., wurster coating), tangential
coating, top spraying, tableting, extruding and the like.
[0099] Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by mixing one or more solid
excipient with one or more mast cell stabilizers, optionally grinding the resulting mixture, and
processing the mixture of granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if desired, to obtain tablets or
dragee cores. In some embodiments, dragee cores are provided with suitable coatings. For this
purpose, concentrated sugar solutions may be used, which may optionally contain gum arabic, talc,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, carbopol gel, polyethylene glycol, and/or titanium dioxide, lacquer solutions,
and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments may be added to the
tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active
compound doses.
[00100]         In other embodiments, a powder including a mast cell stabilizer may be formulated
to include one or more pharmaceutical excipients and flavors. Such a powder may be prepared, for
example, by mixing the formulation and optional pharmaceutical excipients to form a bulk blend
composition. Additional embodiments also include a suspending agent and/or a wetting agent. This
bulk blend is uniformly subdivided into unit dosage packaging or multi-dosage packaging units.
[00101]         Compressed tablets are solid dosage forms prepared by compacting the bulk blend
of the formulations described above. In some embodiments, the compressed tablets will include a
film surrounding the final compressed tablet. In some embodiments, the film coating can provide a
delayed release of the mast cell stabilizer from the formulation. In other embodiments, the film
coating aids in patient compliance. Film coatings such as Opadry@ typically range from about 1%
to about 3% of the tablet weight. In other embodiments, the compressed tablets include one or
more pharmaceutical excipients.
                                                   30

[001021         A capsule may be prepared, for example, by placing the bulk blend of the
formulation of the mast cell stabilizer inside of a capsule. In some embodiments, the formulations
(non-aqueous suspensions and solutions) are placed in a soft gelatin capsule. In other
embodiments, the formulations are placed in standard gelatin capsules or non-gelatin capsules such
as capsules comprising HPMC. In other embodiments, the formulation is placed in a sprinkle
capsule, wherein the capsule may be swallowed whole or the capsule may be opened and the
contents sprinkled on food prior to eating. In some embodiments, the therapeutic dose is split into
multiple (e.g., two, three, or four) capsules. In some embodiments, the entire dose of the
formulation is delivered in a capsule form.
[00103]         In some embodiments, dosage forms may include microencapsulated formulations.
Materials useful for the microencapsulation include materials compatible with mast cell stabilizers,
which sufficiently isolate mast cell stabilizers from other non-compatible excipients. Materials
compatible with mast cell stabilizers are those that delay the release of the mast cell stabilizers in
vivo. Exemplary microencapsulation materials useful for delaying the release of the formulations
include, but are not limited to, hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (HPC) such as Klucel@ or Nisso
HPC, low-substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (L-HPC), hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose
ethers (HPMC) such as Seppifilm-LC, Pharmacoat@, Metolose SR, Methocel@-E, Opadry YS,
PrimaFlo, Benecel MP824, and Benecel MP843, methylcellulose polymers such as Methocel@-A,
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose acetate stearate Aqoat (HF-LS, HF-LG,HF-MS) and Metolose@,
Ethylcelluloses (EC) and mixtures thereof such as E461, Ethocel, Aqualon-EC, Surelease,
Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) such as Opadry AMB, hydroxyethylcelluloses such as Natrosol,
carboxymethylcelluloses and salts of carboxymethylcelluloses (CMC) such as Aqualon@-CMC,
polyvinyl alcohol and polyethylene glycol co-polymers such as Kollicoat IR, monoglycerides
(Myverol), triglycerides (KLX), polyethylene glycols, modified food starch, acrylic polymers and
mixtures of acrylic polymers with cellulose ethers such as Eudragit EPO, Eudragit L3OD-55,
Eudragit FS 30D Eudragit L100-55, Eudragit L100, Eudragit S100, Eudragit RD100,
Eudragit E100, Eudragit L12.5, Eudragit S 12.5, Eudragit NE3OD, and Eudragit NE 40D,
cellulose acetate phthalate, sepifilms such as mixtures of HPMC and stearic acid, cyclodextrins,
and mixtures of these materials. In some embodiments, plasticizers such as polyethylene glycols,
e.g., PEG 300, PEG 400, PEG 600, PEG 1450, PEG 3350, and PEG 800, stearic acid, propylene
glycol, oleic acid, and triacetin are incorporated into the microencapsulation material.
[00104]         Microencapsulated mast cell stabilizers may be formulated by methods known by
one of ordinary skill in the art. Such known methods include, e.g., spray drying processes, spinning
disk-solvent processes, hot melt processes, spray chilling methods, fluidized bed, electrostatic
                                                   31

deposition, centrifugal extrusion, rotational suspension separation, polymerization at liquid-gas or
solid-gas interface, pressure extrusion, or spraying solvent extraction bath. In addition to these,
several chemical techniques, e.g., complex coacervation, solvent evaporation, polymer-polymer
incompatibility, interfacial polymerization in liquid media, in situ polymerization, in-liquid drying,
and desolvation in liquid media could also be used. Furthermore, other methods such as roller
compaction, extrusion/spheronization, coacervation, or nanoparticle coating may also be used.
[001051         In other embodiments, the formulations described herein are solid dispersions.
Methods of producing such solid dispersions are known in the art and include, but are not limited
to, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,343,789, 5,340,591, 5,456,923, 5,700,485, 5,723,269, and U.S.
Pub. Appl 2004/0013734, each of which is specifically incorporated by reference. In still other
embodiments, the formulations described herein are solid solutions. Solid solutions incorporate a
substance together with the mast cell stabilizer and other excipients such that heating the mixture
results in dissolution of the drug and the resulting composition is then cooled to provide a solid
blend which can be further formulated or directly added to a capsule or compressed into a tablet.
Methods of producing such solid solutions are known in the art and include, but are not limited to,
for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,151,273, 5,281,420, and 6,083,518, each of which is specifically
incorporated by reference.
[00106]         In other embodiments, formulations described herein include a matrix based dosage
form. In a matrix-based dosage form described herein, at least one mast cell stabilizer and optional
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient(s) are dispersed within a polymeric matrix, which typically
comprises one or more water-soluble polymers and/or one or more water-insoluble polymers. The
drug can be released from the dosage form by diffusion and/or erosion. Suitable water-soluble
polymers include, but are not limited to, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, methylcellulose,
hydroxypropylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, or polyethylene glycol, and/or mixtures
thereof. Suitable water-insoluble polymers also include, but are not limited to, ethylcellulose,
cellulose acetate, cellulose propionate, cellulose acetate propionate, cellulose acetate butyrate,
cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose triacetate, poly (methyl methacrylate), poly (ethyl
methacrylate), poly (butyl methacrylate), poly (isobutyl methacrylate), and poly (hexyl
methacrylate), poly (isodecyl methacrylate), poly (lauryl methacrylate), poly (phenyl methacrylate),
poly (methyl acrylate), poly (isopropyl acrylate), poly (isobutyl acrylate), poly (octadecyl acrylate),
poly (ethylene), poly (ethylene) low density, poly (ethylene) high density, poly (ethylene oxide),
poly (ethylene terephthalate), poly (vinyl isobutyl ether), poly (vinyl acetate), poly (vinyl chloride)
or polyurethane, an d/or mixtures thereof. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include,
but are not limited to, carriers, such as sodium citrate and dicalcium phosphate; fillers or extenders,
                                                    32

such as stearates, silicas, gypsum, starches, lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol, talc, and silicic
acid; binders, such as hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, hydroxymethyl-cellulose, alginates, gelatin,
polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, and acacia; humectants, such as glycerol; disintegrating agents,
such as agar, calcium carbonate, potato and tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates,
EXPLOTAB, crospovidone, and sodium carbonate; solution retarding agents, such as paraffin;
absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium compounds; wetting agents, such as cetyl
alcohol and glycerol monostearate; absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; lubricants, such
as talc, calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, and sodium lauryl sulfate;
stabilizers, such as fumaric acid; coloring agents; buffering agents; dispersing agents; preservatives;
organic acids; and organic bases. The aforementioned excipients are given as examples only and
are not meant to include all possible choices. Additionally, many excipients can have more than
one role or function, or can be classified in more than one group; the classifications are descriptive
only, and are not intended to limit any use of a particular excipient.
[001071         Matrix formulations of the present invention can be prepared by using, for example,
direct compression or wet granulation. A functional coating can then be applied. Additionally, a
barrier or sealant coat can be applied over a matrix tablet core prior to application of a functional
coating. The barrier or sealant coat can serve the purpose of separating an active ingredient from a
functional coating, which can interact with the active ingredient, or it can prevent moisture from
contacting the active ingredient.
[00108]         In some embodiments, the modified-release formulations described herein are
provided as osmotic pump dosage forms. In an osmotic pump dosage form, a core containing at
least one mast cell stabilizer and optionally at least one osmotic excipient is typically encased by a
selectively permeable membrane having at least one orifice. The selectively permeable membrane
is generally permeable to water, but impermeable to the drug. When the system is exposed to body
fluids, water penetrates through the selectively permeable membrane into the core containing the
drug and optional osmotic excipients. The osmotic pressure increases within the dosage form.
Consequently, the drug is released through the orifice(s) in an attempt to equalize the osmotic
pressure across the selectively permeable membrane.
[00109]         In more complex pumps, the dosage form can contain two internal compartments in
the core. The first compartment contains the drug and the second compartment can contain a
polymer, which swells on contact with aqueous fluid. After ingestion, this polymer swells into the
drug-containing compartment, diminishing the volume occupied by the drug, thereby forcing the
drug from the device at a controlled rate over an extended period of time. Such dosage forms are
often used when a zero order release profile is desired. Suitable swellable polymers typically
                                                   33

interact with water and/or aqueous biological fluids, which causes them to swell or expand to an
equilibrium state. Acceptable polymers exhibit the ability to swell in water and/or aqueous
biological fluids, retaining a significant portion of such imbibed fluids within their polymeric
structure, so as to increase the hydrostatic pressure within the dosage form. The polymers can
swell or expand to a very high degree, usually exhibiting a 2- to 50-fold volume increase. The
polymers can be non-cross-linked or cross-linked. In some embodiments, the swellable polymers
are hydrophilic polymers.
[00110]         In some embodiments, mast cell stabilizers can be provided in a multiparticulate
membrane-modified formulation. Membrane-modified formulations can be made by preparing a
rapid release core, which can be a monolithic (e.g., tablet) or multi-unit (e.g., pellet) type, and
coating the core with a membrane. The membrane-modified core can then be further coated with a
functional coating. In between the membrane-modified core and functional coating, a barrier or
sealant can be applied. The mast cell stabilizer can be formed into an active core by applying the
compound to a nonpareil seed. The at least one mast cell stabilizer can be applied with or without
additional excipients onto the inert cores, and can be sprayed from solution or suspension using a
fluidized bed coater (e.g., Wurster coating) or pan coating system. Alternatively, a mast cell
stabilizer can be applied as a powder onto the inert cores using a binder to bind the mast cell
stabilizer onto the cores. Active cores can also be formed by extrusion of the core with suitable
plasticizers and any other processing aids as necessary.
[00111]         The pharmaceutical solid oral dosage forms described herein can be further
formulated to provide a controlled release of the mast cell stabilizer. Controlled release refers to
the release of the mast cell stabilizer from a dosage form in which it is incorporated according to a
desired profile over an extended period of time. Controlled release profiles include, for example,
sustained release, prolonged release, pulsatile release, and delayed release profiles. In contrast to
immediate release compositions, controlled release compositions allow delivery of an agent to a
subject over an extended period of time according to a predetermined profile. Such release rates
can provide therapeutically effective levels of agent for an extended period of time and thereby
provide a longer period of pharmacologic response while minimizing side effects as compared to
conventional rapid release dosage forms. Such longer periods of response provide for many
benefits that are not achieved with the corresponding short acting, immediate release preparations.
[00112]         In some embodiments, the solid dosage forms described herein can be formulated as
enteric coated delayed release oral dosage forms, i.e., as an oral dosage form of a pharmaceutical
composition as described herein which utilizes an enteric coating to affect release in the small
intestine of the gastrointestinal tract. The enteric coated dosage form may be a compressed or
                                                    34

molded or extruded tablet/mold (coated or uncoated) containing granules, powder, pellets, beads or
particles of the active ingredient and/or other composition components, which are themselves
coated or uncoated. The enteric coated oral dosage form may also be a capsule (coated or
uncoated) containing pellets, beads or granules of the solid carrier or the composition, which are
themselves coated or uncoated.
[00113]          The term "delayed release" as used herein refers to the delivery so that the release
can be accomplished at some generally predictable location in the intestinal tract more distal to that
which would have been accomplished if there had been no delayed release alterations. In some
embodiments the method for delay of release is coating. Any coatings should be applied to a
sufficient thickness such that the entire coating does not dissolve in the gastrointestinal fluids at pH
below about 5, but does dissolve at pH about 5 and above. It is expected that any anionic polymer
exhibiting a pH-dependent solubility profile can be used as an enteric coating in the methods and
compositions described herein to achieve delivery to the lower gastrointestinal tract. In some
embodiments the polymers described herein are anionic carboxylic polymers. In other
embodiments, the polymers and compatible mixtures thereof, and some of their properties, include,
but are not limited to shellac acrylic polymers, cellulose derivatives, and poly vinyl acetate
phthalate (PVAP).
[00114]          Conventional coating techniques such as spray or pan coating are employed to apply
coatings. The coating thickness must be sufficient to ensure that the oral dosage form remains intact
until the desired site of topical delivery in the intestinal tract is reached.
         Liquid Oral Formulations
[001151          Liquid formulation dosage forms for oral administration can be aqueous suspensions
selected from the group including, but not limited to, pharmaceutically acceptable aqueous oral
dispersions, emulsions, solutions, elixirs, gels, and syrups. See, e.g., Singh et al., Encyclopedia of
PharmaceuticalTechnology, 2"d Ed., pp. 754-757 (2002). In addition to the particles of a mast cell
stabilizer, the liquid dosage forms may include additives, such as: (a) disintegrating agents; (b)
dispersing agents; (c) wetting agents; (d) at least one preservative, (e) viscosity enhancing agents,
(f) at least one sweetening agent, and (g) at least one flavoring agent. In some embodiments, the
aqueous dispersions can further include a crystalline inhibitor. In some embodiments, systemically
effective amounts of mast cell stabilizers are achieved with liquid oral formulations by including
permeation enhancers in the liquid oral formulations.
[00116]          Examples of disintegrating agents for use in the aqueous suspensions and
dispersions include, but are not limited to, a starch, e.g., a natural starch such as corn starch or
                                                     35

potato starch, a pregelatinized starch such as National 1551 or Amijel*, or sodium starch glycolate
such as PromogelO or Explotab"; a cellulose such as a wood product, methylcrystalline cellulose,
e.g., Avicel*, Avicel* PHIO, Avicel*PH102, Avicel* PHI05, Elcema* P100, Emcocel*,
Vivacel*, Ming Tia", and Solka-Floc", methylcellulose, croscarmellose, or a cross-linked cellulose,
such as cross-linked sodium carboxymethylcellulose (Ac-Di-Sol*), cross-linked
carboxymethylcellulose, or cross-linked croscarmellose; a cross-linked starch such as sodium starch
glycolate; a cross-linked polymer such as crospovidone; a cross-linked polyvinylpyrrolidone;
alginate such as alginic acid or a salt of alginic acid such as sodium alginate; a clay such as
Veegum* HV (magnesium aluminum silicate); a gum such as agar, guar, locust bean, Karaya,
pectin, or tragacanth; sodium starch glycolate; bentonite; a natural sponge; a surfactant; a resin such
as a cation-exchange resin; citrus pulp; sodium lauryl sulfate; sodium lauryl sulfate in combination
starch; and the like.
[001171         In some embodiments, the dispersing agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions
and dispersions described herein include, for example, hydrophilic polymers, electrolytes, Tween *
60 or 80, PEG, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP; commercially known as Plasdone*), and the
carbohydrate-based dispersing agents such as, for example, hydroxypropylcellulose and
hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC-L), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose
and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ethers (e.g. HPMC K100, HPMC K4M, HPMC Ki5M, and
HPMC K100M), carboxymethylcellulose sodium, methylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose phthalate, hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose acetate stearate,
noncrystalline cellulose, magnesium aluminum silicate, triethanolamine, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA),
polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl acetate copolymer (Plasdone*, e.g., S-630), 4-(1,1,3,3
tetramethylbutyl)-phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and formaldehyde (also known as
tyloxapol), poloxamers (e.g., Pluronics F68*, F88*, and F108*, which are block copolymers of
ethylene oxide and propylene oxide); and poloxamines (e.g., Tetronic 908*, also known as
Poloxamine 908*, which is a tetrafunctional block copolymer derived from sequential addition of
propylene oxide and ethylene oxide to ethylenediamine (BASF Corporation, Parsippany, N.J.)). In
other embodiments, the dispersing agent is selected from a group not comprising one of the
following agents: hydrophilic polymers; electrolytes; Tween * 60 or 80; PEG; polyvinylpyrrolidone
(PVP); hydroxypropylcellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose ethers (e.g., HPC, HPC-SL, and HPC
L); hydroxypropyl methylcellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ethers (e.g. HPMC K100,
HPMC K4M, HPMC Ki5M, HPMC K100M, and Pharmacoat* USP 2910 (Shin-Etsu));
carboxymethylcellulose sodium; methylcellulose; hydroxyethylcellulose; hydroxypropylmethyl
cellulose phthalate; hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose acetate stearate; non-crystalline cellulose;
                                                    36

magnesium aluminum silicate; triethanolamine; polyvinyl alcohol (PVA); 4-(1,1,3,3
tetramethylbutyl)-phenol polymer with ethylene oxide and formaldehyde; poloxamers (e.g.,
Pluronics F68*, F88*, and F108*, which are block copolymers of ethylene oxide and propylene
oxide); or poloxamines (e.g., Tetronic 908*, also known as Poloxamine 908*).
[001181          Wetting agents suitable for the aqueous suspensions and dispersions described
herein include, but are not limited to, cetyl alcohol, glycerol monostearate, polyoxyethylene
sorbitan fatty acid esters (e.g., the commercially available Tweens* such as e.g., Tween 20* and
Tween 80* (ICI Specialty Chemicals)), and polyethylene glycols (e.g., Carbowaxs 3350* and
1450*, and Carbopol 934* (Union Carbide)), oleic acid, glyceryl monostearate, sorbitan
monooleate, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate,
polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, sodium oleate, sodium lauryl sulfate, sodium docusate,
triacetin, vitamin E TPGS, sodium taurocholate, simethicone, phosphotidylcholine and the like.
         Intranasal Formulations
[00119]          Intranasal formulations are known in the art and are described in, for example, U.S.
Pat. Nos. 4,476,116, 5,116,817 and 6,391,452, each of which is specifically incorporated by
reference. The choice of suitable carriers is highly dependent upon the exact nature of the nasal
dosage form desired, e.g., solutions, suspensions, ointments, or gels. Nasal dosage forms generally
contain large amounts of water in addition to the active ingredient. Minor amounts of other
ingredients such as pH adjusters, emulsifiers or dispersing agents, viscosity enhancing agents,
preservatives, surfactants, gelling agents, or buffering and other stabilizing and solubilizing agents
may also be present. In some embodiments, the nasal dosage form is isotonic with nasal secretions.
In some embodiments a nasal dosage form is formulated to achieve sustained delivery. Examples
of sustained delivery nasal doseage forms include, but are not limited to, dosage forms that include
mucoadhesive agents such as microcrystalline cellulose. In some embodiments, systemically
effective amounts of mast cell stabilizers are achieved with intranasal formulations by one or more
of optimizing the droplet or particle size and including permeation enhancers in the intranasal
formulation.
         Buccal Formulations
[00120]          Buccal formulations that include mast cell stabilizers may be administered using a
variety of formulations known in the art. For example, such formulations include, but are not
limited to, those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,229,447, 4,596,795, 4,755,386, and 5,739,136, each
of which is specifically incorporated by reference. In addition, the buccal dosage forms can further
                                                   37

include a bioerodible (hydrolysable) polymeric carrier that also serves to adhere the dosage form to
the buccal mucosa. The buccal dosage form is fabricated so as to erode gradually over a
predetermined time period, wherein the delivery of the mast cell stabilizer is provided essentially
throughout. Buccal drug delivery, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, avoids the
disadvantages encountered with oral drug administration, e.g., slow absorption, degradation of the
active agent by fluids present in the gastrointestinal tract and/or first-pass inactivation in the liver.
With regard to the bioerodible (hydrolysable) polymeric carrier, it will be appreciated that virtually
any such carrier can be used, so long as the desired drug release profile is not compromised, and the
carrier is compatible with the mast cell stabilizer and any other components that may be present in
the buccal dosage unit. Generally, the polymeric carrier comprises hydrophilic (water-soluble and
water-swellable) polymers that adhere to the wet surface of the buccal mucosa. Examples of
polymeric carriers useful herein include acrylic acid polymers, e.g., those known as "carbomers"
(Carbopol*, which may be obtained from B.F. Goodrich, is one such polymer). Other components
may also be incorporated into the buccal dosage forms described herein include, but are not limited
to, disintegrants, diluents, binders, lubricants, flavoring, colorants, preservatives, and the like. In
some embodiments, systemically effective amounts of mast cell stabilizers are achieved with buccal
formulations by one or more of optimizing the erosion time of the formulation and by including
permeation enhancers in the buccal formulations.
         Transdermal Formulations
[00121]         Transdermal formulations described herein may be administered using a variety of
devices which have been described in the art. For example, such devices include, but are not limited
to, those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,598,122, 3,598,123, 3,710,795, 3,731,683, 3,742,951,
3,814,097, 3,921,636, 3,972,995, 3,993,072, 3,993,073, 3,996,934, 4,031,894, 4,060,084,
4,069,307, 4,077,407, 4,201,211, 4,230,105, 4,292,299, 4,292,303, 5,336,168, 5,665,378,
5,837,280, 5,869,090, 6,923,983, 6,929,801 and 6,946,144, each of which is specifically
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[00122]         Transdermal dosage forms for use in the methods disclosed herein may incorporate
certain pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are conventional in the art. In one
embodiment, the transdermal formulations include at least three components: (1) a formulation of a
mast cell stabilizer; (2) a penetration enhancer; and (3) an aqueous adjuvant. In addition,
transdermal formulations can include additional components such as, but not limited to, gelling
agents, creams and ointment bases, and the like. In some embodiments, the transdermal
formulation can further include a woven or non-woven backing material to enhance absorption and
                                                     38

prevent the removal of the transdermal formulation from the skin. In other embodiments, the
transdermal formulations described herein can maintain a saturated or supersaturated state to
promote diffusion into the skin. In some embodimnets, systemically effective amounts of mast cell
stabilizers are achieved with transdermal dosage forms by including skin permeation enhancers in
the transdermal dosage forms.
[001231          Transdermal formulations used in the methods described herein may employ
transdermal delivery devices and transdermal delivery patches and can be lipophilic emulsions or
buffered, aqueous solutions, dissolved and/or dispersed in a polymer or an adhesive. Such patches
may be constructed for continuous, pulsatile, or on demand delivery of pharmaceutical agents. Still
further, transdermal delivery of mast cell stabilizers can be accomplished by means of iontophoretic
patches, microneedle sytems, and the like. Additionally, transdermal patches can provide
controlled delivery of the mast cell stabilizer. The rate of absorption can be slowed by using rate
controlling membranes or by trapping the compound within a polymer matrix or gel. Conversely,
absorption enhancers can be used to increase absorption. An absorption enhancer or carrier can
include absorbable pharmaceutically acceptable solvents to assist passage through the skin. For
example, transdermal devices are in the form of a bandage comprising a backing member, a
reservoir containing the compound optionally with carriers, optionally a rate controlling barrier to
deliver the compound to the skin of the host at a controlled and predetermined rate over a
prolonged period of time, and means to secure the device to the skin. In some embodiments,
transdermal delivery of a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is provided using topical
formulations of the mast cell stabilizer, e.g, cromolyn sodium.
         Injectable Formulations
[00124]          Formulations that include a mast cell stabilizer suitable for intramuscular,
subcutaneous, or intravenous injection may contain physiologically acceptable sterile aqueous or
non-aqueous solutions, dispersions, suspensions or emulsions, and sterile powders for
reconstitution into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. Examples of suitable aqueous and
non-aqueous carriers, diluents, solvents, or vehicles including water, ethanol, polyols
(propyleneglycol, polyethylene-glycol, glycerol, cremophor and the like), suitable mixtures thereof,
vegetable oils (such as olive oil) and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity
can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the
required particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use of surfactants. Formulations
suitable for subcutaneous injection may also contain additives such as preserving, wetting,
emulsifying, and dispensing agents. Prevention of the growth of microorganisms can be ensured by
                                                    39

various antibacterial and antifungal agents, such as parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic acid,
and the like. It may also be desirable to include isotonic agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride,
and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by
the use of agents delaying absorption, such as aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
[001251          For intravenous injections, compounds described herein may be formulated in
aqueous solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hank's solution,
Ringer's solution, or physiological saline buffer. For transmucosal administration, penetrants
appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are
generally known in the art. For other parenteral injections, appropriate formulations may include
aqueous or nonaqueous solutions, preferably with physiologically compatible buffers or excipients.
Such excipients are generally known in the art.
[00126]          Parenteral injections may involve bolus injection or continuous infusion.
Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of the mast
cell stabilizers in water-soluble form. Additionally, suspensions of the mast cell stabilizers may be
prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include
fatty oils such as sesame oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters, such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides, or
liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances which increase the viscosity of
the suspension, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the
suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or agents which increase the solubility of the
compounds to allow for the preparation of highly concentrated solutions. Alternatively, the active
ingredient may be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle, e.g., sterile pyrogen-free
water, before use. In some embodiments, parenteral formulations are prepared to provide sustained
release of a mast cell stabilizer. In some embodiments, sustained release is provided by
incorporating liposomes, stealth liposomes, bioerodible polymers, and the like into parenteral
formulations to maximize the residence time in circulation and/or to increase absorption of the mast
cell stabilizer.
         Implantable formulations
[001271          Formulations that include a mast cell stabilizer suitable for implantation may contain
physiologically acceptable sterile aqueous or non-aqueous solutions, dispersions, suspensions, or
emulsions. In some embodiments, the formulations are contained in and delivered from an osmotic
pump implant to achieve sustained delivery of the mast cell stabilizer over long durations. In some
embodiments, a mast cell stabilizer is formulated with a bioerodible polymer, which, upon
administration facilitatse the formation of a depot containing the mast cell stabilizer. The depot
                                                   40

would then erode and release the mast cell stabilizer over a duration determined by the composition
of the bioerodible polymer. In some embodiments, viscosity modifying agents, stabilizers, and
other excipients may be used in the formulation to achieve optimum delivery over an extended
duration.
         Inhalation Therapy
 [001281         An "inhalation device," as used herein, refers to any device that is capable of
administering a drug formulation to the respiratory airways of a patient. Inhalation devices include
conventional inhalation devices such as metered dose inhalers (MDIs), dry powder inhalers (DPIs),
jet nebulizers, ultrasonic wave nebulizers, heat vaporizers, and soft mist inhalers. Inhalation
devices also include high efficiency nebulizers. Nebulizers, metered dose inhalers, and soft mist
inhalers deliver pharmaceuticals by forming an aerosol which includes droplet sizes that can easily
be inhaled. The aerosol can be used by a patient within the bounds of an inhalation therapy,
whereby the mast cell stabilizer reaches the patient's respiratory tract upon inhalation. In some
embodiments, the methods disclosed herein comprise administering to a patient a nominal dose of a
mast cell stabilizer by an inhalation device. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein,
an inhalation device is not a bronchoscope.
 [00129]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, administration of a
composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, to a patient with an inhalation
device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, a dry powder inhaler, a metered dose inhaler, a thermal
aerosol inhaler, or an electrohydrodynamic-based solution misting inhaler, is effective for the
treatment or prophylaxis of a systemic mast cell related disorder because both a systemically
effective amount of the mast cell stabilizer and a high deposited lung dose of the mast cell stabilizer
is achieved in the patient. Thus, in some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein,
administration of a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, to a
patient with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, a dry powder inhaler, a metered
dose inhaler, a thermal aerosol inhaler, or an electrohydrodynamic-based solution misting inhaler,
is effective for the treatment or prophylaxis of a systemic mast cell related disorder that is not
believed to be susceptible to treatment or prophylaxis with a mast cell stabilizer because both a
systemically effective amount of the mast cell stabilizer and a high deposited lung dose of the mast
cell stabilizer are achieved in the patient. Furthermore, in some embodiments where a mast cell
stabilizer is administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, a dry powder
inhaler, a metered dose inhaler, a thermal aerosol inhaler, or an electrohydrodynamic-based
solution misting inhaler, the methods disclosed herein provide improved efficacy for the treatment
                                                   41

or prophylaxis of a systemic mast cell related disorder relative to administration of a systemically
effective amount of the mast cell stabilizer by a different route of administration, e.g., parenterally
or orally, because administration of the mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, e.g., a high
efficiency nebulizer, a dry powder inhaler, a metered dose inhaler, a thermal aerosol inhaler, or an
electrohydrodynamic-based solution misting inhaler, provides both a systemically effective amount
of the mast cell stabilizer and a high deposited lung dose of the mast cell stabilizer in the patient. In
some embodiments, a systemically effective amount of a mast cell stabilizer is achieved by
delivering the mast cell stabilizer in an aerosol generated by a vibrating mesh nebulizer that
produces droplets with a MMD of 3.0-4.0 p.m and a GSD of 1.5-1.8. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an aerosol is administered through a mouthpiece of a nebulizer using
normal tidal breathing.
        Characterization of Inhalation Devices
[001301         The efficiency of a particular inhalation device can be characterized in many
different ways, including by pharmacokinetic properties, lung deposition (deposited lung dose),
respirable dose (RD), delivered dose (DD), respirable fraction (RF), respirable drug delivery rate
(RDDR), volumetric or mass median diameter (VMD or MMD), mass median aerodynamic
diameter (MMAD) in combination with the geometric standard deviation (GSD), and total output
rate (TOR), among others. The MMAD and GSD can be measured using a cascade impactor as
described in United States Phamacopeia (USP<1601>). The DD can be measured by using breath
simulation apparatus as described in USP<1601>. The RF is derived from measuring the amount
of drug deposited on the cascade impactor plates with a particular cut-off particle size, and
expressing that as a fraction of the total amount deposited on the cascade impactor plates, the
induction port and the filter. The RD is calculated by multiplying the DD by the RF. The TOR is
measured by the difference in weight of the nebulizer before and after completion of nebulization
divided by the duration of nebulization. VMD or MMD can be measured with a standard laser light
scattering apparatus such as the Malvern Spraytec.
[001311         Pharmacokinetics is concerned with the uptake, distribution, metabolism and
excretion of a drug substance. A pharmacokinetic profile comprises one or more biological
measurements designed to measure the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of a drug
substance. One way of visualizing a pharmacokinetic profile is by means of a blood plasma
concentration curve, which is a graph depicting mean active ingredient blood plasma concentration
on the Y-axis and time (usually in hours) on the X-axis. Some pharmacokinetic parameters that
may be visualized by means of a blood plasma concentration curve include AUCiast, AUC(o.), Cmax,
                                                   42

T 1 /2 , and Tmax. An enhanced pharmacokinetic profile in a patient can be indicated by increased
AUCiast, AUC(o.), Cmax, or T1 / 2 , a decreased Tmax, or an increased Tmax. Enhanced levels of a mast
cell stabilizer in the blood plasma of a patient may result in better control of or improved symptoms
of a systemic mast cell related disorder.
[00132]            The deposited lung dose may be expressed as a percentage of the nominal dose that
is deposited in the lung. For example, a lung deposition of 30% means 30% of the nominal dose is
deposited in the lung. Likewise, a lung deposition of 60% means 60% of the nominal dose is
deposited in the lung, and so forth. Lung deposition (deposited lung dose) can be determined using
methods of scintigraphy or deconvolution.
[00133]            RF, DD, RD, and RDDR are calculated parameters based on in vitro data that
provide technical dimensions for the efficiency of an inhalation device. RF represents the
percentage of the delivered aerosol, or inhaled mass, that penetrates into the gas-exchange region of
the lungs. RF may be measured with a cascade impactor or laser diffraction apparatus. RF is
expressed herein as the percentage of an aerosol delivered with an inhalation device that has a
particular particle diameter or range of particle diameters. For example, the term "RF (5 3.3 gm)"
as used herein refers to the percentage of an aerosol delivered with an inhalation device that has a
particle diameter less than or equal to 3.3 pm. Similarly, the terms "RF (1-5 pm)" and "RF (5 5
   m)" as used herein refer to the percentage of an aerosol delivered with an inhalation device that
has a particle diameter in the range of 1 im to 5 jim, or less than 5 jim, respectively. DD is the
portion or percentage of the nominal dose that is actually emitted from the mouthpiece of the
device. The difference between the nominal dose and the DD is the amount of drug lost primarily
as residues, i.e., the amount of drug remaining in the inhalation device after administration or lost
in aerosol form. RD is an expression of the delivered mass of drug contained within droplets or
particles having a certain diameter emitted from an inhalation device, such as a DPI, MDI, or
nebulizer, that are small enough to penetrate into the lung of a patient. The RD is determined by
multiplying the DD by the RF. RDDR is the speed at which a respirable dose of the drug is
delivered to a patient's lungs. RDDR, measured as a function of pLg or mg/min, is determined by
dividing the RD by the amount of time necessary for inhalation. The amount of time necessary for
inhalation is measured as the amount of time from the first moment of administration of the emitted
droplet or powder from the nebulizer, DPI, or MDI until the emitted or delivered droplet or powder
of a respirable diameter is delivered to the lung.
[00134]            Aerosol particle/droplet size is one factor determining the deposition of aerosol
drugs in the airways. The distribution of aerosol particle/droplet size can be expressed in terms of
one or more of VMD/MMAD and GSD. GSD is a dimensionless measure of a droplet size
                                                     43

distribution curve relevant for characterizing terms such as VMD, MMD, and MMAD. In general,
the smaller the GSD for a particular particle size distribution, the narrower the distribution curve.
         Conventional Inhalation devices
[001351         Conventional inhalation devices may be mechanical or electrical, and include, for
example, jet nebulizers and ultrasonic nebulizers. Jet nebulizers generally utilize compressors to
generate compressed air, which breaks the liquid medication into small breathable droplets, which
form an aerosolized (atomized) mist. In some embodiments, when the patient breathes in, a valve
at the top opens, which then allows air into the apparatus, thereby speeding up the mist generation;
when the patient breathes out, the top valve closes, thereby slowing down the mist generation while
simultaneously permitting the patient to breathe out through the opening of a mouthpiece flap.
Some nebulizers may provide the aerosol in a continuous mode (e.g., the eFlow from PARI Pharma
Starnberg), by a breath enhanced mode (e.g., the PARI LC Plus or Sprint from PARI Starnberg), by
breath actuated mode dependent on the breathing pattern of the patient (e.g., the AeroEclipse from
Trudell, Canada or the I-Neb from Philips Respironics), or according to given inhalation profile
(e.g., the Akita from Activaero, Gmuenden, Germany).
[001361         Some conventional inhalation devices are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,513,727,
6,513,519, 6,176,237, 6,085,741, 6,000,394, 5,957,389, 5,740,966, 5,549,102, 5,461,695,
5,458,136, 5,312,046, 5,309,900, 5,280,784, and 4,496,086, each of which is hereby incorporated
by reference in its entirety. Commercial conventional inhalation devices are available from: PARI
(Germany) under the trade names PARI LC Plus*, LC Star*, and PARI-Jet*; A & H Products, Inc.
(Tulsa, OK) under the trade name AquaTower*; Hudson RCI (Temecula, CA) under the trade name
AVA-NEB *; Intersurgical, Inc. (Liverpool, NY) under the trade name Cirrus; Salter Labs (Arvin,
CA) under the trade name Salter 8900e; Respironics (Murrysville, PA) under the trade name
Sidestream*; Bunnell (Salt Lake City, UT) under the trade name Whisper Jet; Smiths-Medical
(Hyth Kent, UK) under the trade name Downdraft, and DeVilbiss (Somerset, PA) under the trade
name DeVilbiss*; or Trudell, Canada under the trade name AeroEclipse*.
[001371         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, compositions comprising
mast cell stabilizers are administered with a dry powder inhaler. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, compositions administered with dry powder inhalers comprise one or
more of nanoparticles, spray dried materials, engineered porous particles with low mass median
diameter but a high geometric diameter, liposomes, and stealth (or PEGylated) liposomes. In some
embodiments, compositions administered by dry powder inhalers administered in the methods
disclosed herein comprise nanoparticle clusters that aggregate into micrometer sized particles at
                                                  44

neutral or basic pH but dissociate into nanoparticles at the pH encountered in the lung. In some
embodiments the nanoparticle clusters comprise fumaryl diketopiperazine. In some embodiments,
compositions administered with dry powder inhalers comprise lactose. In some embodiments,
compositions administered with dry powder inhalers do not comprise lactose. In some
embodiments, compositions administered with a dry powder inhaler have a MMAD between 2 and
4 jim, a GSD between 1.5 and 2.5 pm, and an RF(<;5 tm) between 30% and 80%. In some
embodiments, a dry powder inhaler used to administer an inhalation formulation in the methods
disclosed herein comprises a pre-metered dose, such as Plastiape Monodose inhaler, which
comprises a capsule pre-filled with a powder. In some embodiments, a dry powder inhaler used to
administer an inhalation formulation in the methods disclosed herein has a device-metered system
such as Twisthaler, sold by Schering Plough, which comprises a reservoir to store a powder and a
twisting top to dispense each dose. Inhalation formulations for administration with a dry powder
inhaler may be prepared by blending a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, with lactose, or
spray drying a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, or by pelletizing a mast cell stabilier,
e.g., cromolyn sodium, to form free-flowing spherical agglomerates.
[00138]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, compositions comprising
mast cell stabilizers are administered with a metered dose inhaler. In some embodiments, a
composition administered with a metered dose inhaler in the methods disclosed herein comprises
one or more of nanoparticles, spray dried materials, engineered porous particles with low mass
median diameter but a high geometric diameter, liposomes, and stealth (or PEGylated) liposomes.
[00139]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, compositions comprising
mast cell stabilizers are administered with a thermal aerosol inhaler. In some embodiments, the
aerosol in a thermal aerosol inhaler is generated by directly heating and vaporizing a thin solid film
of the mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, or by heating and vaporizing a solution of a mast
cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium in solvents such as propylene glycol and/or glycerol and
water.
[00140]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, compositions comprising
mast cell stabilizers are administered with an electrohydrodynamic-based solution misting inhaler.
In some embodiments, the aerosol in the electrohydrodynamic-based solution-misting inhaler is
generated by subjecting a solution of a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, or a liposome or
pegylated liposome comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, to
electrohydrodynamic forces through electrostatic energy.
                                                  45

        High Efficiency Nebulizers
[00141]         High efficiency nebulizers are inhalation devices that comprise a micro-perforated
membrane through which a liquid solution is converted through electrical or mechanical means into
aerosol droplets suitable for inhalation. High efficiency nebulizers can deliver a large fraction of a
loaded dose to a patient. In some embodiments, the high efficiency nebulizer also utilizes one or
more actively or passively vibrating microperforated membranes. In some embodiments, the high
efficiency nebulizer contains one or more oscillating membranes. In some embodiments, the high
efficiency nebulizer contains a vibrating mesh or plate with multiple apertures and optionally a
vibration generator with an aerosol mixing chamber. In some such embodiments, the mixing
chamber functions to collect (or stage) the aerosol from the aerosol generator. In some
embodiments, an inhalation valve is also used to allow an inflow of ambient air into the mixing
chamber during an inhalation phase and is closed to prevent escape of the aerosol from the mixing
chamber during an exhalation phase. In some such embodiments, the exhalation valve is arranged
at a mouthpiece which is removably mounted at the mixing chamber and through which the patient
inhales the aerosol from the mixing chamber. Still yet, in some embodiments, the high efficiency
nebulizer contains a pulsating membrane. In some embodiments, the high efficiency nebulizer is
continuously operating.
[00142]         In some embodiments, the high efficiency nebulizer contains a vibrating micro
perforated membrane of tapered nozzles that generates a plume of droplets without the need for
compressed gas. In these embodiments, a solution in the micro-perforated membrane nebulizer is
in contact with a membrane, the opposite side of which is open to the air. The membrane is
perforated by a large number of nozzle orifices of an atomizing head. An aerosol is created when
alternating acoustic pressure in the solution is built up in the vicinity of the membrane causing the
fluid on the liquid side of the membrane to be emitted through the nozzles as uniformly sized
droplets.
[001431         Some embodiments of high efficiency nebulizers use passive nozzle membranes and
a separate piezoelectric transducer that stimulates the membrane. In contrast, some high efficiency
nebulizers employ an active nozzle membrane, which use the acoustic pressure in the nebulizer to
generate very fine droplets of solution via the high frequency vibration of the nozzle membrane.
[00144]         Some high efficiency nebulizers contain a resonant system. In some such high
efficiency nebulizers, the membrane is driven by a frequency for which the amplitude of the
vibrational movement at the center of the membrane is particularly large, resulting in a focused
acoustic pressure in the vicinity of the nozzle; the resonant frequency may be about 100 kHz. A
flexible mounting is used to keep unwanted loss of vibrational energy to the mechanical
                                                   46

surroundings of the atomizing head to a minimum. In some embodiments, the vibrating membrane
of the high efficiency nebulizer may be made stainless steel, or of a nickel-palladium alloy by
electroforming.
[001451         In some embodiments, a high efficiency nebulizer may be adapted or adaptable to
operate in conjunction with a unit dosage form, such as an ampule or vial, which contains a single
dose of a mast cell stabilizer composition for the treatment of a systemic mast cell related disorder.
The unit dosage form comprises a container that contains an inhalation formulation comprising the
mast cell stabilizer, such as cromolyn sodium. The container is adapted to cooperate with the high
efficiency nebulizer device in such a way as to permit administration of the nominal dose of the
inhalation formulation to a patient. In some embodiments, the high efficiency nebulizer and the
unit dosage form are configured so that they are useable together, but not with other devices or
dosage forms. In some particular embodiments, the unit dosage form is configured such that it fits
into a keyhole-like structure in the high efficiency nebulizer, but will not operate with other
nebulizer devices. In such embodiments, the high efficiency nebulizer is configured such that it
will accept and properly operate with the unit dosage form containing the mast cell stabilizer, but
not with other dosage forms.
[001461         Commercial high efficiency nebulizers are available from: PARI (Germany) under
the trade name eFlow*; Aerogen, Ltd.(Ireland) under the trade names AeroNeb* Go and AeroNeb*
Pro, AeroNeb" Solo, and other nebulizers utilizing the OnQ* nebulizer technology; Respironics
(Murrysville, CA) under the trade names I-Neb*; Omron (Bannockburn, IL) under the trade name
Micro-Air; Activaero (Germany) under the trade name Akita*, and AerovectRx (Atlanta, GA)
under the trade name AerovectRx*.
[001471         In some embodiments, the methods disclosed herein comprise administration to a
patient a nominal dose of a mast cell stabilizer with a high efficiency nebulizer, wherein
administration of the nominal dose of the mast cell stabilizer to the patient provides one or more of
the following advantages: (1) an enhanced pharmacokinetic profile as compared to administration
of an oral solution or an inhalation formulation with a conventional inhalation device; (2) an
enhanced therapeutic effect as compared to administration of an oral solution or an inhalation
formulation with a conventional inhalation device; (3) an enhanced lung deposition (deposited lung
dose) as compared with a conventional inhalation device evidenced by scintigraphy or
deconvolution, or derived from suitable in vitro indicators such as enhanced RD, RDDR, RF, and
lower GSDs, as compared to administration with a conventional inhalation device; (4) reduced
administration times, periods, and/or volumes as compared to administration with a conventional
inhalation device; (5) a reduction in adverse side effects associated with oral formulations of a mast
                                                   47

cell stabilizer, such as gastrointestinal irritation, or associated with conventional inhalation devices,
such as cough; and (6) a longer duration of therapeutic effect as compared to administration of an
oral solution or an inhaled formulation with a conventional inhalation device.
[001481          In some embodiments, the DD expressed as the percentage of the nominal dose of a
mast cell stabilizer administered with a high efficiency nebulizer in the methods disclosed herein is
at least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least about 50%, at
least about 55%, at least about 6 0%, at least about 6 5%, about 6 5%, about 7 0%, about 3 0% to about
9 %
  0 , about 4 0% to about 8 0%, about 4 5% to about 7 5%, about 50% to about 7 0%, about 3 0% to
about 75%, about 40% to about 70%, about 45% to about 60%, or about 60% to about 70%.
[00149]          TOR is the speed at which the liquid containing a mast cell stabilizer is administered
from the inhalation device. In some embodiments, administration of the mast cell stabilizer with
the high efficiency nebulizer provides a TOR of at least about 2 times, 3 times or 4 times the TOR
achievable with a conventional inhalation device, such as a nebulizer. For example, in some
embodiments the TOR is at least about at least about 150 mg/min, at least about 200 mg/min, at
least about 250 mg/min, at least 300 mg/min, at least 350 mg/min, at least 400 mg/min, at least 500
mg/min, or from 200 to about 700 mg /min.
[001501          In some embodiments, use of a high efficiency nebulizer in the methods disclosed
herein provides a RF (5 3.3 Rm) of mast cell stabilizer of at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at
least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least about 50%, at
least about 55%, at least about 6 0%, at least about 6 5%, at least about 7 0%, at least about 7 5%, at
least about 8 0%, at least about 8 5%, at least about 9 0%, at least about 95%, about 2 0% to about
95%, about 35% to about 90%, or about 40% to about 80%, about 40% to about 90%, about 40% to
about 95%, about 45% to about 90%, about 45% to about 95%, about 50 % to about 90%, about
65% to about 90%, about 60% to about 95%, about 65% to about 95%, about 70% to about 90%, or
about 55% to about 90%. In some embodiments, use of a high efficiency nebulizer in the methods
disclosed herein provides a RF (5 3.3 Rm) of cromolyn sodium of at least about 20%, at least about
25%, at least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least about
50%, at least about 55%, at least about 6 0%, at least about 6 5%, at least about 7 0%, at least about
75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, about 20% to
about 9 5%, about 3 5% to about 9 0%, or about 4 0% to about 8 0%, about 4 0% to about 9 0%, about
40% to about 95%, about 45% to about 90%, about 45% to about 95%, about 50 % to about 90%,
about 6 5% to about 9 0%, about 6 0% to about 9 5%, about 6 5% to about 9 5%, about 7 0% to about
9 %
  0 , about 55% to about 9 0%, about 4 0% to about 50%, about         35
                                                                         % to about 4 5%, about 3 5% to
about 50%, about 3 0% to about 50%, about        44
                                                    %, or about  36
                                                                    %.
                                                     48

[001511         In some embodiments, use of a high efficiency nebulizer in the methods disclosed
herein provides a RF (1-5 gm) of mast cell stabilizer of at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at
least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least about 50%, at
least about 55%, at least about 6 0%, at least about 6 5%, at least about 7 0%, at least about 7 5%, at
least about 8 0%, at least about 8 5%, at least about 9 0%, at least about 9 5%, about 20% to about
95%, about 35% to about 90%, or about 40% to about 80%, about 40% to about 90%, about 40% to
about 95%, about 45% to about 90%, about 45% to about 95%, about 50 % to about 90%, about
65% to about 90%, about 60% to about 95%, about 65% to about 95%, about 70% to about 90%, or
about 55% to about 90%. In some embodiments, use of a high efficiency nebulizer in the methods
disclosed herein provides a RF (1-5 gm) of cromolyn sodium of at least about 20%, at least about
25%, at least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least about
50%, at least about 55%, at least about 6 0%, at least about 6 5%, at least about 7 0%, at least about
75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, about 20% to
about 9 5%, about 3 5% to about 9 0%, or about 4 0% to about 8 0%, about 4 0% to about 9 0%, about
40% to about 95%, about 45% to about 90%, about 45% to about 95%, about 50 % to about 90%,
about 6 5% to about 9 0%, about 6 0% to about 9 5%, about 6 5% to about 9 5%, about 7 0% to about
90%, or about 55% to about 90%.
[00152]         In some embodiments, use of a high efficiency nebulizer in the methods disclosed
herein provides a RF (5 5 gm) of mast cell stabilizer of at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at
least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least about 50%, at
least about 55%, at least about 6 0%, at least about 6 5%, at least about 7 0%, at least about 7 5%, at
least about 8 0%, at least about 8 5%, at least about 9 0%, at least about 9 5%, about 2 0% to about
95%, about 35% to about 90%, or about 40% to about 80%, about 40% to about 90%, about 40% to
about 95%, about 45% to about 90%, about 45% to about 95%, about 50 % to about 90%, about
65% to about 90%, about 60% to about 95%, about 65% to about 95%, about 70% to about 90%,
about 55% to about 90%, about 70% to about 80%, or about 75%. In some embodiments, use of a
high efficiency nebulizer in the methods disclosed herein provides a RF (5 5 gm) of cromolyn
sodium of at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5%, at least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least
about 40%, at least about 45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least
about 6 5%, at least about 7 0%, at least about 7 5%, at least about 8 0%, at least about 8 5%, at least
about 9 0%, at least about 9 5%, about 2 0% to about 9 5%, about 3 5% to about 9 0%, or about 4 0% to
about 80%, about 40% to about 90%, about 40% to about 95%, about 45% to about 90%, about
45% to about 95%, about 50 % to about 90%, about 65% to about 90%, about 60% to about 95%,
about 65% to about 95%, about 70% to about 90%, about 55% to about 90%, about 70% to about
                                                   49

80%, about 65% to about 75%, about 65% to about 80%, about 60% to about 80%, about 66%, or
about 75%.
[001531          In some embodiments, use of a high efficiency nebulizer in the methods disclosed
herein provides a RDDR of at least about 2 times, at least about 3 times or at least about 4 times the
RDDR achievable with a conventional inhalation device. For example, where the mast cell
stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, in some embodiments the RDDR is at least about 5 mg/min, at least
about 10 mg/min, at least about 15 mg/min, at least about 20 mg/min, at least about 25 mg/min, at
least about 30 mg/min, at least about 35 mg/min, at least about 40 mg/min, at least about 45
mg/min, at least about 50 mg/min, at least about 55 mg/min, or at least about 60 mg/min.
[00154]          In some embodiments, administration of a mast cell stabilizer with a high efficiency
nebulizer in the methods disclosed herein provides a GSD of emitted droplet size distribution of
about 1.1 to about 2.1, about 1.2 to about 2.0, about 1.3 to about 1.9, less than about 2, at least
about 1.4 to about 1.8, at least about 1.5 to about 1.7, about 1.4, about 1.5, about 1.6, or about 1.7.
In some embodiments, administration of a mast cell stabilizer with a high efficiency nebulizer in
the methods disclosed herein provides a MMAD of droplet size of about 1 Pm to about 5 Pm, about
2 to about 4 pm, about 3 to about 4 pm, about 3.5 to about 4.5 pm, or about 3.5 Pm. In some
particular embodiments, administration of a mast cell stabilizer in the methods disclosed herein
provides droplets having a particular combination of MMAD and GSD, for example: an MMAD
of less than about 5 gm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 2.1; an MvIAD of less than about 4.5 pn
and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 2.1; an MMAD of about 1 pm to about 5 Pm and a GSD of about
1.1 to about 2.1; an MMAD of about 1.5 to about 4.5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 2.1; an
MMlAD of less than about 5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 2.0; an MNMLAD of less than about
4.5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 2.0; an MMAD of about 1 pm to about 5 pm and a GSD of
about 1.1 to about 2.0; an MMVIAD of about 1.5 to about 4.5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about
2.0; an MMAD of less than about 5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 1.9; an MMAD of less
than about 4.5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 1.9; an MMAD of about 1 pm to about 5 Pm
and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 1.9; an MMAD of about 1.5 to about 4.5 pm and a GSD of about
1.1 to about 1.9; an MVIAD of less than about 5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 1.8; an
MVAD of less than about 4.5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 1.8; an MMAD of about 1 Pm
to about 5 pm and a GSD of about 1.1 to about 1.8; an MMAD of about 1.5 to about 4.5 pm and a
GSD of about 1.1 to about 1.8; an MVIAD of about 3.5 pm or less and a GSD of about 1.7; an
MLAD of about 4.1 pm or less and a GSD of about 1.7; an MMAD of about 3.5 pm and a GSD of
about 1.7; or an MVIAD of about 4.1 jim and a GSD of about 1.7.
                                                  50

[001551          In some embodiments, the median particle size of a mast cell stabilizer aerosol
administered with a high efficiency nebulizer is between about 1 Pn and about 6 Pn, between
about 2 pm and about 5 pm, between about 3 pm and about 5 pm, between about 3 pm and about 4
pm, about 1 pm, about 2 pm, about 3 pm, about 4 pm, about 5 pm, or about 6 pm. In some
embodiments, the median particle size of cromolyn sodium aerosol administered with a high
efficiency nebulizer is between about 1 pm and about 6 pm, between about 2 pm and about 5 pm,
between about 3 jim and about 5 pm, between about 3 jim and about 4 pm, about 1 Pm, about 2 Pm,
about 3 pm, about 4 pim, about 5 pim, or about 6 pm.
        Inhalation Formulations
[001561          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations are
administered by an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, to provide a systemically
effective amount of a mast cell stabilizer for the treatment of a systemic mast cell related disorder.
In some embodiments, the methods disclosed herein comprise administering a nominal dose of one
or more mast cell stabilizers in an aqueous inhalation solution to the patient with an inhalation
device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer.
[001571          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 100 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 110 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 130
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 140 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 150 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
160 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 170 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 180 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 190 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 225 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 250 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 275 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 300 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 325 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 350 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 375
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 400 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 425 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
450 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 475 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 500 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 525 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 550 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 575 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 600 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 625 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 650 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 675 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 700 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 725
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 750 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 775 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
800 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 825 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 850 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 875 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 900 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 925 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 950 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 975 ng*hr/mL, or greater than about 1000 ng*hr/mL
                                                   51

after administration of the formulation to the patient. In some embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high
efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of a mast cell
stabilizer of about 100 ng*hr/mL, about 110 ng*hr/mL, about 120 ng*hr/mL, about 130 ng*hr/mL,
about 140 ng*hr/mL, about 150 ng*hr/mL, about 160 ng*hr/mL, about 170 ng*hr/mL, about 180
ng*hr/mL, about 190 ng*hr/mL, about 200 ng*hr/mL, about 225 ng*hr/mL, about 250 ng*hr/mL,
about 275 ng*hr/mL, about 300 ng*hr/mL, about 325 ng*hr/mL, about 350 ng*hr/mL, about 375
ng*hr/mL, about 400 ng*hr/mL, about 425 ng*hr/mL, about 450 ng*hr/mL, about 475 ng*hr/mL,
about 500 ng*hr/mL, about 525 ng*hr/mL, about 550 ng*hr/mL, about 575 ng*hr/mL, about 600
ng*hr/mL, about 625 ng*hr/mL, about 650 ng*hr/mL, about 675 ng*hr/mL, about 700 ng*hr/mL,
about 725 ng*hr/mL, about 750 ng*hr/mL, about 775 ng*hr/mL, about 800 ng*hr/mL, about 825
ng*hr/mL, about 850 ng*hr/mL, about 875 ng*hr/mL, about 900 ng*hr/mL, about 925 ng*hr/mL,
about 950 ng*hr/mL, about 975 ng*hr/mL, or about 1000 ng*hr/mL after administration of the
formulation to the patient.
[00158]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 100 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 110 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 130 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 140 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 150 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 160
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 170 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 180 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
190 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 225 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 250 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 275 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 300 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 325 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 350 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 375 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 400 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 425 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 450
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 475 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 500 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
525 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 550 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 575 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 600 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 625 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 650 ng*hr/mL, greater
than about 675 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 700 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 725 ng*hr/mL,
greater than about 750 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 775 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 800
ng*hr/mL, greater than about 825 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 850 ng*hr/mL, greater than about
875 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 900 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 925 ng*hr/mL, greater than
about 950 ng*hr/mL, greater than about 975 ng*hr/mL, or greater than about 1000 ng*hr/mL after
administration of the formulation to the patient. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed
herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
                                                  52

nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of cromolyn sodium of about
100 ng*hr/mL, about 110 ng*hr/mL, about 120 ng*hr/mL, about 130 ng*hr/mL, about 140
ng*hr/mL, about 150 ng*hr/mL, about 160 ng*hr/mL, about 170 ng*hr/mL, about 180 ng*hr/mL,
about 190 ng*hr/mL, about 200 ng*hr/mL, about 225 ng*hr/mL, about 250 ng*hr/mL, about 275
ng*hr/mL, about 300 ng*hr/mL, about 325 ng*hr/mL, about 350 ng*hr/mL, about 375 ng*hr/mL,
about 400 ng*hr/mL, about 425 ng*hr/mL, about 450 ng*hr/mL, about 475 ng*hr/mL, about 500
ng*hr/mL, about 525 ng*hr/mL, about 550 ng*hr/mL, about 575 ng*hr/mL, about 600 ng*hr/mL,
about 625 ng*hr/mL, about 650 ng*hr/mL, about 675 ng*hr/mL, about 700 ng*hr/mL, about 725
ng*hr/mL, about 750 ng*hr/mL, about 775 ng*hr/mL, about 800 ng*hr/mL, about 825 ng*hr/mL,
about 850 ng*hr/mL, about 875 ng*hr/mL, about 900 ng*hr/mL, about 925 ng*hr/mL, about 950
ng*hr/mL, about 975 ng*hr/mL, or about 1000 ng*hr/mL after administration of the formulation to
the patient.
[001591        In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average Cmax of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 40 ng/mL, greater than
about 50 ng/mL, greater than about 60 ng/mL, greater than about 70 ng/mL, greater than about 80
ng/mL, greater than about 90 ng/mL, greater than about 100 ng/mL, greater than about 110 ng/mL,
greater than about 120 ng/mL, greater than about 130 ng/mL, greater than about 140 ng/mL, greater
than about 150 ng/mL, greater than about 160 ng/mL, greater than about 170 ng/mL, greater than
about 180 ng/mL, greater than about 190 ng/mL, greater than about 200 ng/mL, greater than about
210 ng/mL, greater than about 220 ng/mL, greater than about 230 ng/mL, greater than about 240
ng/mL, greater than about 250 ng/mL, greater than about 260 ng/mL, greater than about 270
ng/mL, greater than about 280 ng/mL, greater than about 290 ng/mL, greater than about 300
ng/mL, greater than about 310 ng/mL, greater than about 320 ng/mL, greater than about 330
ng/mL, greater than about 340 ng/mL, greater than about 350 ng/mL, greater than about 360
ng/mL, greater than about 370 ng/mL, greater than about 380 ng/mL, greater than about 390
ng/mL, or greater than about 400 ng/mL after administration of the formulation to the patient. In
some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average
Cmax of a mast cell stabilizer of about 50 mg/mL, about 60 ng/mL, about 70 ng/mL, about 80
ng/mL, 90 ng/mL, about 100 ng/mL, about 110 ng/mL, about 120 ng/mL, about 130 ng/mL, about
140 ng/mL, about 150 ng/mL, about 160 ng/mL, about 170 ng/mL, about 180 ng/mL, about 190
ng/mL, about 200 ng/mL, about 210 ng/mL, about 220 ng/mL, about 230 ng/mL, about 240 ng/mL,
about 250 ng/mL, 260 ng/mL, about 270 ng/mL, about 280 ng/mL, about 290 ng/mL, about 300
                                                  53

ng/mL, about 310 ng/mL, about 320 ng/mL, about 330 ng/mL, about 340 ng/mL, about 350 ng/mL,
about 360 ng/mL, about 370 ng/mL, about 380 ng/mL, about 390 ng/mL, or about 400 ng/mL after
administration of the formulation to the patient.
[00160]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than about 40 ng/mL, greater than about
50 ng/mL, greater than about 60 ng/mL, greater than about 70 ng/mL, greater than about 80 ng/mL,
greater than about 90 ng/mL, greater than about 100 ng/mL, greater than about 110 ng/mL, greater
than about 120 ng/mL, greater than about 130 ng/mL, greater than about 140 ng/mL, greater than
about 150 ng/mL, greater than about 160 ng/mL, greater than about 170 ng/mL, greater than about
180 ng/mL, greater than about 190 ng/mL, greater than about 200 ng/mL, greater than about 210
ng/mL, greater than about 220 ng/mL, greater than about 230 ng/mL, greater than about 240
ng/mL, greater than about 250 ng/mL, greater than about 260 ng/mL, greater than about 270
ng/mL, greater than about 280 ng/mL, greater than about 290 ng/mL, greater than about 300
ng/mL, greater than about 310 ng/mL, greater than about 320 ng/mL, greater than about 330
ng/mL, greater than about 340 ng/mL, greater than about 350 ng/mL, greater than about 360
ng/mL, greater than about 370 ng/mL, greater than about 380 ng/mL, greater than about 390
ng/mL, or greater than about 400 ng/mL after administration of the formulation to the patient. In
some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average
Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about 50 mg/mL, about 60 ng/mL, about 70 ng/mL, about 80 ng/mL,
90 ng/mL, about 100 ng/mL, about 110 ng/mL, about 120 ng/mL, about 130 ng/mL, about 140
ng/mL, about 150 ng/mL, about 160 ng/mL, about 170 ng/mL, about 180 ng/mL, about 190 ng/mL,
about 200 ng/mL, about 210 ng/mL, about 220 ng/mL, about 230 ng/mL, about 240 ng/mL, about
250 ng/mL, 260 ng/mL, about 270 ng/mL, about 280 ng/mL, about 290 ng/mL, about 300 ng/mL,
about 310 ng/mL, about 320 ng/mL, about 330 ng/mL, about 340 ng/mL, about 350 ng/mL, about
360 ng/mL, about 370 ng/mL, about 380 ng/mL, about 390 ng/mL, or about 400 ng/mL after
administration of the formulation to the patient.
[00161]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or
an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of
the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device,
e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of a mast
                                                  54

cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer
greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation
formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a
human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL
and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 80 ng/mL. In some embodiments
of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device,
e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of a mast
cell stabilizer greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer
greater than about 150 ng/mL. In some embodiments, of the methods disclosed herein, an
inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer,
produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about
525 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 230 ng/mL.
[00162]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an
average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn
sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than
about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL and an
average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn
sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than
about 150 ng/mL. In some embodiments, of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation
formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a
human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL
and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL.
[00163]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o.) of cromolyn sodium of about 200 ng*hr/mL and an average
Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about 80 ng/mL when a nominal dose of 40 mg of cromolyn sodium is
                                                  55

administered with the inhalation device. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an
inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer,
produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium of about 330
ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about 150 ng/mL when a nominal dose of 40
mg of cromolyn sodium is administered with the inhalation device. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn
sodium of about 525 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about 230 ng/mL when
a nominal dose of 80 mg of cromolyn sodium is administered with the inhalation device.
[00164]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium of about 180 ng*hr/mL to about 220
ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about 70 ng/mL to about 90 ng/mL when a
nominal dose of 40 mg of cromolyn sodium is administered with the inhalation device. In some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o--) of cromolyn sodium of about 300 ng*hr/mL to about 360 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax
of cromolyn sodium of about 135 ng/mL to about 165 ng/mL when a nominal dose of 40 mg of
cromolyn sodium is administered with the inhalation device. In some embodiments, of the methods
disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high
efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of cromolyn sodium
of about 475 ng*hr/mL to about 575 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about
200 ng/mL to about 260 ng/mL when a nominal dose of 80 mg of cromolyn sodium is administered
with the inhalation device.
[001651         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides mast cell
stabilizer lung deposition (deposited lung dose) of at least about 15%, at least about 20%, at least
about 2 5%, at least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least
about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, about 20% to about 40%, about 25% to about
35
   %, about 25 to about 3 0%, about 2 5% to about 7 5%, about 3 0% to about 50%, about 3 5% to
about 90%, about 40% to about 80%, about 40% to about 60%, about 50% to about 60%, about
50% to about 70%, or about 60% to about 75% based on the nominal dose of the mast cell
stabilizer. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides cromolyn sodium
                                                   56

deposition (deposited lung dose) of at least about 15%, at least about 2 0%, at least about 2 5%, at
least about 3 0%, at least about 3 5%, at least about 4 0%, at least about 4 5%, at least about 50%, at
least about 55%, at least about 6 0%, about 2 0% to about 4 0%, about 2 5% to about 3 5%, about 25 to
about 3 0%, about 2 5% to about 7 5%, about 3 0% to about 50%, about 3 5% to about 9 0%, about
40% to about 80%, about 40% to about 60%, about 50% to about 60%, about 50% to about 70%, or
about 60% to about 75% based on the nominal dose of the cromolyn sodium.
[00166]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides mast cell
stabilizer lung deposition (deposited lung dose) of about 15%, about 2 0%, about 2 5%, about       30
                                                                                                      %,
                   4            4                                      6
about 35%, about 0%, about 5%, about 50%, about 55%, about 0%, about 6 5%, about                70
                                                                                                   %,
about 75% about 80%, about 85%, about 90%, about 95%, or about 100% based on the nominal
dose of the mast cell stabilizer. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an
inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer,
provides cromolyn sodium lung deposition (deposited lung dose) of about 15%, about 20%, about
25%, about 3 0%, about 35%, about 4 0%, about 4 5%, about 50%, about 55%, about 6 0%, about
65%, about 7 0%, about 7 5% about 8 0%, about 8 5%, about 9 0%, about 9 5%, or about 100% based
on the nominal dose of the cromolyn sodium.
[001671         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides mast cell
stabilizer lung deposition (deposited lung dose) of greater than about 0.5 mg, greater than about 1
mg, greater than about 1.5 mg, greater than about 2 mg, greater than about 2.5 mg, greater than
about 3 mg, greater than about 3.5 mg, greater than about 4 mg, greater than about 5 mg, greater
than about 6 mg, greater than about 7 mg, greater than about 8 mg, greater than about 9 mg, greater
than about10 mg, greater than about 11 mg, greater than about 12 mg, greater than about 13 mg,
greater than about 14 mg, or greater than about 15 mg. In some embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high
efficiency nebulizer, provides mast cell stabilizer lung deposition (deposited lung dose) of about 0.5
mg, about 1.0 mg, about 1.5 mg, about 2.0 mg, about 2.5 mg, about 3.0 mg, about 3.5 mg, about 4.0
mg, about 5.0 mg, about 6.0 mg, about 7.0 mg, about 8.0 mg, about 9.0 mg, about 10 mg, about 11
mg, about 12 mg, about 13 mg, about 14 mg, or about 15 mg.
[00168]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides cromolyn sodium
lung deposition (deposited lung dose) of greater than about 0.5 mg, greater than about 1 mg, greater
than about 1.5 mg, greater than about 2 mg, greater than about 2.5 mg, greater than about 3 mg,
                                                   57

greater than about 3.5 mg, greater than about 4 mg, greater than about 5 mg, greater than about 6
mg, greater than about 7 mg, greater than about 8 mg, greater than about 9 mg, greater than
aboutl0 mg, greater than about 11 mg, greater than about 12 mg, greater than about 13 mg, greater
than about 14 mg, or greater than about 15 mg. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed
herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, provides cromolyn sodium lung deposition (deposited lung dose) of about 0.5 mg, about
1.0 mg, about 1.5 mg, about 2.0 mg, about 2.5 mg, about 3.0 mg, about 3.5 mg, about 4.0 mg, about
5.0 mg, about 6.0 mg, about 7.0 mg, about 8.0 mg, about 9.0 mg, about 10 mg, about 11 mg, about
12 mg, about 13 mg, about 14 mg, or about 15 mg.
[00169]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
containing a mast cell stabilizer is administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, at an administration of less than about 1 mg/ dose, about 1 mg/dose to about 100
mg/dose, about 5 mg/dose to about 80 mg/dose, about 20 mg/dose to about 60 mg/dose, about 30
mg/dose to about 50 mg/dose, or greater than 100 mg/dose. In some embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation containing cromolyn sodium is administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, at an administration of less than about 1
mg/dose, about 1 mg/dose to about 100 mg/dose, about 5 mg/dose to about 80 mg/dose, about 20
mg/dose to about 60 mg/dose, about 30 mg/dose to about 50 mg/dose, or greater than 100 mg/dose.
In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a mast cell stabilizer is administered in an
inhalation formulation with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, in about 1 mg,
about 5 mg, about 10 mg, about 15 mg, about 20 mg, about 25 mg, about 30 mg, about 35 mg,
about 40 mg, about 45 mg, about 50 mg, about 55mg, about 60 mg, about 65 mg, about 70 mg,
about 75 mg, about 80 mg, about 85 mg, about 90 mg, about 95 mg, about 100 mg, about 105 mg,
about 110 mg, about 115 mg, about 120 mg, about 125 mg, about 130 mg doses, about 135 mg,
about 140 mg, about 145 mg, about 150 mg, about 200 mg, about 250 mg, about 300 mg, about 350
mg, about 400 mg, about 450 mg, about 500 mg, about 550 mg, about 600 mg, about 650 mg, about
700 mg, about 750 mg, about 800 mg, about 850 mg, about 900 mg, about 950 mg, or about 1000
mg doses. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, cromolyn sodium is
administered in an inhalation formulation with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, in about 1 mg, about 5 mg, about 10 mg, about 15 mg, about 20 mg, about 25 mg, about
30 mg, about 35 mg, about 40 mg, about 45 mg, about 50 mg, about 55 mg, about 60 mg, about 65
mg, about 70 mg, about 75 mg, about 80 mg, about 85 mg, about 90 mg, about 95 mg, about 100
mg, about 105 mg, about 110 mg, about 115 mg, about 120 mg, about 125 mg, about 130 mg doses,
about 135 mg, about 140 mg, about 145 mg, about 150 mg, about 200 mg, about 250 mg, about 300
                                                  58

mg, about 350 mg, about 400 mg, about 450 mg, about 500 mg, about 550 mg, about 600 mg, about
650 mg, about 700 mg, about 750 mg, about 800 mg, about 850 mg, about 900 mg, about 950 mg,
or about 1000 mg doses.
[001701         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer provides a bioavailability
of a mast cell stabilizer of greater than about 5%, greater than about 6%, greater than about 7%,
greater than about 8%, greater than about 9%, greater than about 10%, greater than about 110%,
greater than about 12%, greater than about 13%, greater than about 14%, greater than about 15%,
greater than about 16%, greater than about 17%, greater than about 18%, greater than about 19%,
greater than about 20%, greater than about 25%, greater than about 30%, greater than about 35%,
greater than about 40%, greater than about 45%, greater than about 50%, greater than about 55%,
or greater than about 60% of the nominal dose. In some embodiments, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, in the methods disclosed
herein provides a bioavailability of a mast cell stabilizer of about 5%, about 6%, about 7%, about
8%, about 9 %, about 10%, about 11I%, about 12%, about 13%, about 14%, about 15%, about         16
                                                                                                   %,
about 17%, about 18%, about 19%, about 2 0%, about 2 5%, about 3 0%, about 3 5%, about      40
                                                                                               %,
      4                                         6
about 5%, about 50%, about 55%, or about 0% of the nominal dose.
[001711         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer provides a bioavailability
of cromolyn sodium of greater than about 5%, greater than about 6%, greater than about 7%,
greater than about 8%, greater than about 9%, greater than about 10%, greater than about 11I%,
greater than about 12%, greater than about 13%, greater than about 14%, greater than about 15%,
greater than about 16%, greater than about 17%, greater than about 18%, greater than about 19%,
greater than about 20%, greater than about 25%, greater than about 30%, greater than about 35%,
greater than about 40%, greater than about 45%, or greater than about 50% of the nominal dose. In
some embodiments, an aqueous inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g.,
a high efficiency nebulizer, in the methods disclosed herein provides a bioavailability of cromolyn
sodium of about 5%, about 6%, about 7%, about 8%, about 9%, about 10%, about 11%, about 12%,
about 13%, about 14%, about 15%, about 16%, about 17%, about 18%, about 19%, about          20
                                                                                               %,
      2            3             3           4           4
about 5%, about 0%, about 5%, about 0%, about 5%, or about 50% of the nominal dose.
[00172]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability
of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o.) of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average Cmax of the
                                                  59

mast cell stabilizer greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed
herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in
a human subject group an average AUC(o--) of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120
ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of a mast cell
stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of the
mast cell stabilizer greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer
greater than about 80 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation
formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a
bioavailability of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject
group an average AUC(o-.) of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an
average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 150 ng/mL. In some embodiments, of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5%
and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of the mast cell stabilizer greater than
about 525 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 230 ng/mL.
[00173]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability
of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average Cmax of cromolyn
sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an
inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer,
provides a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an
average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and
produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 200
ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL. In some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium
greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn
                                                    60

sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium greater than
about 150 ng/mL. In some embodiments, of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation
formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a
bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group
an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of
cromolyn sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL.
[00174]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability
of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5%
and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than
about 200 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation
formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a
bioavailability of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject
group an average AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL. In some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of a mast cell
stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of a
mast cell stabilizer greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL.
[001751         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability
of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and
produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 200
ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability
of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments, of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and
                                                    61

produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 525
ng*hr/mL.
[00176]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
comprising 40 mg cromolyn sodium administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, provides a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a
human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL.
In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation comprising 40 mg
cromolyn sodium administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides
a bioavailability of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group
an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments,
of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation comprising 80 mg cromolyn sodium
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, provides a bioavailability
of cromolyn sodium greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL.
[001771         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 tim) of at
least about 30% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of a mast cell
stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein,
an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer,
has an RF (5 3.3 tim) of at least about 30% and produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 um) of at least about 40% and produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL. In
some embodiments, of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with
an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 tm) of at least about 40%
and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of a mast cell stabilizer greater than
about 525 ng*hr/mL.
[00178]         In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 tm) of at
least about 30% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium
greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an
inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, has
an RF (5 3.3 .tm) of at least about 30% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o..)
                                                  62

of cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high
efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 jim) of at least about 40% and produces in a human subject
group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL. In some
embodiments, of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 jim) of at least about 40% and
produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 525
ng*hr/mL.
[001791          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
comprising 40 mg cromolyn sodium administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, has an RF (S 3.3 gm) of at least about 30% and produces in a human subject group an
average AUC(o.E) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of
the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation comprising 40 mg cromolyn sodium
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 gm) of at
least about 40% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o.) of cromolyn sodium
greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an
inhalation formulation comprising 80 mg cromolyn sodium administered with an inhalation device,
e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, has an RF (5 3.3 kim) of at least about 40% and produces in a
human subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL.
[00180]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium of about 8.5 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax
of cromolyn sodium of about about 3.9 ng/mL per mg of cromolyn sodium administered with the
inhalation device. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium of about 6.6 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax
of cromolyn sodium of about about 3.0 ng/mL per mg of cromolyn sodium administered with the
inhalation device. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium of about 5.3 ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax
of cromolyn sodium of about about 2.2 ng/mL per mg of cromolyn sodium administered with the
inhalation device. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-.) of cromolyn sodium of from about 5.3 ng*hr/mL to about 8.5
                                                  63

ng*hr/mL and an average Cmax of cromolyn sodium of about 2.2 ng/mL to about 3.9 ng/mL per mg
of cromolyn sodium administered with the inhalation device when the nominal dose of cromolyn
sodium administered is in the range of about 40 mg to about 80 mg.
[00181]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
containing a mast cell stabilizer such as cromolyn sodium is administered with an inhalation device,
e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, at a fill volume of less than about 0.25 mL, less than about 0.5 mL,
at least about 0.5 mL to about 1.5 mL, at least about 0.5 mL to about 1.8 mL, at least about 1.5 mL,
or at least about 2.0 mL. In some embodiments, an inhalation formulation is administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, at a fill volume about 0.1 mL to about 5.0 mL,
about 0.25 mL to about 2.0 mL, about 0.5 mL to about 1.8 mL, about 0.5 mL to about 2 mL, about
0.5 mL to about 1.5 mL, about 0.5 mL to about 1.0 mL, about 0.5 mL or less, about 1 mL or less,
about 1.5 mL or less, about 2.0 mL or less, about 2.5 mL or less, about 3.0 mL or less, about 3.5
mL or less, about 4.0 mL or less, about 4.5 mL or less, or about 5.0 mL or less. In some
embodiments, an inhalation formulation is administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high
efficiency nebulizer, at a fill volume of about 0.5 mL, about 1.0 mL, about 1.5 mL, about 1.8 mL,
about 2.0 mL, about 2.5 mL, about 3.0 mL, about 3.5 mL, about 4.0 mL, about 4.5 mL, or about 5.0
mL. In some embodiments, an inhalation formulation is administered with an inhalation device,
e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, which provides for a residual volume of mast cell stabilizer after
administration of the mast cell stabilizer of less than about 10%, less than about 5%, or less than
about 3% of the nominal dose.
[00182]          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
containing a mast cell stabilizer is administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, wherein the concentration of the mast cell stabilizer is greater than about 1% by weight,
greater than about 2% by weight, greater than about 3% by weight, greater than about 4% by
weight, greater than about 5% by weight, greater than about 6% by weight, greater than about 7%
by weight, greater than about 8% by weight, greater than about 9% by weight, or greater than about
10% by weight. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
containing a mast cell stabilizer is administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, wherein the concentration of the mast cell stabilizer is from about 1% by weight to about
10% by weight, from about 2% by weight to about 8% by weight, from about 2% by weight to
about 6% by weight, or from about 3% by weight to about 5% by weight. In some embodiments of
the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation containing a mast cell stabilizer is
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, wherein the concentration
of the mast cell stabilizer is about 1% by weight, about 2% by weight, about 3% by weight, about
                                                   64

4% by weight, about 5% by weight, about 6% by weight, about 7% by weight, about 8% by weight,
about 9% by weight, or about 10% by weight.
[001831          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
containing cromolyn sodium is administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, wherein the concentration of the cromolyn sodium is greater than about 1% by weight,
greater than about 2% by weight, greater than about 3% by weight, greater than about 4% by
weight, greater than about 5% by weight, greater than about 6% by weight, greater than about 7%
by weight, greater than about 8% by weight, greater than about 9% by weight, or greater than about
10% by weight. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation
containing cromolyn sodium is administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency
nebulizer, wherein the concentration of the cromolyn sodium is from about 1% by weight to about
10% by weight, from about 2% by weight to about 8% by weight, from about 2% by weight to
about 6% by weight, or from about 3% by weight to about 5% by weight. In some embodiments of
the methods disclosed herein, an inhalation formulation containing cromolyn sodium is
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, wherein the concentration
of the cromolyn sodium is about 1% by weight, about 2% by weight, about 30% by weight, about
4% by weight, about 5% by weight, about 6% by weight, about 7% by weight, about 8% by weight,
about 9% by weight, or about 10% by weight.
[00184]          In some embodiments, an inhalation formulation containing a mast cell stabilizer is
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, in about 0.25 to about 10
minutes, about 0.50 to about 8 minutes, less than about 8 minutes, less than about 7 minutes, less
than about 6 minutes, less than about 5 minutes, less than about 4 minutes, less than about 3
minutes, less than about 2 minutes, less than about 1.8 minutes, less than about 1.5 minutes, or less
than 1 minute. In some embodiments, the inhalation formulation is administered in about 3
minutes or less. In some embodiments, the inhalation formulation is administered in about 1
minute, about 2 minutes, about 3 minutes, about 4 minutes, about 5 minutes, about 6 minutes, about
7 minutes, about 8 minutes, about 9 minutes, or about 10 minutes.
[001851          In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, administration of a mast cell
stabilizer with a high efficiency nebulizer provides at least about a 1.5-fold, at least about a 1.8
fold, at least about a two-fold, at least about a three-fold, at least about a four-fold, or at least about
a five-fold increase in one or more of AUCiast, AUC(o.), or Cmax as compared to the same or lower
nominal dose of the mast cell stabilizer administered with a conventional inhalation device or an
oral formulation, e.g., a liquid oral formulation, tablet, or capsule.
                                                    65

[001861           In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations
administered with a high efficiency nebulizer are substantially free of a preservative, such as benzyl
alcohol. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations
administered with a high efficiency nebulizer further comprise at least one excipient. In some
embodiments, the excipient is selected from the group consisting of stabilizers and antioxidants
(such as citric acid, ascorbic acid, ethylenediamine tetra acetic acid (EDTA), sodium metabisulfite,
or a salt of any thereof), an osmolarity adjusting agent (such as sodium chloride, mannitol, or
sorbitol), a surfactant (such as polysorbate 80, vitamin E, tocopherol polyethylene glycol, and
Tyloxapol), or a pH buffer.
[001871           In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, are hypotonic. In some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., a high efficiency nebulizer, are sub-isotonic. In some embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations administered with an inhalation device, e.g., a
high efficiency nebulizer, have an osmolality greater than about 70 mOsm/kg. In some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations administered with an
inhalation device, e.g., high efficiency nebulizer, have an osmolality of at least about 100
mOsm/kg. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, inhalation formulations
administered with an inhalation device, e.g., high efficiency nebulizer, have an osmolality of at
least about 150 mOsm/kg.
         Combination Therapies
[001881           In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, one or more different
formulations of mast cell stabilizers are co-administered by different routes of administration to
provide systemically effective amounts of the mast cell stabilizers. For example, in some
embodiments, a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is
administered with a dry powder inhaler and a different composition comprising a mast cell
stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered in a liquid oral formulation to treat a systemic
mast cell related disorder. In some embodiments, a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer,
e.g., cromolyn sodium, is administered with a dry powder inhaler and a different composition
comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered in a solid oral
formulation, e.g., a capsule or tablet, to treat a systemic mast cell related disorder. In some
embodiments, a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is
administered with a metered dose inhaler and a different composition comprising a mast cell
                                                    66

stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered in a liquid oral formulation to treat a systemic
mast cell related disorder. In some embodiments, a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer,
e.g., cromolyn sodium, is administered with a metered dose inhaler and a different composition
comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered in a solid oral
formulation, e.g., a tablet or capsule, to treat a systemic mast cell related disorder. In some
embodiments, a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is
administered with a dry powder inhaler and a different composition comprising a mast cell
stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered with a metered dose inhaler to treat a systemic
mast cell related disorder. In some embodiments, a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer,
e.g., cromolyn sodium, is administered with a dry powder inhaler and a different composition
comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered with a metered dose
inhaler to treat a systemic mast cell related disorder. In some embodiments, a composition
comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is administered with a high efficiency
nebulizer and a different composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is
co-administered in a liquid oral formulation to treat a systemic mast cell related disorder. In some
embodiments, a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is
administered with a high efficiency nebulizer and a different composition comprising a mast cell
stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered in a solid oral formulation, e.g., a tablet or
capsule, to treat a systemic mast cell related disorder. In some embodiments, a composition
comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is administered with a jet nebulizer and a
different composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is co-administered
in a liquid oral formulation to treat a systemic mast cell related disorder. In some embodiments, a
composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is administered with a jet
nebulizer and a different composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, e.g., cromolyn sodium, is
co-administered in a solid oral formulation, e.g., a tablet or capsule, to treat a systemic mast cell
related disorder.
                                               EXAMPLES
[00189]           The examples below describe some embodiments of the methods described herein.
Methods and materials that are not specifically described in the following examples are within the
scope of the invention and will be apparent to those skilled in the art with reference to the
disclosure herein.
                                                    67

Example 1: Formulations
[00190]            The formulations described in Table 1 are prepared as follows: The composition
ingredients are added sequentially to a glass beaker with a magnet stirrer and about 90 g of purified
water in the order listed in Table 1, ensuring that each ingredient is dissolved before the next is
added. The weight is then adjusted to 100.0 g by adding additional purified water. The resulting
solutions are then sterilized by filtration through 0.2 - 0.22 jim sterile filters, and 0.5 to 5 mL
aliquots are added to pre-sterilized glass or sterile polyethylene or polypropylene blow fill and seal
vials by a standard blow fill and seal procedure. Alternative sterilization methods may be applied
using heat sterilization in an autoclave.
Table 1
Formutlation No.             1     2    3    4      5     6    7    8      9      10    11    12   13
Cromolyn sodium (DSCG)       2.0   3.0  4.0  4.0    4.0   4.0  4.0  5.0    6.0    3.0  3.0    3.0  3.0
(wt%)
NaCl (wt%)                   0.7   0.5  0.3  0.25   0.2   0.2  0.2  0.15   0.1    0.2  0.3    0.4  0.5
Mannitol (wt%)               0.4   0.8  1.0   1.1   1.2   1.25 1.25  1.4   1.5
EDTA-Na (wt%)                0.01  0.02 0.03 0.01   0.02  0.03 0.02 0.03   0.04   0.01 0.02   0.03 0.04
Hyaluronic acid (wt%)                   0.25 0.5    1.0                                0.25   0.5  1.0
Propylene glycol (wt%)                                                            1.0  2.0    3.0  4.0
Purified Water (wt%)         96.9  95.7 94.4 94.1   93.6  94.5 94.5 93.4   92.4   95.8 94.4   93.1 91.5
Example 2: Characterization of Aerosols Produced with a High Efficiency Nebulizer
[00191]            The MMAD, GSD, DD, and RF of a representative inhaled cromolyn sodium
formulation (PA-101) delivered via a high efficiency nebulizer (eFlow*, PARI, 30L) were
determined as described in USP<1601>. The values determined were: MIAD = 3.5 jim; GSD                   =
1.7; DD = 68%; RF (55 pm) = 75%; and RF (5 3.3 pm) = 44%.
[00192]            The MMAD, GSD, and RF of a representative inhaled cromolyn sodium
formulation (PA- 101) delivered via a high efficiency nebulizer (eFlow*, PARI, 40L) were
determined as described in USP<160 1>. The values determined were: MIAD = 4.1 jim; GSD                  =
1.7; RF (55 im) = 66%; and RF (5 3.3 jim) = 36%.
Example 3: Single-Dose, Dose Escalation Study
Objectives:
[00193]            The objectives of the study are as follows:
Primary:
[00194]            Part 1: To determine the systemic availability and pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of
single doses of a representative inhaled cromolyn sodium formulation (PA- 101) delivered via a
                                                      68

high efficiency nebulizer (eFlow", PARI) using two different aerosol membranes (30L and 40L) in
comparison with marketed formulations of cromolyn sodium (oral solution and an inhalation
aerosol) in healthy subjects.
[00195]          Part 2: To assess the pharmacokinetic profile of PA-101 administered as single day
three times daily dosing via a high efficiency nebulizer (eFlow*, PARI) in comparison with
marketed formulations of cromolyn sodium (oral solution and inhalation aerosol) administered as
single day TID dosing in patients with systemic mastocytosis.
Secondary:
[001961          To assess the safety and tolerability of PA-101 in comparison with marketed
formulations of cromolyn sodium (oral solution and an inhalation aerosol).
[001971          Methodology: This was a Phase 1, randomized, open-label, single-centre, dose
ranging, cross-over study conducted in two parts in total of 18 subjects. Part 1 was conducted in
total of 12 healthy adult subjects of 18-45 years of age. Part 2 was conducted in a total of 5 adult
patients of 18-45 years of age with systemic mastocytosis. Parts 1 and 2 were conducted in
parallel.
Study Treatments, Dose and Mode of Administration:
Part1:
         1.      40 mg PA-101 (4% DSCG, 40 mg/i mL), oral inhalation via eFlow 30L.
        2.       80 mg PA-101 (4% DSCG, 80 mg/2 mL), oral inhalation via eFlow 30L.
        3.       40 mg PA-101 (4% DSCG, 40 mg/i mL), oral inhalation via eFlow 40L.
        4.       20 mg cromolyn sodium inhalation aerosol (1% DSCG, 20 mg/2 mL) (commercially
                 available product), oral inhalation via LC Plus.
        5.       200 mg oral sodium cromoglycate solution (commercially available product), oral
                 administration.
Part2:
         1.      40 mg PA-101 (4% DSCG 40 mg/i mL), oral inhalation via eFlow 30L
        2.       200 mg oral sodium cromoglycate solution (commercially available product), oral
                 administration.
[00198]          In Part 1, all study subjects received each study treatment in the morning (at 8:00
am, +/- 30 minutes) as a single dose treatment. Prior to each dosing day, subjects were admitted to
the clinic in the morning for baseline (pre-dose) assessments. Subjects were required to remain in
the clinic for 12h after study drug administration on each dosing day. Treatment Visits were
separated by a washout period of 2 to 5 days.
                                                     69

[00199]         In Part 2, all study subjects received each study treatment three times daily (TID) (at
08:00 am, 14:00 pm and 20:00 pm, +/- 30 minutes) as a single day treatment. Prior to each dosing
day, subjects were admitted to the clinic in the morning for baseline (pre-dose) assessments.
Subjects were required to remain in the clinic for 24h after study drug administration on each
dosing day.
[00200]         The main delivery device for administering PA-101 was the open system eFlow
nebulizer using the 30L aerosol head, which generates aerosol particles with a median size of about
3.0 gm. The 40L aerosol head (generating aerosol particles with a median size of about 4.0 gm)
was tested as a comparator arm in Part 1 only.
Duration of Study:
[00201]         The duration of both Parts 1 and 2 of the study was one day.
Criteria for Evaluation:
[00202]         Pharmacokinetic measurements: The PK parameters evaluated for plasma cromolyn
sodium (DSCG) were maximum concentration (Cmax), time to maximum concentration             (Tmax),
terminal elimination half-life (T1/2), area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time = 0
to time of last measurable drug concentration (AUCo-t), and area under the plasma concentration
time curve from time = 0 to infinity (AUCo-.). Urine DSCG levels were measured for total DSCG
excretion in the urine, and the bioavailability of the DSCG was calculated from the measured
levels.
[00203]         Safety measurements: Adverse events including gastrointestinal disturbance (e.g.,
abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting), changes in vital signs, 12-lead ECG and clinical laboratory tests
(hematology, chemistry and urinalysis).
Statistical Measurements:
[00204]         Pharmacokinetic parameters and plasma concentrations are listed and summarized.
The summary statistics are presented as the geometric mean, arithmetic mean, arithmetic standard
deviation (SD), min, median, max and n. The geometric statistics are not presented for Tmax.
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) including terms for subject and treatment are used to calculate
point estimates, and confidence intervals (CI) for treatment differences with respect to PK
parameters (90% CI) are calculated.
[002051         The incidence of AEs was compared between treatment groups. Summary tables
and individual subject listings are provided for all safety measurements and the results are
presented by treatment group. Descriptive statistics are used to summarise data where appropriate.
                                                   70

Results:
[00206]         The pharmacokinetic parameters measured in the single dose study (Part 1) are
shown in the following table:
Table 2
                                                                                         Ratio
                                                                           Ratio
                                                                                         (PA-101
             Oral           inhalation01 P111          (P10      PA                      (30L; 40
 PK                                                                        (30L; 40
             solution,     aerosol,      (40L),0L    ),0L)      (30L),                    mg) /
parameter                                                                  mg)) / (oral
                 20m         0mg         40mg        40mg       8m(inhalation
                                                                           solution (200
                                                                                         aerosol (20
                                                                           mg))
                                                                                          mng))
Cmax                                     88.623
             5.2 (3.1)     17.8 (10.4)              156 (104)                  x30           x8.8
(ng/mL)                                  (+45.5)                (124)
Tmax (h)     3.2 (2.1)    0.6 (+0.1)    0.6 (+0.1) 0.7 (0.1) 0.7 (0.1)
AUCo-t                                                          514
                                         206 (94.3) 329 (144)                  xl            x8.4
(h*ng/mL) 29.4 (10.4)      39.1 (15.1)
                 (h~n/mL)(+186)
 AUC(o~)                                                        526
             33.3 (+11.7) 40.6 (+15.6) 212 (+96.0) 338 (+146)
(h*ng/mL)                                                       (+198)
T1/2 (h)     4.3 (+1.3)    2.5 (0.8)    2.5 (+0.7)  2.2 (+0.6) 2.1 (+0.5)
Bioavailabi
             0.6           6.5            16.3       25.0       22.7            X42           X3.8
lity (%)
Values shown in parentheses are ( SD).
[002071         Modeling of lung deposition with an aerosol from the 30L and 40L devices using the
Finaly model (Finlay, WH, and AR Martin, "Recent advances in predictive understanding
respiratory tract deposition", Journal of Aerosol Medicine, Vol 21:189-205 (2008)) indicated that
the lung deposition with the two devices should be very similar. However, the AUC value obtained
with 40 mg dose using the 30L device (338ng*hr/mL) was surprisingly high compared to the value
(212ng*hr/mL) from the 40L device. Cromlyn sodium is not metabolized in the body and is
excreted intact via bile and urine. Cromolyn sodium deposited in the lung during inhalation will
appear in the plasma, and the AUC would therefore be a surrogate for cromolyn sodium deposited
in the lung. Any cromolyn sodium swallowed during inhalation will contribute negligibly to the
AUC since the oral bioavailability of cromolyn is only about 1% (Richards et al, J Pharmacol Exp
Ther, Vol. 241, No. 3: 1028-1032 (1987)). The AUC data therefore indicate that at the same dose
                                                  71

(40mg), the lung deposition with the 30L device was surprisingly higher than that with the 40L
device.
[002081        The numbers of adverse events observed in the single dose study (Part 1) are shown
in the following table:
Table 3
Adverse Event           Placebo     PA-l01     PA-l0t        PA-101          Ihalation   Oral
                                    (40L),     (3 0L),       (30L),        aerosol,      solution,
                                    40mng      40mng         Sfig          20mg          200mgo
Cough                                1         -             1             1
Oropharyngeal pain      -           -          -             -             1              1
Rhinorrhoea             1           -          -             -             -
Dizziness               -           -          2             -             -
Headache                -           -          -             1             -              1
Dysgeusia               -           -          -             -             -              1
Somnolence              -           -          -             1             -
Catheter-site           -           -          1             -             -              1
Reaction
Nasopharygitis          -           -          -             -             1
Sinusitis               -           -          -             1             -
Abdominal               -           -          -             -             -              1
Discomfort
Increased Appetite      -            1         -             -             -
                                               72

Example 4: Efficacy Study
Objective
[00209]         The objectives of the study are: to determine the efficacy profile of cromolyn
sodium inhalation formulation when administered using a high efficiency nebulizer in comparison
with oral formulation of cromolyn sodium in patients with systemic mastocytosis; to assess the
safety and tolerability of cromolyn sodium inhalation formulation when administered using a high
efficiency nebulizer; to compare the pharmacokinetic profile of cromolyn sodium inhalation
formulation when administered using a high efficiency nebulizer in comparison with oral
formulation of cromolyn sodium in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis.
Methodology
[00210]         This is a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel arm, efficacy
study in patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis.
[00211]         At least about thirty six (36) adult human systemic mastocytosis patients are
randomized to one of three treatment groups: (1) cromolyn sodium inhalation formulation
administered thrice daily with a high efficiency nebulizer; (2) placebo formulation administered
three times daily with a high efficiency nebulizer; and, (3) oral formulation of cromolyn sodium
administered four times daily.
[00212]         Following the Screening Visit (SV), eligible subjects enter a 4-week
Washout/Baseline Period for daily assessment of baseline symptoms using a diary and to washout
cromolyn sodium in oral cromolyn sodium users. At the end of the Washout Period, eligible
subjects are randomized to receive cromolyn sodium inhalation formulation using a high efficiency
nebulizer or oral cromolyn sodium formulation or placebo for 6 weeks.
[002131          The main criteria for inclusion are: a) Indolent systemic mastocytosis patients
uncontrolled with antihistaminic therapy; b) 18-65 years of age; c) mastocytosis diagnosis
confirmed by positive bone marrow biopsy; d) no recent systemic corticosteroid or
immunosuppressive therapy; e) no history of cancer except basal cell carcinoma; and, f) no
concurrent uncontrolled disease.
Criteria for Evaluation:
[00214]         The primary efficacy variable is significant improvement in clinical symptoms at the
end of treatment period following treatment with cromolyn sodium inhalation formulation when
administered using a high efficiency nebulizer in comparison with oral formulation of cromolyn
sodium.
[002151         The PK parameters evaluated for plasma cromolyn sodium are maximum
concentration (Cmax), time to maximum concentration (Tmax), terminal elimination half-life (T1 /2 ),
                                                   73

area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time = 0 to time of last measurable drug concentration
(AUCo0 ), and area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time = 0 to infinity (AUCo.).
100216]        The safety parameters include adverse events (AEs) including assessment of gastrointestinal
disturbance (e.g., abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting), and changes in vital signs and clinical laboratory tests.
 Results:
1002171        At the end of the treatment period, patients exhibit a significant improvement in clinical
symptoms with minimal AEs as compared to placebo and the oral formulation of cromolyn sodium.
100218]        Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the disclosures
constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
100219]        Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
paragraphs:
1. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer, wherein the bioavailability of the mast cell
stabilizer is greater than about 5%, and wherein administration of the composition produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-. of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an
average C.nIa, of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 55 ng/mL.
2. The method of paragraph 1, wherein the mast cell stabilizer selected from cromolyn sodium, cromolyn
lysinate, ammonium cromoglycate, magnesium cromoglycate, dihydropyridines such as nicardipine and
nifedipine, lodoxamide, nedocromil, barnidipine, YC-1 14, elgodipine, niguldipine, ketotifen,
methylxanthines, and quercetin.
3. The method paragraph 1 or 2, wherein the composition is administered by a route selected from inhalation
administration, oral administration, parenteral administration, subcutaneous administration, topical
administration, buccal administration, nasal administration, rectal administration, vaginal administration,
and sublingual administration.
4. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-3, wherein the composition is administered with a dry powder
inhaler, metered dose inhaler, nebulizer, or soft mist inhaler.
5. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-3, wherein the composition is administered with a high efficiency
nebulizer.
6. The method of paragraph 4 or 5, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and wherein the RF
(< 3.3 um) is at least about 30% and/or the RF (< 5 um) is at least about 65%.
7. The method of paragraph 4 or 5, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and wherein the RF
(< 3.3 um) is at least about 45% and/or the RF (< 5 um) is at least about 75%.
8. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-7, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein administration of the composition produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-co) of the
                                                         74

cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an average     Cax of the cromolyn sodium greater
than about 55 ng/mL.
9. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-8, wherein the composition comprises a high concentration,
hypotonic, room temperature stable solution formulation of cromolyn sodium.
10. The method of paragraph 9, wherein the composition is stable at room temperature for more than about
two years.
11. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-10, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises greater than about 2% cromolyn sodium.
12. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-11, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 4% cromolyn sodium.
13. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-12, wherein the composition comprises one or more of purified
water, sodium chloride, mannitol, and sodium EDTA.
14. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-13, wherein the composition has a fill volume of about 0.1 mL
to about 5 mL.
15. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-13, wherein the composition has a fill volume of about 2 mL or
less.
16. The method of any one of paragraphs 2-15, wherein the composition comprises about 1 mg to about 120
mg of cromolyn sodium.
17. The method of any one of paragraphs 2-15, wherein the composition comprises about 5 mg to about 80
mg of cromolyn sodium.
18. The method of any one of paragraphs 2-15, wherein the composition comprises about 20 mg to about 60
mg of cromolyn sodium.
19. The method of any one of paragraphs 2-15, wherein the composition comprises about 30 mg to about 50
mg of cromolyn sodium.
20. The method of any one of paragraphs 2-15, wherein the composition comprises about 40 mg of
cromolyn sodium.
21. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-20, wherein the composition has an osmolality greater than
about 70 mOsm/kg.
22. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-21, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the median particle size of the cromolyn sodium aerosol is between about 3 pt4 and about 4 pmu.
23. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-22, wherein the high efficiency nebulizer emits droplets having
an MMAD of about 4.1 um or less and a GSD of about 1.7.
24. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-22, wherein the high efficiency nebulizer emits droplets having
an MMAD of about 3.5 um or less and a GSD of about 1.7.
                                                    75

25. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-24, wherein the composition is administered in less than about
five minutes.
26. The method of any one of paragraphs 5-24, wherein the composition is administered in less than about
three minutes.
27. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-26, wherein the composition is administered once a day.
28. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-26, wherein the composition is administered twice a day.
29. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-26, wherein the composition is administered three times a day.
30. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-26, wherein the composition is administered four times a day.
31. The method of any one of paragraphs 1 -30, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is selected
from the group consisting of a mast cell activation syndrome; mastocytosis; idiopathic urticaria; chronic
urticaria; atopic dermatitis; idiopathic anaphylaxis; Ig-E and non Ig-E mediated anaphylaxis; angioedema;
allergic disorders; irritable bowel syndrome; mastocytic gastroenteritis; mastocytic colitis; fibromyalgia;
kidney fibrosis; atherosclerosis; myocardial ischemia;
hypertension; congestive heart failure; pruritus; chronic pruritus; pruritus secondary to chronic kidney
failure; heart, vascular, intestinal, brain, kidney, liver, pancreas, muscle, bone and skin conditions associated
with mast cells; CNS diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease; metabolic diseases such
as diabetes; sickle cell disease; autism; chronic fatigue syndrome; lupus; chronic lyme disease; interstitial
cystitis; multiple sclerosis; cancer; migraine headaches; psoriasis; eosinophilic esophagitis; eosinophilic
gastroenteritis; Churg-Strauss syndrome;
hypereosinophilic syndrome; eosinophilic fasciitis; eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders; chronic
idiopathic urticaria; myocarditis; Hirschsprung' s-associated enterocolitis; postoperative ileus; wound
healing; stroke; transient ischemic attack; pain; neuralgia; peripheral neuropathy; acute coronary syndromes;
pancreatitis; cutaneous mastocytosis; systemic mastocytosis; systemic indolent mastocytosis;
dermatomyositis; fibrotic skin diseases; pain associated with cancer;
ulcerative colitis; inflammatory bowel disease; radiation colitis; celiac disease; gluten enteropathy; radiation
cystitis; painful bladder syndrome; hepatitis; hepatic fibrosis; cirrhosis; rheumatoid arthritis; lupus
erythematosus; and vasculitis.
32. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-30, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is irritable
bowel syndrome.
33. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-30, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is painful
bladder syndrome or interstitial cystitis.
34. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-30, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is
mastocytosis.
                                                          76

35. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a nominal dose of a mast cell stabilizer with a high efficiency
nebulizer, wherein administration of the composition to the patient with a high efficiency nebulizer provides
a systemically effective amount of the mast cell stabilizer to treat the systemic mast cell related disorder.
36. The method of paragraph 35, wherein the bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer is greater than about
5% of the nominal dose administered.
37. The method of paragraph 35 or 36, wherein administration of the composition produces in a human
subject group an average AUC(o-) of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an
average Cmna, of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 55 ng/niL.
38. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-37, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the RF (< 3.3 pmt) is at least about 30% and/or the RF (< 5 pil) is at least about 65%.
39. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-37, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the RF (< 3.3 um) is at least about 45%> and/or the RF (< 5 pul) is at least about 75%.
40. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-39, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium,
wherein administration of the composition produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-oo) of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an average Cm.ax of the cromolyn sodium greater
than about 55 ng/niL after administration of the composition to the patient.
41. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-40, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium,
wherein the composition comprises a high concentration, hypotonic, room temperature stable solution
formulation of cromolyn sodium.
42. The method of paragraph 41, wherein the composition is stable at room temperature for more than about
two years.
43. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-42, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises greater than about 2% cromolyn sodium.
44. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-43, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 4% cromolyn sodium.
45. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-44, wherein the composition comprises one or more of purified
water, sodium chloride, mannitol, and sodium EDTA.
46. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-45, wherein the composition has a fill volume of about 0.1 mL
to about 5 mL.
47. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-45, wherein the composition has a fill volume of about 2 mL or
less.
48. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-47, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 1 mg to about 120 mg of cromolyn sodium.
                                                        77

49. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-47, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 5 mg to about 80 mg of cromolyn sodium.
50. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-47, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 20 mg to about 60 mg of cromolyn sodium.
51. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-47, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 30 mg to about 50 mg of cromolyn sodium.
52. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-47, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 40 mg of cromolyn sodium.
53. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-52, wherein the composition has an osmolality greater than
about 70 mOsm/kg.
54. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-53, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the median particle size of the cromolyn sodium aerosol is between about 3 um and about 4          mut.
55. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-54, wherein the high efficiency nebulizer emits droplets having
an MMAD of about 4.1 um or less and a GSD of about 1.7.
56. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-54, wherein the high efficiency nebulizer emits droplets having
an MMAD of about 3.5 um or less and a GSD of about 1.7.
57. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-56, wherein the composition is administered in less than about
five minutes.
58. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-56, wherein the composition is administered in less than about
three minutes.
59. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-58, wherein the composition is administered once a day.
60. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-58, wherein the composition is administered twice a day.
61. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-58, wherein the composition is administered three times a day.
62. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-58, wherein the composition is administered four times a day.
63. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-62, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is selected
from the group consisting of a mast cell activation syndrome; mastocytosis; idiopathic urticaria; chronic
urticaria; atopic dermatitis; idiopathic anaphylaxis; Ig-E and non Ig-E mediated anaphylaxis; angioedema;
allergic disorders; irritable bowel syndrome; mastocytic gastroenteritis; mastocytic colitis; fibromyalgia;
kidney fibrosis; atherosclerosis; myocardial ischemia;
hypertension; congestive heart failure; pruritus; chronic pruritus; pruritus secondary to chronic kidney
failure; heart, vascular, intestinal, brain, kidney, liver, pancreas, muscle, bone and skin conditions associated
with mast cells; CNS diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease; metabolic diseases such
as diabetes; sickle cell disease; autism; chronic fatigue syndrome; lupus; chronic lyme disease; interstitial
                                                          78

cystitis; multiple sclerosis; cancer; migraine headaches; psoriasis; eosinophilic esophagitis; eosinophilic
gastroenteritis; Churg-Strauss syndrome;
hypereosinophilic syndrome; eosinophilic fasciitis; eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders; chronic
idiopathic urticaria; myocarditis; Hirschsprung' s-associated enterocolitis; postoperative ileus; wound
healing; stroke; transient ischemic attack; pain; neuralgia; peripheral neuropathy; acute coronary syndromes;
pancreatitis; cutaneous mastocytosis; systemic mastocytosis; systemic indolent mastocytosis;
dermatomyositis; fibrotic skin diseases; pain associated with cancer;
ulcerative colitis; inflammatory bowel disease; radiation colitis; celiac disease; gluten enteropathy; radiation
cystitis; painful bladder syndrome; hepatitis; hepatic fibrosis; cirrhosis; rheumatoid arthritis; lupus
erythematosus; and vasculitis.
64. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-62, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is irritable
bowel syndrome.
65. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-62, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is painful
bladder syndrome or interstitial cystitis.
66. The method of any one of paragraphs 35-62, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is
mastocytosis.
67. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-66, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein administration of the composition produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-) of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL and an average Cm.ax of the cromolyn sodium greater
than about 80 ng/niL.
68. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-66, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein administration of the composition produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-,) of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an average Cm.ax of the cromolyn sodium greater
than about 150 ng/mL.
69. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-66, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein administration of the composition produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-co) of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL and an average         Cm.ax of the cromolyn sodium greater
than about 230 ng/mL.
70. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-             of the
mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average      Cm.ax of the mast cell stabilizer
greater than about 55 ng/mL.
                                                       79

71. The method of paragraph 70, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and wherein
administration of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o,) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and an average            Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL.
72. The method of paragraph 70, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and wherein
administration of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o,) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL and an average            Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL.
73. The method of paragraph 70, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and wherein
administration of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o-,) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and an average           Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 150 ng/mL.
74. The method of paragraph 70, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and wherein
administration of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average
AUC(o.) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL and an average            Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL.
75. The method of paragraph 72 or 73, wherein a nominal dose of about 40 mg of cromolyn sodium is
administered with the inhalation device.
76. The method of paragraph 74, wherein a nominal dose of about 80 mg of cromolyn sodium is
administered with the inhalation device.
77. The method of any one of paragraphs 70-76, wherein an oral formulation of cromolyn sodium is not
administered in the method.
78. The method of any one of paragraphs 70-77, wherein the mast cell related disorder is selected from the
group consisting of a mast cell activation syndrome; mastocytosis; idiopathic urticaria; chronic urticaria;
atopic dermatitis; idiopathic anaphylaxis; Ig-E and non Ig-E mediated anaphylaxis; angioedema; allergic
disorders; irritable bowel syndrome; mastocytic gastroenteritis; mastocytic colitis; fibromyalgia; kidney
fibrosis; atherosclerosis; myocardial ischemia;
hypertension; congestive heart failure; pruritus; chronic pruritus; pruritus secondary to chronic kidney
failure; heart, vascular, intestinal, brain, kidney, liver, pancreas, muscle, bone and skin conditions associated
with mast cells; CNS diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease; metabolic diseases such
as diabetes; sickle cell disease; autism; chronic fatigue syndrome; lupus; chronic lyme disease; interstitial
cystitis; multiple sclerosis; cancer; migraine headaches; psoriasis; eosinophilic esophagitis; eosinophilic
gastroenteritis; Churg-Strauss syndrome;
                                                          80

hypereosinophilic syndrome; eosinophilic fasciitis; eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders; chronic
idiopathic urticaria; myocarditis; Hirschsprung' s-associated enterocolitis; postoperative ileus; wound
healing; stroke; transient ischemic attack; pain; neuralgia; peripheral neuropathy; acute coronary syndromes;
pancreatitis; cutaneous mastocytosis; systemic mastocytosis; systemic indolent mastocytosis;
dermatomyositis; fibrotic skin diseases; pain associated with cancer;
ulcerative colitis; inflammatory bowel disease; radiation colitis; celiac disease; gluten enteropathy; radiation
cystitis; painful bladder syndrome; hepatitis; hepatic fibrosis; cirrhosis; rheumatoid arthritis; lupus
erythematosus; and vasculitis.
79. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-78, wherein administration of the composition does not cause
one or more adverse events selected from the group consisting of oropharyngeal pain, dysgeusia,
nasopharygitis, and abdominal discomfort.
80. The method of any one of paragraphs 1-4 and 70-78, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn
sodium, wherein the composition is administered with a dry powder inhaler, and wherein the composition
comprises lactose.
81. The method of any one of paragraphs 1 -4 and 70-78, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn
sodium, wherein the composition is administered with a dry powder inhaler, and wherein the composition
does not comprise lactose.
82. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device provides a bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUCo-,f of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 120 ng*hr/mL.
83. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device provides a bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-, of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 200 ng*hr/mL.
84. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device provides a
bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an
average AUC(o-co) of the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL.
85. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
                                                         81

of the composition with the inhalation device provides a bioavailability of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 5% and produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-) of the mast cell stabilizer greater
than about 525 ng*hr/nL.
86. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o-coo) of
the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 120 ng*hr/nL, and wherein the composition has an RF (< 3.3 um)
of at least about 30%.
87. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o,,) of the
mast cell stabilizer greater than about 200 ng*hr/nL, and wherein the composition has an RF (< 3.3 um) of
at least about 30%.
88. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o)          of
the mast cell stabilizer greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL, and wherein the composition has an RF (< 3.3 ptq)
of at least about 40%.
89. A method of treating a patient having a systemic mast cell related disorder comprising administering to
the patient a composition comprising a mast cell stabilizer with an inhalation device, wherein administration
of the composition with the inhalation device produces in a human subject group an average AUC(o,) of the
mast cell stabilizer greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL, and wherein the composition has an RF (< 3.3 um) of
at least about 40%.
90. The method of any one of paragraphs 82-89, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium.
91. The method of paragraph 83, 84, 87, or 88, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and
wherein the composition comprises about 40 mg of cromolyn sodium.
92. The method of paragraph 85 or 89, wherein the mast cell stabilizer is cromolyn sodium, and wherein the
composition comprises about 80 mg of cromolyn sodium.
93. The method of any one of paragraphs 82-92, wherein the inhalation device is a high efficiency nebulizer.
94. The method of any one of paragraphs 82-93, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is selected
from the group consisting of a mast cell activation syndrome; mastocytosis; idiopathic urticaria; chronic
urticaria; atopic dermatitis; idiopathic anaphylaxis; Ig-E and non Ig-E mediated anaphylaxis; angioedema;
allergic disorders; irritable bowel syndrome; mastocytic gastroenteritis; mastocytic colitis; fibromyalgia;
kidney fibrosis; atherosclerosis; myocardial ischemia;
                                                        82

hypertension; congestive heart failure; pruritus; chronic pruritus; pruritus secondary to chronic kidney
failure; heart, vascular, intestinal, brain, kidney, liver, pancreas, muscle, bone and skin conditions associated
with mast cells; CNS diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease; metabolic diseases such
as diabetes; sickle cell disease; autism; chronic fatigue syndrome; lupus; chronic lyme disease; interstitial
cystitis; multiple sclerosis; cancer; migraine headaches; psoriasis; eosinophilic esophagitis; eosinophilic
gastroenteritis; Churg-Strauss syndrome;
hypereosinophilic syndrome; eosinophilic fasciitis; eosinophilic gastrointestinal disorders; chronic
idiopathic urticaria; myocarditis; Hirschsprung' s-associated enterocolitis; postoperative ileus; wound
healing; stroke; transient ischemic attack; pain; neuralgia; peripheral neuropathy; acute coronary syndromes;
pancreatitis; cutaneous mastocytosis; systemic mastocytosis; systemic indolent mastocytosis;
dermatomyositis; fibrotic skin diseases; pain associated with cancer;
ulcerative colitis; inflammatory bowel disease; radiation colitis; celiac disease; gluten enteropathy; radiation
cystitis; painful bladder syndrome; hepatitis; hepatic fibrosis; cirrhosis; rheumatoid arthritis; lupus
erythematosus; and vasculitis.
95. The method of any one of paragraphs 82-93, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is irritable
bowel syndrome.
96. The method of any one of paragraphs 82-93, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is painful
bladder syndrome or interstitial cystitis.
97. The method of any one of paragraphs 82-93, wherein the systemic mast cell related disorder is
mastocytosis.
100220] Still further embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                                          83

CLAIMS
1.      A dosage form comprising:
        (a)      an aqueous pharmaceutical composition consisting of (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
        weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A) between about
        0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the endpoints, and (B) optionally
        salts of EDTA; and
        (b)      an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
        exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 pm) as measured by USP
        <160 1> of at least about 60%.
2.      The dosage form of claim 1, wherein the salts of EDTA comprise sodium EDTA.
3.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein the amount of cromolyn sodium is from about 5 mg to
about 80 mg.
4.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein the amount of cromnolyn sodium is from about 36 mg to
about 44 mg.
5.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein the aerosol has a respirable fraction (< 3.3 pm) as
measured by USP <160 1> of at least about 30%.
6.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2., wherein the aerosol has a respirable fraction (< 3.3 Pm) as
measured by U SP <1601> of at least about 30% and a respirable fraction (< 5 ptm) as measured by USP
<160 1> of at least about 75%.
7.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein the sodium chloride is at a concentration of between 0.10%
to 0.2% by weight, inclusive of the endpoints.
8.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average
AUC(O.,) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average       Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL.
9.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average
AUC(O,) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL and/or an average        Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL.
                                                      84

10.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average
AUCo-) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and/or an average          Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 150 ng/mL.
11.      The dosage form of claim 1 or 2, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average
AUC(O-) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL and/or an average         Cm.ax of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL.
12.      A dosage form comprising:
         (a)      an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
         weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A) between about
         0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the endpoints, and (B) optionally
         salts of EDTA; and
         (b)      an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
         exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 ptm) as measured by USP
         <1601> of at least about 60%;
         wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average AUC(O,       of the cromolyn sodium
greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average     Cm.ax of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 55
ng/mL.
13.      The dosage form of claim 12, wherein the salts of EDTA comprise sodium EDTA.
14.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises from about
5 mg to about 80 mg of cromolyn sodium.
15.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises from about
36 mg to about 44 mg of cromolyn sodium.
16.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein the aerosol has a respirable fraction (< 3.3 pim) as
measured by USP <1601> of at least about 30%.
17.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein the aerosol has a respirable fraction (< 3.3 pm) as
measured by USP <1601> of at least about 30% and a respirable fraction (< 5 tm) as measured by USP
<1601> of at least about 75%.
18.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein the sodium chloride is at a concentration of between
0. 1% to 0.2% by weight, inclusive of the endpoints.
                                                       85

19.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average
AUCo-) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/nL and/or an average         Cmax  of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL.
20.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average
AUC(O-) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/nL and/or an average        Cmax  of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 150 ng/mL.
21.      The dosage form of claim 12 or 13, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an average
AUC(O-,, of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/nL and/or an average       Cmax  of the cromolyn
sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL.
22.      A method of treating a patient having a mast cell related disorder, comprising administering to said
patient a therapeutically effective amount of cromolyn sodium utilizing a dosage form comprising:
         (a)      an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
         weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A) between about
         0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the endpoints, and (B) optionally
         salts of EDTA; and
         (b)      an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
         exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 pm) as measured by USP
         <160 1> of at least about 60%.
23.      A method of treating an inflammatory disorder in a patient, comprising administering to said patient
a therapeutically effective amount of cromolyn sodium utilizing a dosage form comprising:
         (a)      an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
         weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A) between about
         0. 1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the endpoints, and (B) optionally
         salts of EDTA; and
         (b)      an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said
         aerosol exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 tm) as      measured
by USP <160 1> of at least about 60%.
24.      A method of treating fibrosis in a patient, comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically
effective amount of cromolyn sodium utilizing a dosage form comprising:
         (a)      an aqueous pharmaceutical composition comprising (i) from about 2% to about 6% by
         weight of cromolyn sodium, and (ii) an osmolarity adjusting agent consisting of (A) between about
                                                        86

        0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the endpoints, and (B) optionally
        salts of EDTA; and
        (b)      an inhalation device that forms an aerosol of said pharmaceutical composition, said aerosol
        exhibiting a respirable fraction of said pharmaceutical composition (< 5 pm) as measured by USP
        <1601> of at least about 60%.
25.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said salts of EDTA comprise sodium EDTA.
26.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said pharmaceutical composition comprises from
about 5 mg to about 80 mg of cromolyn sodium.
27.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said pharmaceutical composition comprises from
about 36 mg to about 44 mg of cromolyn sodium.
28.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said aerosol has a respirable fraction (< 3.3 pm) as
measured by USP <1601> of at least about 30%.
29.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said aerosol has a respirable fraction (< 3.3 pm) as
measured by USP <1601> of at least about 30% and a respirable fraction (< 5 pm) as measured by USP
<1601> of at least about 75%.
30.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said sodium chloride is at a concentration of
between about 0. 1% to 0.2% by weight, inclusive of the endpoints.
31.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said osmolarity adjusting agent consists of
between 0.l1% to 0.2% by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the endpoints, and sodium EDTA.
32.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein said pharmaceutical composition comprises from
about 4% to about 6% by weight of cromolyn sodium.
33.     The method of claim 32, wherein said osmolarity adjusting agent consists of between 0. 1% to 0.2%
by weight of sodium chloride, inclusive of the endpoints, and sodium EDTA.
34.     The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an
average AUC(oL) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 120 ng*hr/mL and/or an average       Cm.a of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 55 ng/mL.
                                                      87

35.      The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an
average AUC(O-) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 200 ng*hr/mL and/or an average            Cm.ax of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 80 ng/mL.
36.      The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an
average AUCo-.) of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 330 ng*hr/mL and/or an average            Cm.ax of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 150 ng/mL.
37.      The method of any one of claims 22-24, wherein administration of the dosage form produces an
average AUC(O.,    of the cromolyn sodium greater than about 525 ng*hr/mL and/or an average         Cm.ax of the
cromolyn sodium greater than about 230 ng/mL.
38.      A kit comprising the dosage form of any one of claims 1-21 and a high-efficiency nebulizer.
39.      The kit of claim 38, further comprising a further active agent that is effective for the treatment or
prophylaxis of a systemic mast cell related disorder.
40.      The kit of claim 38, further comprising an anti-inflammatory compound, anti-allergic agent, anti
infective agent, mucolytic, local anesthetic agent, immunomodulatory, or proteinase inhibitor.
41.      The kit of claim 38, wherein the dosage form is in unit dosage form.
42.      The kit of claim 41, comprising two or more unit dosage forms.
43.      The kit of claim 41 or 42, wherein the unit dosage form and the nebulizer are configured to be
useable together but not with other devices or dosage forms.
Date:    18 January 2018
                                                       88

