                                       ABSTRACT
        This invention relates to pharmaceutical formulations for topical skin application
comprising (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1
yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and use in the treatment
of skin disorders.

                                                             1/7
                                                          FIG. 1
                             PARABEN PHASE
                               PropyleneGyo
                                     USP
                                                                                               AQUEOUS PHASE
                                Methyl Paraben -         Mix
                                      NF                                                         Purified Water
                                                                                                      USP
                                Propyl Paraben
                                      NF                  4mix                      4Edetate            Disodium
                                                                                                      USP
                                                                                                  Polyethylene
                                                                                                   Glycol USP
                                                         Mix
                              ACTIVE PHASE
                                                                                             XANTHAN GUM PHASE
   OIL PHASE
                                                                                                Propylene Glycol
 Light Mieral Oil                                                       WgUSP
 Glyceryl StearateX
        SE
                                                    Mx/Heat
Polysorbate 20 NF
White Petrolatum
                           i
                    ___.:::Mix
 Cetyl Alcohol NF
                                                     Emulsify
Stearyl Alcohol NF
                                                                  Peoytao
                                                                         BP
 Dimethicone 360                                                  t         t
        NIF
                                                    Mix /Cool
  Medium Chainj
   Triglycerides
                                                                  In Process Test
                                                                 Content Uniformity
                                                 Topical
                                                 formulation
                                                 SFill in Tubes

                                                                                     P/00/011
                                                                                Regulation 3.2
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                   COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                        FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                      ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        INCYTE HOLDINGS CORPORATION
Actual Inventors:         PARIKH, Bhavnish
                          SHAH, Bhavesh
                          YELESWARAM, Krishnaswamy
Address for Service:      Houlihan 2, Level     1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North,
                         Victoria 3104, Australia
Invention Title:          TOPICAL FORMULATION FOR A JAK INHIBITOR
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
of performing it known to the Applicant:
                                              1

                     TOPICAL FORMULATION FOR A JAK INHIBITOR
        The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, which is in turn is a Divisional Application of Australian
Patent Application No. 2014202896, which is in turn is a Divisional Application of
Australian Patent Application No. 2011255443. The entire disclosures of Australian
Patent Application Nos. <removed-apn>, 2011255443 and 2014202896 and their
corresponding International Patent Application, PCT/US2011/037291, are incorporated
herein by reference.
        This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application
61/347,132, filed May 21, 2010, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                   TECHNICAL FIELD
        This invention relates to pharmaceutical formulations for topical skin application
comprising (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1
yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and use in the treatment
of skin disorders.
                                     BACKGROUND
        Protein kinases (PKs) regulate diverse biological processes including cell growth,
survival, differentiation, organ formation, morphogenesis, neovascularization, tissue
repair, and regeneration, among others. Protein kinases also play specialized roles in a
host of human diseases including cancer. Cytokines, low-molecular weight polypeptides
or glycoproteins, regulate many pathways involved in the host inflammatory response to
sepsis. Cytokines influence cell differentiation, proliferation and activation, and can
modulate both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory responses to allow the host to
react appropriately to pathogens. Signaling of a wide range of cytokines involves the
Janus kinase family (JAKs) of protein tyrosine kinases and Signal Transducers and
Activators of Transcription (STATs). There are four known mammalian JAKs: JAKI
(Janus kinase-1), JAK2, JAK3 (also known as Janus kinase, leukocyte; JAKL; and L
JAK), and TYK2 (protein-tyrosine kinase 2).
                                              2

         Cytokine-stimulated immune and inflammatory responses contribute to
pathogenesis of diseases: pathologies such as severe combined immunodeficiency
(SCID) arise from suppression of the immune system, while a hyperactive or
inappropriate immune/inflammatory response contributes to the pathology of
autoimmune diseases (e.g., asthma, systemic lupus erythematosus, thyroiditis,
myocarditis), and illnesses such as scleroderma and osteoarthritis (Ortmann, R. A., T.
Cheng, et al. (2000) Arthritis Res 2(1): 16-32).
         Deficiencies in expression of JAKs are associated with many disease states. For
example, Jakl-/- mice are runted at birth, fail to nurse, and die perinatally (Rodig, S. J.,
M. A. Meraz, et al. (1998) Cell 93(3): 373-83). Jak2-/- mouse embryos are anemic and
die around day 12.5 postcoitum due to the absence of definitive erythropoiesis.
         The JAK/STAT pathway, and in particular all four JAKs, are believed to play a
role in the pathogenesis of asthmatic response, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
bronchitis, and other related inflammatory diseases of the lower respiratory tract.
Multiple cytokines that signal through JAKs have been linked to inflammatory
diseases/conditions of the upper respiratory tract, such as those affecting the nose and
sinuses (e.g., rhinitis and sinusitis) whether classically allergic reactions or not. The
JAK/STAT pathway has also been implicated in inflammatory diseases/conditions of the
eye and chronic allergic responses.
         Activation of JAK/STAT in cancers may occur by cytokine stimulation (e.g. IL-6
or GM-CSF) or by a reduction in the endogenous suppressors of JAK signaling such as
SOCS (suppressor or cytokine signaling) or PIAS (protein inhibitor of activated STAT)
(Boudny, V., and Kovarik, J., Neoplasm. 49:349-355, 2002). Activation of STAT
signaling, as well as other pathways downstream of JAKs (e.g., Akt), has been correlated
with poor prognosis in many cancer types (Bowman, T., et al. Oncogene 19:2474-2488,
2000). Elevated levels of circulating cytokines that signal through JAK/STAT play a
causal role in cachexia and/or chronic fatigue. As such, JAK inhibition may be beneficial
to cancer patients for reasons that extend beyond potential anti-tumor activity.
         Inhibition of the JAK kinases is also envisioned to have therapeutic benefits in
patients suffering from skin immune disorders such as psoriasis, and skin sensitization.
In psoriasis vulgaris, the most common form of psoriasis, it has been generally accepted
                                                3

that activated T lymphocytes are important for the maintenance of the disease and its
associated psoriatic plaques (Gottlieb, A.B., et al, Nat Rev Drug Disc., 4:19-34). Psoriatic
plaques contain a significant immune infiltrate, including leukocytes and monocytes, as
well as multiple epidermal layers with increased keratinocyte proliferation. While the
initial activation of immune cells in psoriasis occurs by an ill defined mechanism, the
maintenance is believed to be dependent on a number of inflammatory cytokines, in
addition to various chemokines and growth factors (JCI, 113:1664-1675). Many of these,
including interleukins -2, -4, -6, -7, -12, -15, -18, and -23 as well as GM-CSF and IFNg,
signal through the Janus (JAK) kinases (Adv Pharmacol.2000;47:113-74). As such,
blocking signal transduction at the level of JAK kinases may result in therapeutic benefits
in patients suffering from psoriasis or other immune disorders of the skin.
         Given the usefulness of JAK inhibitors in the treatment of skin disorders, there is
a need for improved topical formulations of JAK inhibitors. In particular, there is a need
for stable, easily applied formulations for JAK inhibitors with good skin permeation
characteristics. The formulations of the invention, as well the methods described herein
are directed toward this need and other ends.
                                          SUMMARY
         A potent JAKI/JAK2 inhibitor, (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile, and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, has
previously been described in U.S. Patent No. 7,598,257, U.S. Patent Publ. No.
2009/0181959, and U.S. Patent Publ. No. 2008/0312259, each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety. The present invention describes an oil-in-water
formulation of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile suitable for topical administration and treatment of skin
disorders.
                                                 4

                                                   CN
                                          N-N
                                          N
                                            N N
                                                 H
        Accordingly, the present invention provides, inter alia, a pharmaceutical
formulation for topical skin application, comprising:
                an oil-in-water emulsion; and
                a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent which is (R)-3
cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        The present invention also provides a method of treating a skin disorder,
comprising applying a pharmaceutical formulation described herein to an area of skin of
the patient.
        The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical formulation described
herein for use in treatment of a skin disorder in a patient in need thereof.
        The present invention also provides use of a pharmaceutical formulation
described herein for the preparation of a medicament for use in treatment of a skin
disorder in a patient in need thereof.
        The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and
advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from
the claims.
                             DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
        FIG. 1 depicts a flowchart describing the manufacturing process for an oil-in
water formulation of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dipyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt.
        FIG. 2 depicts the change in lesion score for subjects with chronic plaque
psoriasis treated with 0.5 %, 1.0%, and 1.5% w/w of an oil-in-water formulation of (R)-3
                                              5

(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)- 1H-pyrazol- 1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile
phosphoric acid salt (on a free base basis) as compared to treatment with placebo over a
12-week period (the dashed line is baseline).
        FIG. 3 shows photographs of subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis before (FIG.
3(a)) and after 84 days (FIG. 3(b)) of treatment with 1.0% w/w of an oil-in-water
formulation of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt (on a free base basis).
        FIG. 4 shows photographs of subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis before (FIG.
4(a)) and after 84 days (FIG. 4(b)) of treatment with 1.0% w/w of an oil-in-water
formulation of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt (on a free base basis).
        FIG. 5 shows photographs of subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis before (FIG.
5(a)) and after 84 days (FIG. 5(b)) of treatment with 1.5% w/w of an oil-in-water
formulation of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-     3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt (on a free base basis).
        FIG. 6 shows photographs of subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis before (FIG.
6(a)) and after 84 days (FIG. 6(b)) of treatment with 0.5% w/w of an oil-in-water
formulation of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt (on a free base basis).
        FIG. 7 shows photographs of subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis before (FIG.
7(a)) and after 84 days (FIG. 7(b)) of treatment with 1.0% w/w of an oil-in-water
formulation of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt (on a free base basis).
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        Accordingly, the present invention provides, inter alia, a pharmaceutical
formulation for topical skin application, comprising a therapeutically effective amount of
(R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1
yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                an oil-in-water emulsion; and
                                              6

                 a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent which is (R)-3
cyclopentyl-3- [4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3 -d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-I H-pyrazol- 1-yl propanenitrile, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In some embodiments, the emulsion comprises water, an oil component, and an
emulsifier component.
         As used herein, the term "emulsifier component" refers, in one aspect, to a
substance, or mixtures of substances that maintains an element or particle in suspension
within a fluid medium. In some embodiments, the emulsifier component allows an oil
phase to form an emulsion when combined with water. In some embodiments, the
emulsifier component refers to one or more non-ionic surfactants.
         The oil-in-water formulations were found to have better appearance, spreadability
and stability as compared with other formulations. The formulations have a thick,
creamy appearance which allows for good spreadability of the formulation on skin. This
good spreadability leads to better skin permeation than comparable anhydrous
formulations. For example, the oil-in-water formulations showed higher cumulative
amounts in studies of transport across human cadaver skin over 24 hours when compared
with an anhydrous ointment. While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory, the
higher cumulative amounts are believed to be due to better spreadability of the oil-in
water formulation as compared to the anhydrous ointment, resulting in increased surface
area for transport. A higher viscosity for the oil-in-water formulations also appeared to
be preferred with respect to skin permeation as higher viscosity cream formulations had
better transport across human cadaver skin as compared with oil-in-water lotions of lower
viscosity.
         The oil-in-water formulations described herein were found to have good stability
over a three-month period when stored at 25 'C/60% RH and 40 'C/75% RH in
aluminum tubes and maintain reasonable viscosity over time. By comparison, the water
in-oil formulations displayed syneresis when stored at 40 'C (syneresis means separation
of liquid from the emulsion).
         The water-in-oil formulation was also less desirable than the formulations of the
invention, because the API dissolved in the base over time, leading to highly variable
                                               7

skin permeation in in vitro studies as well as a lack of an increase in permeability with
increasing strength of the formulation.
        In transport studies with freshly excised mouse skin, the oil-in-water formulations
also displayed a general trend of increased permeability when the strength of the
solubilized cream was increased from 0.5% w/w to 1.5% w/w, while such a trend was not
seen with the water-in-oil formulations. Thus, it appears that the water-in-oil emulsions
will not have any advantage in terms of providing enhanced permeation with increasing
strengths.
        Further, the formulations described herein are relatively simple to manufacture
with a repeatable process of formulation. The resultant product is easily packaged.     The
formulations appear to have good stability and relatively consistent permeation profiles.
        In some embodiments, the oil component is present in an amount of about 10% to
about 40% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the oil component is present in an amount of about 17% to
about 27% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the oil component is present in an amount of about 20% to
about 27% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the oil component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from petrolatums, fatty alcohols, mineral oils, triglycerides, and
silicone oils.
        In some embodiments, the oil component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from white petrolatum, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, light
mineral oil, medium chain triglycerides, and dimethicone.
        In some embodiments, the oil component comprises an occlusive agent
component.
        In some embodiments, the occlusive agent component is present in an amount of
about 2% to about 15% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the occlusive agent component is present in an amount of
about 5% to about 10% by weight of the formulation.
        As used herein, the term "occlusive agent component" refers to a hydrophobic
agent or mixtures of hydrophobic agents that form an occlusive film on skin that reduces
                                               8

transepidermal water loss (TEWL) by preventing evaporation of water from the stratum
corneum.
        In some embodiments, the occlusive agent component comprises one or more
substances selected from fatty acids (e.g., lanolin acid), fatty alcohols (e.g., lanolin
alcohol), hydrocarbon oils & waxes (e.g., petrolatum), polyhydric alcohols (e.g.,
propylene glycol), silicones (e.g., dimethicone), sterols (e.g., cholesterol). vegetable or
animal fat (e.g., cocoa butter), vegetable wax (e.g., Carnauba wax), and wax ester (e.g.,
bees wax).
        In some embodiments, the occlusive agent component comprises one or more
substances selected from lanolin acid fatty alcohols, lanolin alcohol, petrolatum,
propylene glycol, dimethicone, cholesterol, cocoa butter, Carnauba wax, and bees wax.
        In some embodiments, the occlusive agent component comprises petrolatum.
        In some embodiments, the occlusive agent component comprises white
petrolatum.
        In some embodiments, the oil component comprises a stiffening agent component.
        In some embodiments, the stiffening agent component is present in an amount of
about 2% to about 8% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the stiffening agent component is present in an amount of
about 3% to about 6% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the stiffening agent component is present in an amount of
about 4% to about 7% by weight of the formulation.
        As used herein, the term "stiffening agent component" refers to a substance or
mixture of substances that increases the viscosity and/or consistency of the formulation or
improves the rheology of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the stiffening agent component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from fatty alcohols.
        In some embodiments, the stiffening agent component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from C 12 -20 fatty alcohols.
        In some embodiments, the stiffening agent component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from C16 -i8 fatty alcohols.
                                               9

       In some embodiments, the stiffening agent component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from cetyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol.
       In some embodiments, the oil component comprises an emollient component.
       In some embodiments, the emollient component is present in an amount of about
5% to about 15% by weight of the formulation.
       In some embodiments, the emollient component is present in an amount of about
7% to about 13% by weight of the formulation.
       As used herein, the term "emollient component" refers to an agent that softens or
soothes the skin or soothes an irritated internal surface.
       In some embodiments, the emollient component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from mineral oils and triglycerides.
       In some embodiments, the emollient component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from light mineral oil and medium chain triglycerides.
       In some embodiments, the emollient component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from light mineral oil, medium chain triglycerides, and
dimethicone.
       In some embodiments, the water is present in an amount of about 35% to about
65% by weight of the formulation.
       In some embodiments, the water is present in an amount of about 40% to about
60% by weight of the formulation.
       In some embodiments, the water is present in an amount of about 45% to about
55% by weight of the formulation.
       In some embodiments, the emulsifier component is present in an amount of about
1% to about 9% by weight of the formulation.
       In some embodiments, the emulsifier component is present in an amount of about
2% to about 6% by weight of the formulation.
       In some embodiments, the emulsifier component is present in an amount of about
3% to about 5% by weight of the formulation.
       In some embodiments, the emulsifier component is present in an amount of about
4% to about 7% by weight of the formulation.
                                               10

         In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises an emulsifier
component and a stiffening agent component, wherein the combined amount of
emulsifier component and stiffening agent component is at least about 8% by weight of
the formulation.
         In some embodiments, the emulsifier component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from glyceryl fatty esters and sorbitan fatty esters.
         In some embodiments, the emulsifier component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from glyceryl stearate, and polysorbate 20.
         In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation further comprises a
stabilizing agent component.
         In some embodiments, the stabilizing agent component is present in an amount of
about 0.05% to about 5% by weight of the formulation.
         In some embodiments, the stabilizing agent component is present in an amount of
about 0.1% to about 2% by weight of the formulation.
         In some embodiments, the stabilizing agent component is present in an amount of
about 0.3 to about 0.5% by weight of the formulation.
         As used herein, the term "stabilizing agent component" refers to a substance or
mixture of substances that improves the stability of the pharmaceutical formulation
and/or the compatibility of the components in the formulation. In some embodiments,
the stabilizing agent component prevents agglomeration of the emulsion and stabilizes
the droplets in the oil-in-water emulsion.
         In some embodiments, the stabilizing agent component comprises one or more
substances independently selected from polysaccharides.
         In some embodiments, the stabilizing agent component comprises xanthan gum.
         In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation further comprises a solvent
component.
         In some embodiments, the solvent component is present in an amount of about
10% to about 35% by weight of the formulation.
         In some embodiments, the solvent component is present in an amount of about
15% to about 30% by weight of the formulation.
                                               II

         In some embodiments, the solvent component is present in an amount of about
20% to about 25% by weight of the formulation.
         As used herein, the term "solvent component" is a liquid substance or mixture of
liquid substances capable of dissolving (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile or other substances in the formulation. In
some embodiments, the solvent component is a liquid substance or mixture of liquid
substances in which (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile, or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt, has reasonable
solubility. For example, solubilities of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)- 1-i
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile (free base) or its phosphate salt are reported in
Table 21. In some embodiments, a solvent is a substance or mixture thereof, in which
(R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile, or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt (whichever is used), has
a solubility of at least about 10 mg/mL or greater, at least about 15 mg/mL or greater, or
at least about 20 mg/mL or greater, when measured as described in Example 4.
         In some embodiments, the solvent component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from alkylene glycols and polyalkylene glycols.
         In some embodiments, the solvent component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol.
         In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is present in an amount of about
0.5% to about 1.5% by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
         In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is present in an amount of about
0.5% by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
         In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is present in an amount of about 1%
by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
         In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is present in an amount of about
1.5% by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
         In some embodiments, the therapeutic agent is (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile phosphate.
         In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 35% to about 65% of water by weight of the formulation;
                                              12

                from about 10% to about 40% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 1% to about 9% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 10% to about 35% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.05% to about 5% of a stabilizing agent component by weight
of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 40% to about 60% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 15% to about 30% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 2% to about 6% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 15% to about 30% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.1% to about 2% of a stabilizing agent component by weight
of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 17% to about 27% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 3% to about 5% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                                             13

                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 17% to about 27% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 4% to about 7% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)- IH-pyrazol- I -yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments:
                the oil component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from petrolatums, fatty alcohols, mineral oils, triglycerides, and dimethicones;
                the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from glyceryl fatty esters and sorbitan fatty esters;
                the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from alkylene glycols and polyalkylene glycols; and
                the stabilizing agent component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from polysaccharides.
        In some embodiments:
                                             14

                the oil component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from white petrolatum, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, light mineral oil, medium
chain triglycerides, and dimethicone;
                the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from glyceryl stearate and polysorbate 20;
                the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol; and
                the stabilizing agent component comprises xanthan gum.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 35% to about 65% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 2% to about 15% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 2% to about 8% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
the formulation;
                from about 5% to about 15% of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 1% to about 9% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.05% to about 5% of a stabilizing agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 10% to about 35% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 40% to about 60% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 5% to about 10% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 2% to about 8% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
the formulation;
                                             15

                from about 7% to about 12 % of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 2% to about 6% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.1% to about 2% of a stabilizing agent by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 15% to about 30% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 5% to about 10% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 3% to about 6% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
the formulation;
                from about 7% to about 13% of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 3% to about 5% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation;
                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                                             16

                from about 5% to about 10% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 4% to about 7% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
the formulation;
                from about 7% to about 13% of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 4% to about 7% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation;
                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation comprises:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                about 7% of an occlusive agent component by weight of the formulation;
                from about 4.5% to about 5% of a stiffening agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                about 10% of an emollient component by weight of the formulation;
                from about 4% to about 4.5% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                about 0.4% of a stabilizing agent component by weight of the formulation;
                about 22% of a solvent component by weight of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
        In some embodiments, the combined amount of the stiffening agent component
and the emulsifier component is at least about 8% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments:
                                              17

        the occlusive agent component comprises a petrolatum;
        the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from one or more fatty alcohols;
        the emollient component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from mineral oils and triglycerides;
        the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from glyceryl fatty esters and sorbitan fatty esters;
        the stabilizing agent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from polysaccharides; and
        the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently selected
from alkylene glycols and polyalkylene glycols.
        In some embodiments:
        the occlusive agent component comprises white petrolatum;
        the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from cetyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol;
        the emollient component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from light mineral oil, medium chain triglycerides, and dimethicone;
        the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from glyceryl stearate and polysorbate 20;
        the stabilizing agent component comprises xanthan gum; and
        the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently selected
from propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation further comprises an
antimicrobial preservative component.
        In some embodiments, the antimicrobial preservative component is present in an
amount of about 0.05% to about 3% by weight of the formulation.
        In some embodiments, the antimicrobial preservative component is present in an
amount of about 0.1% to about 1% by weight of the formulation.
        As used herein, the phrase "antimicrobial preservative component" is a substance
or mixtures of substances which inhibits microbial growth in the formulation.
                                              18

         In some embodiments, the antimicrobial preservative component comprises one
or more substances independently selected from alkyl parabens and phenoxyethanol.
         In some embodiments, the antimicrobial preservative component comprises one
or more substances independently selected from methyl paraben, propyl paraben, and
phenoxyethanol.
         In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formulation further comprises a
chelating agent component.
         As used herein, the phrase "chelating agent component" refers to a compound or
mixtures of compounds that has the ability to bind strongly with metal ions.
         In some embodiments, the chelating agent component comprises edetate
disodium.
         (R)-3-(4-(7H-Pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile can be prepared as described in U.S. Patent 7,598,257 and U.S.
Patent Publ. No. 2009/0181959, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety. The 1:1 phosphate salt of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile can be prepared as described in U.S. Patent
Publ. No. 2008/0312259, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
         The compounds of the present invention also include pharmaceutically acceptable
salts of the compounds disclosed herein. As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically
acceptable salt" refers to a salt formed by the addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable
acid or base to a compound disclosed herein. As used herein, the phrase
"pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to a substance that is acceptable for use in
pharmaceutical applications from a toxicological perspective and does not adversely
interact with the active ingredient. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts, including mono
and bi- salts, include, but are not limited to, those derived from organic and inorganic
acids such as, but not limited to, acetic, lactic, citric, cinnamic, tartaric, succinic, fumaric,
maleic, malonic, mandelic, malic, oxalic, propionic, hydrochloric, hydrobromic,
phosphoric, nitric, sulfuric, glycolic, pyruvic, methanesulfonic, ethanesulfonic,
toluenesulfonic, salicylic, benzoic, and similarly known acceptable acids. Lists of
suitable salts are found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 17th ed., Mack
                                                19

Publishing Company, Easton, Pa., 1985, p. 1418 and Journalof PharmaceuticalScience,
66, 2 (1977), each of which is incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
         It will also be understood that compounds described herein may exist in solvated,
for example hydrated, as well as unsolvated forms. It will further be understood that the
present invention encompasses all such solvated forms of the compounds.
         As used herein, "% by weight of the formulation" means the percent
concentration of the component in the formulation is on weight/weight basis. For
example, 1% w/w of component A = [(mass of component A) / (total mass of the
formulation)] x 100.
         As used herein, "% by weight of the formulation on a free base basis" of (R)-3-(4
(7H-pyrrolo [2.3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile,     or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof' means that the % w/w is calculated based on
the weight of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile in the total formulation. For example, "0.5% w/w on a free
base basis" of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-iH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphate means that for 100 grams of total formulation, there
are 0.66 grams of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphate in the formulation (which equates to 0.5 grams of
the free base, (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile).
         In some embodiments, the components are present in exactly the ranges specified
(e.g., the term "about" is not present). In some embodiments, "about" means plus or
minus 10% of the value.
         As will be appreciated, some components of the pharmaceutical formulations
described herein can possess multiple functions. For example, a given substance may act
as both an emulsifying agent component and a stabilizing agent. In some such cases, the
function of a given component can be considered singular, even though its properties may
allow multiple functionality. In some embodiments, each component of the formulation
comprises a different substance or mixture of substances.
         As used herein, the term "component" can mean one substance or a mixture of
substances.
                                              20

         As used herein, the term "fatty acid" refers to an aliphatic acid that is saturated or
unsaturated. In some embodiments, the fatty acid is in a mixture of different fatty acids.
In some embodiments, the fatty acid has between about eight to about thirty carbons on
average. In some embodiments, the fatty acid has about 12 to 20, 14-20, or 16-18
carbons on average. Suitable fatty acids include, but are not limited to, cetyl acid, stearic
acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, erucic acid, palmitic acid, palmitoleic acid, capric acid,
caprylic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, hydroxystearic acid, 12
hydroxystearic acid, cetostearic acid, isostearic acid, sesquioleic acid, sesqui-9
octadecanoic acid, sesquiisooctadecanoic acid, behenic acid, isobehenic acid, and
arachidonic acid, or mixtures thereof.
         As used herein, the term "fatty alcohol" refers to an aliphatic alcohol that is
saturated or unsaturated. In some embodiments, the fatty alcohol is in a mixture of
different fatty alcohols. In some embodiments, the fatty alcohol has between about 12 to
about 20, about 14 to about 20, or about 16 to about 18 carbons on average. Suitable
fatty alcohols include, but are not limited to, stearyl alcohol, lauryl alcohol, palmityl
alcohol, cetyl alcohol, capryl alcohol, caprylyl alcohol, oleyl alcohol, linolenyl alcohol,
arachidonic alcohol, behenyl alcohol, isobehenyl alcohol, selachyl alcohol, chimyl
alcohol, and linoleyl alcohol, or mixtures thereof.
         As used herein, the term "polyalkylene glycol", employed alone or in
combination with other terms, refers to a polymer containing oxyalkylene monomer
units, or copolymer of different oxyalkylene monomer units, wherein the alkylene group
has 2 to 6, 2 to 4, or 2 to 3 carbon atoms. As used herein, the term "'oxyalkylene",
employed alone or in combination with other terms, refers to a group of formula -0
alkylene-. In some embodiments, the polyalkylene glycol is polyethylene glycol.
         As used herein, the term, "sorbitan fatty ester" includes products derived from
sorbitan or sorbitol and fatty acids and, optionally, poly(ethylene glycol) units, including
sorbitan esters and polyethoxylated sorbitan esters. In some embodiments, the sorbitan
fatty ester is a polyethoxylated sorbitan ester.
         As used herein, the term "sorbitan ester" refers to a compound, or mixture of
compounds, derived from the esterification of sorbitol and at least one fatty acid. Fatty
acids useful for deriving the sorbitan esters include, but are not limited to, those described
                                                21

herein. Suitable sorbitan esters include, but are not limited to, the SpanTM series
(available from Uniqema), which includes Span 20 (sorbitan monolaurate), 40 (sorbitan
monopalmitate), 60 (sorbitan monostearate), 65 (sorbitan tristearate), 80 (sorbitan
monooleate), and 85 (sorbitan trioleate). Other suitable sorbitan esters include those
listed in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky, Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients, (2006),
5th ed., which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
         As used herein, the term "polyethoxylated sorbitan ester" refers to a compound, or
mixture thereof, derived from the ethoxylation of a sorbitan ester. The polyoxethylene
portion of the compound can be between the fatty ester and the sorbitan moiety. As used
herein, the term "sorbitan ester" refers to a compound, or mixture of compounds, derived
from the esterification of sorbitol and at least one fatty acid. Fatty acids useful for
deriving the polyethoyxlated sorbitan esters include, but are not limited to, those
described herein. In some embodiments, the polyoxyethylene portion of the compound
or mixture has about 2 to about 200 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments, the
polyoxyethylene portion of the compound or mixture has about 2 to about 100
oxyethylene units. In some embodiments, the polyoxyethylene portion of the compound
or mixture has about 4 to about 80 oxyethylene units. In some embodiments, the
polyoxyethylene portion of the compound or mixture has about 4 to about 40 oxyethylene
units. In some embodiments, the polyoxyethylene portion of the compound or mixture
has about 4 to about 20 oxyethylene units. Suitable polyethoxylated sorbitan esters
include, but are not limited to the TweenT'M series (available from Uniqema), which
includes Tween 20 (POE(20) sorbitan monolaurate), 21 (POE(4) sorbitan monolaurate),
40 (POE(20) sorbitan monopalmitate), 60 (POE(20) sorbitan monostearate), 60K
(POE(20) sorbitan monostearate), 61 (POE(4) sorbitan monostearate), 65 (POE(20)
sorbitan tristearate), 80 (POE(20) sorbitan monooleate), 80K (POE(20) sorbitan
monooleate), 81 (POE(5) sorbitan monooleate), and 85 (POE(20) sorbitan trioleate). As
used herein, the abbreviation "POE" refers to polyoxyethylene. The number following
the POE abbreviation refers to the number of oxyethylene repeat units in the compound.
Other suitable polyethoxylated sorbitan esters include the polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty
acid esters listed in R. C. Rowe and P. J. Shesky, Handbook of pharmaceutical excipients,
(2006), 5th ed., which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some
                                               22

embodiments, the polyethoxylated sorbitan ester is a polysorbate. In some embodiments,
the polyethoxylated sorbitan ester is polysorbate 20.
         As used herein, the term "glyceryl fatty esters" refers to mono-, di- or
triglycerides of fatty acids. The glyceryl fatty esters may be optionally substituted with
sulfonic acid groups, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Suitable fatty acids for
deriving glycerides of fatty acids include, but are not limited to, those described herein.
In some embodiments, the glyceryl fatty ester is a mono-glyceride of a fatty acid having
12 to 18 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, the glyceryl fatty ester is glyceryl stearate.
         As used herein, the term "triglycerides" refers to a triglyceride of a fatty acid. In
some embodiments, the triglyceride is medium chain triglycerides.
         As used herein, the term "alkylene glycol" refers to a group of formula -0
alkylene-, wherein the alkylene group has 2 to 6, 2 to 4, or 2 to 3 carbon atoms. In some
embodiments, the alkylene glycol is propylene glycol (1,2-propanediol).
         As used herein, the term "polyethylene glycol" refers to a polymer containing
ethylene glycol monomer units of formula -0-CH2-CH2-. Suitable polyethylene glycols
may have a free hydroxyl group at each end of the polymer molecule, or may have one or
more hydroxyl groups etherified with a lower alkyl, e.g., a methyl group. Also suitable
are derivatives of polyethylene glycols having esterifiable carboxy groups. Polyethylene
glycols useful in the present invention can be polymers of any chain length or molecular
weight, and can include branching. In some embodiments, the average molecular weight
of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 9000. In some embodiments, the
average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from about 200 to about 5000. In
some embodiments, the average molecular weight of the polyethylene glycol is from
about 200 to about 900. In some embodiments, the average molecular weight of the
polyethylene glycol is about 400. Suitable polyethylene glycols include, but are not
limited to polyethylene glycol-200, polyethylene glycol-300, polyethylene glycol-400,
polyethylene glycol-600, and polyethylene glycol-900. The number following the dash
in the name refers to the average molecular weight of the polymer.
         It is further appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for
clarity, described in the context of separate embodiments, can also be provided in
combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various features of the invention which
                                                 23

are, for brevity, described in the context of a single embodiment, can also be provided
separately or in any suitable subcombination.
        Methods
        The pharmaceutical formulations of the invention are useful in treating skin
disorders. In some embodiments, the skin disorder is an autoimmune bullous skin
disorder such as pemphigus vulgaris (PV) or bullous pemphigoid (BP). In some
embodiments, the skin disorder is psoriasis (for example, psoriasis vulgaris), atopic
dermatitis, skin rash, skin irritation, skin sensitization (e.g., contact dermatitis or allergic
contact dermatitis). For example, certain substances including some pharmaceuticals
when topically applied can cause skin sensitization. In some embodiments, co
administration or sequential administration of the topical formulations of the invention
together with the agent causing unwanted sensitization can be helpful in treating such
unwanted sensitization or dermatitis.
        The present invention further provides a method of treating dermatological side
effects of other pharmaceuticals by administration of the compound of the invention. For
example, numerous pharmaceutical agents result in unwanted allergic reactions which
can manifest as acneiform rash or related dermatitis. Example pharmaceutical agents that
have such undesirable side effects include anti-cancer drugs such as gefitinib, cetuximab,
erlotinib, and the like. The formulations of the invention can be administered
systemically or topically (e.g., localized to the vicinity of the dermatitis) in combination
with (e.g., simultaneously or sequentially) the pharmaceutical agent having the
undesirable dermatological side effect. In some embodiments, the formulation of the
invention can be administered topically together with one or more other pharmaceuticals,
where the other pharmaceuticals when topically applied in the absence of a formulation
of the invention cause contact dermatitis, allergic contact sensitization, or similar skin
disorder. Accordingly, formulation of the invention include topical formulations further
comprising an additional pharmaceutical agent which can cause dermatitis, skin
disorders, or related side effects.
                                                24

        As used herein, the term "individual" or "patient," used interchangeably, refers to
any animal, including mammals, preferably mice, rats, other rodents, rabbits, dogs, cats,
swine, cattle, sheep, horses, or primates, and most preferably humans.
        As used herein, the phrase "therapeutically effective amount" refers to the amount
of active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or medicinal
response that is being sought in a tissue, system, animal, individual or human by a
researcher, veterinarian, medical doctor or other clinician.
        As used herein, the term "treating" or "treatment" refers to one or more of (1)
preventing the disease; for example, preventing a disease, condition or disorder in an
individual who may be predisposed to the disease, condition or disorder but does not yet
experience or display the pathology or symptomatology of the disease; (2) inhibiting the
disease; for example, inhibiting a disease, condition or disorder in an individual who is
experiencing or displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease, condition or
disorder (i.e., arresting further development of the pathology and/or symptomatology);
and (3) ameliorating the disease; for example, ameliorating a disease, condition or
disorder in an individual who is experiencing or displaying the pathology or
symptomatology of the disease, condition or disorder (i.e., reversing the pathology and/or
symptomatology) such as decreasing the severity of disease.
Combination Therapies
        One or more additional pharmaceutical agents such as, for example,
chemotherapeutics, anti-inflammatory agents, steroids, immunosuppressants, as well as
Bcr-Abl, Flt-3, RAF and FAK kinase inhibitors such as, for example, those described in
WO 2006/056399, or other agents can be used in combination with the formulations of
the present invention for treatment of JAK-associated diseases, disorders or conditions.
The one or more additional pharmaceutical agents can be administered to a patient
simultaneously or sequentially.
        Example chemotherapeutic include proteosome inhibitors (e.g., bortezomib),
thalidomide, revlimid, and DNA-damaging agents such as melphalan, doxorubicin,
cyclophosphamide, vincristine, etoposide, carmustine, and the like.
        Example steroids include corticosteroids such as dexamethasone or prednisone.
                                              25

         Example Bcr-Abl inhibitors include the compounds, and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts thereof, of the genera and species disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,521,184,
WO 04/005281, and U.S. Ser. No. 60/578,491.
         Example suitable Flt-3 inhibitors include compounds, and their pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, as disclosed in WO 03/037347, WO 03/099771, and WO 04/046120.
         Example suitable RAF inhibitors include compounds, and their pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, as disclosed in WO 00/09495 and WO 05/028444.
         Example suitable FAK inhibitors include compounds, and their pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, as disclosed in WO 04/080980, WO 04/056786, WO 03/024967, WO
01/064655, WO 00/053595, and WO 01/014402.
         In some embodiments, the formulations of the invention can be used in
combination with one or more other kinase inhibitors including imatinib, particularly for
treating patients resistant to imatinib or other kinase inhibitors.
         In some embodiments, a corticosteroid such as dexamethasone is administered to
a patient in combination with the compound of the invention where the dexamethasone is
administered intermittently as opposed to continuously.
         Labeled Compounds and Assay Methods
         Another aspect of the present invention relates to formulations comprising a
labeled active compound (radio-labeled, fluorescent-labeled, etc.) that would be useful
not only in imaging techniques but also in assays, both in vitro and in vivo, for localizing
and quantitating JAK in tissue samples, including human, and for identifying JAK
ligands by inhibition binding of a labeled compound. Accordingly, the present invention
includes JAK assays that contain such labeled compounds.
         The present invention further includes formulations of an isotopically-labeled
compound. An "isotopically" or "radio-labeled" compound is a compound where one or
more atoms are replaced or substituted by an atom having an atomic mass or mass
number different from the atomic mass or mass number typically found in nature (i.e.,
naturally occurring). Suitable radionuclides that may be incorporated in compounds of
the present invention include but are not limited to 2H (also written as D for deuterium),
3
  H (also written as T for tritium), "C, 1C, 14 C, 13 N, 15 N,  0170, 180, 18F, 35
                                                                                   S, 36
                                                                                        C, 82Br,
                                               26

75
   Br, 76Br, 7 7Br, 1231, 1241, 125  and   13 L The radionuclide that is incorporated in the instant
radio-labeled compounds will depend on the specific application of that radio-labeled
compound. For example, for in vitro JAK labeling and competition assays, compounds
that incorporate 3H,       4
                          1 C,
                               82
                                  Br, 125I , 13I, 35S  or will generally be most useful. For radio
imaging applications "C,         18
                                    F, 15I, 23I,  1241,131, 75Br, 76Br or 77Br will generally be most
useful.
         It is understood that a "radio-labeled " or "labeled compound" is a compound that
has incorporated at least one radionuclide. In some embodiments the radionuclide is
selected from the group consisting of 3H,           14
                                                       C, 1251 , 35s and 82
                                                                            Br.
         Kits
         The present invention also includes pharmaceutical kits useful, for example, in the
treatment or prevention of JAK-associated diseases or disorders, such as cancer, which
include one or more containers containing a pharmaceutical formulation of the invention.
Such kits can further include, if desired, one or more of various conventional
pharmaceutical kit components, such as, for example, containers with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, additional containers, etc., as will be readily
apparent to those skilled in the art. Instructions, either as inserts or as labels, indicating
quantities of the components to be administered, guidelines for administration, and/or
guidelines for mixing the components, can also be included in the kit.
         The invention will be described in greater detail by way of specific examples. The
following examples are offered for illustrative purposes, and are not intended to limit the
invention in any manner. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of non
critical parameters which can be changed or modified to yield essentially the same
results. In some embodiments, the present invention provides pharmaceutical
formulations comprising the components specified in the example formulations (e.g.,
Example 3), wherein the components are present in about the amounts in Tables 2-5.
                                               EXAMPLES
         Example 1: (3R)- and (3S)-3-Cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin
4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile
                                                       27

                                     CN                             CN
                                                                m,/
                           N-N                           N-N
                                            and
                         N                              N        \
                            N     N                        N    N
                                  H                             H
        Step 1. (2E)- and (2Z)-3-C'yclopentylacrylonitrile
        To a solution of 1.0 M potassium tert-butoxide in THF (235 mL) at 0 'C was
added dropwise a solution of diethyl cyanomethylphosphonate (39.9 mL, 0.246 mol) in
THF (300 mL). The cold bath was removed and the reaction was warmed to room
temperature followed by recooling to 0 'C, at which time a solution of
cyclopentanecarbaldehyde (22.0 g, 0.224 mol) in THF (60 mL) was added dropwise. The
bath was removed and the reaction warmed to ambient temperature and stirred for 64
hours. The mixture was partitioned between diethyl ether and water, the aqueous was
extracted with three portions of ether, followed by two portions of ethyl acetate. The
combined extracts were washed with brine, then dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and
concentrated in vacuo to afford a mixture containing 24.4 g of olefin isomers which was
used without further purification (89%).
         'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3 ): 5 6.69 (dd, 1H, trans olefin), 6.37 (t, 1H, cis olefin),
5.29 (dd, 1H, trans olefin), 5.20 (d, IH, cis olefin), 3.07-2.95 (in, 1H, cis product), 2.64
2.52 (in, 1H, trans product), 1.98-1.26 (in, 16H).
        Step 2. (3R)- and (3S)-3-Cyvclopentyl-3-[4-(7-[2-(trinethylsilyl)ethoxy]nethyl-7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dipyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile
        To a solution of 4-(1H-pyrazol-4-yl)-7-[2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy]methyl-7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine (15.0 g, 0.0476 mol) in ACN (300 mL) was added 3
cyclopentylacrylonitrile (15 g, 0.12 mol) (as a mixture of cis and trans isomers),
followed by DBU (15 mL, 0.10 mol). The resulting mixture was stirred at room
temperature overnight. The ACN was evaporated. The mixture was diluted with ethyl
acetate, and the solution was washed with 1.0 N HCl. The aqueous layer was back
extracted with three portions of ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were
                                               28

washed with brine, dried over sodium sulfate, filtered and concentrated. The crude
product was purified by silica gel chromatography (gradient of ethyl acetate/hexanes) to
yield a viscous clear syrup, which was dissolved in ethanol and evaporated several times
to remove ethyl acetate, to afford 19.4 g of racemic adduct (93%). The enantiomers were
separated by preparative-HPLC, (OD-H, 15% ethanol/hexanes) and used separately in the
next step to generate their corresponding final product. The final products (see Step 3)
stemming from each of the separated enantiomers were found to be active JAK
inhibitors; however, the final product stemming from the second peak to elute from the
preparative-HPLC was more active than its enantiomer.
         1H NMR (300 MHz, CDClI): 5 8.85 (s, IH), 8.32 (s, 2H), 7.39 (d, 1H), 6.80 (d,
1H), 5.68 (s, 2H), 4.26 (dt, 1H), 3.54 (t, 2H), 3.14 (dd, IH), 2.95 (dd, 1H), 2.67-2.50 (m,
1H), 2.03-1.88 (m, IH), 1.80-1.15 (m, 7H), 0.92 (t, 2H), -0.06 (s, 9H); MS(ES):437
(M+ 1).
         Step 3. (3R)- and (3S)-3-Cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrinidin-4-yli)
]H-pyrazol-]-vl]propanenitrile
         To a solution of 3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7-[2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy]methyl-7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yljpropanenitrile (6.5 g, 0.015 mol, R or S
enantiomer as isolated above) in DCM (40 mL) was added TFA (16 mL) and this was
stirred for 6 hours. The solvent and TFA were removed in vacuo. The residue was
dissolved in DCM and concentrated using a rotary evaporator two further times to
remove as much as possible of the TFA. Following this, the residue was stirred with
ethylenediamine (4 mL, 0.06 mol) in methanol (30 mL) overnight. The solvent was
removed in vacuo, water was added and the product was extracted into three portions of
ethyl acetate. The combined extracts were washed with brine, dried over sodium sulfate,
decanted and concentrated to afford the crude product which was purified by flash
column chromatography (eluting with a gradient of methanol/DCM). The resulting
mixture was further purified by preparative-HPLC/MS (C 18 eluting with a gradient of
ACN/H 20 containing 0.15% NH4 0H) to afford product (2.68 g, 58%).
                                              29

         'H NMR (400 MHz, D6-dmso): 5 12.11 (br s, 1H), 8.80 (s, IH), 8.67 (s, 1H), 8.37
(s, 1H), 7.60 (d, IH), 6.98 (d, 1H), 4.53 (dt, IH), 3.27 (dd, 1H), 3.19 (dd, 1H), 2.48-2.36
(m, IH), 1.86-1.76 (in, 1H), 1.68-1.13 (m, 7H); MS(ES):307(M+1).
         Example 2: (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt
                                                 CN
                                         H'  R
                                       N-N
                                                1 H3 P0
                                                        4
                                       N
                                          N     N
                                                H
         To a test tube was added (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol
1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile (153.5 mg) and phosphoric acid (56.6 mg) followed by
isopropyl alcohol (IPA) (5.75 mL). The resulting mixture was heated to clear, cooled to
room temperature, and then stirred for another 2 hours. The precipitate was collected by
filtration and the cake was washed with 0.6 mL of cold IPA. The cake was dried under
vacuum to constant weight to provide the final salt product (171.7 mg).
         The phosphoric acid salt was shown to be a 1:1 salt by 1H NMR and crystallinity
was confirmed by X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD). Differential scanning calorimetry
(DSC) gave a sharp melting peak at about 198.66 'C. The product showed little weight
loss up to 200 'C by TGA.
         Example 3: Preparation of Oil-In-Water Cream Formulations of (R)-3-(4
(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile
phosphoric acid salt
         An oil-in-water cream formulation was prepared for (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3
dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt
(Example 2) at 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5% by weight of the formulation (free base equivalent).
The compositions for a 15 gram tube are provided in Table 2 below. The formulation for
three strengths were identical except for adjustments to the purified water quantity based
                                               30

on the amount of active ingredient. All excipients used in the formulation were
compendial grade (ie, USP/NF or BP) or are approved for use in topical products.
        The quantitative formulae for representative 400 kg batches of the cream
formulation for Example 2 at 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5% are also provided in Tables 3, 4, and 5,
respectively.
                                            31

                                                    Table 2
             FORMULA                        Function         Percentage of Total        Grams/Tube
                                                                  (% w/w)
   PHASE        COMPONENT
               Propylene Glycol      Solvent                        10.00                     1.5
               USP
        C      Methyl Paraben        Antimicrobial                   0.10                   0.015
               NF                    preservative
               Propyl Paraben        Antimicrobial                   0.05                  0.0075
               NF                    preservative
               Propylene Glycol      Solvent                         5.00                    0.75
               USP
                                     Suspending,
               Xanthan Gum NF        stabilizing, viscosity-         0.40                    0.06
                                     increasing agent
               Light Mineral Oil     Emollient, solvent              4.00                    0.6
               NF
               Glyceryl Stearate     Emulsifier                      3.00                    0.45
               SE
               Polysorbate 20        Emulsifying/                    1.25                  0.1875
               NF                    stabilizing agent
               White Petrolatum      Occlusive agent                 7.00                    1.05
        -Z     USP
               Cetyl Alcohol NF      Stiffening agent'               3.00                    0.45
                                     consistency improver
               Stearyl Alcohol       Stiffening agent                1.75                  0.2625
               NF
               Dimethicone 360       Skin protectant                 1.00                    0.15
               NF
               Medium Chain
               Triglyceride NF       Emollient, solvent              500                     0.75
               Purified Water        Solvent                    50.24 - 48.92           7.536 - 7.338
               USP
               Edetate Disodium
                                     Chelating agent                 0.05                  0.0075
               USP
               Polyethylenelvent                                     7.00                    1.05
               Glycol USP
               Example 2 *           Active                      0.66  - 1.98           0.099 - 0.297
    Final      Phenoxyethanol        Antimicrobial                   0.50                   0.075
    ______BP                         preservative________
                            Total                                  100.00%                    15
*1.32% of Example 2 is equivalent to 1.0% of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1
yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile free base
                                                       32

                                          Table 3
                                           Kilograms           Percentage (w/w)
Ingredient
(R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin- 2.64 (phosphate salt) / 0.66 (phosphate salt) /
4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-                 2.0 (free base)         0.5 (free base)
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric
acid salt (Example 2)
Propylene Glycol USP                           40.0                    10.00
Methyl Paraben NF                               0.4                    0.10
Propyl Paraben NF                               0.2                    0.05
Propylene Glycol USP                           20.0                    5.00
Xanthan Gum NF                                   1.6                   0.40
Light Mineral Oil NF                            16.0                   4.00
Glyceryl Stearate SE                            12.0                   3.00
Polysorbate 20 NF                               5.0                     1.25
White Petrolatum USP                            28.0                   7.00
Cetyl alcohol NF                                12.0                   3.00
Stearyl alcohol NF                              7.0                     1.75
Dimethicone 360 NF                              4.0                     1.00
Medium Chain Triglycerides NF                   20.0                   5.00
Purified Water USP (approximate)                201                    50.25
Edetate Disodium USP                            0.2                    0.05
Polyethylene Glycol USP                        28.0                    7.00
Phenoxyethanol BP                               2.0                     0.5
Total (approximate)                            400.0                    100
                                             33

                                        Table 4
                                           Kilograms          Percentage (w/w)
Ingredient
(R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrinidin- 5.28 (phosphate salt)/ 1.32 (phosphate salt)!
4-yl)- lH-pyrazol-1-yi)-3-                4.0 (free base)       1.00 (free base)
cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric
acid salt (Example 2)
Propylene Glycol USP                            40.0                 10.00
Methyl Paraben NF                               0.4                   0.10
Propyl Paraben NF                               0.2                   0.05
Propylene Glycol USP                            20.0                  5.00
Xanthan Gum NF                                   1.6                  0.40
Light Mineral Oil NF                            16.0                  4.00
Glyceryl Stearate SE                            12.0                  3.00
Polysorbate 20 NF                               5.0                   1.25
White Petrolatum USP                            28.0                  7.00
Cetvl alcohol NF                                12.0                  3.00
Stearyl alcohol NF                               7.0                  1.75
Dimethicone 360 NF                              4.0                   1.00
Medium Chain Triglycerides NF                   20.0                  5.00
Purified Water USP (approximate)               198.5                  49.6
Edetate Disodium USP                            0.2                   0.05
Polyethylene Glycol USP                         28.0                  7.00
Phenoxyethanol BP                               2.0                    0.5
Total (approximate)                            400.0                  100
                                            34

                                            Table 5
                                            Kilograms           Percentage (w/w)
 Ingredient
 (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrinidin- 7.92 (phosphate salt)    1.98 (phophate salt)!
4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-l-y)-3-                   6.0 (free base)          1.5 (free base)
 cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphoric
 acid salt (Example 2)
 Propylene Glycol USP                            40.0                    10.00
Methyl Paraben NF                                0.4                     0.10
 Propyl Paraben NF                               0.2                     0.05
 Propylene Glycol USP                            20.0                    5.00
 Xanthan Gum NF                                   1.6                    0.40
Light Mineral Oil NF                             16.0                    4.00
 Glyceryl Stearate SE                            12.0                    3.00
 Polysorbate 20 NF                                5.0                     1.25
White Petrolatum USP                             28.0                    7.00
 Cetvl alcohol NF                                12.0                    3.00
 Stearyl alcohol NF                              7.0                      1.75
 Dimethicone 360 NF                              4.0                      1.00
Medium Chain Triglycerides NF                    20.0                    5.00
 Purified Water USP (approximate)               195.5                    48.9
Edetate Disodium USP                             0.2                     0.05
 Polyethylene Glycol USP                         28.0                    7.00
 Phenoxyethanol BP                                2.0                     0.5
 Total (approximate)                            400.0                     100
          The oil-in-water cream formulations were synthesized according to the following
procedure at either a 3.5 kg or 400 kg scale (when made at a 3.5 kg batch size, the
amounts in Tables 3-5 were scaled appropriately). Some batches were subject to minor
changes associated with scale-up, such as the size of mixing vessels and mixers.
Generally, overhead mixer with high and low shear mixing blades are suitable for the
process. Figure 1 shows a flowchart representation of the process for making the oil-in
water formulation. The (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile is referred to as "API" throughout this application.
          Procedure
          1.      A paraben phase was prepared by mixing methyl and propyl parabens with
a portion of the propylene glycol (see % in Tables 2-5).
                                                 35

        2.      Next, a xanthan gum phase was prepared by mixing xanthan gum with
propylene glycol (see % in Table 2-5).
        3.      An oil phase was then prepared by mixing light mineral oil, glyceryl
stearate, polysorbate 20, white petrolatum, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, dimethicone and
medium chain triglycerides. The phase is heated to 70-80 'C to melt and form a uniform
mixture.
        4.      The aqueous phase was next prepared by mixing purified water,
polyethylene glycol, and disodium EDTA. The phase is heated to 70-80 'C.
        5.      The aqueous phase of step 4, paraben phase of step 1, and Example 2
(phosphate salt of API) were combined to form a mixture.
        6.      The xanthan gum phase from step 2 was then added to the mixture from
step 5.
        7.      The oil phase from step 3 was then combined under high shear mixing
with the mixture from step 6 to form an emulsion.
        8.      Phenoxyethanol was then added to the emulsion from step 7. Mixing was
continued, and then the product was cooled under low shear mixing.
        More consistent batches at larger scales (e.g., 140 kg) could be obtained by
adding Example 2 gradually to the aqueous phase and then combining with the other
phases. Similarly, more consistent batches could be obtained by slower cooling (e.g., by
using room temperature water in the outer jacket of the reactor, rather than lower
temperature water.
        Analytical Results for Cream Formulations and Stability Studies
        A.      Methods
        The appearance of the cream was visually inspected. Viscosity was measured
using a Brookfield viscometer at 25'C. The pH was measured on the final cream
formulation. The microbial limit testing is performed as per USP. The fill weight is
analyzed as an in-process test during filling of the cream into tubes.
        Assay, related substances, identity and content uniformity were determined in the
formulation by a gradient reverse-phase HPLC with UV detection at 294 nm. A Waters
                                              36

HPLC was used with a Zorbax SB-C 18 column (3.5 pm, 4.6 X 150 mm) at a flow rate of
 1.0 mL/minute, temperature of 40 'C using Mobile Phase A of 2 mL of TFA into 4 L of
Water (0.05% TFA), or Mobile Phase B of 2 mL of TFA into 4 L of methanol (0.05%
TFA).
          B.     Results
          Results are shown below for a 3.5 kg batches at 0.5%, 1% and 1.5% strength of
Example 2 (free base basis (API)) (Table 6).
                                            Table 6
                  Acceptance                                Strength
     Test
                     Criteria       Placebo        0.5% wlw       1.0% w/w      1.5% w/w
Appearance       Smooth, white     Conforms        Conforms       Conforms      Conforms
                    emulsion
      pH         Report results        6.5             3.6            3.3           3.1
  Viscosity      Report results      96,500          66,500         64,800        72,900
 API Assay        90.0-110.0%         N/A             100.0          102.0         102.0
      (%)
      API        Report results       ND*             ND*            ND*           ND*
   Related
 Substances
                                      Top        N/A       100        101           101
                                                           100        101           101
                    90-110%          Middle      N/A       100        101           102
   Content         RSD:< 5%                                100        102           103
 Uniformity                          Bottom      N/A       100        102           103
    testing                                                100        102           102
                                      Avg.       N/A       100        102           102
                                     RSD%                  0.0        0.5           0.8
          The stability data from batches of the cream formulation at 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5% w/w
strength stored in 15 gram aluminum tubes is provided in Tables 7-10 and 19-20.
Further, stability data from batches of the cream formulation at 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5% w/w
strength packaged in amber glass jars (2 oz. with teflon cap) is provided in Tables 13-17,
while longer stability data for the 1.0% w/w formulation packaged in 16 oz. amber glass
jars is provided in Tables 11-12. The preliminary stability data for the drug product did
                                                37

not show any chemical instability after 3 months of storage at 25 'C/60% RH and 40
'C/75% RH in either packaging configuration. A change in viscosity is seen following 3
months at 40 'C/75% RH for formulation stored in amber glass jars. However, physical
inspection of the product did not indicate any phase separation.
          Acceptance criteria are shown below.
                    Test                            Acceptance Criteria
                Appearance                          Smooth, white cream
                    pH                                  Report results
                Weight Loss                             Report results
               Viscosity (cps)                          Report results
              API Assay (%)                      90.0-110.0 % of label claim
  API Related Substances (RRT:Area %)                   Report results
  Total Related Substances (RRT:Area %)                 Report results
                   MLT                                   Absent/1g
         (Objectionable organisms)
           MLT ( P.Aeruginosa)                           Absent/lg
              MLT ( S.Aureus)                            Absent/Ig
           MLT (Total Aerobic)                        NMT 100 CFU/g
       MLT (Total Yeast and Molds)                     NMT 10 CFU/g
                                             38

          Table 7: Stability Data for 0.5% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60% RH (15
                              aluminum gram tubes)
       Test                 0Time                 (Months)
             Tet0                          1                 3         6
    Appearance        Conforms        Conforms          Conforms  Conforms
        pH                3.6            3.6               3.6        3.6
   Weight Loss            NA             NA                0.0        0.0
  Viscosity (cps)       23400           29900             25400     24900
  API Assay (%)          103.7          107.2             102.5     105.9
   API Related            ND             ND             1.09:0.15    ND
    Substances                                          1.18:0.19
  (RRT:Area %)
   Total Related          NA             NA                0.34      NA
    Substances
  (RRT:Area %)
       MLT            Absent/lg          NA            Absent/Ig  Absent/lg
  (Objectionable
    organisms)
MLT (P.Aeruginosa)    Absent/Ig          NA             Absent/ig Absent/Ig
 MLT ( S.Aureus)      Absent/Ig          NA             Absent/1g Absent/1g
MLT (Total Aerobic)      <10             NA                <10       <10
 MLT (Total Yeast        <10             NA                <10       <10
    and Molds)
       Test Test9                            Time (M onths) 18_24
                                          12                18        24
    Appearance        Conforms        Conforms          Conforms  Conforms
        pH                3.5            3.5               3.5        3.6
   Weight Loss            0.0            0.0               0.0        0.0
  Viscosity (cps)       26000           23000             20900     22500
  API Assay (%)          105.4          105.7             104.4     104.0
   API Related        1.10:0.10       1.09:0.14         0.95:0.18 0.11:0.24
    Substances                                          1.09:0.20 0.95:0.23
  (RRT:Area %)                                                    1.11:0.08
   Total Related         0.10            0.14              0.38      0.55
    Substances
  (RRT:Area %)
       MLT            Absent/lg       Absent/Ig            NA     Absent/Ig
  (Objectionable
    organisms)
MLT ( P.Aeruginosa)   Absent/Ig       Absent/Ig            NA     Absent/lg
 MLT ( S.Aureus)      Absent/Ig       Absent/Ig            NA     Absent/lg
MLT (Total Aerobic)      <10             <10               NA        <10
 MLT (Total Yeast        <10             <10               NA        <10
    and Molds)
                                             39

           Table 8: Stability Data for 0.5% w/w Cream at 40 'C/75% RH (15
                               aluminum gram tubes)
         Test                                 Time (Months)
                            0 mo.         I Mo.           3 mo.     6 mo.
      Appearance         Conforms       Conforms       Conforms   Conforms
          pH                 3.6           3.6              3.6       3.5
     Weight Loss            N/A            N/A              0.0       0.0
    Viscosity (cps)        23400          26300           19800     18600
   API Assay (%)            103.7         103.1           105.3      105.0
API Related Substances      N/D            N/D          1.09:0.14 1.32: 0.21
    (RRT:Area %)                                                  1.39: 0.40
     Total Related          N/A            N/A             0.14      0.61
Substances (RRT:Area
         MLT             Absent/lg         N/A         Absent/1g  Absent/lg
    (Objectionable
      organisms)
 MLT (P.Aeruginosa)      Absent/Ig         N/A         Absent/1g  Absent/1g
  MLT ( S.Aureus)        Absent/lg         N/A         Absent/Ig  Absent/Ig
 MLT (Total Aerobic)         <10           N/A             <10       <10
MLT (Total Yeast and         <10           N/A             <10       <10
        Molds)
                                             40

             Table 9: Stability Data for 1.5% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60% RH
                                 (15 aluminum gram tubes)
          Test Tet0             0Time               (Months)
                                               1              3         6
      Appearance          Conforms        Conforms      Conforms   Conforms
           pH                 3.2            3.1             3.2      3.1
      Weight Loss            NA              NA              0.0      0.0
     Viscosity (cps)        29433          35800          27400      26200
     API Assay (%)          102.7           104.9          103.9     105.0
API Related Substances       ND              ND          1.09:0.14    ND
     (RRT:Area %)
Total Related Substances     NA              NA             0.14      ND
     (RRT:Area %)
          MLT            Absent/lg           NA         Absent/Ig  Absent/lg
     (Objectionable
       organisms)
 MLT ( P.Aeruginosa)     Absent/lg           NA         Absent/lg  Absent/Ig
   MLT ( S.Aureus)       Absent/Ig           NA         Absent/lg  Absent/Ig
 MLT (Total Aerobic)         <10             NA             <10       <10
 MLT (Total Yeast and        <10             NA             <10       <10
         Molds)
          Test Test9            9Time               (Months)
                                              12             18        24
      Appearance          Conforms        Conforms      Conforms   Conforms
           pH                 3.4            3.1             3.1      3.1
      Weight Loss             0.0            0.0             0.0      0.0
     Viscosity (cps)        25600          23800          21200      22200
     API Assay (%)          103.7           105.0          102.6     103.0
API Related Substances    1.10:0.12       1.09:0.13      1.09:0.21 0.20:0.09
     (RRT:Area %)                                                  0.95:0.07
                                                                   1.11:0.10
Total Related Substances     0.12            0.13           0.21      0.26
     (RRT:Area %)
          MLT            Absent/Ig       Absent/lg          NA     Absent/lg
     (Objectionable
       organisms)
 MLT ( P.Aeruginosa)     Absent/Ig       Absent/Ig          NA     Absent/Ig
   MLT ( S.Aureus)       Absent/Ig       Absent/Ig          NA     Absent/Ig
 MLT (Total Aerobic)         <10             <10            NA        <10
 MLT (Total Yeast and        <10             <10             NA       <10
         Molds)
                                              41

            Table 10: Stability Data for 1.5% w/w Cream at 40 'C/75% RH
                                (15 aluminum gram tubes)
          Test                                  Time (Months)
                           0 mo.           I mo.            3 mo.     6 mo.
      Appearance         Conforms        Conforms        Conforms   Conforms
          pH                 3.2            3.1               3.2      3.1
    Weight Loss(g)          N/A             N/A              0.0       0.0
     Viscosity (cps)       29433          29800            22400      16300
       API Assay           102.7           104.9            103.0     104.4
API Related Substances      N/D             N/D           1.09:0.14 1.32:0.20
      RRT:Area %                                                    1.39:0.34
Total Related Substance     N/A             N/A              0.14      0.54
     Objectionable       Absent/Ig          N/A          Absent/Ig  Absent/ig
       organisms
     P.Aeruginosa        Absent/Ig          N/A          Absent/1g  Absent/Ig
        S.Aureus         Absent/lg          N/A          Absent/lg  Absent/Ig
     Total Aerobic          <10             N/A              <10       <10
 Total Yeast and Molds      <10             N/A              <10       <10
                                             42

        Table 11: Stability Data for 1.0% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60% RH
                                 (16 oz. amber glass jars)
          Test                                       Time (Months)
                                   0               3               6        12
      Appearance              Conforms        Conforms        Conforms  Conforms
           pH                     3.5            3.3              3.3      3.3
     Viscosity (cps)            35700           25600           21200    21400
       API Assay                102.5            98.6            101.5    99.2
API Related Substances        0.89:0.08       0.11:0.20           ND    0.88:NQ
     (RRT:Area %)             1.15:0.19
Total Related Substances         0.27            0.20             NA      0.20
     (RRT:Area %)
          MLT                 Absent/ig      Absent/Ig        Absent/ig Absent/Ig
     (Objectionable
       organisms)
 MLT (P.Aeruginosa)           Absent/Ig      Absent/Ig        Absent/lg Absent/Ig
    MLT (S.Aureus)            Absent/lg      Absent/Ig        Absent/Ig Absent/Ig
 MLT (Total Aerobic)             <10             <10             <10       <10
 MLT (Total Yeast and            <10             <10             <10       <10
         Molds)
             NA: Not applicable ND: Not Detected NQ: Not Quantifiable
                                              43

             Table 12: Stability Data for 1.0% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60% RH
                                       (16 oz. amber glass jars)
               Test                               0      Time (Months)
                       Tet0                                                    6
           Appearance                       Conforms                       Conforms
                pH                             3.5                            3.2
            API Assay                         102.5                          100.8
    API Related Substances                  0.89:0.08                         ND
          (RRT:Area %)                      1.15:0.19
    Total Related Substances                   0.27                           ND
          (RRT:Area %)
               MLT                          Absent/Ig                      Absent/lg
          (Objectionable
            organisms)
      MLT ( P.Aeruginosa)                   Absent/Ig                     Absent/Ig
        MLT ( S.Aureus)                     Absent/Ig                     Absent/lg
      MLT (Total Aerobic)                      <10                            <10
      MLT (Total Yeast and                     <10                            <10
              Molds)
             Table 13: Stability Data for 0.5% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60% RH
                                        (2 oz. amber glass jars)
                           Acceptance                              Time (Months)
        Test
                             Criteria          0 mo.          I mo.           2 mo.    3 mo.
    Appearance           Smooth, white       Conforms       Conforms        Conforms Conforms
                             cream
         pH               Report result          3.6            3.5             3.6     3.6
  Viscosity (cps)        Report results        66500          71500           66000   56800
  API Assay (%)           90.0-110.0%           100.0         101.0            100.0   100.0
 Related Substances      Report results         ND*            ND*             ND*     ND*
*Not detected
                                                      44

             Table 14: Stability Data for 0.5% w/w Cream at 40 'C/75% RH
                                      (2 oz. amber glass jars)
                        Acceptance                         Time (Months)
        Test
                          Criteria          0 mo.       I mo.          2 mo.      3 mo.
    Appearance         Smooth, white     Conforms     Conforms       Conforms   Conforms
                           cream
         pH             Report result         3.6        3.6             3.5       3.6
   Viscosity (cps)     Report results       66500       63900          51900      39000
  API Assay (%)         90.0-110.0%         100.0        99.0           98.0      102.0
 Related Substances    Report results        ND*         ND*            ND*       ND*
*Not detected
             Table 15: Stability Data for 1.0% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60% RH
                                      (2 oz. amber glass jars)
                       Acceptance                         Time (Months)
         Test
                          Criteria       0 mo.        I mo.           2 mo.      3 mo.
     Appearance       Smooth, white    Conforms     Conforms        Conforms   Conforms
                          cream
         pH            Report result       3.3         3.2             3.2        3.3
   Viscosity (cps)    Report results     64800        69300          61400       50500
   API Assay (%)       90.0-110.0%       102.0        102.0           103.0      102.5
 Related Substances   Report results      ND*          ND*            ND*        ND*
*Not detected
             Table 16: Stability Data for 1.0% w/w Cream at 40 'C/75% RH
                                      (2 oz. amber glass jars)
                       Acceptance                            Time (Months)
         Test
                          Criteria        0 mo.         1 mo.            2 mo.       3 mo.
     Appearance       Smooth, white     Conforms      Conforms        Conforms     Conforms
                          cream
         pH           Report result         3.3          3.2               3.2         3.3
   Viscosity (cps)    Report results      64800         57900           55100        33500
   API Assay (%)       90.0-110.0%        102.0         102.0            101.0       103.0
 Related Substances   Report results       ND*          ND*              ND*          ND*
*Not detected
                                                45

             Table 17: Stability Data for 1.5% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60% RH
                                            (2 oz. amber glass jars)
                        Acceptance                                 Time (Months)
        Test
                          Criteria             0 mo.          I mo.            2 mo.            3 mo.
   Appearance         Smooth, white          Conforms      Conforms         Conforms          Conforms
                          cream
        pH           Report result              3.1            2.9              3.1               3.2
  Viscosity (cps)    Report results           72900          66600            62400             60300
  API Assay (%)        90.0-110.0%             101.7          101.7            101.7             104.3
Related Substances    Report results           ND*            ND*              ND*               ND*
*Not detected
             Table 18: Stability Data for 1.5% w/w Cream at 40 'C/75% RH
                                            (2 oz. amber glass jars)
                         Acceptance                               Time (Months)
        Test
                           Criteria           0 mo.          I mo.           2 mo.            3 mo.
    Appearance         Smooth, white         Conforms     Confonms          Conforms         Conforms
                            cream
         pH            Report result            3.1            3.1             3.1              3.2
   Viscosity (cps)     Report results         72900         62500            53000            43800
     Assay (%)          90.0-110.0%            101.7         103.0            102.0            104.3
 Related Substances    Report results          ND*           ND*              ND*              ND*
*Not detected
             Table 19: Stability Data for 1.0% w/w Cream at 25 'C/60 % RH
                                     (15 gram aluminum tubes)
         Test             Acceptance Cnteria             0 mo.       Time (Months)       mo.
     Appearance              Smooth, white              Conforms                     Conforms
                                emulsion
          pH                  Report result                3.3                          3.2
      Assay (%)               90.0-110.0%                 102.2                        101.7
  Related Substances         Report results               ND*                          ND*
*Not detected
                                                     46

             Table 20: Stability Data for 1.0% w/w Cream at 40 C175% RH
                                    (15 gram aluminum tubes)
                      Acceptance                             Time (Months)
      Test
                         Criteria           0 mo.        I mo.          2 mo.         3 mo.
  Appearance         Smooth, white        Conforms         -               -         Conforms
                        emulsion
       pH            Report result           3.3           -               -            3.2
 API Assayl(%)        90.0-110.0%           102.2        103.5          103.8          101.7
     Related         Report results         ND*          ND*             ND*           ND*
   Substances
*Not detected
         Example 4: Solubility Studies
         In order to determine the solubility of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4
yl)-1 H-pyrazol- 1-yl)-3 -cyclopentylpropanenitrile (free base) or its phosphate salt,
approximately 5 mL of a potential solvent was added to approximately 50 mg of the API
or its salt at room temperature. The mixtures were suspended and rotated on a wheel. If
the mixtures became clear solutions, more solid material was added. The suspensions
were then suspended over 24 hours. The samples were filtered through 0.2 micron filters.
The liquid portions were collected and diluted with 50/50 water methanol/water. The
concentrations of the diluted samples were analyzed by HPLC. When the free base or
salt was fairly insoluble, the results are approximate only.
                                              Table 21
Potential Solvent                    Solubility of Phosphate Salt    Solubility of Free Base
                                                (mg/mL)                       (mg/mL)
Water                                              2.7                           2.0
pH 4, citric buffer, 0.1 M                         1.5                           1.1
pH 6, citric buffer, 0.1 M                         0.2                          0.15
Ethanol                                            7.3                           5.5
Isopropanol                                        0.6                          0.45
                                                  47

Potential Solvent                 Solubility of Phosphate Salt     Solubility of Free Base
                                            (mg/mL)                       (mg/mL)
Benzyl alcohol                                   3                            2.3
Propylene glycol                                24                           18.2
PEG 200                                         23                           17.4
PEG 300                                         14                           10.6
Glycerin                                        11                            8.3
Transcutol                                      10                            7.6
Trolamine                                       51                           38.6
Water/PEG 200 (50/50)                           23                           17.4
Water/glyercin (50/50)                          21                           15.9
Water/glycerin/trolamine                        18                           13.6
(40/40/20)
Isopropyl myristate                           <0.1                           0.08
Isosorbide dimethyl ether                      0.4                            0.3
Mineral oil                                   <0.1                           0.08
Olelyl alcohol                                 0.1                           0.08
Dimethicone                                    <0.2                          0.15
C12 5s alcohol benzoate                        <0.2                          0.15
Caprylic triglyceride                         <0.2                           0.15
         Example 5: Other Topical Formulations
         Three different topical formulations incorporating the phosphate salt of (R)-3-(4
(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile      were
also prepared. The compositions of a 1% w/w dispersed cream (water-in-oil
formulation), 1% w/w anhydrous ointment, and 1% w/w lotion are summarized in Table
22 (percentages are on a free base basis). Each of the formulations with 1% w/w of the
phosphate salt of the API were lower in viscosity as compared to placebo (in the placebo,
the balance is water). While not wishing to be bound by any particular theory, the lower
viscosity was believed to be due to electrolytic nature of the phosphate salt. Viscosities
of the formulations and placebo over time are shown in Table 23. The 1% dispersed
                                              48

cream (water-in-oil formulation) showed syneresis after two and four weeks of aging at
40 'C, while the 1% lotion and 1% solubilized cream formulations (oil-in-water
formulations) did not show syneresis. The 1% solubilized cream formulation was
generally higher in viscosity than the 1% lotion.
                                               Table 22
Ingredient                                                  1% w/w           1% w/w          1% w/w
                                                              lotion        dispersed       ointment
                                                                              cream
Purified water USP                                             52.03           39.48
Polyethylene glycol 200 USP                                     7.00
Example 2*                                                      1.32            1.32             1.32
Disodium EDTA USP                                               0.05            0.50
Phenoxyethanol BP                                               0.50            0.50
Propylene glycol USP                                           15.00            7.50
Xanthan Gum NF                                                  0.20
Methylparaben NF                                                0.10            0.10
Propylparaben NF                                                0.05            0.05
Light mineral oil NF                                           4.00             6.00
Glyceryl stearate SE FDA IG                                     2.00
Polysorbate 20 NF                                               1.00
White Petrolatum USP                                            7.00            5.00           78.68
Cetyl Alcohol NF                                                2.50
Stearyl Alcohol NF                                              1.25
Dimethicone NF                                                  1.00            1.00
Caprilic/capric triglycerides FDA-JIG                           5.00            6.00
Sodium Chloride                                                                 0.05
Glycerin 99% USP                                                                7.50
Sorbitol solution 70% USP                                                       5.00
White Wax NF                                                                    1.50
Hydrogenated castor oil NF                                                      1.50
Cyclomethicone NF                                                              12.00
Polyglyceryl-3-diisostearate NF/BP                                              5.00
Cyclomethicone (D5) NF                                                                          15.00
Paraffin NF                                                                                     5.00
Total
* 1.32% of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile
phosphate salt is 1% of the free base.
                                                   49

                                    Table 23
   Type of                 Aging           Viscosity            Spindle/rpm
Formulation
                  Time        Temp.   1% w/w      Placebo  1% w/w        Placebo
                                        API                   API
Solubilized       Initial           99,400        195,600 T-B/2.0       T-C/2.5
cream*
                  2  weeks    RT    67,625        80,125  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  4  weeks    RT    65,875        82,750  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  2  weeks    5 0C  73,125        55,250  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  4  weeks    5 IC  86,000        70,125  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  2  weeks    40 oC 46,375       41,875   27/2.0        27/2.0
                  4  weeks    40 IC 47,500        50,125  27/2.0        27/2.0
Lotion*           Initial           24,700        70,500  T-A/4.0       27/2.0
                  2 weeks     RT    28,875        79,250  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  4 weeks     RT    32,750        73,875  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  2 weeks     5 'C  31,750        70,250  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  4 weeks     5 IC  34,750        75,750  27/2.0        27/2.0
                  2 weeks     40 IC 28,250       44,250   27/2.0        27/2.0
                  4 weeks     40 "C 29,125        53,000  27/2.0        27/2.0
Dispersed         Initial            11,400       255,500 27/5.0        28/1.0
cream
                  2  weeks    RT    8,850         204,500 27/5.0        28/1.0
                  4  weeks    RT    12,200        208,500 27/5.0        28/1.0
                  2  weeks    5 IC  9,550         226,000 27/5.0        28/1.0
                  4  weeks    5 0C   11,200       238,500 27/5.0        28/1.0
                  2  weeks    40 0C Syneresis     185,500 27/5.0        28/1.0
                  4  weeks    40 -C Syneresis     185,000 27/5.0        28/1.0
* No syneresis observed
                                       50

         Example 6: Skin Permeation Studies
         The three different topical formulations in Example 5 (Table 20) and the cream
formulation in Example 3 (Table 4) were evaluated for transport across human cadaver
skin. The skin permeation data are summarized in Table 24. Significant variability was
observed in the transport among the three replicates for each formulation. The variability
in transport may be due in part to differences in skin samples (donor, region of the body,
thickness, etc.). In general, the two cream formulations showed higher flux compared to
the lotion or ointment. The cumulative amount of API transported for the ointment
formulation was particularly low in comparison to the other three formulations and this,
at least in part, could be due to poor spreadability of the ointment leading to decreased
surface area for transport. As a result, the two cream formulations were selected for
further development, one as an oil-in-water (see Example 3 above) and the other as a
water-in-oil emulsion base. Based on the solubility of the drug substance, strengths
containing 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0% w/w of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-IH
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphate salt were developed for the oil-in
water base cream (solubilized cream) and 1.0, 2.0, and 3.0% w/w were developed for the
water-in oil base cream (dispersed cream). Procedures for the skin permeation studies are
described below.
         Human CadaverSkin TransportStudies
         The permeability of the API in topical formulations was studied using cadaver
human skin samples and Franz diffusion cells. Dermatomed human cadaver skin was
obtained from tissue banks while the Franz diffusion cells were custom made. The human
cadaver skin samples, sized to fit between the donor and the receiver compartments, were
positioned on the Franz diffusion cells. Topical formulations were weighed (20 mg) onto
glassine paper, placed formulation side toward the skin and clamped into place. The
dosing chamber was covered with parafilm. The reservoir side was filled using saline
with 4% albumin. The reservoir was stirred and maintained at 37 'C using a dry block
heater (Aungst B. Fatty Acid Skin Penetration Enhancers. Pharm. Res. 1989; 6(3):244
247). At 4 hours, a I mL sample was removed and replaced with 1 mL of saline + 4%
albumin. At 24 hours, the entire reservoir was collected. The tissue was examined
                                               51

visually for any hole or tear. The reservoir side samples were analyzed for concentrations
of the API by a LC/MS assay.
        Mouse Skin TransportStudies
        The permeability of the API in topical formulations was studied using freshly
excised mouse skin samples mounted in Franz diffusion cells. Balb/c mice were
depilated using a waxing technique four days before the experiment. The morning of the
experiment the mice were euthanized and as much of the depilated skin as possible was
removed, rinsed and kept moist with 37 'C saline until use. The mouse skin samples,
sized to fit between the donor and the receiver compartments, were positioned between
the donor and the receiver compartments of the Franz diffusion cells. The opening of the
Franz cell was 1 cm'. Topical formulations were weighed (20 mg) on to glassine paper,
placed formulation side toward the skin and clamped into place. The dosing chamber was
covered with parafilm. The reservoir side was filled using saline with 4% albumin. The
reservoir was stirred and maintained at 37 'C using a dry block heater (Aungst 1989
(above). At 4 hours, a 1 mL sample was removed and replaced with I mL of saline + 4%
albumin. At 24 hours, the entire reservoir was collected. The tissue was examined
visually for any hole or tear. The reservoir side samples were analyzed for concentrations
of the API by a LC/MS assay.
                                              52

         Table 24: Transport of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile from Topical Formulations across Human
Cadaver Skin
      Strength, Type of       Human Cadaver Skin       Cumulative   Average cumulative
      Formulation             Sample                   amount over  amount at 24 h (pLg)
                              ABS #0510038             0.77
      1% w/w
      Dispersed Cream         Asterand #52214A1        10.8         5.16
      (see Example 5, Table
      20, above)
                              Asterand #46581A1        3.91
                              ABS #0510038             0.21
      1% w/w Solubilized
       se Example 3, Table    Asterand #52214A1        10.6         3.73
      4, above)
                              Asterand #46581A1        0.39
                              ABS #0510038             0.06
      1% w/w Ointment
      (Anhydrous)                                                   0.06
      (see Example 5, Table   Asterand #52214A1        0.07
      20, above)
                              Asterand #46581A1        0.07
      1% w/w Lotion           ABS #0510038             0.10
      (see Example 5, Table   Asterand #52214A1        1.96         0.83
      20, above)
                              Asterand #46581A1        0.42
         The effect of strength of solubilized or dispersed cream formulation on the
transport of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)- IH-pyrazol- 1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile across human cadaver skin was also examined and the data are
summarized in Table 25. Increases in strength from 1% w/w to 3% w/w of the dispersed
cream formulation (water-in-oil base) and 1% w/w to 2% w/w of the solubilized cream
formulation (oil-in-water base) did not result in any significant change in transport of
(R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile, suggesting that the flux of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3
dlpyrinidin-4-yl)-IH-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile is not limited by the rate
of release from each of these formulations.
                                               53

         Table 25.        Transport of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile from Increasing Strength Topical
Formulations across Human Cadaver Skin
                                      Huma
                                        Cadver kinCumulative           AeaeCmltv
  Strength, Type of Formulation Human Cadaver Skin Amuntiover          Avera C     ltv
                                                    24 h (pg)
                                ABS #0510038         1.26
  1% w/w Dispersed Cream                                               2.29
  (water-in-oil base)
                                Asterand #42996A1    3.31
  2% w/w Dispersed Cream        ABS #0510038         1.79              1.68
  (water-in-oil base)
                                Asterand #42996A1    1.56
  3% w/w Dispersed Cream        ABS #0510038         1.40              1.81
  (water-in-oil base)
                                Asterand #42996A1   2.23
  1% w/w                        ABS #0510038        0.17
  Solubilized Cream                                                    0.89
  (see Example 3 above)         Asterand #42996A1    1.62
  1.5% w/w                      ABS #0510038        0.21
  Solubilized Cream                                                    0.30
  (see Example 3 above)         Asterand #42996A1   0.39
                                ABS #0510038        0.24
  2% w/w                                                               0.25
  Solubilized Cream
                                Asterand #42996A1   0.26
         The transport of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3
cyclopentylpropanenitrile across freshly excised mouse skin was also evaluated using
formulations that were employed in rodent pharmacology studies (Table 26). There was
a general trend of increased permeability when the strength of the solubilized cream was
increased from 0.5 to 1.5%, while such a trend was not seen with the dispersed
formulation. For the solubilized cream, the average cumulative amount of (R)-3-(4-(7H
                                               54

pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile        transported
across mouse skin over 24 h was about twenty times higher than that seen with human
cadaver skin studies (cumulative average of all experiments).
        Based on the solubility of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H
pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile phosphate, a maximum drug loading of 1.5%
was possible with the oil-in-water (solubilized cream) formulation. Of the two creams
formulated, the oil in water (solubilized cream) product exhibited better physical stability
(see Table 21 above). It should be noted that strengths higher than 3% in the dispersed
cream formulation and 2% in the solubilized cream formulation were not physically
stable beyond several days of storage at controlled room temperature, as the drug
substance crystallized out of solution. Based on these findings, coupled with skin
permeability results, manufacturability data, and physical and chemical characterization
data obtained for the early stage formulations, a solubilized cream with an oil-in water
emulsion base (with a maximum strength of 1.5% w/w) was chosen for further
development.
        Table 26. Transport of Various Formulations of (R)-3-(4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3
d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-3-cyclopentylpropanenitrile            across Freshly
Excised Mouse Skin
                                          Cumulative Amount   Average
            Strength, Formulation             muat   A u      Cumulative amount
                                                               at 24 h (pLg)
             1% w/w dispersed cream      37.1                 42.0
            (water-in-oil base)          46.9
             1% w/w dispersed cream       18.0                 23.1
            (water-in-oil base)          28.2
            3% w/w dispersed cream       29.6                  29.8
            (water-in-oil base)          30.0
            0.5% w/w solubulized cream   26.5                  23.5
            (see Example 3 above)        20.4
            1% w/w solubulized cream     40.8                  32.8
            (see Example 3 above)        24.9
            1.5% w/w solubulized cream   44.6                 41.8
            (see Example 3 above)        38.9
                                               55

        Example 7: Clinical Treatment of Psoriasis with Formulations
        Approximately 200 subjects with chronic plaque psoriasis were enrolled in a
double-blind, placebo-controlled study. There were four dose groups, three active
treatment groups and vehicle. The active treatment groups were treated with the 0.5%,
1.0%, and 1.5% w/w oil-in-water formulations (see Example 3 supra). Approximately 50
subjects were randomized into each treatment group. A thin layer of cream was applied
once per day to up to 20% body surface area of plaque psoriasis. Treatment was applied
for 84 days and efficacy measured by the change in total lesion score, a measurement
scale which assesses the amount of erythema, scaling and thickness of the plaques (Fig.
2). 25% of patents randomized to 1% w/w or 1.5% w/w of the API had lesions that were
clear or almost clear at week 12, versus 6% on vehicle.
        At a subset of sites, photos were obtained from subjects who signed an informed
consent for the photos. Pictures were obtained at baseline (prior to the first application of
study treatment) and on day 84 (the last application day for study treatment) (see Fig. 3
7). These photos are representative of a subset of the subjects who were treated with the
oil-in-water formulations.
        Example 8: Murine Skin Contact Delayed Hypersensitivity Response Test
        The formulations described herein can also be tested for their efficacies (of
inhibiting JAK targets) in the T-cell driven murine delayed hypersensitivity test model.
The murine skin contact delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) response is considered to
be a valid model of clinical contact dermatitis, and other T-lymphocyte mediated immune
disorders of the skin, such as psoriasis (Immunol Today. 1998 Jan;19(1):37-44). Murine
DTH shares multiple characteristics with psoriasis, including the immune infiltrate, the
accompanying increase in inflammatory cytokines, and keratinocyte hyperproliferation.
Furthermore, many classes of agents that are efficacious in treating psoriasis in the clinic
are also effective inhibitors of the DTH response in mice (Agents Actions. 1993
Jan;38(1-2):116-21).
        On Day 0 and 1, Balb/c mice are sensitized with a topical application, to their
shaved abdomen with the antigen 2,4,dinitro-fluorobenzene (DNFB). On day 5, ears are
                                              56

measured for thickness using an engineer's micrometer. This measurement is recorded
and used as a baseline. Both of the animals' ears are then challenged by a topical
application of DNFB in a total of 20 pL (10 pL on the internal pinna and 10 pL on the
external pinna) at a concentration of 0.2%. Twenty-four to seventy-two hours after the
challenge, ears are measured again. Treatment with the test formulations is given
throughout the sensitization and challenge phases (day -1 to day 7) or prior to and
throughout the challenge phase (usually afternoon of day 4 to day 7). Treatment of the
test compounds (in different concentration) is administered topically (topical application
of the treatment to the ears). Efficacies of the test formulations are indicated by a
reduction in ear swelling comparing to the situation without the treatment. Compounds
causing a reduction of 20% or more are considered efficacious. In some experiments, the
mice are challenged but not sensitized (negative control).
        The inhibitive effect (inhibiting activation of the JAK-STAT pathways) of the test
formulations can be confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis. Activation of the
JAK-STAT pathway(s) results in the formation and translocation of functional
transcription factors. Further, the influx of immune cells and the increased proliferation
of keratinocytes should also provide unique expression profile changes in the ear that can
be investigated and quantified. Formalin fixed and paraffin embedded ear sections
(harvested after the challenge phase in the DTH model) are subjected to
immunohistochemical analysis using an antibody that specifically interacts with
phosphorylated STAT3 (clone 58E12, Cell Signaling Technologies). The mouse ears are
treated with test formulations, vehicle, or dexamethasone (a clinically efficacious
treatment for psoriasis), or without any treatment, in the DTH model for comparisons.
Test formulations and the dexamethasone can produce similar transcriptional changes
both qualitatively and quantitatively, and both the test formulations and dexamethasone
can reduce the number of infiltrating cells. Topical administration of the test compounds
can produce inhibitive effects, i.e., reduction in the number of infiltrating cells and
inhibition of the transcriptional changes.
        Various modifications of the invention, in addition to those described herein, will
be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications
                                               57

are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Each reference cited in
the present application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
         Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used
in this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated
features, integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or
addition of one or more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
                                                58

The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A pharmaceutical formulation for topical skin application, comprising:
               an oil-in-water emulsion; and
               a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic agent which is (R)-3
cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-ylpropanenitrile,     or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, wherein the emulsion
       comprises water, an oil component, and an emulsifier component.
3.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 2, wherein the oil component is
       present in an amount of about 10% to about 40% by weight of the formulation.
4.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 2, wherein the oil component is
       present in an amount of about 17% to about 27% by weight of the formulation.
5.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 2, wherein the oil component is
       present in an amount of about 20% to about 27% by weight of the formulation.
6.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the
       oil component comprises one or more substances independently selected from
       petrolatums, fatty alcohols, mineral oils, triglycerides, and silicone oils.
7.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the
       oil component comprises one or more substances independently selected from
       white petrolatum, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, light mineral oil, medium chain
       triglycerides, and dimethicone.
8.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 2, wherein the oil component
       comprises an occlusive agent component.
                                             59

9.  A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 8, wherein the occlusive agent
    component is present in an amount of about 2% to about 15% by weight of the
    formulation.
10. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 8, wherein the occlusive agent
    component is present in an amount of about 5% to about 10% by weight of the
    formulation.
11. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the
    occlusive agent component comprises a petrolatum.
12. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the
    occlusive agent component comprises white petrolatum.
13. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 2, wherein the oil component
    comprises a stiffening agent component.
14. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 13, wherein the stiffening agent
    component is present in an amount of about 2% to about 8% by weight of said
    formulation.
15. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 13, wherein the stiffening agent
    component is present in an amount of about 3% to about 6% by weight of said
    formulation.
16. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 13, wherein the stiffening agent
    component is present in an amount of about 4% to about 7% by weight of said
    formulation.
                                       60

17. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein
    the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from fatty alcohols.
18. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein
    the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from C12  20 fatty alcohols.
19. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein
    the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from Ci6s1 fatty alcohols.
20. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 13 to 16, wherein
    the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from cetyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol.
21. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 2, wherein the oil component
    comprises an emollient component.
22. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 21, wherein the emollient
    component is present in an amount of about 5% to about 15% by weight of the
    formulation.
23. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 21, wherein the emollient
    component is present in an amount of about 7% to about 13% by weight of the
    formulation.
24. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein
    the emollient component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from mineral oils and triglycerides.
                                          61

25. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein
    the emollient component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from light mineral oil and medium chain triglycerides.
26. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein
    the emollient component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from light mineral oil, medium chain triglycerides, and dimethicone.
27. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 26, wherein the
    water is present in an amount of about 35% to about 65% by weight of the
    formulation.
28. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 26, wherein the
    water is present in an amount of about 40% to about 60% by weight of the
    formulation.
29. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 26, wherein the
    water is present in an amount of about 45% to about 55% by weight of the
    formulation.
30. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 29, wherein the
    emulsifier component is present in an amount of about 1% to about 9% by weight
    of the formulation.
31. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 29, wherein the
    emulsifier component is present in an amount of about 2% to about 6% by weight
    of the formulation.
32. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 29, wherein the
    emulsifier component is present in an amount of about 3% to about 5% by weight
    of the formulation.
                                         62

33. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 29, wherein the
    emulsifier component is present in an amount of about 4% to about 7% by weight
    of the formulation.
34. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 29, wherein the
    pharmaceutical formulation comprises an emulsifier component and a stiffening
    agent component, wherein the combined amount of emulsifier component and
    stiffening agent component is at least about 8% by weight of the formulation.
35. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 34, wherein the
    emulsifier component comprises one or more substances independently selected
    from glyceryl fatty esters and sorbitan fatty esters.
36. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 2 to 34, wherein the
    emulsifier component comprises one or more substances independently selected
    from glyceryl stearate, and polysorbate 20.
37. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims I to 36, wherein
    said pharmaceutical formulation further comprises a stabilizing agent component.
38. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 37, wherein the stabilizing agent
    component is present in an amount of about 0.05% to about 5% by weight of the
    formulation.
39. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 37, wherein the stabilizing agent
    component is present in an amount of about 0.1% to about 2% by weight of the
    formulation.
                                          63

40. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 37, wherein the stabilizing agent
    component is present in an amount of about 0.3 to about 0.5% by weight of the
    formulation.
41. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 37 to 40, wherein
    the stabilizing agent component comprises one or more substances independently
    selected from polysaccharides.
42. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 37 to 40, wherein
    the stabilizing agent component comprises xanthan gum.
43. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 42, wherein
    said pharmaceutical formulation further comprises a solvent component.
44. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 43, wherein the solvent
    component is present in an amount of about 10% to about 35% by weight of the
    formulation.
45. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 43, wherein the solvent
    component is present in an amount of about 15% to about 30% by weight of the
    formulation.
46. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 43, wherein the solvent
    component is present in an amount of about 20% to about 25% by weight of the
    formulation.
47. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 43 to 46, wherein
    the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently selected
    from alkylene glycols and polyalkylene glycols.
                                        64

48.    A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 43 to 46, wherein
       the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently selected
       from propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol.
49.    A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 48, wherein the
       therapeutic agent agent is present in an amount of about 0.5% to about 1.5% by
       weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
50.    A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 48, wherein
       said therapeutic agent is present in an amount of about 0.5% by weight of the
       formulation on a free base basis.
51.    A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims I to 48, wherein
       said therapeutic agent is present in an amount of about 1% by weight of the
       formulation on a free base basis.
52.    A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims I to 48, wherein
       said therapeutic agent is present in an amount of about 1.5% by weight of the
       formulation on a free base basis.
53.    A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 52, wherein
       said therapeutic agent is (R)-3 -cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4
       yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile phosphoric acid salt.
54.    A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
               from about 35% to about 65% of water by weight of the formulation;
               from about 10% to about 40% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
               from about 1% to about 9% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                                             65

                from about 10% to about 35% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.05% to about 5% of a stabilizing agent component by weight
of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
55.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 40% to about 60% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 15% to about 30% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 2% to about 6% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 15% to about 30% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.1% to about 2% of a stabilizing agent component by weight
of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
56.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 17% to about 27% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 3% to about 5% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                                             66

                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
57.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 17% to about 27% of an oil component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 4% to about 7% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)- 1H-pyrazol- 1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
58.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 54 to 57, wherein:
                the oil component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from petrolatums, fatty alcohols, mineral oils, triglycerides, and dimethicones;
                the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from glyceryl fatty esters and sorbitan fatty esters;
                the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from alkylene glycols and polyalkylene glycols; and
                the stabilizing agent component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from polysaccharides.
59.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 54 to 57, wherein:
                                             67

                the oil component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from white petrolatum, cetyl alcohol, stearyl alcohol, light mineral oil, medium
chain triglycerides, and dimethicone;
                the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances
independently selected from glyceryl stearate and polysorbate 20;
                the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol; and
                the stabilizing agent component comprises xanthan gum.
60.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 35% to about 65% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 2% to about 15% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 2% to about 8% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
said formulation;
                from about 5% to about 15% of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 1% to about 9% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.05% to about 5% of a stabilizing agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 10% to about 35% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dipyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
61.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 40% to about 60% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 5% to about 10% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                                             68

                from about 2% to about 8% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
said formulation;
                from about 7% to about 12% of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 2% to about 6% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.1% to about 2% of a stabilizing agent by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 15% to about 30% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
62.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 5% to about 10% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 3% to about 6% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
said formulation;
                from about 7% to about 13% of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 3% to about 5% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation;
                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
                                             69

63.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                from about 5% to about 10% of an occlusive agent component by weight
of the formulation;
                from about 4% to about 7% of a stiffening agent component by weight of
said formulation;
                from about 7% to about 13% of an emollient component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 4% to about 7% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                from about 0.3% to about 0.5% of a stabilizing agent component by
weight of the formulation;
                from about 20% to about 25% of a solvent component by weight of the
formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yllpropanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
64.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 1, comprising:
                from about 45% to about 55% of water by weight of the formulation;
                about 7% of an occlusive agent component by weight of the formulation;
                from about 4.5% to about 5% of a stiffening agent component by weight
of said formulation;
                about 10% of an emollient component by weight of the formulation;
                from about 4% to about 4.5% of an emulsifier component by weight of the
formulation;
                about 0.4% of a stabilizing agent component by weight of the formulation;
                about 22% of a solvent component by weight of the formulation; and
                from about 0.5% to about 1.5% of (R)-3-cyclopentyl-3-[4-(7H
pyrrolo[2,3-dlpyrimidin-4-yl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl]propanenitrile, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, by weight of the formulation on a free base basis.
                                             70

65.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 60 to 64, wherein
        the combined amount of the stiffening agent component and the emulsifier
        component is at least about 8% by weight of the formulation.
66.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 60 to 65, wherein:
        the occlusive agent component comprises a petrolatum;
        the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from one or more fatty alcohols;
        the emollient component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from mineral oils and triglycerides;
        the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from glyceryl fatty esters and sorbitan fatty esters;
        the stabilizing agent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from polysaccharides; and
        the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently selected
from alkylene glycols and polyalkylene glycols.
67.     A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 60 to 65, wherein:
        the occlusive agent component comprises white petrolatum;
        the stiffening agent component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from cetyl alcohol and stearyl alcohol;
        the emollient component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from light mineral oil, medium chain triglycerides, and dimethicone;
        the emulsifier component comprises one or more substances independently
selected from glyceryl stearate and polysorbate 20;
        the stabilizing agent component comprises xanthan gum; and
        the solvent component comprises one or more substances independently selected
from propylene glycol and polyethylene glycol.
                                              71

68. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 67, further
    comprising an antimicrobial preservative component.
69. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 68, wherein the antimicrobial
    preservative component is present in an amount of about 0.05% to about 3% by
    weight of the formulation.
70. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 68, wherein the antimicrobial
    preservative component is present in an amount of about 0.1% to about 1% by
    weight of the formulation.
71. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 68 to 70, wherein
    the antimicrobial preservative component comprises one or more substances
    independently selected from alkyl parabens and phenoxyethanol.
72. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 68 to 70, wherein
    the antimicrobial preservative component comprises one or more substances
    independently selected from methyl paraben, propyl paraben, and
    phenoxyethanol.
73. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 72, further
    comprising a chelating agent component.
74. A pharmaceutical formulation according to claim 73, wherein the chelating agent
    component comprises edetate disodium.
75. A method of treating a skin disorder in a patient in need thereof, comprising
    applying a pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims I to 74 to
    an area of skin of said patient.
                                         72

76. The method of claim 75, wherein the skin disorder is atopic dermatitis or
    psoriasis.
77. The method of claim 75, wherein the skin disorder is psoriasis.
78. The method of claim 75, wherein said skin disorder is skin sensitization, skin
    irritation, skin rash, contact dermatitis or allergic contact sensitization.
79. The method of claim 75, wherein said skin disorder is a bullous skin disorder.
80. The method of claim 79, wherein said bullous skin disorder is pemphigus vulgaris
    (PV) or bullous pemphigoid (BP).
81. A pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims I to 74 for use in
    treatment of a skin disorder in a patient in need thereof.
82. Use of a pharmaceutical formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 74 for
    the preparation of a medicament for use in treatment of a skin disorder in a patient
    in need thereof.
                                            73

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
