                                             ABSTRACT
  The present invention provides a novel approach for consumer-driven interaction with
  sequencing data or genomic information. Sequencing data access, for users with a variety of
  access and permissions, may be mediated by a central hub. The hub may also facilitate access to
5 the sequencing data for third party software applications. The hub may also provide data analysis
  or may have access to analyzed data to use such data in providing a user interface for a genome
  owner or for non-owner secondary users of the system.

                     INTEGRATED CONSUMER GENOMIC SERVICES
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]    The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/939,695, entitled "INTEGRATED CONSUMER GENOMIC SERVICES" and filed February
 13, 2014, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/031,556, entitled "CONSUMER
BIOLOGICAL DATA SYSTEM AND METHOD," filed July 31, 2014, the disclosures of which
are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0001] This disclosure relates generally to purchasing, distributing, sharing, displaying, and
consuming genomic information, and more particularly, to purchasing, distributing, sharing,
displaying, and consuming genomic information in a client server environment.
[0002] Traditionally, personal DNA or genome sequencing has been out of the reach of the
general public. The machines needed to perform the sequencing were expensive, and usually
purchased by larger entities, such as research institutions or corporations. Furthermore, these
machines generally took long periods of time to sequence the DNA once a sample was obtained.
[0003] In recent years, the cost of sequencing and the time required to perform the sequence has
decreased. Samples that previously required months to sequence can now be sequenced in a
matter of days or weeks. Whole genome sequencing or partial genome sequencing can now be
performed at a much lower cost, which removes the cost barrier for many consumers.
[0004] Several companies have taken advantage of the lower costs and shorter sequencing times
to provide genomic products or services directly to individual consumers. For example, some
companies offer services that allow an individual consumer to trace his or her ancestry based on
a DNA sample. Other services include providing statistics based on the DNA sample, such as
the likelihood the individual consumer will contract a specific disease within his or her lifetime.
[0005] However, after utilizing the services of these companies, the individual consumer, or
user, will have to provide another DNA sample and wait for the sample to be sequenced if the
user wanted to utilize the services of another company. For example, if a user had his DNA
sequenced by a company that only traced ancestry, the user would have to have his DNA
                                                  1

sequenced by another company if he wanted a report on the diseases he may contract in his
lifetime. This can result in multiple companies performing duplicate work. This can also result
in multiple copies of the user's DNA being stored in various locations, which may be difficult
for the user to keep track of, and may also raise privacy concerns for a large number of
consumers.
[0006] Further, such direct-to-consumer services may provide information in different formats
that are difficult to reconcile with other types of available information, such as web-based search
information. For example, certain consumers may have difficulty interpreting sequence data or
statistical data without additional context or tools. Other consumers, such as medical
professionals, may have little use for basic context information, but may instead wish to directly
access raw genome data for further analysis. Accordingly, there is a need for consumer-driven
interaction tools for various types of sequence data (e.g., genome data) and for more efficient
purchasing, distributing, sharing, displaying, and consumption of genomic information.
                                               SUMMARY
[0007] Provided herein are techniques for user interaction with sequencing data, genome data, or
other types of biological data that may be mediated via a central hub that stores and controls
access to various interactions with the sequencing data, either by the owner of the sequencing
data or by secondary users of the system. For example, the interactions may include interactions
with social media, data tools, consumer product offers, healthcare information, etc. These
interactions may help a user push or pull information about the sequencing data from a user
interface. In one example, a search engine may be provided that returns results based on genome
information as well as a patient's permissions, which may be considered a "genome avatar" or
"genome cookie" that is used for the patient's interaction with the system. For example, if a
particular patient is interested in clinical trials but not marketing information, the results may
skew towards the granted permissions. The consumer hub system addresses patient concerns
about actionability and functionality in the genomic data provided by sequencing facilities.
[0008] In addition, sequencing or other biological data is memory-intensive. Accordingly, an
end user may not wish to store such data on a mobile device or a tablet. However, because
consumers use mobile devices more and more frequently to access the internet, having a remote
                                                     2

hub that facilitates data access allows consumers to interact with their data without storing the
data on their own devices. For example, a user may wish to use a novelty application that
compares their genome to a celebrity genome. In such an embodiment, the user may download
the application to their mobile device and grant permission for the application to access their
genome data from the hub. Although genome comparison tools may require processing power
beyond what a typical mobile device may be capable of, the analysis may be performed remotely
(e.g., via the hub or a processor communicatively coupled to the hub), and the application may
merely serve as an end recipient of a graphical output or other application display. In this
manner, the genome data is not transmitted to and processed by the mobile device, which, as
noted, frees up processing and memory.
[0009] The present techniques also provide granular and dynamic permission and/or access
controls to the biological data. For example, sequencing data may include certain sequences that
are associated with external states, including eye color, hair color, ethnicity, etc. In addition,
certain types of sequence analysis, e.g., epigenetic data, may provide information about the age
of the sequenced individual. Accordingly, an individual with personal sequencing data
interacting with the hub as a consumer may wish to not only be anonymous, but also to block
access to those sequences and/or data that may include identifying information. To facilitate the
granular and dynamic permission controls, the present techniques may include user interface
tools that guide a sequence owner through permission levels.
[00010]          In certain embodiments, the present disclosure provides a system for sequencing
data interaction. The system includes at least one server comprising one or more memory
devices storing sequencing data associated with an owner. The server is coupled to a processor
configured to execute instructions, which include receiving a first request from a first processor
based device to access the sequencing data; accessing permission information for the sequencing
data; providing instructions to the server to permit the first processor-based device to access the
sequencing data when the permission information indicates that the first processor-based device
is associated with the owner of the sequencing data; receiving a second request from a second
processor-based device to access the sequencing data; and providing instructions to the server to
permit the second processor-based device to access only a portion of the sequencing data when
the permission information indicates that the second processor-based device is associated with an
                                                  3

authorized user for limited genome access. In another embodiment, the processor is configured
to execute instructions comprising: receiving a third request from a third processor-based device
to access the sequencing data; and providing instructions to the server to permit the third
processor-based device to access only default information about the sequencing data when the
permission information indicates that the third processor-based device is not associated with an
authorized user. In another embodiment, the first request from a first processor-based device to
access the sequencing data comprises instructions for performing genome analysis of the genome
on the server or other device remote from the first processor-based device and to transmit an
output of the genome analysis to the first processor-based device. In another embodiment, the
first request does not include a request to send the sequencing data to the first processor-based
device. In another embodiment, the processor is configured to execute instructions comprising:
receiving a third request from a third processor-based device associated with an outside user to
access the sequencing data; and transmitting a notification to the first processor-based that an
outside user request has been received to access the sequencing data.
[00011]         In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a computer
implemented method for interacting with sequence data. The method includes the steps of
transmitting a search request to a server related to sequence data associated with an individual,
wherein the sequence data is not stored on the mobile device; transmitting permission or
identification information associated with the search request; receiving a search output
comprising search engine results related to the sequence data based on the search request if a
user associated with the search request has permission to access the sequence data based on the
permission or identification information; and displaying the search output. In another
embodiment, the processor is configured to execute instructions comprising: receiving an update
to the permission information from the first processor-based device. The update may include
instructions for allowing full or partial access to the genome information for the third-processor
based device or for allowing a full or partial access to the genome information in response to
future requests from other outside users with similar profiles to the outside user associated with
the third processor-based device, e.g., a clinical trial manager and wherein the update comprises
instructions to accept requests for sequencing data access to other clinical trial managers. The
update may include instructions for denying access to the genome information for the third
                                                   4

processor-based device when the outside user is a retail vendor. Updates may include
instructions to deny access to the genome information in response to future requests from other
outside users with similar profiles to the outside user associated with the third processor-based
device. In certain embodiments, the search output may include comprises search engine results
for a clinical condition and wherein the search output is based on an analysis of the sequence
data. The search engine results may be ranked or filtered based analysis of the sequence data.
The analysis of the sequence data may include identification of one more mutations or
polymorphisms associated with a clinical condition. The search output may include search
engine results for genetic markers or pharmaceutical compounds (e.g., based on whether the
sequence data includes sequences associated with variable pharmacogenetic responses for the
pharmaceutical compound). In one embodiment, the method may include receiving a default
search output not related to the sequence data if a user associated with the search request does
not have permission to access the sequence data based on the permission or identification
information.
[00012]          In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides a system for storing
sequence information. The system includes at least one networked computer system. The
networked computer system is configured to store a plurality of sequences associated with
respective sequence owners, wherein each respective sequence comprises one or more
permissions; receive a request from a secondary user to access information related to sequences
from the plurality of sequences associated with a particular common feature; determine which
sequences of the plurality of sequences are associated with the particular common feature; and
allow the secondary user access to only the information relating to the sequences associated with
the particular common feature and permissions permitting the secondary user to access the
information. In one embodiment, the at least one networked computer system is configured to
transmit the information relating to the sequences associated with the particular common feature
and permissions permitting the secondary user to access the information to the secondary user.
The information may include contact or identification information, social media profile
information, or sequence data. In one embodiment, the at least one networked computer system
is configured to receive a new sequence associated with a new sequence owner; determine if the
sequence is associated with the particular common feature; and notify the new sequence owner
                                                  5

that there is an outstanding access request for the new sequence data because of the particular
common feature
[000131         In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a computer
implemented consumer system for sequencing data. The system includes at least one processor
configured to: receive sequence data and profile data associated with a sequence owner; analyze
the sequence data; receive a request from the sequence owner to interact with the sequence data;
determine a user interface configuration for the sequence owner interaction with the sequence
data based on the analysis of the sequence data and the profile data; and transmit information
related to the user interface configuration to a remote device associated with the sequence owner.
The information related to the user interface configuration may include suggestions for joining
one or more social media groups based on the sequence data or for installing one or more
applications related to the sequence data.
[00014]         In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a system for
analyzing sequencing data. The system includes at least one processor configured to: receive
sequence data associated with a sequence owner; receive privacy data associated with the
sequence data; receive profile data associated with the sequence owner; receive a request from a
secondary user to interact with the sequence data; determine a level of permitted access by the
secondary user to the sequence data based on the privacy data; and transmit information related
to the sequence data or the profile data to the secondary user based on the level of permitted
access. The level of permitted access may be based on the type of secondary user or may be
specific to only a portion of the sequence data.
[00015]         In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a method for
processing genomic information that includes: dragging, by a user, a genomic representation to a
vendor representation in a graphical user interface; upon a pre-determined percentage of the
genomic representation overlapping with the vendor representation, determining a vendor
defined dataset, wherein the vendor-defined dataset is defined by a vendor; comparing the
vendor-defined data subset to a user-defined dataset; based on the comparison, determining if the
vendor-defined dataset is a subset of the user-defined dataset; if the vendor-defined dataset is a
subset of the user-defined dataset: displaying genomic offerings from the vendor in the graphical
                                                   6

user interface; if the vendor-defined dataset is not a subset of the user-defined dataset:
identifying the portions of the vendor-defined dataset that are not a subset of the user-defined
dataset; and displaying, in the graphical user interface, the vendor-defined dataset that is not a
subset of the user-defined dataset.
[000161         In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a system for
processing genomic information that includes: a processor configured to: drag a genomic
representation to a vendor representation in a graphical user interface; upon a pre-determined
percentage of the genomic representation overlapping with the vendor representation, determine
a vendor-defined dataset, wherein the vendor-defined dataset is defined by a vendor; compare the
vendor-defined data subset to a user-defined dataset; based on the comparison, determine if the
vendor-defined dataset is a subset of the user-defined dataset; if the vendor-defined dataset is a
subset of the user-defined dataset: display genomic offerings from the vendor in the graphical
user interface; if the vendor-defined dataset is not a subset of the user-defined dataset: identify
the portions of the vendor-defined dataset that are not a subset of the user-defined dataset; and
display, in the graphical user interface, the vendor-defined dataset that is not a subset of the user
defined dataset.
[00017]         In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a method for
processing genomic information that includes: storing a first user transaction data in a central
repository, wherein the first user transaction data is created as the first user completes a first user
transaction, wherein the first user transaction includes at least one from the following: view a
vendor, view a vendor offering, and purchase a vendor offering; storing a second user transaction
data in a central repository, wherein the second user transaction data is created as the second user
completes a second user transaction, wherein the second user transaction includes at least one
from the following: view a vendor, view a vendor offering, and purchase a vendor offering;
comparing the first user transaction data to the second user transaction data; pushing a
notification to the second user in a graphical user interface with a vendor offering based on the
comparison.
[000181         In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a system for
processing genomic information that includes: a processor configured to: store a first user
transaction data in a central repository, wherein the first user transaction data is created as the
first user completes a first user transaction, wherein the first user transaction includes at least one
                                                   7

from the following: view a vendor, view a vendor offering, and purchase a vendor offering;
store a second user transaction data in a central repository, wherein the second user transaction
data is created as the second user completes a second user transaction, wherein the first user
transaction includes at least one from the following: view a vendor, view a vendor offering, and
purchase a vendor offering; compare the first user transaction data to the second user transaction
data; push a notification to the second user in a graphical user interface with a vendor offering
based on the comparison.
[00019]          In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a method for
processing genomic information that includes: prompting a user, through a graphical user
interface, to select at least a portion of the user's genomic information; upon receiving the
selection of at least a portion of the user's genomic information, prompting the user, through the
graphical user interface, to indicate a level of sharing for the selection of at least a portion of the
user's genomic information; and based on the selection of at least a portion of the user's genomic
information and the indicated level of sharing, allowing a second user to view the user's genomic
information.
[00020]          In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides a method for
processing genomic information that includes: receiving a sequence of a user's DNA; receiving
phenotype information of the user; associating the sequence of the user's DNA with the
phenotype information of the user; storing the sequence of the user's DNA and the phenotype
information of the user in a central repository; generating an icon in a graphical user interface by
an application on a client device; and creating a pointer from the icon to the stored sequence of
the user's DNA.
[00021]          In another embodiment, the present disclosure also provides computer program
product, the computer program product comprising machine readable instructions for: dragging,
by a user, a genomic representation to a vendor representation in a graphical user interface; upon
a pre-determined percentage of the genomic representation overlapping with the vendor
representation, determining a vendor-defined dataset, wherein the vendor-defined dataset is
defined by a vendor; comparing the vendor-defined data subset to a user-defined dataset; based
on the comparison, determining if the vendor-defined dataset is a subset of the user-defined
dataset; if the vendor-defined dataset is a subset of the user-defined dataset: displaying genomic
offerings from the vendor in the graphical user interface; if the vendor-defined dataset is not a
                                                     8

subset of the user-defined dataset: identifying the portions of the vendor-defined dataset that are
not a subset of the user-defined dataset; and displaying, in the graphical user interface, the
vendor-defined dataset that is not a subset of the user-defined dataset.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00022]         These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present disclosure will
become better understood when the following detailed description is read with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which like characters represent like parts throughout the drawings,
wherein:
[000231         FIG. 1 is a diagrammatical overview for a system incorporating a biological data
consumer hub in accordance with the present invention;
[00024]         FIG. 2 is a diagrammatical overview for a system incorporating a hub as part of a
networked computing environment in accordance with the present invention;
[00025]         FIG. 3 is a diagrammatical overview of a control module of the hub of the type
discussed with reference to FIG. 2;
[000261         FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of a method of interaction between a primary user or
consumer of sequencing data, the biological data consumer hub, and one or more secondary
users that may be performed in conjunction with the system discussed with reference to FIG. 1;
[00027]         FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of a method of providing access to particular sequencing
data to secondary users via the hub of the type discussed with reference to FIG. 1;
[000281         FIG. 6 is an example of a display screen of a user interface for secondary user
access to sequencing data according to the flow diagram of FIG. 5;
[00029]         FIG. 7 is a flow diagram of a method of providing search results based on
sequencing data via the hub of the type discussed with reference to FIG. 1;
[000301         FIG. 8 is an example of a display screen of a user interface for interacting with
owned sequencing data via the hub of the type discussed with reference to FIG. 1;
                                                  9

[000311         FIG. 9 is an example of a display screen of a user interface for setting up a user
interface for interaction with owned sequencing data via the hub of the type discussed with
reference to FIG. 1;
[00032]         FIG. 10 is an example of a display screen of a user interface for setting up a user
interface for interaction with owned sequencing data via the hub of the type discussed with
reference to FIG. 1;
[000331         FIG. 11 is an example of display screen showing a genome privacy settings
selector for interacting with sequencing data via the hub of the type discussed with reference to
FIG. 1;
[00034]         FIG. 12 illustrates a graphical user interface in accordance with some
embodiments;
[00035]         FIG. 13 illustrates a graphical user interface in accordance with some
embodiments;
[000361         FIG. 14 illustrates a graphical user interface in accordance with some
embodiments; and
[00037]         FIG. 15 illustrates a graphical user interface in accordance with some
embodiments.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[000381         As used herein the singular forms "a", "and", and "the" include plural referents
unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a sequence" may
include a plurality of such sequences, and so forth. All technical and scientific terms used herein
have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs unless clearly indicated otherwise.
[00039]    Turning now to the drawings, and referring first to FIG. 1, a biological data consumer
hub system 10 is illustrated diagrammatically.         The system 10 includes a biological data
consumer hub 12 that serves as a clearinghouse to interconnect various users, services,
                                                  10

functionality, and data. For example, in one embodiment, the hub 12 serves as a central storage
for sequencing data 14 from a plurality of individual owners.          In some embodiments, the
sequencing data 14 is generated from or owned by consumers 20 in the system 10. That is, the
sequencing data 14 is personal sequencing data. In other embodiments, the sequencing data 14 is
owned by research institutions or corporate entities rather than individuals, and these institutions
may also be considered consumers 14 in such embodiments.
[00040]    For example, it should be understood that the sequencing data 14 may be generated
from the consumer's own biological sample and, therefore, may represent all or part of the
consumer's own genome.         Accordingly, the consumer 20 may also be the owner of the
sequencing data 14. In certain embodiments, the consumer 20 may own or control access to
sequencing data 14 from biological samples that are not their own, e.g., family members or non
human data.     For example, the sequencing data 14 may be generated from a non-human
biological sample from companion animals (e.g., cats, dogs, birds), agricultural animals, plants,
food cultures, laboratory samples, cultures taken (e.g., throat or wound swab) from a subject, etc.
Further, the sequencing data 14 may represent all or only part of a genome sequence, and,
further, may include genomic DNA, cDNA, hnRNA, mRNA, rRNA, tRNA, cRNA, alternatively
spliced mRNA, small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA), microRNAs (miRNA), small interfering RNAs
(siRNA), piwi RNAs (piRNA), any form of synthetic or modified RNA, fragmented nucleic
acid, nucleic acid obtained from subcellular organelles such as mitochondria or chloroplasts, and
nucleic acid obtained from microorganisms or DNA or RNA viruses that may be present on or in
a biological sample. As used herein, "genome DNA" may refer to a full or partial genome, and a
genome sequence may refer to a full or partial genome sequence. The sequencing data 14 may
include germline sequences, somatic sequences, gene expression and transcriptome sequences,
epigenetic analysis (e.g., methylation, acetylation, histone folding, structural variation such as
chromatin mapping or protein-DNA interaction mapping), tissue sequences (e.g., tumor vs.
normal).   In addition, while embodiments of the present disclosure may be discussed in the
context of sequencing data, it should be understood that the hub 12 may facilitate access to other
types of biological data, such as protein sequence data, microarray data, etc.. Accordingly, the
hub 12 may be configured to store data including may represent a protein sequence, a nucleic
acid sequence, a polysaccharide profile, etc.
                                                11

[00041]     In certain embodiments, the sequencing data 14 may not be owned by any individual.
For example, sequencing data 14 from unclaimed (e.g., historical) or unowned biological
samples may be of research interest. In such cases, the sequencing data 14 may be dedicated to
the public or may be owned by the research institute or other entity that gathered the samples and
arranged for the sequencing to occur. Further, it is envisioned that the hub 12 may also facilitate
interaction with non-human sequencing data 14, including synthetic data, mammalian organism
data (e.g., companion animals), eukaryotic organism data, prokaryotic organism data, virus data,
etc. In certain embodiment, the sequencing data 14 may include microbial genomic data, such as
data from environmental samples as well as microbial genomic data obtained from infected
organisms (microbiome data) or human microbiome data.
[00042]     In addition to facilitating access to sequencing data 14 for a consumer 20, the hub 12
may also facilitate access to the consumer's sequencing data 14 by secondary users 30. Such
secondary users 30 may include medical providers, hospitals, insurance companies, and
pharmaceutical companies. These secondary users 30 may have research or commercial interest
in certain sequencing data 14. Further, the consumer 20 may also be a secondary user 30 when
accessing data 14 not owned by him.            For example, a consumer 20 may wish to access
sequencing data from potential relatives for genealogical purposes. In such embodiments, the
consumer 20 may be both a primary user and the secondary user 30.
[00043]     Access to the data may also be requested by third party applications, such as social
media applications 32, search engines 34, software applications (e.g., "apps") that may include
various data analysis tools 36, and vendors 38, including consumer product vendors (e.g.,
shopping applications). For example, if a consumer is a member of a social media group for a
specific disease (e.g., all members share a common sequence variant), the hub 12, operating
under consumer-selected permissions, may allow access to the sequencing data 14 for that
particular community. In other embodiments, social media applications may request access to
the sequencing data 14 to aid in a birth parent search. In such an embodiment, a request to the
hub 12 may involve a release of relevant portions of the sequencing data 14 that may aid in such
a search. Other social media applications 32 or software applications 36 may include dating or
behavioral groups. For example, a dating application may include a tool or function to assess the
percentage match of the genomes of two users, an estimated "distance" between their genomes,
                                                   12

or an estimated common ancestor (e.g., 4 generations, 5 generations) for two people. Such tools
may perform the matches without providing the sequence data 14 to either user. That is, the
applications 36 provide outputs based on the data, but not the data itself.
[00044]    In the context of search engines 34, the sequencing data 14 may be provided as an
input to relevant searches, as provided herein. Further, the sequencing data may also be used as
inputs to data analysis tools 36, which may be part of add-on applications that a consumer 20
may wish to download.       Such applications may be focused on providing medically relevant
analysis, while other types of applications may be novelty applications that a consumer may buy
via an application store. In such embodiments, the applications may interact with the sequencing
data in a manner similar to a secondary user 30. For example, in one embodiment, an application
request permission to access the sequencing data 14 of the consumer 20. Depending on the type
of application, the permissions may be tailored to the analysis.        For example, certain data
analysis tools 36 may request location information as well as limited sequencing data 14. In this
manner, a particular tool 36 may also link together with local social media, consumer retail
product, or service applications 32.
[00045]    The hub 12 may be configured to receive and store sequencing data 14, for example
the hub 12 may receive sequencing data 14 from a sequencing facility 22. Alternatively or in
addition,, the hub 12 may facilitate access to sequencing data 14 stored remotely, e.g., stored at
one or more sequencing facilities 22 or at a dedicated server facility. Further, the hub 12 may
communicate with one or more servers that are part of a cloud computing environment to access
sequencing data 14.
[00046]    FIG. 2 is an example of a hub management module 40 and system that may be used in
conjunction with the hub 12 of FIG. 1. In the depicted embodiment, certain features of the hub
 12 may be implemented as part of a cloud computing environment that includes a plurality of
distributed nodes 42. The computing resources of the nodes 42 are pooled to serve multiple
consumers, with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned
according to consumer demand. Examples of resources include storage, processing, memory,
network bandwidth, and virtual machines. The nodes 42 may communicate with one another to
distribute resources, and such communication and management of distribution of resources may
                                                13

be controlled by a cloud management module 40, residing one or more nodes 42. The nodes 42
may communicate via any suitable arrangement and protocol. Further, the nodes 14 may include
servers associated with one or more providers.       For example, certain programs or software
platforms may be accessed via a set of nodes 42 provided by the owner of the programs while
other nodes 42 are provided by data storage companies. Certain nodes 42 may also be overflow
nodes that are used during higher load times.
[00047]    In one embodiment, the hub management module 40 is responsible for handling data
communication with the participants in the system 10. The hub 12 is configured to communicate
with various users, including users of devices for generating biological data. Such data may
include sequence data generated via a sequencing device 44, which in particular embodiments
may include a device 18 that includes a module to accept a biological sample and generate
sequence data and an associated computer 20 that includes executable instructions for analyzing
or communicating the sequence data to the hub 12.         It should be understood that, in certain
embodiments, the sequencing device 44 may also be implemented as an all-in-one device. The
sequencing device 44 is configured to communicate with the hub                 12 via a suitable
communications link 50. The communication with the hub 12 for the sequencing device 44 as
well as other hub users (e.g., consumers 20, secondary users 30) may include communication via
a local area network (LAN), a general wide area network (WAN), and/or a public network (e.g.,
the Internet) via the communications link 50. In particular, the communications link 50 sends
sequencing data 26 and, in certain embodiments, authentication information 54, to the hub 12.
The authentication information may confirm that the sequencing device 44 is a client of the hub
 12.
[00048]    As noted, the hub 12 may serve multiple users or clients with associated devices, e.g.,
devices 44a, 44b, and 44c. Further, the hub 12 may also be accessed by other types of clients,
such as secondary users 30 or third party software holders (see FIG. 1; e.g., search engines 34,
vendors 38, etc.). Accordingly, the hub 12 may provide different types of services depending on
the access level of the particular client. A sequencing client may have access to storage and data
analysis services, while a secondary user 30 may have access only to shared or public sequences.
Third party software holders 34 may negotiate with sequencing clients to determine appropriate
access privileges.   For example, open source software may be offered for free or on limited
                                                 14

license basis, while other types of software may be offered according to various fee or
subscription bases.
[00049]     Once the sequencing data 14 has been communicated to the hub 12, further interaction
with and access to the sequencing data 14 may not necessarily be coupled to the sequencing
device 44.   Such embodiments may be beneficial in embodiments in which the owner of the
biological sample and/or sequence data has contracted for sequencing, e.g., to a core sequencing
facility 39. In such embodiments, the primary user may be the owner (e.g., the consumer 20)
while the core laboratory facility associated with the sequencing device 44 is at most a secondary
user 30 after the sequencing data 14 has been communicated to the hub 12. Accordingly, the
consumer 20 may also provide permission information 56 for further access to the sequencing
data 14 for secondary users 20, which may be preset and communicated concurrently with the
sequencing data 14 (via the sequencing device 44). Alternatively or additionally, the consumer
20 may also directly provide the permission information 56. The consumer 20 may also provide
profile information 58 (e.g., health information, personal characteristics) that is associated with
the sequencing data 14.
[00050]    In certain embodiments, the sequence data may be accessed through security
parameters such as a password-protected client account in the hub 12 or association with a
particular institution or IP address. The sequencing data 14 may be accessed by downloading
one or more files from the hub 12 or by logging into a web-based interface or software program
that provides a graphical user display in which the sequence data is depicted as text, images,
and/or hyperlinks.    In such an embodiment, the sequencing data 14 may be provided to the
consumer 20 or secondary user 30 in the form of data packets transmitted via a communications
link or network.
[00051]    As used herein, sequencing data 14 may refer to data obtained during a sequencing
run, which refers to a repetitive process of physical or chemical steps that is carried out to obtain
signals indicative of the order of monomers in a polymer. The signals can be indicative of an
order of monomers at single monomer resolution or lower resolution.                    In particular
embodiments, the steps can be initiated on a nucleic acid target and carried out to obtain signals
indicative of the order of bases in the nucleic acid target. The process can be carried out to its
                                                 15

typical completion, which is usually defined by the point at which signals from the process can
no longer distinguish bases of the target with a reasonable level of certainty.       If desired,
completion can occur earlier, for example, once a desired amount of sequence information has
been obtained. In some embodiments, a sequencing run is composed of several cycles, where
each cycle includes a series of two or more steps, and the series of steps is repeated in each
cycle. For example, a 10 cycles of a sequencing-by-synthesis run can be carried out to identify a
sequence of 10 nucleotides. Each of the 10 cycles can include steps of polymerase catalyzed
extension of a primer to add a nucleotide analog having a blocking moiety and label moiety;
detecting the label moiety on the extended primer; and removing the label moiety and blocking
moiety from the extended primer.
[00052]     The sequencing run may be implemented via the sequencing device 44 according to
any sequencing technique, such as those incorporating sequencing-by-synthesis           methods
described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2007/0166705; 2006/0188901; 2006/0240439;
2006/0281109; 2005/0100900; U.S. Pat. No. 7,057,026; WO 05/065814; WO 06/064199; WO
07/010,251, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
Alternatively, sequencing by ligation techniques may be used in the sequencing device 44. Such
techniques use DNA ligase to incorporate oligonucleotides and identify the incorporation of such
oligonucleotides and are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,969,488; U.S. Pat. No. 6,172,218; and U.S.
Pat. No. 6,306,597; the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entireties. Some embodiments can utilize nanopore sequencing, whereby target nucleic acid
strands, or nucleotides exonucleolytically removed from target nucleic acids, pass through a
nanopore. As the target nucleic acids or nucleotides pass through the nanopore, each type of
base can be identified by measuring fluctuations in the electrical conductance of the pore (U.S.
Patent No. 7,001,792; Soni & Meller, Clin. Chem. 53, 1996-2001 (2007); Healy, Nanomed. 2,
459-481 (2007); and Cockroft, et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 130, 818-820 (2008), the disclosures of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties). Yet other embodiments include
detection of a proton released upon incorporation of a nucleotide into an extension product. For
example, sequencing based on detection of released protons can use an electrical detector and
associated techniques that are commercially available from Ion Torrent (Guilford, CT, a Life
Technologies subsidiary) or sequencing methods and systems described in US 2009/0026082
                                                16

Al; US 2009/0127589 Al; US 2010/0137143 Al; or US 2010/0282617 Al, each of which is
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.   Particular embodiments can utilize methods
involving the real-time monitoring of DNA polymerase activity. Nucleotide incorporations can
be detected through fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) interactions between a
fluorophore-bearing     polymerase   and y-phosphate-labeled    nucleotides,  or with zeromode
waveguides as described, for example, in Levene et al. Science 299, 682-686 (2003); Lundquist
et al. Opt. Lett. 33, 1026-1028 (2008); Korlach et al. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 105, 1176-1181
(2008), the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Other
suitable alternative techniques include, for example, fluorescent in situ sequencing (FISSEQ),
and Massively Parallel Signature Sequencing (MPSS).             In particular embodiments, the
sequencing device 44 may be a HiSeq, MiSeq, or HiScanSQ from Illumina (La Jolla, CA).
[00053]     The sequencing device 44 may generate sequencing data 14 as base call files. Both
the sequencing device 44 and the hub 12 are capable of processing the base call files to perform
Amplicon, de novo assembly, Library QC, metagenomics, resequencing, and smallRNA
discovery. Other types of data analysis may include clinical analysis, such as GeneInsight. In
particular embodiments, the data analysis may be performed according to industry or regulatory
agency standards, such as CLIA. The files generated from the various analyses may take the
form of FASTQ files, binary alignment files (bam) *.bcl, *.vcf, and/or *.csv files. The output
files may be in formats that are compatible with available sequence data viewing, modification,
annotation, and manipulation software.       Accordingly, the accessible sequencing data 14 as
provided herein may be in the form of raw data, partially processed or processed data, and/or
data files compatible with particular software programs.       Further, the output files may be
compatible with other data sharing platforms or third party software.
[00054]     FIG. 3 is a block diagram of the hub node 42. The hub node 42 may be implemented
as one or more of a personal computer system, server computer system, thin client, thick client,
hand-held or laptop device, multiprocessor system, microprocessor-based system, set top box,
programmable consumer electronic, network PC, minicomputer system, mainframe computer
system, or cloud computing environment that include any of the above systems or devices, and
the like.   Further, while the depicted embodiment is discussed in the context of the node 42, it
should be understood that similar components may be implemented in devices used by the
                                                17

consumer 20 or secondary user 30 to interact with the hub 12 and/or the node 42. The node 42
may include one or more processors or processing units 60, a memory architecture 62 that may
include RAM 64 and non-volatile memory 66. The memory architecture 62 may further include
removable/non-removable, volatile/non-volatile computer system storage media. Further, the
memory architecture 62 may include one or more readers for reading from and writing to a non
removable, non-volatile magnetic media, such as a hard drive, a magnetic disk drive for reading
from and writing to a removable, non-volatile magnetic disk (e.g., a "floppy disk"), and/or an
optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable, non-volatile optical disk such as a
CD-ROM, DVD-ROM. The node 42 may also include a variety of computer system readable
media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by the cloud computing
environment, such as volatile and non-volatile media, and removable and non-removable media.
[00055]    The memory architecture 62 may include at least one program product having a set
(e.g., at least one) of program modules implemented as executable instructions that are
configured to carry out the functions of the present techniques. For example, executable
instructions 68 may include an operating system, one or more application programs, other
program modules, and program data.          Generally, program modules may include routines,
programs, objects, components, logic, data structures, and so on, that perform particular tasks or
implement particular abstract data types. Program modules may carry out the functions and/or
methodologies of the techniques as described herein including, but not limited to, primary
sequence data analysis and secondary sequence analysis.
[00056]    The components of the node 42 may be coupled by an internal bus 70 that may be
implemented as one or more of any of several types of bus structures, including a memory bus or
memory controller, a peripheral bus, an accelerated graphics port, and a processor or local bus
using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example, and not limitation, such
architectures include Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, Micro Channel Architecture
(MCA) bus, Enhanced ISA (EISA) bus, Video Electronics Standards Association (VESA) local
bus, and Peripheral Component Interconnects (PCI) bus.
[00057]    The node 42 may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a
keyboard, a pointing device, a display 72, etc.; that enable an operator to interact with the hub
                                                18

 12; and/or any devices (e.g., network card, modem, etc.) that enable node 42 to communicate
with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I/O interfaces 74.
Still yet, the nodes 42 of the hub 12 may communicate with one or more networks such as a local
area network (LAN), a general wide area network (WAN), and/or a public network (e.g., the
Internet) via a suitable network adapter.
[00058]      The hub 12 may execute user interaction software (e.g., via a web-based interface or
application platform) that provides a graphical user interface for users (e.g., consumers 20 and
secondary users 30) and that facilitates access to sequence data 14, a community or group of
researchers, data sharing or analysis programs, available third party software, and user selections
for load balancing and instrument settings. For example, in particular embodiments, settings for
a sequencing run on a sequencing device 44 may be set via the hub 12. Accordingly, the hub 12
and an individual sequencing device 44 (or consumer device/secondary user device) may be
capable of two-way communication.         Such an embodiment may be particularly useful for
controlling parameters of a remote sequencing run.
[00059]      As noted, the hub 12 may serve multiple users or clients with associated devices, e.g.,
devices 44a, 44b, and 44c. Further, the hub 12 may also be accessed by other types of clients,
such as secondary users 30 or third party software holders (see FIG. 1; e.g., search engines 34,
vendors 38, etc.). Accordingly, the hub 12 may provide different types of services depending on
the access level and permissions 56 of the particular client. A sequencing client may have access
to storage and data analysis services, while a secondary user 30 may have access only to shared
or public sequences.       Third party software holders may negotiate with consumers 20 to
determine appropriate access privileges to the sequencing data 14.
[00060]      As provided herein, the system 10 facilitates the interaction of consumers 20 and/or
owners of sequencing data 14 with the hub 12 and collaborators or secondary users (e.g.,
secondary users 30). To that end, FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of the pathways of some exemplary
interactions. The method 100 may encompass any viable subset or combination of the steps or
interactions depicted. In one embodiment, the method 100 may begin with providing a biological
sample at block 102. For example, the sample may be provided to the sequencing device 44,
which in turn acquires sequencing data 14.        When the sequence data 14 is acquired, the
                                                 19

sequencing device 44 communicates the sequencing data 14 to the hub 12, which receives the
sequence data at block 104. Alternatively, the consumer 20 may directly provide the data 14 at
block 106.
[00061]    The sequence data 14 in the hub 12 may be stored and/or further processed.          For
example, the hub 12 is capable of analyzing sequence data 14 (block 108) or providing
instructions to a networked device to perform the analysis. A user may set parameters for data
that are received by the hub 12. For example, the user may indicate which analyses are to be
performed remotely, e.g., via the hub 12. In one embodiment, the parameters may be set such
that primary analysis (e.g., base identification) is performed locally while secondary analysis
(e.g., genome assembly) is performed in the hub 12. Alternatively, a secondary user 30 may be
instructed or permitted to perform the data analysis (block 110). The results of the data analysis
may be stored for later access by the consumer 20 and/or secondary user 30.
[00062]    The system 10 also provides techniques for authorizing secondary users that include
access and/or permission instructions that may be set by the user (block 114) and received at the
sequencing device 44 (block 116). If the instructions indicate that the sequencing data 14 is to
be shared with one or more secondary users 30, the instructions may be communicated by the
hub 12 to notify the one or more secondary users 30 (block 118).             The access is then
implemented according to the instructions. For example, if the instructions include a notification
provision, a notification is sent (block 118) to the secondary user, which may be received (block
 119) in the form of an email or message in a cloud computing account, for example.           The
information provided by the consumer 20 may also include health and/or profile information
(block 120).     This information in turn is received at the hub 12 (block 122) and may be
communicated to secondary users along with the sequencing data 14, as provided.
[00063]    Access to the sequencing data 14 for the consumer may be facilitated by the hub 12
via a request by the consumer 20 (block 130).          Upon receipt of the access request by the
consumer 20 (block 142), the hub 12 authenticates the request (block 144) before transmitting
the data 14 (block 146), which is received by the appropriate consumer-associated device (block
 150). In other embodiments, the sequence data access instructions may also set permissions for
at least partial access by a secondary user 30 who sends a request (block 140) to access the
                                                  20

sequence data that is received by the hub 12 (block 142). The request is authenticated (block
 144) based on the instructions at block 114 and the sequence data 14 is communicated according
to the instructions at block 146. The secondary user 30 may access or receive the sequence data
(block 148) in the form of a downloaded file or may access the sequence data via a web-based
interface or a software package. When the secondary user 30 does not have permission to access
the sequencing data 14, either a denial notice is provided or certain default profile information is
provided. For example, a denial may include a message that "You do not have permission to
access customer Joe P.'s sequence. Joe P. is male, age 29, from Wisconsin." Further, the hub 12
may notify the consumer 20 (block 152), which in turn receives the notification (block 154), that
a secondary user has requested/accessed the sequencing data 14.
[00064]     In addition to mediating intercommunication between individual consumers 20 and
secondary users 30, the hub 12 may act as an intermediary for gathering information and/or data
relating to groups of consumers and their sequence data 14.        For example, FIG. 5 is a flow
diagram for a method 200 of a gathering a set of genome data (e.g., sequencing data 14) with a
particular common feature between them. At block 102, the hub 12 received a secondary user
request for access to any genome data with a common feature of interest. The feature of interest
may be the presence or absence of a particular sequence of interest, such as a gene or gene
variant of interest, a gene mutation, an SNP, or a microsatellite sequence. In other embodiments,
the particular common feature of interest may be related to the consumer profile information
(e.g., profile information 58). For example, a secondary user 30 may be a clinical trial manager
who is seeking participants in a particular age range, ethnicity, etc. Further, the clinical trial
manager may be seeking participants with or without certain clinical profiles.              On one
embodiment, the profile may be cancer survivors who have been in remission for 3+ years. In
such an embodiment, the clinical trial may be related to data mining of sequence data 14 from
these individuals to look for beneficial sequences or beneficial epigenetic changes in the DNA.
In one embodiment, the search may be a search for any open access sequences. That is, the
search request may include only particular permissions settings as a search parameter. The hub
 12 may compare the stored genome data and, if appropriate, profile information, to the request
(block 204) to determine if there are any matching genome sequences.
                                                 21

[00065]     While the hub 12 may store a set of genome sequence data 14 associated with
consumers 20 matching the desired profile, not all of the stored sequences may be accessible to
secondary users 30 based on the individual permissions settings of the sequence owners. At
block 206, the hub 12 may determine which individual sequences have allowed access by the
secondary user in question. Further, the permissions may be granular. That is, certain sequences
may be open to all secondary users, other sequences may be open for all research but no
commercial use.       In other embodiments, certain sequences may be accessible only to one
institution but not to other institutions of the same type.  Accordingly, the set of sequences that
match the search request and that have permissions granting the secondary user access
(generated at block 208) may be smaller than the total set of matching sequences, regardless of
permissions. At block 210, the hub 12 may permit the secondary user 30 to access the relevant
genome data. Further, the hub 12 may initiate contact with the inaccessible members of the
larger set to notify them of a request for access and indicate that the request was denied. In such
an embodiment, the hub 12 may also receive updated privacy settings if the consumer 20
changes their privacy to allow access.
[00066]     In another embodiment, the secondary user may wish to access not sequence data, but
contact information for the consumer. That is, based on a sequence profile, the secondary user
30 may wish to market consumer products to a particular user. For example, if a consumer
product company has determined that a sequence variant is associated with dandruff, the
secondary user 30 may wish to market dandruff products to consumers with the variant. In other
embodiments, the hub 12 may facilitate the contact with the consumers 20 to maintain consumer
privacy.
[00067]     The request may be structured as an ongoing search, such that, as new genome
sequences are received by the hub 12, they are automatically assessed to determine if they
include the feature of interest and appropriate permission settings. If so, the data is forwarded to
the secondary user. If not, the consumer 20 may be notified that an outstanding request for their
data is in place. In addition, as a consumer 20 interacts with the hub 12 for setup of genome
information, the setup process may include automatic assessment for any outstanding requests
for sequence data that their data and/or profile meet.       In one embodiment, the requests are
"pushed" onto the setup screen, and the consumer 20 may opt in or opt out as desired.
                                                   22

[00068]    For secondary users 30 who request genome or sequencing data 14 as part of being a
member of the hub system 10, the hub 12 may provide a user interface for data interaction. Such
services may be fee or subscription based, depending on the type of secondary user. FIG. 6 is an
example of a graphical display screen 250 for interacting with the available sequence data 14.
The graphical display screen 250 may include selectable menu options for selecting particular
genomes and/or accessing data from the hub 12 related to the selected genomes. In addition, the
displayed information may include links or linkable icons 254 for relevant data analysis
applications or further information related to the depicted portion of the sequence data. The
linkable icons 254 may be linked to relevant apps or applications. Clicking the link may take the
user to an application store for data analysis or other tools from third party vendors. Because
users will have a wide variety of data sets stored in the cloud, ranging in both size and the nature
of their content, different application may be appropriate for different types of data sets. The
display screen 250 may also display links for managing notification 260 and sharing 262.
[00069]    In addition to mediating intercommunication between consumers 20 and secondary
users 30, the hub 12 may act as an intermediary for software applications or other tools that may
normally act in a sequence-independent manner. However in certain embodiments, providing
the sequencing data 14 as an input to such tools may enhance or target particular outputs. For
example, FIG. 7 is a flow diagram for a method of sequence-dependent searching that may be
mediated by the hub 12. The consumer 20 or secondary user 30 may input search requests in a
conventional manner, which are in turn received by the hub 12 (block 302). If the request is
associated with any accessible sequence data 14, the sequence data and any related analysis data
(e.g., the presence of particular mutations or variants) are accessed (block 304).       The search
results are provided to the requestor based on the accessed data (block 306).             In certain
embodiments, the search results are ranked (block 308) and/or filtered (block 310) based on the
available sequence data.
[00070]    In one embodiment, a search engine output may be ranked according to the sequence
data 14. If the sequence data indicates that the consumer 20 has a particular variant associated
with breast cancer, such as BRCA1, the search results for the term "breast cancer" may be
ranked to include or weight BRCA1 as a term over other breast cancer results. This weighting is
performed without any additional input from the consumer 20. In this manner, a consumer 20
                                                 23

does not need to be medically sophisticated in order to receive targeted search results. The hub
 12 may include its own search engine, or the method 300 may serve an intermediary to
conventional search engine results. For example, a Google search result for "breast cancer" may
be submitted to the hub 12 and then ranked and/or filtered by the hub 12 according to the
sequence data 14.
[00071]    In another embodiment, the search engine output may be filtered to include or exclude
certain results.   For example, if the sequence data 14 indicates that the consumer 20 has a
characteristic mutation in a CYP2D6 gene that is indicative of reduced codeine metabolism, their
results for a search for "pain medication" may be filtered to exclude codeine. In another
embodiment, the hub 12 may suggest particular search terms based on the sequence data 14. For
example, if the sequence data 14 is part of an ancestry type of analysis, the search terms may
include the predicted regions of origin for the consumer 20. Other types of searches may be
ranked or filtered based on a predicted risk for developing a clinical condition as indicated by an
analysis of the sequence data 14. Further, the search engine may be used to find doctors or
practitioners that specialize in treating diseases associated with sequence mutations. In another
embodiment, specific search results may be filtered based on ethnic origin as determined from
the sequence data 14, e.g., based on variants that are or are not widely represented in particular
ethnic groups. For example, certain ethnicities may have different likelihoods of developing
particular clinical conditions. Accordingly, certain search results may be of higher interest (i.e.,
more likely clinical conditions) than others (i.e., less likely clinical conditions) relative to the
general population or other ethnic groups.
[00072]    The hub 12 serves as a clearinghouse for sequence data 14 from multiple consumers
20 for the benefit of the consumers themselves as well as interested third parties. A consumer 20
may be medically sophisticated or naive, and the hub 12 may be configured to create a
customized user interface for a variety of different types of sequence data consumers. FIGS. 8
 10 are examples of displayed graphical user interfaces that guide the consumer 20 through
interaction with the sequence data 14 and the hub 12.
[00073]    FIG. 8 is an example of a displayed introduction screen 400. The screen includes a
genomic representation. For example, a person's whole or partial genome sequence (or other
                                                  24

type of sequence data 14) may be represented by an icon 402 in an application window that is
generated by an application in a client machine, such as a mobile phone. This icon 402, or
genomic representation, may be used to identify the individual consumer or user to vendors that
offer genomic services, such as genealogy. In some embodiments, the genomic representation
itself holds the genomic information of the individual consumer. In some embodiments, the
genomic representation may be an icon that points to data that is stored in a remote location, such
as a server, or locally on the client machine, wherein the data include genomic information. This
icon 402 may, in some embodiments, include genotype information, phenotype information, or a
combination of genotype and phenotype information. Since the genomic representation and the
genomic information that it includes may include private information, security measures, such as
encryption, should be used wherever the genomic representation, or genomic information that the
genomic representation points to, is stored, as well as the communication involving the genomic
representation or genomic information. The introduction screen 400 may include a simplified
soft key or link 404 to enter a more involved setup screen, as shown in FIG. 9
[00074]    FIG. 9 is an example of a displayed setup screen 410 that allows a user to follow a
default or automated setup according to a profile 412 that most fits their needs.         By way of
example, the profiles may include a relatively unsophisticated example user, "Joe," without any
particular disease profile or interest area. Selecting one profile leads to the next associated setup
screen, while selecting another profile leads to a different associated setup screen. Other profile
examples include medical researchers, cancer patients, or genealogists. Each profile leads to a
customized suggested setup, as shown in FIG. 10. The setup includes options for the consumer
20 to download suggested apps 422, join social media groups 424, and click on information
about particular diseases 426. In other embodiments, the suggestion to join particular groups
may be based on a sequence analysis and the presence of particular sequence variants.              In
another embodiment that may be appropriate for a consumer 20 with at least basic genetics
knowledge, the consumer 20 may navigate a chromosome view of a genome, e.g., via scrolling
and/or clicking.   If a particular area is associated with analysis applications, sharing features,
social media groups, news, and/or healthcare specialists, such options may be provided as a
clickable link on the genome region.
                                                  25

[00075]    In addition to setting up a user interface, the consumer 20 may interact with the hub 12
in setting data and profile permissions. FIG. 11 is an example of an example of a granular and
dynamic permission icon 450. In the depicted embodiment, the granularity may be set at the
secondary user level. For example, the icon 450 may be a pie or wheel including selectable
regions for specific secondary users 30. By clicking on a particular region, such as "healthcare
providers" 452 a list of available permissions and restrictions are displayed.        These can be
changed or customized depending on the preferences of the consumer 20. The consumer 20 may
wish to have open sequence access for certain healthcare providers limited sequence access for
insurance companies 454 (e.g., sufficient access to regions of interest to provide documentation
for insurance coverage for tests or procedures), and more limited access for consumer product
companies 460. To guide the user through various privacy settings, the hub 12 may include
stored privacy profiles for example users that are similar to the user configuration profiles in
FIG. 10.
[00076]    Alternatively or additionally, the icon 450 may be configured to facilitate the user
selecting sequence chunks for access or permissions. In the case of a whole genome, the icon
450 may be a representation of chromosomes, and the consumer 20 may navigate through the
chromosomes to select areas to share with secondary users 30.            Accordingly, only certain
portions of the sequence data 14 may be shared. In one embodiment, the consumer 20 may share
only certain chromosomes, only certain gene sequences, only areas of the genome associated
with transcribed genes, only junk DNA, etc. Such sharing may also be granular, and may be
customized for individual secondary users 30, as in FIG. 11.         Further, the icon 450 may be
integrated into the icon 402, so that selecting or dragging the icon 402 also selects the associated
permissions. In this manner, the consumer 20 may interact with the hub 12 via a genome avatar
or cookie that includes data, profile information, and privacy settings. Further it should be
understood that the privacy settings are dynamic, and access to the sequence data 14 may be
granted or withheld at any time.
[00077]    The present disclosure provides a method to present or display a graphical user
interface suitable for purchasing, distributing, sharing, displaying, and consuming genomic
information. The graphical user interface can be displayed or presented to a user or an individual
consumer on a client machine. The client machine may be a mobile device, such as a smart
                                                   26

phone, a tablet, or laptop, etc. The client machine may be a non-mobile device, such as a
personal desktop computer, among others. In some embodiments, the graphical user interface is
displayed or presented on the client machine by an application or program that runs on the client
machine. For example, an application on a mobile device may be used to display the graphical
user interface to a user.
[00078]     The graphical user interface is useful for previewing or purchasing genomic products
or services in a client-server environment, such as the client communicating to the server through
a network connection.       The network connection may include the internet, or local intranet,
among others.
[00079]     The graphical user interface is particularly useful for a client-server environment that
facilitates the purchase, distribution, display, sharing, and consumption of genomic information.
Genomic information is highly personal and confidential, so any transmission of the genomic
information between the client and server, or between the client and other clients, should be
secure and controlled by the individual consumer. This controlled transmission or distribution of
genomic information may make use of encryption or other known security techniques to prevent
unauthorized access by third party, such as hackers. User accounts may be created by individual
users to facilitate the restriction of unauthorized access to the individual user's genomic
information, as well as the limitation or delineation of rights of authorized users. The security
techniques, such as encryption and user accounts, restrict access to the genomic information
during transmission or download, as well as during storage at a client machine or server. The
graphical user interface may also be used by individual users to identify genomic products or
services to be purchased from genomic vendors, as well as locate genomic information stored on
the client machine, servers of genomic vendors, or other servers.
[00080]     The present disclosure may be implemented in several ways, such as a method,
system, apparatus, graphical user interface, or a computer program product.           The computer
program product may include machine readable code stored on a computer readable storage
medium, such as a hard drive, DVD-ROM, CD-ROM, solid state drive, or any other medium that
is capable of storing digital information. These computer readable storage devices need not be
physical devices.     These computer readable storage devices can also be virtualized storage
                                                  27

devices, wherein the logical drives physically reside across multiple machines. The computer
program product may also span across geographically diverse locations.              For example, the
computer program product may include a client machine interface as well as a remote server
database that is accessed by the client machine interface.
[00081]     Certain graphical user interfaces that may be used in conjunction with genomic
information are shown in FIGS. 12-15.        In a graphical user interface, genomic information may
be represented by a genomic representation. For example, a person's whole genome sequence
may be represented by an icon in an application window that is generated by an application in a
client machine, such as a mobile phone. This icon, or genomic representation, may be used to
identify the individual consumer or user to vendors that offer genomic services, such as
genealogy.     In some embodiments, the genomic representation itself holds the genomic
information of the individual consumer. In some embodiments, the genomic representation may
be an icon that points to data that is stored in a remote location, such as a server, or locally on the
client machine, wherein the data include genomic information.               This icon may, in some
embodiments, include genotype information, phenotype information, or a combination of
genotype and phenotype information.           Since the genomic representation and the genomic
information that it includes may include private information, security measures, such as
encryption, should be used wherever the genomic representation, or genomic information that the
genomic representation points to, is stored, as well as the communication involving the genomic
representation or genomic information.
[00082]    In some embodiments, a method to process genomic information includes receiving a
sequence of a user's DNA; receiving phenotype information of the user; associating the sequence
of the user's DNA with the phenotype information of the user; storing the sequence of the user's
DNA and the phenotype information of the user in a central repository; generating an icon in a
graphical user interface by an application on a client device; and creating a pointer from the icon
to the stored sequence of the user's DNA.
[00083]    Different vendors may provide different genomic services. One vendor may provide
genealogy services, while another vendor may provide health and wellness services.               These
different services may require different genomic information in order to perform their respective
                                                   28

genomic services. For example, Vendor A may require Gene X and Gene Y to provide Services
L, while Vendor B may require Gene Z to provide Services M. In this case, an individual user
may not want to share his or her genomic information if the genomic information included his or
her entire genome sequence.       In some embodiments, a graphical user interface will include
controls or settings that allow the user to modify the level of sharing and what subsets of his or
her genomic information to share.
[00084]    Following the example above, suppose the user's genomic information included the
user's entire genomic sequence, or the user's complete DNA sequence.              The user is not
comfortable with sharing Genes Y and Z since these genes indicate that the user will likely
contract a debilitating disease in his life.     By setting the appropriate privacy settings in the
graphical user interface, third parties will not be able to view Genes Y and Z of the user. Indeed,
as a default setting, it may be desirable that the entire genomic sequence and/or identification
information of the user is set to private, meaning that no third party will be able to view the
entire genomic sequence or identifying information of the user without first obtaining permission
from the user.
[00085]    Since the user has not shared Genes Y and Z with third parties, and since Vendor A
requires Gene Y and Vendor B requires Gene Z, the user will not be able to utilize the services of
Vendors A or B. However, in some embodiments, the user may be able to browse the selection
of services offered by the vendors even when the required subset of genetic information is not
shared.   For example, the graphical user interface may include a first application window
produced by an application on the client machine that allows the user to browse a number of
vendors that provide genomic services, and a second application window produced by the
application on the client machine that allows the user to view a number of vendor services
provided by a vendor upon selecting the vendor from the number of vendors in the first
application window. The content of the first application window, which may include a list of
vendors, includes data that may be stored on a remote server. For example, the application may
communicate with the remote server via a wireless network connection to determine a list of
vendors and display the vendors in the first application window of the graphical user interface.
Similarly, the content of the second application window, which may include a list of vendor
services or genomic offerings provided by a specific vendor, may be stored on the remote server.
                                                   29

For example, the application may communicate with the remote server via a wireless connection
to determine a list of genomic offerings and display the genomic offerings in the second
application window of the graphical user interface.
[00086]    In some embodiments, a method to process genomic information includes prompting a
user, through a graphical user interface, to select at least a portion of the user's genomic
information; upon receiving the selection of at least a portion of the user's genomic information,
prompting the user, through the graphical user interface, to indicate a level of sharing for the
selection of at least a portion of the user's genomic information; and based on the selection of at
least a portion of the user's genomic information and the indicated level of sharing, allowing a
second user to view the user's genomic information.
[00087]    The user may preview, browse or read a brief description of the vendor services
presented in the second application window generated by the application. In some embodiments,
the preview or brief description of the vendor services may indicate what genomic information,
or what genes are required to be shared before the vendor services may be utilized.           Such
services may include applications for data analysis as well as novelty or entertainment
applications, and shopping or vendor applications. For example, the applications may include
applications for heath analysis. In another example, the applications may include applications
for purchasing consumer goods that are personalized based on the sequence data 14.              For
example, a consumer could elect to purchase an item of clothing embroidered with specific
sequences of their own personal DNA or specific phenotypes, in which case the hub would
release those sequences to the consumer good manufacturer to be incorporated in to the
personalized product. Examples of such products may include DNA socks, shirts, hats, bags, etc.
in addition, the application may include diet or fitness applications. For example, the application
may yield dietary personalization and recommendations for restrictions based on the sequence
data 14 and analysis of the presence or absence of allergies.
[00088]    The vendor, or the vendor services, may be represented by vendor icon, or a vendor
representation.   Following the example above, Vendor A may be displayed as an icon in the
graphical user interface.    The vendor representation, or vendor icon, may include a graphical
representation of the vendor, such as a trademark of the vendor or other identifiable graphic that
                                                  30

identifies the vendor. The vendor representation may also include a graphical representation of
the vendor services, such as a thumbnail of the product, or a trademark of the product or service.
[00089]     In some embodiments, a user may drag or drop the genomic representation, or icon,
over the vendor representation to determine if the vendor may provide vendor services to the
user.    For example, a user may drag the user's genomic representation to the vendor
representation, and the vendor representation may be grayed out, indicating that the vendor
services are not available under the current level of sharing, and a prompt in the graphical user
interface may indicate to the user which subset of genomic information is required in order to
utilize the vendor services. The prompt may also indicate which subset of genomic information
has been shared, and what remaining genomic information needs to be shared. Following the
above example, if the vendor is Vendor A, the prompt may indicate to the user that Gene X has
been shared, but Gene Y will also need to be shared in order to utilize Service L. In the example
of personalization of consumer goods, the prompt may indicate which genes are shared and that
are therefore available for using for personalization.
[00090]     Especially in a small touch screen client machine, such as a mobile device that lacks a
hardware keyboard, dragging or dropping a genomic representation entirely onto a vendor
representation may be cumbersome. In such cases, it may be desirable to use a pre-determined
percentage of overlap to conclude that the user intended to drag the genomic representation onto
the vendor representation.    For example, if the pre-determined percentage of overlap is 70%,
upon the user covering 70% or more of the vendor representation with the genomic information,
the application may then prompt the user in the graphical user interface which vendor services,
or genomic services provided by a vendor, are available, or what additional genomic information
is required before being able to utilize the vendor services of the vendor.
[00091]     In some embodiments, a method to process genomic information includes dragging,
by a user, a genomic representation to a vendor representation in a graphical user interface; upon
a pre-determined percentage of the genomic representation overlapping with the vendor
representation, determining a vendor-defined dataset, wherein the vendor-defined dataset is
defined by a vendor; comparing the vendor-defined data subset to a user-defined dataset; based
on the comparison, determining if the vendor-defined dataset is a subset of the user-defined
                                                  31

dataset; if the vendor-defined dataset is a subset of the user-defined dataset: displaying genomic
offerings from the vendor in the graphical user interface; if the vendor-defined dataset is not a
subset of the user-defined dataset: identifying the portions of the vendor-defined dataset that are
not a subset of the user-defined dataset; displaying, in the graphical user interface, the vendor
defined dataset that is not a subset of the user-defined dataset.
[00092]     In some embodiments, it may be advantageous for a central server to store genomic
information of a user. This central server, or centralized database, may be spread across diverse
geographic regions, such that multiple servers may carry redundant data for data disaster
situations or to maintain a higher uptime percentage. The data stored on the central server may
be accessed by individual users, or by vendors. For example, if a vendor needed to view a user's
genomic information in order to carry out genomic offerings or more personalize the genomic
offerings, the vendor would communicate with the central server to access the user's genomic
information, assuming the user allowed the vendor to view the user's genomic information.
[00093]     Similar to how an individual user has a user account, a vendor may have a vendor
account. Having a vendor account will allow the central server to authenticate the vendor, and to
allow the vendor to access a specific user's genomic information if the specific user
communicated with the server that the vendor account is allowed to view the user's genomic
information, or a subset thereof. The vendor account also may be used to authenticate the vendor
when the vendor wants to add new genomic offerings or vendor services to the vendor account.
[00094]     An individual user may share his or her genomic information with other individual
users.   For example, an individual user may share his genomic information with his brother,
parents, or close friends-who also have individual user accounts to access an instance of the
application on their respective client machines.       In this sense, there may be a network of
associations, wherein each associate may be given access to a different level or different subset
of the individual user's genomic information. For example, the individual user may share his
entire DNA sequence with his parents and brother, but only Genes X, Y, and Z with his close
friends. Further, the individual user may authorize or increase the level of sharing such that an
associate may be allowed to share the individual user's genomic information with other third
parties. For example, the individual user may authorize his parents to share the individual user's
                                                  32

genomic information with vendors who specialize in comparing multiple genomes and issuing a
report on the comparison. Depending on the amount of genomic information shared, personally
identifiable information may be redacted from the shared genomic information, such that the
vendor would not be able to trace the individual user's genomic information back to the
individual user. For example, the individual user's father may submit his own DNA sequence
with the individual user's genomic information, but not identify the individual user when
submitting the individual user's genomic information. In addition, the individual user's genomic
information by itself is not sufficient to identify the individual user.         In other words, the
individual user's genomic information is a subset of the individual user's complete DNA
sequence.
[00095]    Various levels of sharing may be applied to vendors as well.              For example, an
individual user may allow a vendor to access and view the individual user's genomic information
in the course of providing genomic offerings of vendor services. The individual user may also
allow the vendor to indicate to other vendors that the individual user utilized the vendor's
genomic offerings. Based on this indication, other vendors may prompt the user through the
graphical user interface if the user would be interested in previewing or utilizing the other
vendors' genomic offerings or their vendor services.
[00096]    All of this transaction data, that is, data that contains all the genomic offerings that the
individual user utilized or previewed, may be stored in a central server. The central server need
not be physically one machine, but may be geographically diverse with multiple machines in
different locations. The central server may also include the genomic information of individual
users, wherein users access and control their respective genomic information through a graphical
user interface generated by an application running on a client machine. With a large number of
individual users storing their transaction data and genomic information on the central server, the
central server may act as a sort of library. The Library of Genomics may be accessed by various
organizations for a wide variety of reasons.
[00097]    For example, with sufficient permission from individual users, a research institution
interested in using population genomes may want to access the Library of Genomics to get a
sufficient sample size of the genomes in a specific metropolitan area. The data in the Library of
                                                   33

Genomics may be redacted such that personally identifiable information is not disclosed. The
Library of Genomics may include user location and user age, among other types of metadata
about the user, and associate it with the user's genomic information.       Instead of generating a
report line by line with each individual user's genomic information with their corresponding
name, location, and age, the report may anonymize the data such that no individual can be traced
back from the report. For example, the report may include a section such as "All City Residents
Age 1 - 18" and display a list of genomic information or DNA sequences with no other
associated metadata, such as name, address, or date of birth.
[00098]     The Library of Genomics may also be used to determine which genomic offerings or
vendor services an individual user may be interested in. Since the Library of Genomics includes
transaction data, an application can compare the transaction data of one user with the transaction
data of a second user.     For example, suppose User A browsed through Vendor l's genomic
offerings through the graphical user interface produced by an application on User A's client
machine, and then later viewed Vendor 2's genomic offerings and purchased Service L from
Vendor 2. If User B browsed through Vendor l's genomic offerings through the graphical user
interface produced by the application on User B's client machine, and later closed the window
displaying Vendor l's genomic offerings, upon User B's next logging on to the application, the
application may push a notification to User B indicating that User B may be interested in Service
L from Vendor 2.
[00099]     In some embodiments, a method to process genomic information may include storing
a first user transaction data in a central repository, wherein the first user transaction data is
created as the first user completes a first user transaction, wherein the first user transaction
includes at least one from the following: view a vendor, view a vendor offering, and purchase a
vendor offering; storing a second user transaction data in a central repository, wherein the second
user transaction data is created as the second user completes a second user transaction, wherein
the first user transaction includes at least one from the following: view a vendor, view a vendor
offering, and purchase a vendor offering; comparing the first user transaction data to the second
user transaction data; pushing a notification to the second user in a graphical user interface with a
vendor offering based on the comparison.
                                                   34

[000100] The Library of Genomics and the graphical user interface used to access the Library of
Genomics may, in some embodiments, be part of a Genomics Environment. The Genomics
Environment is a platform that allows third parties to publish applications that utilize the
graphical user interface, as well as the information included in the Library of Genomics. For
example, Company A may house the Library of Genomics and allow individual users to access
the Library of Genomics and the Genomics Environment through a graphical user interface.
Company A may also publish an API kit, or an application programming interface kit for the
Genomics Environment that allows Company B to publish an application that Company B
created on the Genomics Environment. Company A may impose some restrictions on Company
B's application, such as security requirements, content requirements, and privacy requirements,
among others before allowing Company B's application to be published on the Genomics
Environment. After being published on the Genomics Environment, individual users will be able
to download, install, or otherwise utilize Company B's application through the Genomics
Environment and graphical user interface.         However, if Company B's application requires
sensitive or otherwise unshared genomic information of an individual user that is stored in the
Library of Genomics, the application may not work correctly, or the genomic offerings may not
be fully utilized.   The individual user may decide to share his or her respective genomic
information with Company B's application if the individual user decides to do so. If not, the
individual user may delete the program, or otherwise not utilize Company B's application.
Ideally, before download, install, or utilization by an individual user, Company B's application
should indicate which genomic information is required for Company B's application to be fully
utilized.
[000101] When an individual user first joints the Genomics Environment, the individual user
may have no individual user genomic information.         In some embodiments, a vendor that is
participating in the Genomics Environment may offer a genomic offering that includes whole
genome sequencing. The individual user may then utilize the vendor's genomic offering, such as
ordering a kit to return a DNA sample.          In some embodiments, the company hosting the
Genomics Environment may provide the genome sequencing service. In some embodiments, the
process of opening a new user account to join the Genomics Environment may include sending a
DNA sample to the company in charge of the Genomics Environment.
                                                  35

  [000101A] As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise the term 'comprise' and
  variations of the term, such as 'comprising', 'comprises' and 'comprised', are not intended to
  exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
  [000102] Other aspects and advantages of the disclosure will become apparent from this detailed
5 description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate, by way of
  example, the principles of the disclosure.
                                                 36

6654
     CLAIMS
     1. A method for processing genomic information, the method comprising:
                 storing a first user transaction data in a central repository, wherein the first user
            transaction data is created as the first user completes a first user transaction, wherein the
            first user transaction includes at least one from the following: view a vendor, view a
            vendor offering, and purchase a vendor offering;
                 storing a second user transaction data in a central repository, wherein the second user
            transaction data is created as the second user completes a second user transaction,
            wherein the second user transaction includes at least one from the following: view a
            vendor, view a vendor offering, and purchase a vendor offering;
                 comparing the first user transaction data to the second user transaction data;
                 pushing a notification to the second user in a graphical user interface with a vendor
            offering based on the comparison.
     2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the notification comprises information related to a
        purchase of a vendor offering from the first user transaction that was not present in the
        second user transaction data.
     3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the first user transaction data and the second user
        transaction data partially overlap.
                                                        37

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
