                                             ABSTRACT
            A device that includes a scaffold composition and a bioactive composition with the
bioactive composition being incorporated into or coated onto the scaffold composition such
that the scaffold composition and/or a bioactive composition controls egress of a resident cell
or progeny thereof. The devices mediate active recruitment, modification, and release of host
cells from the material.
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

                                 SCAFFOLDS FOR CELL TRANSPLANTATION
                                        GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
            The invention was supported, in whole, or in part, by NIH/NICDR grant number RO1
DE13349 and HL069957. The Government has certain rights in the invention.
                                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            The total costs of musculoskeletal disease in the US in 2000 have been estimated at
US $ 254 billion and, in developing countries, the figure is estimated at US$ 100 billion.
Under normal conditions, muscles can repair themselves by regenerating damaged muscle
fibers and restoring muscle strength. Following an initial necrosis of damaged muscle fibers,
an inflammatory response is initiated that activates a resident population of quiescent cells
termed satellite cells. These myogenic cells proliferate, migrate to the site of injury,
differentiate and fuse to form mature myofibers, or fuse with existing myofibers thus
regenerating damaged muscle fibers and restoring their function. When these normal
processes are compromised by disease or age, damaged muscle fibers are instead replaced by
infiltrating fibrous tissue or fat, leading to a net loss of muscle mass and a resultant loss of
strength.
            Cell transplantation has been used in regenerative medicine for musculoskeletal
disorders as well as degenerative conditions such as diabetes with limited success.
Limitations of earlier approaches include loss of cell viability and function following
transplantation.
                                      SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The devices and methods of the invention provide a solution to several problems
associated with previous cell transplantation protocols. Transplantation systems that enhance
the viability of the cells and induce their outward migration to populate injured or defective
bodily tissues enhance the success of tissue regeneration, e.g., the regeneration of muscle
tissue or other tissues as well as angiogenesis. Such a device that controls cell function
and/or behavior, e.g., locomotion, contains a scaffold composition and one or more bioactive
compositions. The bioactive composition is incorporated into or coated onto the scaffold
composition. The scaffold composition and/or bioactive composition temporally and
spatially (directionally) controls egress of a resident cell or progeny thereof.
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

            The devices mediate active recruitment, modification, and release of host cells from
the material in vivo, thereby improving the function of cells that have resided in the scaffold.
For example, the device attracts or recruits cells already resident in the body to the scaffold
material, and programs or reprograms the resident cells to a desired fate (e.g., immune
activation or tissue regeneration).
            This device includes a scaffold composition which incorporates or is coated with a
bioactive composition; the device regulates the egress of resident cells. Egress is regulated
spatially and temporally. Depending on the application for which the device is designed, the
device regulates egress through the physical or chemical characteristics of the scaffold itself.
For example, the scaffold composition is differentially permeable, allowing cell egress only
in certain physical areas of the scaffold. The permeability of the scaffold composition is
regulated, for example, by selecting or engineering a material for greater or smaller pore size,
density, polymer cross-linking, stiffness, toughness, ductility, or viscoelascticity. The
scaffold composition contains physical channels or paths through which cells can move more
easily towards a targeted area of egress of the device or of a compartment within the device.
The scaffold composition is optionally organized into compartments or layers, each with a
different permeability, so that the time required for a cell to move through the device is
precisely and predictably controlled. Migration is also regulated by the degradation, de- or
re-hydration, oxygenation, chemical or pH alteration, or ongoing self-assembly of the
scaffold composition. These processes are driven by diffusion or cell-secretion of enzymes
or other reactive chemicals.
            Alternatively or in addition, egress is regulated by a bioactive composition. By
varying the concentration of growth factors, homing/migration factors, morphogens,
differentiation factors, oligonucleotides, hormones, neurotransmitters, neurotransmitter or
growth factor receptors, interferons, interleukins, chemokines, cytokines, colony stimulating
factors, chemotactic factors, extracellular matrix components, adhesion molecules and other
bioactive compounds in different areas of the device. The device controls and directs the
migration of cells through its structure. Chemical affinities are used to channel cells towards
a specific area of egress. For example, adhesion molecules are used to attract or retard the
migration of cells. By varying the density and mixture of those bioactive substances, the
device controls the timing of the migration and egress. The density and mixture of these
bioactive substances is controlled by initial doping levels or concentration gradient of the
substance, by embedding the bioactive substances in scaffold material with a known leaching
rate, by release as the scaffold material degrades, by diffusion from an area of concentration,
                                                     2
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

by interaction of precursor chemicals diffusing into an area, or by production/excretion of
compositions by resident support cells. The physical or chemical structure of the scaffold
also regulates the diffusion of bioactive agents through the device.
            The bioactive composition includes one or more compounds that regulate cell
function and/or behavior. The bioactive composition is covalently linked to the scaffold
composition or non-covalently associated with the scaffold. For example, the bioactive
composition is an extracellular matrix (ECM) component that is chemically crosslinked to
the scaffold composition. Regardless of the tissue of origin, ECM components generally
include three general classes of macromolecules: collagens,
proteoglycans/glycosaminoglycans (PG/GAG), and glycoproteins, e.g., fibronectin (FN),
laminin, and thrombospondin. ECM components associate with molecules on the cell surface
and mediate adhesion and/or motility. Preferably, the ECM component associated with the
scaffold is a proteoglycan attachment peptide or cyclic peptide containing the amino acid
sequence arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD). Proteoglycan attachment peptides are
selected from the group consisting of G4RGDSP, XBBXBX, PRRARV,
YEKPGSPPREVVPRPRPGV, RPSLAKKQRFRHRNRKGYRSQRGHSRGR, and
RIQNLLKITNLRIKFVK, and cell attachment peptides are selected from the group
consisting of RGD, RGDS, LDV, REDV, RGDV, LRGDN, IKVAV, YIGSR, PDSGR,
RNIAEIIKDA, RGDT, DGEA, and VTXG.
            Components of the ECM, e.g., FN, laminin, and collagen, interact with the cell
surface via the integrin family of receptors, a group of divalent cation-dependent cell surface
glycoproteins that mediate cellular recognition and adhesion to components of the ECM and
to other cells. Ligands recognized by integrins typically contain an RGD amino acid
sequence that is expressed in many ECM proteins. Exemplary molecules that mediate cell
adhesion and/or movement include FN, laminin, collagen, thrombospondin 1, vitronectin,
elastin, tenascin, aggrecan, agrin, bone sialoprotein, cartilage matrix protein, fibronogen,
fibrin, fibulin, mucins, entactin, osteopontin, plasminogen, restrictin, serglycin,
SPARC/osteonectin, versican, von Willebrand Factor, polysacchride heparin sulfate, cell
adhesion molecules including connexins, selectinsinclude collagen, RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp) and
YIGSR (Tyr-Ile-Gly-Ser-Arg) peptides, glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), hyaluronic acid (HA),
integrins, selectins, cadherins and members of the immunoglobulin superfamily.
Carbohydrate ligands of the ECM include the polysaccharides hyaluronic acid, and
chondroitin-6-sulfate.
                                                 3
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

            Signal transduction events that participate in the process of cell motility are initiated
in response to cell growth and/or cell differentiation factors. Thus, the device optionally
contains a second bioactive composition that is a growth factor, morphogen, differentiation
factor, or chemoattractant. For example, the device includes vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), or fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) or a
combination thereof. Other factors include hormones, neurotransmitters, neurotransmitter or
growth factor receptors, interferons, interleukins, chemokines, MMP-sensitive substrate,
cytokines, colony stimulating factors. Growth factors used to promote angiogenesis, bone
regeneration, wound healing, and other aspects of tissue regeneration are listed herein and are
used alone or in combination to induce colonization or regeneration of bodily tissues by cells
that have migrated out of an implanted scaffold device.
            Alternatively, the second bioactive composition is an inhibitor of differentiation. In
this case, the cells are maintained at a desired stage of development or differentiation by the
inhibitor until the inhibitor is depleted (e.g., has diffused out of the scaffold or is rendered
inactive) or until another signal is provided to induce a change, e.g., to promote maturation or
differentiation.
            In some cases, the second bioactive composition is covalently linked to the scaffold
composition, keeping the composition relatively immobilized in or on the scaffold
composition. In other cases, the second bioactive composition is noncovalently associated
with the scaffold. Noncovalent bonds are generally one to three orders of magnitude weaker
than covalent bonds permitting diffusion of the factor out of the scaffold and into surrounding
tissues. Noncovalent bonds include electrostatic, hydrogen, van der Waals, 71 aromatic, and
hydrophobic. For example, a growth factor such as VEGF is associated with the device by
noncovalent bonds and exits the device following administration of the cell-seeded device to
a target site to further promote angiogenesis and tissue repair of the target bodily tissue.
            The scaffold composition is biocompatible. The composition is bio
degradable/erodable or resistant to breakdown in the body. Relatively permanent
(degradation resistant) scaffold compositions include metals and some polymers such as silk.
Preferably, the scaffold composition degrades at a predetermined rate based on a physical
parameter selected from the group consisting of temperature, pH, hydration status, and
porosity, the cross-link density, type, and chemistry or the susceptibility of main chain
linkages to degradation or it degrades at a predetermined rate based on a ratio of chemical
polymers. For example, a high molecular weight polymer comprised of solely lactide
degrades over a period of years, e.g., 1-2 years, while a low molecular weight polymer
                                                    4
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

comprised of a 50:50 mixture of lactide and glycolide degrades in a matter of weeks, e.g., 1,
2, 3, 4, 6, 10 weeks. A calcium cross-linked gels composed of high molecular weight, high
guluronic acid alginate degrade over several months (1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 months) to years (1,
2, 5 years) in vivo, while a gel comprised of low molecular weight alginate, and/or alginate
that has been partially oxidized, will degrade in a matter of weeks.
            In one example, cells mediate degradation of the scaffold matrix, i.e., the scaffold
composition is enzymatically digested by a composition elicited by a resident cell, and the
egress of the cell is dependent upon the rate of enzymatic digestion of the scaffold. In this
case, polymer main chains or cross-links contain compositions, e.g., oligopeptides, that are
substrates for collagenase or plasmin, or other enzymes produced by within or adjacent to the
scaffold.
            Exemplary scaffold compositions include polylactic acid, polyglycolic acid, PLGA
polymers, alginates and alginate derivatives, gelatin, collagen, fibrin, hyaluronic acid, laminin
rich gels, agarose, natural and synthetic polysaccharides, polyamino acids, polypeptides,
polyesters, polyanhydrides, polyphosphazines, poly(vinyl alcohols), poly(alkylene oxides),
poly(allylamines)(PAM), poly(acrylates), modified styrene polymers, pluronic polyols,
polyoxamers, poly(uronic acids), poly(vinylpyrrolidone) and copolymers or graft copolymers
of any of the above. One preferred scaffold composition includes an RGD-modified alginate.
            Porosity of the scaffold composition influences egress of the cells from the device.
Pores are nanoporous, microporous, or macroporous. For example, the diameter of
nanopores are less than about 10 nm; micropore are in the range of about 100 nm-20 pm in
diameter; and, macropores are greater than about 20 pm (preferably greater than about 100
pm and even more preferably greater than about 400pm). In one example, the scaffold is
macroporous with aligned pores of about 400-500pm in diameter.
            The devices are manufactured in their entirety in the absence of cells or can be
assembled around or in contact with cells (the material is gelled or assembled around cells in
vitro or in vivo in the presence of cells and tissues) and then contacted with cells to produce a
cell-seeded structure. Alternatively, the device is manufactured in two or more (3, 4, 5, 6,
.... 10 or more) stages in which one layer or compartment is made and seeded with cells
followed by the construction of a second, third, fourth or more layers, which are in turn
seeded with cells in sequence. Each layer or compartment is identical to the others or
distinguished from one another by the number, genotype, or phenotype of the seed cell
population as well as distinct chemical, physical and biological properties. Prior to
implantation, the device is contacted with purified populations cells or characterized mixtures
                                                   5
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

of cells as described above. Exemplary cells include myoblasts for muscle regeneration,
repair or replacement; hepatocytes for liver tissue regeneration, repair or organ
transplantation, chondrocytes for cartilage replacement, regeneration or repair, and
osteoblasts for bone regeneration, replacement or repair, various stem cell populations
(embryonic stem cells differentiated into various cell types), bone marrow or adipose tissue
derived adult stem cells, cardiac stem cells, pancreatic stem cells, endothelial progenitors and
outgrowth endothelial cells, mesenchymal stem cells, hematopoietic stem cells, neural stem
cells, satellite cells, side population cells, differentiated cell populations including
osteoprogenitors and osteoblasts, chondrocytes, keratinocytes for skin, tenocytes for tendon,
intestinal epithelial cells, endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts for tissue or
organ regeneration, repair or replacement and/or for DNA delivery. Preferably, the cells are
human; however, the system is adaptable to other eucaryotic animal cells, e.g., canine, feline,
equine, bovine, and porcine as well as prokaryotic cells such as bacterial cells.
            A method of making a scaffold is carried out by providing a scaffold composition and
covalently linking or noncovalently associating the scaffold composition with a first bioactive
composition. The first bioactive composition preferably contains a cell adhesion ligand. The
scaffold composition is also contacted with a second bioactive composition. The second
bioactive composition is preferably non-covalently associated with the scaffold composition
to yield a doped scaffold, i.e., a scaffold composition that includes one or more bioactive
substances. The contacting steps are optionally repeated to yield a plurality of doped
scaffolds, e.g., each of the contacting steps is characterized by a different amount of the
second bioactive composition to yield a gradient of the second bioactive composition in the
scaffold device. Rather than altering the amount of composition, subsequent contacting
steps involve a different bioactive composition, i.e., a third, fourth, fifth, sixth....,
composition or mixture of compositions, that is distinguished from the prior compositions or
mixtures of prior doping steps by the structure or chemical formula of the factor(s). The
method optionally involves adhering individual niches, layers, or components to one another
and/or insertion of semi-permeable, permeable, or nonpermeable membranes within or at one
or more boundaries of the device to further control/regulate locomotion of cells or bioactive
compositions. As described above, the scaffold is seeded with cells after completion of the
construction of the device or in an iterative manner throughout the construction of each
component.
            Therapeutic applications of the device include tissue generation, regeneration/repair,
as well as augmentation of function of a mammalian bodily tissue, and the targeted
                                                    6
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

destruction of undesired tissues (e.g., cancer, undesired adipose depots), as well as the
instruction of immune cells. For example, the method includes the steps of providing a
device that includes scaffold composition with a bioactive composition incorporated therein
or thereon and a mammalian cell bound to the scaffold. A mammalian tissue is contacted
with the device. The scaffold composition temporally controls egress of the cell and the
bioactive composition spatially or directionally regulates egress of the cell. In another
example, the device that is provided contains a scaffold composition with a bioactive
composition incorporated therein or thereon and a mammalian cell immobilized within the
scaffold. In the latter case, the cell remains immobilized within the scaffold, and the scaffold
composition temporally controls egress of a progeny cell of the immobilized cell and the
bioactive composition spatially regulates egress of the progeny cells.
            A method of modulating an activity of a cell, e.g., a host cell, is carried out by
administering to a mammal a device containing a scaffold composition and a recruitment
composition incorporated therein or thereon, and then contacting the cell with a deployment
signal. The deployment signal induces egress of the cells from the device. The activity of
the cell at egress differs from that prior to entering the device. Cells are recruited into the
device and remain resident in the device for a period of time, e.g., minutes; 0.2. 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6,
12, 24 hours; 2, 4, 6, days; weeks (1-4), months (2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12) or years, during which the
cells are exposed to structural elements and bioactive compositions that lead to a change in
the activity or level of activity of the cells. The cells are contacted with or exposed to a
deployment signal that induces induces egress of the altered (re-educated or reprogrammed)
cells and the cells migrate out of the device and into surrounding tissues or remote target
locations.
            The deployment signal is a composition such as protein, peptide, or nucleic acid. For
example, cells migrating into the device only encounter the deployment signal once they have
entered the device. In some cases, the deployment signal is a nucleic acid molecule, e.g., a
plasmid containing sequence encoding a protein that induces migration of the cell out of the
device and into suffounding tissues. The deployment signal occurs when the cell encounters
the plasmid in the device, the DNA becomes internalized in the cell (i.e., the cell is
transfected), and the cell manufactures the gene product encoded by the DNA. In some
cases, the molecule that signals deployment is an element of the device and is released from
the device in delayed manner (e.g., temporally or spatially) relative to exposure of the cell to
the recruitment composition. Alternatively, the deployment signal is a reduction in or
absence of the recruitment composition. For example, a recruitment composition induces
                                                  7
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

migration of cells into the device, and a reduction in the concentration or depletion,
dissipation, or diffusion of the recruitment composition from the device results in egress of
cells out of the device. In this manner, immune cells such as T cells, B cells, or dendritic
cells (DCs) of an individual are recruited into the device, primed and activated to mount an
immune response against an antigen-specific target. Optionally, an antigen corresponding to
a target to which an immune response is desired is incorporated into or onto the scaffold
structure. Cytokines, such as granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF)
are also a component of the device to amplify immune activation and/or induce migration of
the primed cells to lymph nodes. Other cell specific recruitment compositions are described
below. For example, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is useful to recruit
angiogenic cells.
            The device recruit cells in vivo, modifies these cells, and then promotes their
migration to another site in the body. This approach is examplied herein in the context of
dendritic cells and cancer vaccine development but is also useful to other vaccines such as
those against microbial pathogens as well as cell therapies in general. Cells educated using
the devices described herein promote regeneration of a tissue or organ immediately adjacent
to the material, or at some distant site. Alternatively, the cells are educated to promote
destruction of a tissue (locally or at a distant site). The methods are also useful for disease
prevention, e.g., to promote cell-based maintenance of tissue structure and function to stop or
retard disease progression or age-related tissue changes. The education of cells within the
device, "programming" and "reprogramming" permits modification of the function or activity
of any cell in the body to become a multipotent stem cell again and exert therapeutic effects.
            It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
            In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
            Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following
description of the preferred embodiments thereof, and from the claims. All references cited
herein are incorporated by reference.
                                                      8
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

                                 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Figs 1A and lB are photomicrographs showing that the purity of primary skeletal
muscle myoblast cultures is increased by Percoll fractionation. Fig. 1A shows an initial
isolation resulted in heterogeneous cell population with myogenic cells (arrows) staining for
both desmin and Hoescht nuclear stain. In contrast non-myogenic cells are only stained with
the nuclear dye (arrow heads). Fig. lB shows that Percoll fractionation resulted in
homogeneous myogenic cultures.
            Fig. 2A is a line graph showing HGF release from macroporous, non peptide modified
alginate scaffolds, values represent mean and standard deviation (n=5). Fig. 2B is a bar graph
showing Viability and Fig. 2C is a bar graph showing cumulative migration of primary
myoblasts, in and from respectively, nanoporous scaffolds (U), nanoporous scaffolds
releasing HGF (0), and microporous scaffolds releasing HGF ([Mii). Values represent mean
and SD (n=6).
            Figs 3A and 3B are bar graphs showing cell condition and performance. Viability
(Fig. 3A) and cumulative migration (Fig. 3B) is enhanced by peptide modification of
alginate. Bars represent nanoporous alginate scaffolds (0), nanoporous scaffolds with
HGFG release (0), and microporous scaffolds with HGF release ([[ii). Numbers represent
mean and SD (n=8). * indicates statistically significant difference as compared to non-HGFG
releasing scaffolds p<0.001.
            Fig. 4A is a scanning electron microscope (SEM) photomicrographs of side and end
views of peptide modified macroporous alginate and Fig. 4B is a line graph showing release
kinetics of FGF2. Values represent mean and SD (n=4).
            Fig 5A is a bar graph showing Cell viability and Fig. 5B is a bar graph showing that
migration is enhanced by macroporosity and FGF2 release from peptide modified algnate
scaffolds. Bars represent macroporous alginate (J,        macroporous alginate scaffolds
releasing HGF (0), and scaffolds releasing both HGF and FGF2 ([Mii). Values represent
mean values and SD (n=6). * indicates statistically significant differences (p<0.0 1), as
compared to non-HGF releasing conditions.
            Fig. 6 is a photograph of a Western Blot analysis of cell lysates from myoblasts
cultured in macroporous scaffolds fabricated from peptide modified alginate either with (+)
(Lane 2) or without (-) (Lane 3) release of HGF and FGF2. Cells migrating from scaffolds
were also analyzed (Lane 4). Controls of lysates from C2C2 cell line (Lane 1), and primary
myoblasts cultured in standard two dimensional conditions that promote differentiation (Lane
5) are also shown.
                                                   9
100869471 (GHMatters)P77900.AU.3

            Figs. 7A-7C are photographs of tibialis anterior muscles treated with scaffolds
delivering cells and releasing HGF and FGF2 (Fig. 7A), scaffolds containing only HGF and
FGF2 (Fig. 7B), and scaffolds containing only myoblasts (Fig. 7C). Muscles were stained to
allow gross identification of regions containing lac Z donor cells (dotted lines outline
positively stained tissue). Size bars are shown on the photomicrographs. Fig. 7D is a bar
graph showing that the mass of the muscle at 30 days post injury was greater when treated
with scaffolds containing myoblasts and HGF and FGF2 (HGF/FGF2-cells in scaffold)
compared to injuries treated with an injection of myoblasts directly into the muscle
(cells[injected]), blank scaffolds, scaffolds releasing growth factors without cells (HGF/FGF),
or cells transplanted in scaffolds not releasing growth factors (cells in scaffold). Values
represent mean and standard deviation (n=6). * represents statistically significant difference
(p<0.001) compared to all other conditions.
            Figs. 8A-J are photomicrographs of defects 10 days post injury (Figs. 8A-E), and
defects 30 days post injury (Figs. 8F-J). Conditions included injuries treated with an
injection of myoblasts directly into the muscle (Figs. 8A, F), blank scaffolds (Figs. 8B, G),
scaffolds releasing growth factors without cells (Figs. C, H), cells transplanted in scaffolds
not releasing growth factors (Figs. 8D, I), and scaffolds delivering myoblasts and HGF and
FGF2 (Figs. 8E, J). Defects are outlined with dotted lines. At ten days, defects were
unresolved and filled with necrotic debris in all conditions. At 30 days, the laceration injuries
began to resolve in all conditions, but myoblasts delivered on scaffolds in combination with
growth factors led to virtually complete resolution of the defect at this time point. Size bars
are shown on the photomicrographs.
            Figs. 9A-B are bar graphs showing quantitative analysis of remaining defect area 10
days post injury (Fig. 9A), and 30 days post injury (Fig. 9B). Conditions included an
injection of myoblasts directly into the muscle (cells[injected]), blank scaffolds, scaffolds
releasing growth factors without cells (HGF/FGF), cells transplanted in scaffolds not
releasing growth factors (cells in scaffold), and scaffolds delivering myoblasts and HGF and
FGF2 (HGF/FGF2-cells in scaffold). No significant resolution of the defects occurred in any
condition at 10 days. In contrast, at 30 days post injury the defects in muscles treated with
scaffolds delivering cells and growth factors were significantly smaller than in any other
condition (* indicates p<0.05, as compared to all other conditions). A less pronounced, but
still significant reduction in defect size was also seen in muscles treated with injected cells or
scaffolds delivering HGF and FGF2 (# indicates p<0.01 compared to blank scaffolds or cells
                                                   10
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

transplanted on scaffolds not releasing growth factors). Values represent mean and standard
deviation (n=6).
            Figs. 1OA-B are photomicrographs showing that the width of regenerating fibers and
number of centrally located nuclei at 30 days were significantly greater in muscles treated
with scaffolds delivering cells and growth factors (Fig. 1OB), as compared to scaffolds
delivering only growth factors (Fig. 1OA) or any of the other conditions. Fig. 10C is a bar
graph drawing quantification of fiber width, and Fig. 1OD is a bar graph showing the number
of centrally located nuclei per fiber length. Fiber width was increased with myoblast
injection or treatment with scaffolds releasing HGF and FGF2 (# indicates p<0.01 compared
to blank scaffolds or scaffolds transplanting cells without growth factors), and was most
dramatically increased by treatment with scaffolds delivering myoblasts and growth factors
(* indicates p<0.001 compared to all other conditions). Increased centrally located nuclei per
muscle length was observed only when scaffolds containing myoblasts and HGF/FGF2 were
used to treat muscle injury. Values represent mean and standard deviation (n=6).
            Figs. 11A-D are photomicrographs of muscel tissue. Photomicrographs at low power
(Figs. 11 A-B), and high power (Figs. 11C-D) of tissue sections were immunostained to
identify donor myoblasts (positive staining for B-galactocidase) in the regenerating tissues.
Injection of cells (Figs. 11B, D) led to minimal donor cell incorporation into host
musculature. In contrast, transplantation of cells on scaffolds releasing growth factors leads
to extensive incorporation of donor cells into the regenerating muscle tissue (Figs. 11 A, C).
Size bars are shown on the photomicrographs.
            Fig. 12 is a bar graph showing endothelial cell migration out of alginate gel scaffolds
that contain VEGF compared to scaffolds without VEGF.
            Figs. 13A-B are photographs of mouse hindlimbs showing blood perfusion before and
after surgery. Transplanting cells within the gel matrix enhanced the recovery of blood flow
(Fig. 13A) compared to delivery of cells via intramuscular injection (Fig. 13B). Fig. 13 C is
a line graph showing that transplanting EPC and OEC within the gel matrix led to the
complete recovery of blood flow in the hind limb in which the artery was ligated. Fig. 13 D
is a bar graph showing recovery of blood perfusion. Hindlimbs subjected to surgery were
visually examined, and grouped as normal (displaying no discrepancy in color or limb
integrity as compared to non-ischemic hindlimbs of the same animal), or presenting one
necrotic toe, multiple necrotic toes, or a complete necrotic foot.
            Fig. 14A is a scatter plot and Figs. 14B-C are line graphs showing that GM-CSF
delivery from PLG scaffolds enhances the in vivo recruitment and expansion of DCs. Fig.
                                                    11
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

14A shows FACS plots of cells positive for the DC markers, CD86 and CD1 Ic, after
isolation from GM-CSF loaded scaffolds and blank scaffolds. Fig. 14B shows the percentage
of DCs isolated from GM-CSF loaded scaffolds (-i-) and blank scaffolds(-E-). Fig. 14C
shows the total number of DCs isolated from GM-CSF loaded scaffolds (-i-) and blank
scaffolds(-o-). GM-CSF scaffolds were loaded with 3 pg of the recombinant protein.
            Fig. 15A-B are bar graphs showing that DC infiltration is enhanced with an increase
in the GM-CSF dose incorporated into PLG scaffolds. Fig. 15A shows the percentage of
CD1 lc+CD86+ dendritic cells isolated from PLG scaffolds in response to delivery of 1, 3
and 7 pg of GM-CSF (n=4), and Fig. 15B shows the cellular density of CD1 lc+CD86+
dendritic cells normalized by the control. Scaffolds were explanted from subcutaneous
pockets at Day 14.
            Fig. 16A is a schematic diagram of an in vivo DC tracking assay. DCs are recruited to
FITC painted PLG matrices, implanted subcutaneously into the backs of C57B6 mice, where
they pick up FITC molecules and emigrate to the lymph nodes (LN) as FITC+ DCs. Local
GM-CSF delivery from fluoroscein (FITC) painted PLG matrices allows for the sustained
transport of matrix derived DCs to the draining lymph nodes for extended periods. Fig. 16B
is a series of scatter plots showing representative FACS data of CD1 lc+FITC+ DCs in the
inguinal lymph nodes at 2,7 and 14 days after the implantation of Blank and GM-CSF loaded
PLG matrices. Fig. 16C is a line graph showing the total number of FITC+ DCs in the
inguinal lymph nodes of C57B6 mice at days 2, 4, 7, 14 and 28 days after the implantation of
blank and GM-CSF loaded scaffolds.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            Regenerative medical technologies are devices and methods that repair or replace
diseased or defective tissues or organs. Tissue engineering is the application of the principles
and methods of engineering and the life sciences to the development of biological substitutes
to restore, maintain or improve function of bodily structures and tissues, or to selectively
promote the destruction of undesired tissues. It involves the development of methods to build
biological substitutes as supplements or alternatives to whole organ or tissue transplantation,
or the development of strategies to manipulate tissues in vivo. The use of living cells and/or
extracellular matrix (ECM) components in the development of implantable parts or devices is
an attractive approach to restore or to replace function. The methods and devices are useful
to generate functional biological structure de novo or to regenerate organs in situ, as well as
to restore or supplement tissue function. The devices are placed into or adjacent to a
particular diseased or injured tissue in the body or broadly dispersed throughout a tissue in
                                                   12
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

the body. The device makes direct contact with the tissue to be treated or contains cells that
migrate to nearby or remote tissue targets following residence in the device.
Cell populations
            Scaffold structures are seeded with one or more populations of purified or isolated
cells. The term "isolated" used in reference to a cell type, e.g., a stem cell means that the cell
is substantially free of other cell types or cellular material with which it naturally occurs. For
example, a sample of cells of a particular tissue type or phenotype is "substantially pure"
when it is at least 60% of the cell population. Preferably, the preparation is at least 75%, more
preferably at least 90%, and most preferably at least 99% or 100%, of the cell population.
Purity is measured by any appropriate standard method, for example, by fluorescence
activated cell sorting (FACS).       Optionally, the device is seeded with two or more
substantially pure populations of cells. The populations are spatially or physically separated,
e.g., one population is encapsulated, or the cells are allowed to come into with one another.
The scaffold or structural support not only provides a surface upon which cells are
seeded/attached but indirectly affects production/education of cell populations by housing a
second (third, or several) cell population(s) with which a first population of cells associates
(cell-cell adhesion). Such "accessory" cell populations secrete desirable cytokines, growth
factors or other signaling molecules, and/or deposit appropriate extracellular matrix proteins.
Cytokines are small secreted proteins which mediate and regulate immunity, inflammation,
and hematopoiesis. Cytokines can act over short distances and short time spans and at very
low concentration. They act by binding to specific membrane receptors, which then signal
cells via second messengers, often tyrosine kinases, to alter its behavior (e.g., cell function
and/or gene expression). Responses to cytokines include increasing or decreasing expression
of membrane proteins (including cytokine receptors), proliferation, and secretion of effector
molecules. Such molecules are also referred to as lymphokines (cytokines made by
lymphocytes), monokines (cytokines made by monocytes), chemokines (cytokines with
chemotactic activities), and interleukins (cytokines made by one leukocyte and acting on
other leukocytes). Cytokines act on the cells that secrete them (autocrine action), on nearby
cells (paracrine action), or on distant cells (endocrine action).
            A stem cell is an undifferentiated cell that differentiates into a mature functional
tissue specific cell upon contact with appropriate microenvironment, e.g., growth factors and
other differentiating agents. The devices/scaffold described herein represent such a
microenvironment. Each device constitutes a factory that attracts/accepts, reproduces,
sustains, educates, and sends forth to surrounding bodily tissues tissue-specific cells that are
                                                     13
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

capable of colonizing and regenerating damaged tissue. In addition to stem cells, the
scaffolds house progenitor cells, differentiated cells, support cells, modified cells (e.g.,
genetically modified (e.g., by DNA delivery (by plasmid or virus), or by siRNA, pRNA) to
produce exogenous proteins or chemically modified with drugs to enhance or suppress
specific signaling pathways (e.g., protein kinases) or genetic regulatory pathways (e.g.,
upregulate or downregulate activity of master transcription factors) that are involved in a
variety of cell fate decisions, or surface modified with ligands or growth factors and
morphogens, or small molecule mimics of the same, to promote specific adhesive interactions
with other cells, including immune cells, or provide autocrine or paracrine signaling, fused
cell populations, fibroblasts, chondrocytes, osteoblasts, myoblasts, endothelial, smooth
muscle and neuronal cells.
            Differentiated cells are reprogrammed to an embryonic-like state by transfer of
nuclear contents into oocytes or by fusion with embryonic stem (ES) cells. For example, the
induction of pluripotent stem cells from mouse embryonic or adult fibroblasts is
accomplished by introducing one or more of the following factors, Oct3/4, Sox2, c-Myc,
Klf4, and Nanog. Following contact with such factors, differentiated cells are reprogrammed
and exhibit the morphology and growth properties of stem cells, e.g., ES cells, and express
stem cell marker genes.
            The scaffolds are seeded in vitro or in vivo. For example, scaffolds are seeded by
incubating the structure in a solution containing the cells. Alternatively, cells are
injected/titrated into the scaffold or recruited to migrate into the device. In yet another
example, the scaffold is built in stages with each layer of the multicomponent scaffold being
seeded prior to laying down of another layer or before adherences of another pre-formed
component. Different cell types, e.g., stem vs. differentiated, support vs. therapeutic, are
optionally co-resident in the scaffold housing. Cells optionally vary in phenotype, e.g.,
differentiation state, activation state, metabolic state, or functional state. The scaffolds are
suitable for use with any cell type that one may want to transplant. Such cells include but are
not limited to, various stem cell populations (embryonic stem cells differentiated into various
cell types), bone marrow or adipose tissue derived adult stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells,
cardiac stem cells, pancreatic stem cells, endothelaila progenitor cells, outgrowth endothelial
cells, dendritic cells, hematopoietic stem cells, neural stem cells, satellite cells, side
population cells. Such cells may further include but are not limited to, differentiated cell
populations including osteoprogenitors and osteoblasts, chondrocytes, keratinocytes for skin,
tenocytes for tendon, and intestinal epithelial cells, smooth muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells,
                                                    14
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

epithelial cells, endothelial cells, urothelial cells, fibroblasts, myoblasts, chondroblasts,
osteoclasts, hepatocytes, bile duct cells, pancreatic islet cells, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal,
hypothalamic, pituitary, ovarian, testicular, salivary gland cells, adipocytes, and precursor
cells. For example, smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells may be employed for
muscular, tubular scaffolds, e.g., scaffolds intended as vascular, esophageal, intestinal, rectal,
or ureteral scaffolds; chondrocytes may be employed in cartilaginous scaffolds; cardiac
muscle cells may be employed in heart scaffolds; hepatocytes and bile duct cells may be
employed in liver scaffolds; epithelial, endothelial, fibroblast, and nerve cells may be
employed in scaffolds intended to function as replacements or enhancements for any of the
wide variety of tissue types that contain these cells. In general scaffolds of the invention may
comprise any cell population competent to participate in regeneration, replacement or repair
of a target tissue or organ. For example, cells are myoblasts for use in muscle regeneration.
            Cells are optionally genetically manipulated by the introduction of exogenous genetic
sequences or the inactivation or modification of endogenous sequences. For example,
recombinant genes are introduced to cause the cells to make proteins that are otherwise
lacking in the host or target tissue. Production of scarce but desirable proteins (in the context
of certain tissues) is augmented by transplanting genetically engineered cells. Cells used to
seed the scaffold are capable of degrading the scaffold matrix over a desired period time in
order to migrate through and out of the scaffold matrix. Scaffold matrices are selected such
that they are susceptible to degradation by certain cell types seeded within the matrix. For
example, scaffold materials and cells are selected and designed such that all or some of the
cells seeded within the scaffolds require a certain desired period of time degrade the scaffold
sufficiently to migrate through it and reach the surrounding tissue. The delay in the release of
the cells to the surrounding tissue is controlled by varying the composition of the scaffold, to
allow optimal time to signal the cells to multiply, differentiate, or achieve various
phenotypes. General mammalian cell culture techniques, cell lines, and cell culture systems
are described in Doyle, A., Griffiths, J. B., Newell, D. G., (eds.) Cell and Tissue Culture:
LaboratoryProcedures,Wiley, 1998, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
            Cells secrete enzymes that degrade the material of the scaffold, thereby controlling
the rate at which cells exit the scaffold. For example, migrating cells typically secrete
collagenases and plasmin to degrade their matrix and allow cell movement. The rate of cells
exiting may thus be regulated by controlling the density and susceptibility to these enzymes
of oligopeptides used as either cross-links in the material or as components of the main
                                                   15
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

chains. Certain materials are degraded in a preprogrammed manner independent of cell
action (e.g. hydrolytic degradation of poly(lactide-co glyolide) as a degradable scaffold. The
scaffolds may be prepared such that the degradation time may be controlled by using a
mixture of degradable components in proportions to achieve a desired degradation rate.
Alternatively, the cells themselves aid in the degradation. For example, scaffold
compositions are sensitive to degradation by materials secreted by the cells themselves that
are seeded within the scaffold. One example of this is the use of metalloproteinase (MMP)
sensitive substrate in the scaffold matrix; cells exit when the seeded cells have secreted
sufficient MMP to begin degradation of the matrix.
            Cells incubated in the scaffold are educated and induced to migrate out of the scaffold
to directly affect a target tissue, e.g., and injured tissue site. For example, stromal vascular
cells and smooth muscle cells are useful in sheetlike structures are used for repair of vessel
like structures such as blood vessels or layers of the body cavity. Such structures are used to
repair abdominal wall injuries or defects such as gastroschisis. Similarly, sheetlike scaffolds
seeded with dermal stem cells and/or keratinocytes are used in bandages or wound dressings
for regeneration of dermal tissue.
Scaffold compositions and architecture
            Components of the scaffolds are organized in a variety of geometric shapes (e.g.,
beads, pellets), niches, planar layers (e.g., thin sheets). For example, multicomponent
scaffolds are constructed in concentric layers each of which is characterized by different
physical qualities (% polymer, % crosslinking of polymer, chemical composition of scaffold,
pore size, porosity, and pore architecture, stiffness, toughness, ductility, viscoelasticity, and
or composition of bioactive substances such as growth factors, homing/migration factors,
differentiation factors. Each niche has a specific effect on a cell population, e.g., promoting
or inhibiting a specific cellular function, proliferation, differentiation, elaboration of secreted
factors or enzymes, or migration. Cells incubated in the scaffold are educated and induced to
migrate out of the scaffold to directly affect a target tissue, e.g., and injured tissue site. For
example, stromal vascular cells and smooth muscle cells are useful in sheetlike structures are
used for repair of vessel-like structures such as blood vessels or layers of the body cavity.
For example, such structures are used to repair abdominal wall injuries or defects such as
gastroschisis. Similarly, sheetlike scaffolds seeded with dermal stem cells and/or
keratinocytes are used in bandages or wound dressings for regeneration of dermal tissue. The
device is placed or transplanted on or next to a target tissue, in a protected location in the
body, next to blood vessels, or outside the body as in the case of an external wound dressing.
                                                   16
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

Devices are introduced into or onto a bodily tissue using a variety of known methods and
tools, e.g., spoon, tweezers or graspers, hypodermic needle, endoscopic manipulator, endo- or
trans-vascular- catheter, stereotaxic needle, snake device, organ-surface-crawling robot
(United States Patent Application 20050154376; Ota et al., 2006, Innovations 1:227-23 1),
minimally invasive surgical devices, surgical implantation tools, and transdermal patches.
Devices can also be assembled in place, for example by senquentially injecting or inserting
matrix materials. Scaffold devices are optionally recharged with cells or with bioactive
compounds, e.g., by sequential injection or spraying of substances such as growth factors or
differentiation factors.
            A scaffold or scaffold device is the physical structure upon which or into which cells
associate or attach, and a scaffold composition is the material from which the structure is
made. For example, scaffold compositions include biodegradable or permanent materials
such as those listed below. The mechanical characteristics of the scaffold vary according to
the application or tissue type for which regeneration is sought. It is biodegradable (e.g.,
collagen, alginates, polysaccharides, polyethylene glycol (PEG), poly(glycolide) (PGA),
poly(L-lactide) (PLA), or poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) or permanent (e.g., silk). In the
case of biodegradable structures, the composition is degraded by physical or chemical action,
e.g., level of hydration, heat or ion exchange or by cellular action, e.g., elaboration of
enzyme, peptides, or other compounds by nearby or resident cells. The consistency varies
from a soft/pliable (e.g., a gel) to glassy, rubbery, brittle, tough, elastic, stiff. The structures
contain pores, which are nanoporous, microporous, or macroporous, and the pattern of the
pores is optionally homogeneous, heterogenous, aligned, repeating, or random.
            Alginates are versatile polysaccharide based polymers that may be formulated for
specific applications by controlling the molecular weight, rate of degradation and method of
scaffold formation. Coupling reactions can be used to covalently attach bioactive epitopes,
such as the cell adhesion sequence RGD to the polymer backbone. Alginate polymers are
formed into a variety of scaffold types. Injectable hydrogels can be formed from low MW
alginate solutions upon addition of a cross-linking agents, such as calcium ions, while
macroporous scaffolds are formed by lyophilization of high MW alginate discs. Differences
in scaffold formulation control the kinetics of scaffold degradation. Release rates of
morphogens or other bioactive substances from alginate scaffolds is controlled by scaffold
formulation to present morphogens in a spatially and temporally controlled manner. This
controlled release not only eliminates systemic side effects and the need for multiple
                                                    17
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

injections, but can be used to create a microenvironment that activates host cells at the
implant site and transplanted cells seeded onto a scaffold.
              HO                      OH             -O     0
                                         H        HOH
            H             0
            H                    H             iOy          ... O      HO
                             0     H     OH   HO                                HO
          H    OH                                     H       HH          H H O
                         H           H
                                           Partially oxidized alginate
                                                      GGGGRGDSP
              HO                      OH            H       0
                                         H        H                                HHH
            HHH                                             OH
                       /         H         HH                                          O
          H    OH                                     H       HH          H  -O
                         H           H
                                            RGD-modified alginate
            The scaffold comprises a biocompatible polymer matrix that is optionally
biodegradable in whole or in part. A hydrogel is one example of a suitable polymer matrix
material. Examples of materials which can form hydrogels include polylactic acid,
polyglycolic acid, PLGA polymers, alginates and alginate derivatives, gelatin, collagen,
agarose, natural and synthetic polysaccharides, polyamino acids such as polypeptides
particularly poly(lysine), polyesters such as polyhydroxybutyrate and poly-epsilon.
caprolactone, polyanhydrides; polyphosphazines, poly(vinyl alcohols), poly(alkylene oxides)
particularly poly(ethylene oxides), poly(allylamines)(PAM), poly(acrylates), modified
styrene polymers such as poly(4-aminomethylstyrene), pluronic polyols, polyoxamers,
                                                          18
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

poly(uronic acids), poly(vinylpyrrolidone) and copolymers of the above, including graft
copolymers.
            The scaffolds are fabricated from a variety of synthetic polymers and naturally
occurring polymers such as, but not limited to, collagen, fibrin, hyaluronic acid, agarose, and
laminin-rich gels. One preferred material for the hydrogel is alginate or modified alginate
material. Alginate molecules are comprised of (1-4)-linked P-D-mannuronic acid (M units)
and a L-guluronic acid (G units) monomers, which can vary in proportion and sequential
distribution along the polymer chain. Alginate polysaccharides are polyelectrolyte systems
which have a strong affinity for divalent cations (e.g. Ca+2, Mg+2 , Ba+2) and form stable
hydrogels when exposed to these molecules. See Martinsen A., et al., Biotech. & Bioeng., 33
(1989) 79-89.) For example, calcium cross-linked alginate hydrogels are useful for dental
applications, wound dressings chondrocyte transplantation and as a matrix for other cell
types..
            An exemplary device utilizes an alginate or other polysaccharide of a relatively low
molecular weight, preferably of size which, after dissolution, is at the renal threshold for
clearance by humans, e.g., the alginate or polysaccharide is reduced to a molecular weight of
1000 to 80,000 daltons. Prefereably, the molecular mass is 1000 to 60,000 daltons,
particularly preferably 1000 to 50,000 daltons. It is also useful to use an alginate material of
high guluronate content since the guluronate units, as opposed to the mannuronate units,
provide sites for ionic crosslinking through divalent cations to gel the polymer. U.S. Patent
Number 6,642,363, incorporated herein by reference discloses methods for making and using
polymers containing polysachharides such as alginates or modified alginates that are
particularly useful for cell transplantation and tissue engineering applications.
            Useful polysaccharides other than alginates include agarose and microbial
polysaccharides such as those listed in the table below.
                                         Polysaccharide Scaffold Compositions
                                 Polymersa                  Structure
                                 Fungal
                                 Pullulan (N)               1,4-;1,6-a-D-Glucan
                                 Scleroglucan (N)           1,3;1,6- a -D-Glucan
                                 Chitin (N)                 1,4--D-Acetyl Glucosamine
                                 Chitosan (C)               1,4- p.-D-N-Glucosamine
                                 Elsinan (N)                1,4-;1,3- a -D-Glucan
                                 Bacterial
                                 Xanthan gum (A)            1,4- P.-D-Glucan with D-mannose;
                                                            D-glucuronic
                                                            Acid as side groups
                                                          19
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

                                 Curdlan (N)          1,3- P.-D-Glucan (with branching)
                                 Dextran (N)          1,6- a -D-Glucan with some 1,2;1,3-;
                                                      1,4-a- linkages
                                 Gellan (A)           1,4- P.-D-Glucan with rhamose,
                                                     D-glucuronic acid
                                 Levan (N)           2,6- P -D-Fructan with some
                                                      P -2,1-branching
                                 Emulsan (A)         Lipoheteropolysaccharide
                                 Cellulose (N)        1,4- P-D-Glucan
aN-neutral,          A = anionic and C=cationic.
            The scaffolds of the invention are porous or non-porous. For example, the scaffolds
are nanoporous having a diameter of less than about 10 nm; microporous wherein the
diameter of the pores are preferably in the range of about 100 nm-20 pim; or macroporous
wherein the diameter of the pores are greater than about 20 pim, more preferably greater than
about 100 pm and even more preferably greater than about 400pm. In one example, the
scaffold is macroporous with aligned pores of about 400-500pm in diameter. The
preparation of polymer matrices having the desired pore sizes and pore alignments are
described in the Examples. Other methods of preparing porous hydrogel products are known
in the art. (U.S. Pat. No. 6,511,650 incorporated herein by reference).
Bioactive compositions
            The device includes one or more bioactive compositions. Bioactive compositions are
purified naturally-occurring, synthetically produced, or recombinant compounds, e.g.,
polypeptides, nucleic acids, small molecules, or other agents. The compositions described
herein are purified. Purified compounds are at least 60% by weight (dry weight) the
compound of interest. Preferably, the preparation is at least 75%, more preferably at least
90%, and most preferably at least 99%, by weight the compound of interest. Purity is
measured by any appropriate standard method, for example, by column chromatography,
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, or HPLC analysis.
            The bioactive composition alters a function, e.g., level of differentiation, state of
activation, motility, or gene expression, of a cell. For example, at least one cell adhesion
molecule is incorporated into or onto the polymer matrix. Such molecules are incorporated
into the polymer matrix prior to polymerization of the matrix or after polymerization of the
matrix. Examples of cell adhesion molecules include but are not limited to peptides, proteins
and polysaccharides. More specifically, cell adhesion molecules include fibronectin, laminin,
collagen, thrombospondin 1, vitronectin, elastin, tenascin, aggrecan, agrin, bone sialoprotein,
cartilage matrix protein, fibronogen, fibrin, fibulin, mucins, entactin, osteopontin,
                                                   20
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

plasminogen, restrictin, serglycin, SPARC/osteonectin, versican, von Willebrand Factor,
polysaccharide heparin sulfate, connexins, collagen, RGD (Arg-Gly-Asp) and YIGSR (Tyr
Ile-Gly-Ser-Arg) peptides and cyclic peptides, glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), hyaluronic acid
(HA), condroitin-6-sulfate, integrin ligands, selectins, cadherins and members of the
immunoglobulin superfamily. Other examples include neural cell adhesion molecules
(NCAMs), intercellular adhesion molecules (ICAMs), vascular cell adhesion molecule
(VCAM-1), platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule (PECAM-1), L1, and CHL1.
            Examples of some of these molecules and their function are shown in the following
table.
            ECM Proteins and peptides and role in cell function
        Protein                  Sequence         Seq.ID No:          Role
        Fibronectin              RGDS                                 Adhesion
                                 LDV                                  Adhesion
                                 REDV                                 Adhesion
        Vitronectin              RGDV                                 Adhesion
        Laminin A                LRGDN                                Adhesion
                                 IKVAV                                Neurite extension
        Laminin B 1              YIGSR                                Adhesion of many cells,
via
                                                                       67 kD laminin receptor
                                 PDSGR                                Adhesion
        Laminin B2               RNIAEIIKDA                           Neurite extension
        Collagen 1               RGDT                                 Adhesion of most cells
                                 DGEA                                 Adhesion of platelets,
other
                                                                       cells
        Thrombospondin           RGD                                  Adhesion of most cells
                                 VTXG                                 Adhesion of platelets
Hubbell, JA (1995): Biomaterials in tissue engineering.
    Bio/Technology 13:565-576. One-letter abbreviations of amino acids are used, X stands
for any amino acid.
            Additional examples of suitable cell adhesion molecules are shown below.
    Amino acid sequences specific for proteoglycan binding from extracellular matrix proteins
               SEQUENCE                   SEQ.ID.NO.                  PROTEIN
XBBXBX*                                                                Consensus sequence
PRRARV                                                                Fibronectin
YEKPGSPPREVVPRPRPGV                                                   Fibronectin
RPSLAKKQRFRHRNRKGYRSQRGHSRGR                                          Vitronectin
                                                  21
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

rIQNLLKITNLRIKFVK                                                       Laminin
            Particularly preferred cell adhesion molecules are peptides or cyclic peptides
containing the amino acid sequence arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) which is known as
a cell attachment ligand and found in various natural extracellular matrix molecules. A
polymer matrix with such a modification provides cell adhesion properties to the scaffold,
and sustains long-term survival of mammalian cell systems, as well as supporting cell growth
and differentiation.
            Coupling of the cell adhesion molecules to the polymer matrix is accomplished using
synthetic methods which are in general known to one of ordinary skill in the art and are
described in the examples. Approaches to coupling of peptides to polymers are discussed in
Hirano and Mooney, Advanced Materials,p. 1 7 - 2 5 (2004). Other useful bonding chemistries
include those discussed in Hermanson, Bioconjugate Techniques, p. 152-185 (1996),
particularly by use of carbodiimide couplers, DCC and DIC (Woodward's Reagent K). Since
many of the cell adhesion molecules are peptides, they contain a terminal amine group for
such bonding. The amide bond formation is preferably catalyzed by 1-ethyl-3-(3
dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide (EDC), which is a water soluble enzyme commonly used
in peptide synthesis. The density of cell adhesion ligands, a critical regulator of cellular
phenotype following adhesion to a biomaterial. (Massia and Hubbell, J. Cell Biol. 114:1089
1100, 1991; Mooney et al., J. Cell Phys. 151:497-505, 1992; and Hansen et al., Mol. Biol.
Cell 5:967-975, 1994) can be readily varied over a 5-order of magnitude density range.
Device construction
            The scaffold structure is constructed out of a number of different rigid, semi-rigid,
flexible, gel, self-assembling, liquid crystalline, or fluid compositions such as peptide
polymers, polysaccharides, synthetic polymers, hydrogel materials, ceramics (e.g., calcium
phosphate or hydroxyapatite), proteins, glycoproteins, proteoglycans, metals and metal
alloys. The compositions are assembled into cell scaffold structures using methods known in
the art, e.g., injection molding, lyophillization of preformed structures, printing, self
assembly, phase inversion, solvent casting, melt processing, gas foaming, fiber
forming/processing, particulate leaching or a combination thereof. The assembled devices
are then implanted or administered to the body of an individual to be treated.
            The device is assembled in vivo in several ways. The scaffold is made from a gelling
material, which is introduced into the body in its ungelled form where it gells in situ.
Exemplary methods of delivering device components to a site at which assembly occurs
include injection through a needle or other extrusion tool, spraying, painting, or methods of
                                                   22
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

deposit at a tissue site, e.g., delivery using an application device inserted through a cannula.
In one example, the ungelled or unformed scaffold material is mixed with bioactive
substances and cells prior to introduction into the body or while it is introduced. The
resultant in vivo/in situ assembled scaffold contains a mixture of these substances and cells.
            In situ assembly of the scaffold occurs as a result of spontaneous association of
polymers or from synergistically or chemically catalyzed polymerization. Synergistic or
chemical catalysis is initiated by a number of endogenous factors or conditions at or near the
assembly site, e.g., body temperature, ions or pH in the body, or by exogenous factors or
conditions supplied by the operator to the assembly site, e.g., photons, heat, electrical, sound,
or other radiation directed at the ungelled material after it has been introduced. The energy is
directed at the scaffold material by a radiation beam or through a heat or light conductor,
such as a wire or fiber optic cable or an ultrasonic transducer. Alternatively, a shear-thinning
material, such as an ampliphile, is used which re-cross links after the shear force exerted
upon it, for example by its passage through a needle, has been relieved.
            Suitable hydrogels for both in vivo and ex vivo assembly of scaffold devices are well
known in the art and described, e.g., in Lee et al., 2001, Chem. Rev. 7:1869-1879. The
peptide amphiphile approach to self-assembly assembly is described, e.g., in Hartgerink et al.,
2002, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 99:5133-5138. A method for reversible gellation
following shear thinning is exemplied in Lee et al., 2003, Adv. Mat. 15:1828-1832
            A multiple compartment device is assembled in vivo by applying sequential layers of
similarly or differentially doped gel or other scaffold material to the target site. For example,
the device is formed by sequentially injecting the next, inner layer into the center of the
previously injected material using a needle, forming concentric spheroids. Non-concentric
compartments are formed by injecting material into different locations in a previously
injected layer. A multi-headed injection device extrudes compartments in parallel and
simultaneously. The layers are made of similar or different scaffolding compositions
differentially doped with bioactive substances and different cell types. Alternatively,
compartments self-organize based on their hydro-philic/phobic characteristics or on
secondary interactions within each compartment.
Compartmentalized device
            In certain situations, a device containing compartments with distinct chemical and/or
physical properties is useful. Such a configuration is particularly useful in maintaining for
long time periods the "stemness" of a population of cells, while simultaneously pushing
daughter cells to multiply rapidly and differentiate appropriately for participation in tissue
                                                    23
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

regeneration. This system provides a long-term (e.g., months to years) stream of cells from
the device. For example, an inner compartment maintains a quiescent population of
multipotent stem cells, and a second compartment promotes a high rate of proliferation of the
cells while inhibiting differentiation. The cells that migrate out of the second device to the
surrounding tissue are instructed, as they pass through a third compartment, to differentiate
appropriately. The slowly cycling cells in the inner population repopulate the intermediate
compartment with a portion of their daughters, where the transient, amplifying cells provide
the bulk of regenerative cells.
            A comparmentalized device is designed and fabricated using different compositions
or concentrations of compositions for each compartment. For example, the stem cell
population is encapsulated within hydrogels, using standard encapsulation techniques (e.g.,
alginate microbead formation). This first hydrogel contains factors required to maintain the
multipotent nature of the stem cells, either by their covalent coupling to the polymer forming
the gel or by their slow and sustained release from the gel. This compartment is then coated
with a second layer of gel (e.g., double layered alginate microbeads) that contains factors that
do not maintain stemness, but instead promote the stem cells to rapidly proliferate and
generate large numbers of more specialized daughter cells. This second compartment is
formed from the same material that contains distinct factors (e.g., morphogens, growth
factors, adhesion ligands), the same material in a distinct form (e.g., varying mechanical
properties or porosity), or a completely different material that provides appropriate
chemical/physical properties.
            Alternatively, the compartments are fabricated individually, and then adhered to each
other (e.g., a "sandwich" with an inner compartment surrounded on one or all sides with the
second compartment). This latter construction approach is accomplished using the intrinsic
adhesiveness of each layer for the other, diffusion and interpenetration of polymer chains in
each layer, polymerization or cross-linking of the second layer to the first, use of an adhesive
(e.g., fibrin glue), or physical entrapment of one compartment in the other. The
compartments self-assemble and interface appropriately, either in vitro or in vivo, depending
on the presence of appropriate precursors (e.g., temperature sensitive oligopeptides, ionic
strength sensitive oligopeptides, block polymers, cross-linkers and polymer chains (or
combinations thereof), and precursors containing cell adhesion molecules that allow cell
controlled assembly). Multiple compartments are designed to stage the proliferation and
specialization of the desired cells appropriately. In addition, the device is designed to have a
number of compartments, in which cells enter in parallel, in contrast to serially passing
                                                  24
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

through all compartments. The different compartments each induce distinct fates for the
contained cells, and in this manner provide multiple specialized daughter cell populations
from a single, starting stem cell population. An individual with ordinary skill in the art of
stem cell biology and biomaterials can readily derive a number of potentially useful designs
for a given starting cell type and desired daughter cell output.
            Alternatively, the compartmentalized device is formed using a printing technology.
Successive layers of a scaffold precursor doped with bioactive substances and/or cells is
placed on a substrate then cross linked, for example by self-assembling chemistries. When
the cross linking is controlled by chemical-, photo- or heat-catalyzed polymerization, the
thickness and pattern of each layer is controlled by a masque, allowing complex three
dimensional patterns to be built up when un-cross-linked precursor material is washed away
after each catalyzation. (WT Brinkman et al., Photo-cross-linking of type 1 collagen gels in
the presence of smooth muscle cells: mechanical properties, cell viability, and function.
 Biomacromolecules,2003 Jul-Aug;4(4): 890-895.; W. Ryu et al., The construction of three
dimensional micro-fluidic scaffolds of biodegradable polymers by solvent vapor based
bonding of micro-molded layers. Biomaterials,2007 Feb;28(6): 1174-1184; Wright, Paul K.
(2001). 21st Century manufacturing.New Jersey: Prentice-Hall Inc. ) Complex, multi
compartment layers are also built up using an inkjet device which "paints" different doped
scaffold precursors on different areas of the substrate. Julie Phillippi (Carnegie Mellon
University) presentation at the annual meeting of the American Society for Cell Biology on
December 10, 2006; Print me a heart and a set of arteries, Aldhouse P., New Scientist 13
April 2006 Issue 2547 p 19.; Replacement organs, hot off the press, C. Choi, New Scientist,
25 Jan 2003, v2379. These layers are built-up into complex, three dimensional
compartments. The device is also built using any of the following methods: Jetted
Photopolymer, Selective Laser Sintering, Laminated Object Manufacturing, Fused
Deposition Modeling, Single Jet Inkjet, Three Dimensional Printing, or Laminated Object
Manufacturing.
Growth factors and incorporation of compositions into/onto a scaffold device
            Bioactive substances that influence growth, development, movement, and other
cellular functions are introduced into or onto the scaffold structures. Such substances include
BMP, bone morphogenetic protein; ECM, extracellular matrix proteins or fragments thereof;
EGF, epidermal growth factor; FGF-2, fibroblast growth factor 2; NGF, nerve growth factor;
PDGF, platelet-derived growth factor; PIGF, placental growth factor; TGF, transforming
growth factor, and VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor. Cell-cell adhesion molecules
                                                  25
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

(cadherins, integrins, ALCAM, NCAM, proteases) are optionally added to the scaffold
composition..
            Exemplary growth factors and ligands are provided in the tables below.
                                            Growth factors used for angiogenesis
Growth factor                            Abbreviation     Relevant activities
Vascular endothelial growth              VEGF             Migration, proliferation and survival of ECs
factor
Basic fibroblast growth factor           bFGF-2           Migration, proliferation and survival of ECs and many other cell types
Platelet-derived growth factor           PDGF             Promotes the maturation of blood vessels by the recruitment of smooth
                                                          muscle cells
Angiopoietin-1                           Ang-1            Strengthens EC-smooth muscle cell interaction
Angiopoietin-2                           Ang-2            Weakens EC-smooth muscle cell interaction
Placental growth factor                  PIGF             Stimulates angiogenesis
Transforming growth factor               TGF              Stabilizes new blood vessels by promoting matrix deposition
                                        Growth factors used for bone regeneration
Growth factor                         Abbreviation      Relevant activities
Transforming growth factor-p          TGF-p             Proliferation and differentiation of bone-forming cells
Bone morphogenetic protein            BMP               Differentiation of bone-forming cells
Insulin-like growth factor            IGF-1             Stimulates proliferation of osteoblasts and the synthesis of bone matrix
Fibroblast growth factor-2            FGF-2             Proliferation of osteoblasts
Platelet-derived growth factor        PDGF              Proliferation of osteoblasts
                                           Growth factors used for wound healing
Growth Factor                     Abbreviation     Relevant activities
Platelet-derived growth           PDGF             Active in all stages of healing process
factor
Epidermal growth factor           EGF              Mitogenic for keratinocytes
Transforming growth               TGF-p            Promotes keratinocyte migration, ECM synthesis and remodeling, and
factor-p                                           differentiation of epithelial cells
Fibroblast growth factor          FGF              General stimulant for wound healing
                                      Growth Factors Used for Tissue- Engineering
Growth factor                 Abbreviation   Moleular           Relevant activities                            Representative
                                             weight                                                            supplier of rH growth
                                             (kDa)                                                             factor
Epidermal growth              EGF                  6.2          Proliferation of epithelial, mesenchymal,      PeproTech Inc.
factor                                                          and fibroblast cells                           (Rocky Hill, NJ, USA)
Platelet-derived              PDGF-AA             28.5          Proliferation and chemoattractant agent for    PeproTech Inc.
growth factor                 PDGF-AB             25.5          smooth muscle cells; extracellular matrix
                              PDGF-BB             24.3          synthesis and deposition
Transforming                  TFG-a                5.5          Migration and proliferation of                 PeproTech Inc.
growth factor-a                                                 keratinocytes; extracellular matrix
                                                                synthesis and deposition
Transforming                  TGF-p               25.0          Proliferation and differentiation of bone      PeproTech Inc.
growth factor-p                                                 forming cells; chemoattractant for
                                                                fibroblasts
Bone                          BMP-2               26.0          Differentiation and migration of bone          Cell Sciences Inc.
morphogenetic                 BMP-7               31.5          forming cells                                  (Norwood, MA, USA)
protein
Basic fibroblast              bFGF/FGF-           17.2          Proliferation of fibroblasts and initiation of PeproTech Inc.
growth factor                 2                                 angiogenesis
Vascular endothelial          VEGF16S             38.2          Migration, proliferation, and survival of      PeproTech Inc.
growth factor                                                   endothelial cells
                                                                     26
10086947_1(GHMatters)P77900.AU.3

rH, recombinant human
                                    Immobilized ligands used in tissue engineering
Immobilized ligand*               ECM molecule source                 Application
RGD                               Multiple ECM molecules,             Enhance bone and cartilage tissue formation in vitro and
                                  including fibronectin,              in vivo
                                  vitronectin, laminin, collagen and  Regulate neurite outgrowth in vitro and in vivo
                                  thrombospondin                      Promote myoblast adhesion, proliferation and
                                                                      differentiation
                                                                      Enhance endothelial cell adhesion and proliferation
IKVAV YIGSR                       Laminin                             Regulate neurite outgrowth in vitro and in vivo
RNIAEIIKDI
Recombinant fibronectin           Fibronectin                         Promote formulation of focal contacts in pre-osteoblasts
fragment (FNIII7-Io)
Ac-GCRDGPQ-                       Common MMP substrates, (e.g.        Encourage cell-mediated proteolytic degradation,
GIWGQDRCG                         collagen, fibronectin, laminin)     remodeling and bone regeneration (with RGD and BMP
                                                                      2 presentation) in vivo
*Sequences are given in single-letter amino acid code. MMP, matrix metalloproteinase.
            The release profiles of bioactive substances from scaffold devices is controlled by
both factor diffusion and polymer degradation, the dose of the factor loaded in the system,
and the
composition of the polymer. Similarly, the range of action (tissue distribution) and duration
of action, or spatiotemporal gradients of the released factors are regulated by these variables.
The diffusion and degradation of the factors in the tissue of interest is optionally regulated by
chemically modifying the factors (e.g., PEGylating growth factors). In both cases, the time
frame of release determines the time over which effective cell delivery by the device is
desired.
            Carrier systems for tissue regeneration are described in the table below.
 Polymeric carriers used to deliver various growth factors
and the type of tissues regenerated
Growth factor         Carrier                    Tissue regenerated
EGF                   Gelatin                    Dermis
                      PET suture                 Tendon
                      PVA sponge                 Dermis
PDGF                  Chitosan-PLLA scaffold     Craniofacial bone
                      CMC gel                    Dermis
                      Fibrin                     Ligament
                      Porous HA                  Long Bone
TGF-p                 Alginate                   Cartilage
                      PLA                        Long Bone
                      CaP-titanium mesh          Craniofacial bone
                      Polyoxamer; PEO gel        Dermis
rhBMP-2               Collagen sponge            Long bone
                                                 Craniofacial bone
                      HA-TCP granules            Spinal bone
                      HA-collagen                Long bone
                      PLA-DX-PEG                 Ectopic and hip bone
rHBMP-7               HA                         Spinal bone
                      Collagen-CMC               Spinal bone
                      Porous HA                  Craniofacial bone
bFGF                  Chitosan                   Dermis
                                                                  27
10086947_1(GHMatters)P77900.AU.3

                      Heparin-alginate               Blood   vessels
                      EVAc microspheres              Blood   vessels
                      Fibrin matrices                Blood   vessels
VEGF                  PLG scaffold                   Blood   vessels
                      PLG scaffold                   Blood   vessels
                      PLG microspheres               Blood   vessels
                      Fibrin mesh                    Blood   vessels
Abbreviations: PET, poly (ethylene terepthalate); PVA, polyvinyl alcohol; PLLA, poly(L-lactic acid); CMC,
carboxymethylcellulose; HA, hydroxyapatite; PLA, poly(D,L-lactic acid); CaP, calcium phosphate; PEO, poly (ethylene
oxide); TCP, tricalcium phosphate; PEG, poly(ethylene glycol);-DX-, -p-dioxanone-; EVAc, ethylene vinyl acetate; PLG,
poly (lactide-co-glycolide).
             The bioactive substances are added to the scaffold compositions using known
methods including surface absorption, physical immobilization, e.g., using a phase change to
entrap the substance in the scaffold material. For example, a growth factor is mixed with the
scaffold composition while it is in an aqueous or liquid phase, and after a change in
environmental conditions (e.g., pH, temperature, ion concentration), the liquid gels or
solidifies thereby entrapping the bioactive substance. Alternatively, covalent coupling, e.g.,
using alkylating or acylating agents, is used to provide a stable, longterm presentation of a
bioactive substance on the scaffold in a defined conformation. Exemplary reagents for
covalent coupling of such substances are provided in the table below.
                             Methods to covalently couple peptides/proteins to polymers
Functional Group of              Coupling reagents and cross-linker                                  Reacting groups on
Polymer                                                                                              proteins/peptides
             -OH                 Cyanogen bromide (CNBr)                                                            -NH2
                                 Cyanuric chloride
                                 4-(4,6-Dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)-4-methyl-morpholinium chloride
                                 (DMT-MM)
            -NH 2                Diisocyanate compounds                                                             -NH2
                                 Diisothoncyanate compounds                                                         --OH
                                 Glutaraldehyde
                                 Succinic anhydride
            -NH 2                Nitrous Acid                                                                       -NH2
                                 Hydrazine + nitrous acid                                                            -SH
                                                                                                                  -Ph-OH
            -NH 2                Carbodiimide compounds (e.g., EDC, DCC)[a]                                       -COOH
                                 DMT-MM
          -COOH                  Thionyl chloride                                                                   -NH2
                                 N-hydroxysuccinimide
                                 N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide + EDC
             -SH                 Disulfide compound                                                                  -SH
[a] EDC: 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide hydrochloride; DCC: dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
             Bioactive substances are capable of inducing migration of the transplanted cells and
their progeny out of the polymer matrix. Other preferred bioactive substances are capable of
maintaining cell viability, promoting cell proliferation or preventing premature terminal
differentiation of the transplanted cells. Such bioactive substances are used alone or in
combination to achieve the desired result.
             Bioactive substances suitable for use in the present invention include, but are not
limited to: growth factors, hormones, neurotransmitters, neurotransmitter or growth factor
                                                                        28
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

receptors, interferons, interleukins, chemokines, cytokines, colony stimulating factors,
chemotactic factors, MMP-sensitive substrate, extracellular matrix components; such as
growth hormone, parathyroid hormone (PTH), bone morphogenetic protein (BMP),
transforming growth factor-a (TGF-a), TGF-3 1, TGF-32, fibroblast growth factor (FGF),
granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor (GMCSF), epidermal growth factor
(EGF), platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), scatter
factor/hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), fibrin, collagen, fibronectin, vitronectin, hyaluronic
acid, an RGD-containing peptide or polypeptide, an angiopoietin and vascular endothelial
cell growth factor (VEGF). Splice variants of any of the above mentioned proteins, and small
molecule agonists or antagonists thereof that may be used advantageously to alter the local
balance of pro and anti-migration and differentiation signals are also contemplated herein.
            Examples of cytokines as mentioned above include, but are not limited to IL-I, IL-2,
IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-10, IL-12, IL-15, IL-18, granulocyte-macrophage colony
stimulating factor (GM-CSF), granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), interferon-y (y
IFN), IFN-a, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), TGF-3, FLT-3 ligand, and CD40 ligand.
            Suitable bioactive substances useful in accordance with the invention also include but
are not limited to DNA molecules, RNA molecules, antisense nucleic acids, ribozymes,
plasmids, expression vectors, marker proteins, transcription or elongation factors, cell cycle
control proteins, kinases, phosphatases, DNA repair proteins, oncogenes, tumor suppressors,
angiogenic proteins, anti-angiogenic proteins, cell surface receptors, accessory signaling
molecules, transport proteins, enzymes, anti-bacterial agents, anti-viral agents, antigens,
immunogens, apoptosis-inducing agents, anti-apoptosis agents, and cytotoxins.
            For some applications, the scaffolds of the invention includes at least one cell growth
factor that prevents premature terminal differentiation of the transplanted cells in the polymer
matrix and induces migration of the transplanted cells and their progeny out of the polymer
matrix. Cell growth factors are incorporated into the polymer matrix prior to polymerization
of fabrication or may be coupled to the polymer matrix after polymerization. The choice of
growth factor will depend upon the type of cells and the influence of a particular growth
factor on those cells such that the cells are directed to bypass their normal tendency to
differentiate, and remain in a proliferative phase until a sufficient number of cells is attained
to regenerate the targeted tissue and for the cells to have also migrated from the scaffold.
            Scaffolds of the invention optionally comprise at least one non-viral gene therapy
vector such that either the transplanted cells or host cells in the vicinity of the implant would
take up and express gene that lead to local availability of the desired factor for a desirable
                                                   29
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

time frame. Such non-viral vectors include, but are not limited to, cationic lipids, polymers,
targeting proteins, and calcium phosphate.
            For regeneration of muscular tissue, the cells seeded in the scaffold are myoblasts and
the preferred combination of growth factors is HGF and FGF2. FGF2 is particularly useful in
preventing the premature differentiation of the transplanted cells, while HGF induces
migration of the cells from the scaffold. The incorporation of the two growth factors
significantly increased the viability and migration of the seeded myoblasts as discussed
below.
Clinical applications
            The devices and methods are useful for generation or regeneration of a number of
different organs and tissue types such as musculoskeletal tissue. In the latter case,
environmental cues work in concert with transcription factors to activate satellite cells,
induce them to proliferate and eventually differentiate into mature muscle fibers. Numerous
trophic factors play a role as initiators of satellite cell activation. Of these candidate trophic
factors, both hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and members of the fibroblast growth factor
(FGF) family have been demonstrated to have a physiological role in skeletal muscle
regeneration. Both types of factors initiate satellite cell activation, stimulate satellite cells to
enter the cell cycle in vivo and are potent mitogens for satellite cells. In addition, the receptor
for HGF, c-met, is expressed in both quiescent and activated satellite cells, and FGF-2 is
present in the basement membrane surrounding developing myotubes. Both HGF and FGF2
are heparin binding proteins which depend on heparin sulfate proteoglycans (HSPG) to
facilitate receptor activation. While HSPG's are ubiquitous on the surface of the cells of
mammals, a specific family of HSPG's called Syndecans are involved in FGF2 signaling. In
addition, Syndecan 3 and 4 are expressed on both quiescent and activated satellite cells
indicating that HGF and FGF2 play important physiological roles in regulating satellite cell
activation.
            Current approaches therapeutically intervene in the muscle regenerative process have
been limited by significant drawbacks. The invention provides solutions to these drawbacks
of earlier methods. Three of such approaches are described below. First, cells in the tissues
are stimulated to re-enter the cell cycle and repopulate lost or damaged tissues by the
injection of growth factors into the site of interest. The second approach is based on the
current interest in gene therapy and targets the intrinsic cell proliferation and differentiation
program of muscle forming cells. The third approach is based on the delivery of exogenous
cells, expanded in culture, to repair the defect and restore function to the tissue. Current
                                                   30
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

strategies related to the third approach include direct injection of cells into the injury site, the
utilization of a carrier to provide an artificial matrix for cell delivery, or a combination of
cell, matrix and growth factor delivery to increase regeneration. Cell transplantation
approaches have focused on satellite cells, and are gaining growing interest as a potential
treatment alternative for patients with musculodegenerative diseases such as muscular
dystrophy, and for chronic or congenital cardiomyopathies. However, while animal studies
were initially promising, attempts to transplant human satellite cells have been disappointing,
because transplanted myogenic cells underwent rapid and massive necrosis, resulting in less
than 5% of transplanted cells incorporating into the host myofibers after 48 hours.
            A solution to problems, e.g., poor survival and integration of myogenic cells into host
musculature, is addressed by the compositions and methods described herein. The invention
provides a new approach to tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. The systems
mediate and regulate delivery of cells on a material that maintains the viability of the cells for
extended time periods while simultaneously encouraging outward migration of the cells to
populate surrounding host tissue in need of regeneration. Appropriate combinations of
scaffold architecture, adhesion ligands that maintain viability and allow migration, and
growth factors that regulate cell phenotype are used to inform cell behavior and exert
complex control over the fate of the transplanted cells.
            In addition to generation or regeneration of muscle tissue, stem cells have been
identified for many different types of tissues, including the human heart (Proceedingsof the
NationalAcademy of Sciences (DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0600635103)), delivering them in a way
which is therapeutically effective has proven to be a challenge. Neither intravascular delivery
nor direct injection into target tissue have proven successful. Intravascular delivery with the
objective that the cells will find their way to where they are needed, has proven highly
inefficient. Direct injection into the site has also delivered poor results, with an extremely
high necrosis rate and low cell integration rate.
            The biocompatible scaffolds of the invention are useful in a broad range of in vivo and
in vitro regenerative medicine and tissue engineering. Devices are designed and
manufactured for a wide variety of injuries, diseases, conditions and cell therapies, and
delivered to the treatment location using surgical, endoscopic, endovascular, and other
techniques. The devices degrade and resorb after the treatment is successfully completed or
remain in place permantly or semi-permanently. Cells are seeded ex vivo into the scaffold
with autologous or allogeneic cells. The devices are particularly useful in regenerating heart
tissue (ischemia lesions and scarring), dermal tissue (scarring, ulcers, burns), CNS tissue
                                                    31
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

(spinal cord injury, MS, ALS, dopamine shortage), and for skeletal-muscle system repairs
(tendons, ligaments, discs, post-surgical, hernias)
            A method for treating a patient in need of tissue regeneration, replacement or repair
comprises the step implanting a scaffold in or near the tissue in need of regeneration, repair
or replacement. This method for treating a patient in need of muscle repair involves
implanting in the patient a biocompatible scaffold containing a macroporous, polymer matrix
having at least one cell adhesion molecule incorporated therein, a population of myoblast
cells capable of muscle regeneration transplanted within the polymer matrix; and at least one
cell growth inductive factor that prevents terminal differentiation of the transplanted cells in
the polymer matrix and induces migration of the transplanted cells and their progeny out of
the polymer matrix. For example, the cell growth inductive factor(s) is a combination of
HGF and FGF2.
            The devices are useful to treat acute and chronic tissue disease or defects in humans
as well as animals such as dogs, cats, horses, and other domesticated and wild animals.
Conditions treated include neuropathological disorders such as Amyotrophic Lateral
Sclerosis (ALS), multiple sclerosis, polyneuropathy, multiple sclerosis (MS), Parkinson's,
and epilepsy. Retinal diseases such as retinal degeneration and corneal injury (caustic) also
can be treated with the devices. The device can also be used to treat various heart and
respiratory diseases such as myocardial infarction (MI), congestive heart failure (CHF),
coronary artery disease (CAD), and cardiomyopathy or respiratory diseases, e.g., chronic
respiratory diseases (CRDs) or pulmonary fibrosis, respectively.
            Additionally, the device is used to treat bone and cartilage defects/diseases such as
periodontitis or a skull injury generally, but also with craniotomy. Moreover, the device is
implanted into or adjacent to neural tissues, e.g., to treat spinal chord injuries such as a
crushed spinal cord. The device is used in other surgeries such as in masectomies to heal and
augment reconstruction of breast tissue..
            Other uses include those that supply cells for treatment inhibition of autoimmune
diseases, such as Lupus, Mastocytosis, Scleroderma, and Rheumatoid Arthritis. The device
are also useful to supply cell for treating blood disorders such as Sickle-cell Anemia or
vacular disorders such as peripheral arterial disease (PAD), Peripheral Ischemia, or diabetes.
             Other diseases the device can be used to treat are gastrointestinal (GI) graft vs host,
fenal failure, or Crohn's Disease. Additionally the device used for male infertility; for
example, the device is implanted into a testicle and functions as a surrogate spermatogonia to
produce a steady stream of sperm cells. Skin diseases, injuries, or defects that are treated
                                                    32
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

with the device include skin burns and ulcers. Surgical defects such as those resulting from
Caesarian section births and those resulting from cosmetic surgery are particularly amenable
to treatment using flexible device scaffolds. Alternatively, the delivered or
programmed/reprogrammed cells delivered from the device maintain tissue and organ
structure and function (e.g., prevent age-related alterations or deterioration).
            The devices increase the efficacy of stem and transgenic cell therapies, and the
devices are tailored to suit each clinical problem with the appropriate choice of scaffold
composition, pore size, bioactive substance(s) and cell types. The device solves the major
problem of efficiently integrating therapeutic cells into target tissue. Physicians place the
device near the site requiring therapy or regeneration, where it delivers a flow of cells to the
target site. Unlike traditional scaffolds, th device exports cells after they have incubated,
replicated and matured inside the device. The device has shown 20X+ improvements in
viable cell delivery and tissue re-growth for damaged skeletal muscle. By matching its
design to the specific cell type biochemistry, the device causes an extended stream of
matured cells to migrate into the target tissue.
            The devices offer several advantages over other scaffold systems. Maximum
therapeutic efficacy is achieved, because cells are delivered in prime condition at the right
time in the right quantities directly to the locus of disease or injury. Sustained delivery
facilitates accretive integration of therapeutic cells into tissue at a desired location. The
devices has been shown to be more efficient in viable cell delivery (110% for this device vs.
5% for the best alternative techniques). Thus, fewer cells are needed per treatment allowing
successful therapies which might have failed at lower cell delivery rates. Lower cell numbers
also permit autologous grafts, because fewer cells need to be harvested from the patient to be
treated and lLess time is required between harvest and graft to proliferate cells in vitro. Since
fewer cells are required, relative rare cells can be used. The devices also permit less
expensive allogeneic grafts. Other advantages include rapid determination of the therapeutic
benefit of any treatment and faster tissue growth and enhanced healing.
Vaccine device
                         The biocompatible scaffolds are useful as delivery vehicles for cancer
vaccines. The cancer vaccine stimulates an endogenous immune response against cancer
cells. Currently produced vaccines predominantly activate the humoral immune system (i.e.,
the antibody dependent immune response). Other vaccines currently in development are
focused on activating the cell-mediated immune system including cytotoxic T lymphocytes
which are capable of killing tumor cells. Cancer vaccines generally enhance the presentation
                                                       33
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

of cancer antigens to both antigen presenting cells (e.g., macrophages and dendritic cells)
and/or to other immune cells such as T cells, B cells, and NK cells. Although cancer
vaccines may take one of several forms, their purpose is to deliver cancer antigens and/or
cancer associated antigens to antigen presenting cells (APC) in order to facilitate the
endogenous processing of such antigens by APC and the ultimate presentation of antigen
presentation on the cell surface in the context of MHC class I molecules. One form of cancer
vaccine is a whole cell vaccine which is a preparation of cancer cells which have been
removed from a subject, treated ex vivo and then reintroduced as whole cells in the subject.
These treatments optionally involve cytokine exposure to activate the cells, genetic
manipulation to overexpress cytokines from the cells, or priming with tumor specific antigens
or cocktails of antigens, and expansion in culture. Dendritic cell vaccines activate antigen
presenting cells directly, and their proliferation, activation and migration to lymph nodes is
regulated by scaffold compositions to enhance their ability to elicit an immune response.
Types of cancers to be treated include central nervous system (CNS) cancers, CNS Germ
Cell tumor, lung cancer, Leukemia, Multiple Myeloma, Renal Cancer, Malignant Glioma,
Medulloblastoma, and Melanoma.
            For the purpose of eliciting an antigen-specific immune response, a scaffold device is
implanted into a mammal. The device is tailored to activate immune cells and prime the cells
with a specific antigen thereby enhancing immune defenses and destruction of undesired
tissues and targeted microorganisms such as bacterial or viral pathogens. The device attracts
appropriate immune cells, such as macrophages, T cells, B cells, NK cells, and dendritic
cells, by containing and/or releasing signaling substances such as GM-CSF. These signaling
substances are incorporated in the scaffold composition in such a way as to control their
release spatially and temporally using the same techniques used to integrate other bioactive
compounds in the scaffold composition.
            Once the immune cells are inside the device, the device programs the immune cells to
attack or cause other aspects of the immune system to attack undesired tissues (e.g., cancer,
adipose deposits, or virus-infected or otherwise diseased cells) or microorganisms. Immune
cell activation is accomplished by exposing the resident immune cells to preparations of
target-specific compositions, e.g,. ligands found on the surface of the undesired tissues or
organisms, such as cancer cell surface markers, viral proteins, oligonucleatides, peptide
sequences or other specific antigens. For example, useful cancer cell-specific antigens and
other tissue or organism-specific proteins are listed in the table below.
                                                    34
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

            The device optionally contains multiple ligands or antigens in order to create a
multivalent vaccine. The compositions are embedded in or coated on the surface of one or
more compartments of the scaffold composition such that immune cells migrating through the
device are exposed to the compositions in their traverse through the device. Antigens or
other immune stimulatory molecules are exposed or become exposed to the cells as the
scaffold composition degrades. The device may also contain vaccine adjuvants that program
the immune cells to recognize ligands and enhance antigen presentation. Exemplary vaccine
adjuvants include chemokines/cytokines, CpG rich oligonucleotides. or antibodies that are
exposed concurrently with target cell-specific antigens or ligands.
            The device attracts immune cells to migrate into a scaffold where they are educated in
an antigen-specific manner and activated. The programmed immune cells are then induced to
egress towards lymph nodes in a number of ways. The recruitment composition and
deployment signal/composition, e.g., a lymph node migration inducing substance, is released
in one or more bursts, programmed by the method of incorporation and/or release from the
scaffold material, or controlled by the sequential degradation of scaffold compartments which
contain the attractant. When a burst dissipates, the cells migrate away. Compartments
containing repulsive substances are designed to degrade and release the repulsive substance
in one or more bursts or steadily over time. Relative concentration of the repulsive
substances cause the immune cells to migrate out of the device. Alternatively, cells which
have been placed in or have migrated into the device are programmed to release repulsive
substances or to change their own behavior. For example, localized gene therapy is carried
out by cell exposure to plasmid DNA attached to the scaffold. Useful repulsive substances
include chemokines and cytokines. Alternatively, the device may cause immune cells to
egress by degrading and releasing them.
            Target disease states, stimulatory molecules and antigens useful in vaccine device
construction are listed below.
Bioactive factors to promote immune responses
a.           Interleukins: IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12 1L-15, 1L-18 etc.
b.           TNF-a
c.          IFN-y
d.          IFN-a
e.          GM-CSF
f.          G-CSF
g.          Ftl-3 ligand
h.          MIP-3 P (CCL19)
i.          CCL21
                                                    35
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

j.           M-CSF
k.           MIF
 1.          CD40L
 m.          CD3
 n.          ICAM
 o.          Anti CTLA-4 antibodies
p.           TGF-P
 q.          CPG rich DNA or oligonucleotides
 r.          Sugar moieties associated with Bacteria: Lipopolysacharides (LPS) is an example
 s.          Fas ligand
 t.          Trail
u.           Lymphotactin
v.           Mannan (M-FP)
w.           Heat Shock Proteins (apg-2, Hsp70 and Hsp 90 are examples)
 Diseases and antigens - vaccination targets
 a.          Cancer: antigens and their sources
 i.          Tumor lysates extracted from biopsies
 ii.         Irradiated tumor cells
 iii.         Melanoma
 1.          MAGE series of antigens (MAGE- 1 is an example)
 2.          MART-1/melana
 3.          Tyrosinase
 4.          ganglioside
 5.          gplOO
 6.          GD-2
 7.          O-acetylated GD-3
 8.          GM-2
 iv.         Breast cancer
 1.          MUC-1
 2.          Sosl
 3.          Protein kinase C-binding protein
 4.          Reverse trascriptase protein
 5.          AKAP protein
 6.          VRK1
 7.          KIAA1735
 8.          T7-1, T 1-3, T11-9
v.           Other general and specific cancer antigens
 1.          Homo Sapiens telomerase ferment (hTRT)
 2.          Cytokeratin-19 (CYFRA21-1)
 3.          SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA ANTIGEN 1 (SCCA-1), (PROTEIN T4-A)
 4.          SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA ANTIGEN 2 (SCCA-2)
 5.          Ovarian carcinoma antigen CA125 (lAl-3B) (KIAA0049)
 6.           MUCIN 1 (TUMOR-ASSOCIATED MUCIN), (CARCINOMA-ASSOCIATED
 MUCIN), (POLYMORPHIC EPITHELIAL MUCIN),(PEM),(PEMT),(EPISIALIN),
 (TUMOR-ASSOCIATED EPITHELIAL MEMBRANE ANTIGEN),(EMA),(H23AG),
                                                    36
 10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

(PEANUT-REACTIVE URINARY MUCIN), (PUM), (BREAST CARCINOMA
ASSOCIATED ANTIGEN DF3)
7.          CTCL tumor antigen se1-1
8.          CTCL tumor antigen se14-3
9.           CTCL tumor antigen se20-4
10.         CTCL tumor antigen se20-9
11.          CTCL tumor antigen se33-1
12.          CTCL tumor antigen se37-2
13.         CTCL tumor antigen se57-1
14.          CTCL tumor antigen se89-1
15.         Prostate-specific membrane antigen
16.          5T4 oncofetal trophoblast glycoprotein
17.          Orf73 Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus
18.          MAGE-CI (cancer/testis antigen CT7)
19.          MAGE-B1 ANTIGEN (MAGE-XP ANTIGEN) (DAM10)
20.          MAGE-B2 ANTIGEN (DAM6)
21.         MAGE-2 ANTIGEN
22.         MAGE-4a antigen
23.          MAGE-4b antigen
24.         Colon cancer antigen NY-CO-45
25.         Lung cancer antigen NY-LU-12 variant A
26.          Cancer associated surface antigen
27.         Adenocarcinoma antigen ARTI
28.         Paraneoplastic associated brain-testis-cancer antigen (onconeuronal antigen MA2;
paraneoplastic neuronal antigen)
29.         Neuro-oncological ventral antigen 2 (NOVA2)
30.         Hepatocellular carcinoma antigen gene 520
31.          TUMOR-ASSOCIATED ANTIGEN CO-029
32.          Tumor-associated antigen MAGE-X2
33.          Synovial sarcoma, X breakpoint 2
34.          Squamous cell carcinoma antigen recognized by T cell
35.          Serologically defined colon cancer antigen 1
36.          Serologically defined breast cancer antigen NY-BR-15
37.         Serologically defined breast cancer antigen NY-BR-16
38.         Chromogranin A; parathyroid secretory protein 1
39.         DUPAN-2
40.         CA 19-9
41.         CA 72-4
42.         CA 195
43.         Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)
b.          AIDS (HIV associated antigens)
i.          Gp120
ii.         SIV229
iii.        SIVE660
iv.         SHIV89.6P
v.          E92
vi.         HCl
vii.        OKM5
viii.       FVIIIRAg
ix.         HLA-DR (Ia) antigens
                                                    37
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

x.          OKM1
xi.         LFA-3
c.          General infectious diseases and associated antigens
i.          Tuberculosis
1.          Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen 5
2.          Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigen 85
3.          ESAT-6
4.          CFP-10
5.          Rv3871
6.          GLU-S
ii.         Malaria
1.          CRA
2.          RAP-2
3.          MSP-2
4.          AMA-i
iii.        Possible mutant influenza and meningitis strains
d.          Neuro protection - protect against neurological diseases (e.g., Alzheimer's,
Parkinsons, Prion disease)
1.          Classes of self CNS antigens
2.          human alpha-synuclein (Parkinson's)
3.          beta amyloid plaques (Alzheimer's)
e.          Autoimmune Diseases (multiple sclerosis, Rheumatoid arthritis etc)
i.          Disease linked MHC antigens
ii.         Different classes of Self antigens
iii.        Insulin
iv.         Insulin peptide B9-23
v.          glutamic acid
vi.         decarboxylase 65 (GAD 65)
vii.        HSP 60
Disease linked T-cell receptor (TCR)
Example 1: Designing scaffolds to enhance transplanted myoblasts survival and myogenesis
        Myoblast transplantation is currently limited by poor survival and integration of cells
into host musculature. Transplantation systems that enhance the viability of the cells and
induce their outward migration to populate injured muscle enhances the success of this
approach to muscle regeneration. Enriched populations of primary myoblasts were seeded
onto delivery vehicles formed from alginate, and the role of vehicle design and local growth
factor delivery in cell survival and migration were examined. Only 5+/-2.5%, of cells seeded
into nanoporous alginate gels survived for 24 hrs, and only 4+/-0.5% migrated out of the gels.
Coupling cell adhesion peptides (e.g., G4RGDSP) to the alginate prior to gelling slightly
increased the viability of cells within the scaffold to 16+/-1.4%, and outward migration to
6+/-1%. However, processing peptide-modified alginate gels to yield macroporous scaffolds,
in combination with sustained delivery of HGF and FGF2 from the material, dramatically
increased the viability of seeded cells over a 5 day time-course, and increased outward
                                                   38
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

migration to 110+/- 12%. These data indicate that long-term survival and migration of
myoblasts placed within polymeric delivery vehicles is greatly increased by appropriate
scaffold composition, architecture, and growth factor delivery. This system is particularly
useful in the regeneration of muscle tissue, and is broadly useful in the regeneration of other
tissues.
            The presence of bioactive compositions in or on a scaffold material maintains the
viability of the cells for extended time periods while simultaneously encouraging outward
migration of the cells to populate surrounding host muscle fibers. Biodegradable polymer
matrices that co-deliver satellite cells and inductive molecules that signal endogenous cells to
participate in muscle regeneration are specifically useful in this approach. The role of
coupling cell adhesion ligands to the matrix, material pore structure, and growth factor
delivery from the material were studied in vitro. Alginate, a hydrophilic, biocompatible
polysaccharide derived from seaweed, has carboxylic acid functional groups that allow
covalent modification with cell adhesion peptides, allowing for the controlled presentation of
signals that induce tissue development. In addition, controlling the molecular weight
distribution of the polymer used to form gels allows one to regulate gel degradation and to
increase the viability of alginate encapsulated cells. Taken together, these properties make
alginate hydrogels a useful model material for these studies. Finally, in addition to primary
myoblasts, a myoblasts cells line (C2C12 cells) that produces characteristic muscle proteins,
was used as a model system for the analysis of the expression of myogenic proteins.
            The following materials and methods were used to generate the data described herein.
Alginate modification
            Low molecular weight (Mw = 5.3 x 104 g/mol, abbreviated as LMW) modified
alginate, was produced by irradiating ultra pure MVG alginate powder (Pronova, Oslo
Norway) with a cobalt-60 source for 4 hours at a y-dose of 5.0 Mrad (Phoenix Lab,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA). High molecular weight (MVG, Pronova,
Mw=2.7x10 5 g/mol,) alginate, ultra pure grade was also used to fabricate scaffolds. Both
alginates were modified with covalently conjugated oligopeptides with a sequence of
G4 RGDSP (Commonwealth Biotechnology Inc.) at an average density of 3.4 mM
peptide/mole of alginate monomer, using carbodiimide chemistry known in the art (e.g.,
Rowley, Madlambayan et al. 1999 Bio. Mat. Res. 60:217-233; Rowley J. 2002 Bio. Mat.
Res.20:45-53). 2% irradiated alginate solutions were frozen and lyophilized until completely
dry. Lyophilized alginate was added to MES buffer (Sigma) to yield a 1%w/v solution and
EDC, Sulfo-NHS and RGDSP peptide were added to the dissolved alginate and allowed to
                                                 39
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

react for 20 hours. The reaction was quenched with hydroxylamine and the solution was
dialyzed with decreasing concentrations of NaCl (7.5%, 6.25%,5%, 3.75%,2.5%1.25% and
0%), over 3 days. The solution was purified via the addition of activated charcoal and
subsequent sterile filtration. Sterile filtered alginate was frozen and lyophilized and stored at
-20'C. Finally, the modified alginates were reconstituted in calcium-free DMEM
(Invitrogen) to obtain 2% w/v solution (50% LMW; 50% MVG used in all experiments) prior
to gelation. Reconstituted alginate was stored at 40C.
Scaffold fabrication
            Three physical forms of scaffolds were prepared: nanoporous, microporous, and
macroporous. To fabricate nanoporous alginate scaffolds, 5 ml non-modified or peptide
modified alginate containing myoblasts (106 cell/ml) was crosslinked by adding 200pl of
CaSO 4 (0.41g CaSO4 /ml dd H2 0) (Aldrich), and the resulting solution was expressed into
molds (2x2x5mm) constructed from polyvinylsulfoxane (PVS), (Kerr). The alginate was
allowed to completely gel, and placed at 37'C in high glucose DMEM. To form microporous
(10-20pm pores) scaffolds, alginate was gelled in the absence of cells and then frozen at
 120'C. The frozen scaffolds were lyophilized and stored at -4'C until seeded with cells. To
fabricate macroporous alginate scaffolds (400-500pm diameter aligned pores), the alginate
/calcium sulfate solution was expressed into the PVS mold containing wire porogens (RMO
othodontic wire, PO Box 17085, Denver CO). A sterile glass plate was placed over the mold
containing the alginate, and left undisturbed for 30 minutes. After the alginate has
completely gelled (30 minutes), the alginate containing the wire porogens was frozen at
70 0 C. The frozen alginate gels were lyophilized overnight, wire porogens were carefully
removed, and the dried scaffolds were stored at -20 0 C until seeded with cells.
Myoblast cultures
            Myoblasts were derived from four week old C57BL/6 mice hindlimb skeletal
musculature. Under sterile conditions, the tibialis muscle of the hindlimb was surgically
excised, finely minced and disassociated in 0.02% Trypsin (GIBCO) and 2% Collagenase
type 4 (Worthington Biochemical, Lakewood, NJ.) for 60 minutes at 37'C/5% CO 2 while
agitating on an orbital shaker. Disassociated cells were strained through a 70pm sieve,
centrifuged at 1600 rpm for 5 minutes and resuspended in high glucose DMEM, with added
pyruvate (GIBCO). Media was further supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS)
and 10% penicillin/streptomycin (P/S), (GIBCO) and this medium was used in all cell culture
studies. Cells were plated and cultured at 37'C/5% CO 2 for 72 hours before media change.
After 72 hours in culture, the media was changed every 48 hours until cells were 80%
                                                  40
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

confluent (about 7days). Cells were collected via centrifugation and overlaid on a Percoll
gradient (Amersham Biosciences, Uppsala, Sweden) in a 15 ml Falcon tube. The gradient
consisted of 3ml of 20% Percoll diluted in PBS (GIBCO), 3ml of 30% percoll diluted in
DMEM (Invitrogen) and 3ml of 35% Percoll diluted in Ham's F-12 (GIBCO). Cells were
immediately centrifuged at 1600rpm for 20 minutes at 25'C. The cells from the 30% fraction
were collected and resuspended in high glucose DMEM.
ImmunohistochemistrV
            To characterize myoblast cultures for the expression of myogenic proteins, Percoll
purified primary myoblasts were plated on sterile cover slips overnight, and fixed in 0.2%
paraformaldehyde for 20 minutes. Coverslips were rinsed in phosphate buffered saline with
0.5% Triton-X (PBS-X), and incubated in Hoechst nuclear dye (1:1000). Coverslips were
also incubated in an anti-desmin (1/100) monoclonal antibody (Chemicon, Temecula CA)
followed by immunofluorescent secondary antibody (1:1000), (FITC, Jackson Labs, West
Grove, PA.). After secondary antibody binding, coverslips were mounted on glass slides with
aqueous mounting medium and sealed with clear nail polish. Slides were viewed with a
conventional fluorescent light microscope (Nikon Eclipse E-800, Tokyo, Japan) or stored in
total darkness for later analysis. Images were captured utilizing NIH imaging software
(National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD), Spot digital camera and Adobe Photoshop.
Western blot
            Total cytoplasmic protein was collected by finely mincing modified alginate scaffolds
containing primary myoblasts and placing the resultant solutions in 1.5 ml Eppendorf tubes.
Fifty microliters of passive lysis buffer (Promega,Madison WI) was added directly to the
minced scaffold and incubated at 370 C for 10 minutes. The amount of protein in each sample
was quantified by dilution of Ip m of sample in 200 pm protein assay reagent (BioRad), and
the absorbance was measured at 595 nm (Sunrise spectrometer).
            All samples were denatured using standard SDS page protocols, loaded at 25pig total
protein per well in 8% Tris Glycine polyacrylimide gels (Ready Gels, BioRad) and
electrophoresed at 100 volts for 120 min (Laemmli, 1970). After electrophoresis, proteins
were transferred to PDVF membranes (BioRad) at 100 volts for one hour utilizing the
BioRad mini-blot. PDVF membranes were blocked in I% bovine serum albumin (BSA) in
Tris buffered saline with 0.1% Tween-20 (TBS-T) overnight at 40C. After blocking, PDVF
membranes were incubated in the appropriate primary monoclonal antibody, either for
desmin (1/100), myogenin (1/100), or MyoD (1/100), (Santa Cruz Biotechnologies, CA), for
one hour at room temperature. Membranes were subsequently rinsed for 30 minutes in TBS-T
                                                  41
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

(15 min x2), and incubated in horseradish peroxidase conjugated goat anti-mouse secondary
antibody (BioRad), 1:1000 in TBS-T, for 1 hour. Membranes were rinsed in TBS-T for 30
min. (15 min x 2) and proteins were detected via chemiluminescent detection kit (ECL,
Amersham) and visualized by exposure to Hyperfilm ECL (Amersham).
Growth factor incorporation and release kinetics
            To determine the release kinetics of HGF incorporated into modified binary alginate
scaffolds, a quantitative sandwich enzyme immunoassay technique (ELISA) was employed.
Recombinant HGF protein (Santa Cruz Biotechnologies, CA.) was incorporated into alginate
solutions prior to gelling (500ng/ml), and gels were cast as previously described. After the
gels had completely polymerized they were cut into 5mm squares and placed in 24 well
plates, and 1ml of PBS was added to each well. At various time points the PBS was removed
and stored at 4'C and fresh PBS added to the scaffolds. The PBS samples were measured for
total HGF content via quantitative ELISA (Quantikine), and the results were compared to the
initial HGF incorporated. To determine the incorporation efficiency and release kinetics of
FGF2, 5pci of 1 12 5-Bolton Hunter (PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Boston, MA) labeled FGF2
was incorporated into 2.5 ml of the alginate solution prior to gelling. After gelling, gels were
cut into squares (2xlOxlOmm). Approximately 1 pci of labeled FGF2 was incorporated into
each scaffold. Alginate scaffolds were placed in separate polypropylene tubes containing 3ml
of phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and incubated at 370C. At various time points the PBS
was removed from the tubes, and fresh PBS was added to the scaffolds. The release of FGF2
from the scaffolds was determined by measuring the radioactivity present in the PBS
removed from the scaffolds with a gamma counter (Beckman) and comparing the result to the
initial total      1125    FGF2 incorporated into the sample.
Migration and viability
            To determine the viability of primary myoblasts seeded in alginate scaffolds and to
measure their ability to migrate out of the scaffolds, purified primary myoblasts were seeded
in three dimensional alginate scaffolds (2x 106 cells/ml) in 24 well plates. A solution of cells
in medium (50pl) was pipeted into each lyophilized scaffold; the medium was rapidly
absorbed. The resulting viability and migration of myoblasts from alginate scaffolds, with
both HGF and FGF2 (250ng/scaffold) incorporation was subsequently measured by
maintaining scaffolds in culture for various time points. To analyze the viability of cells
within the scaffolds, the scaffolds were finely minced, treated with 50pl of trypsin and 50pl
of 5mM EDTA for 5 minutes. Twenty pl of dissolved alginate and suspended cells was then
added to 20pl of 4% Trypan Blue Solution (Sigma). The percent of viable cells was
                                                        42
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

determined via trypan blue exclusion (dead cells appear blue due to their inability of exclude
trypan blue from their nucleus), as viewed on a hemocytometer under standard microscopic
conditions (Nikon Eclipse E800, 20X). To measure migration of myoblasts from the
scaffolds, scaffolds were placed in new 24 well plates at various time points and the cells that
had colonized the 24 well plates over the previous 24 hours were removed via trypsinization
and counted in a Coulter Counter (Beckman Corp.). The total number of cells that migrated
out of the scaffold was normalized to the total number of cells initially seeded into the
alginate scaffolds.
SEM scaffold characterization
            The size and orientation of pores in alginate scaffolds were imaged utilizing a
scanning electron microscope (ISI-DS 130, Topcon Techn. CA). All samples were dried and
sputter coated (Desk II, Denton Vacum; NJ) prior to analysis.
Characterization of myoblasts isolated from murine hindlimb
            Primary cells isolated from skeletal muscle were plated on coverslips and analyzed by
staining with a Hoescht nuclear specific stain, and immunohistochemical staining for desmin.
Analysis via light microscopy of random microscopic fields revealed that the initial isolation
yielded a heterogeneous population of cells, 75% of which expressed desmin (FIG. 1A). To
enrich the cell culture for myogenic cells, initial primary cell isolates were expanded in
culture for 7 days, and subsequently purified via Percoll density gradient fractionation. The
resulting cultures consisted of a 95% desmin positive population (FIG. 1B).
Role of peptide modification
            The ability of myoblasts to both remain viable within and migrate from scaffolds
without cell adhesion peptides was first tested by seeding myoblasts in scaffolds under the
following three conditions: nanoporous alginate scaffolds, nanoporous scaffolds releasing
HGF, and microporous scaffolds releasing HGF. Approximately 1/3 of incorporated HGF
was released in the first 10 hours, and a sustained release was observed for the following time
period (FIG.2a). The percentage of cells that maintained viability over the first 24 hours was
less than 10% under all conditions (FIG. 2B). By 96 hours, a small percentage of viable cells
could only be measured in microporous scaffolds releasing HGF. Consistent with the cell
loss was the minimal migration of myoblasts from the scaffolds (FIG. 2C). Over the first 24
hours, less than 5% of the total incorporated cells migrated from the scaffolds in any of these
conditions. This increased slightly by day two in the microporous scaffolds, but failed to
further improve in any condition.
                                                   43
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

            Covalent modification of alginate with adhesion oligopeptides prior to scaffold
fabrication improved both the viability of cells, as well as their outward migration (FIG. 3A
B). Myoblasts seeded in nanoporous, peptide-modified scaffolds demonstrated a two-fold
increase in cell viability at 24 hours, as compared to cells in similar non-peptide modified
scaffolds. HGF release further increased viability to 40%, and cells seeded in peptide
modified microporous scaffolds with HGF release demonstrated a similar viability (FIG. 3A).
However, the viability decreased in all conditions over time. Similarly, cumulative migration
was enhanced by peptide modification in concert with HGF release and microporosity.
Peptide-modified nanoporous scaffolds led to approximately 20% of seeded cells migrating
out of the scaffolds (FIG. 3B). Release of HGF by itself, and in combination with micropores
led to an approximately 4-fold increase in cell migration over non peptide-modified
nanoporous scaffolds (FIG. 3B). In those conditions, 40% of the seeded cells migrated from
the scaffolds, and were available to fuse with host muscle fibers.
Macroporous alginate and FGF2 Release
            The effects of creating aligned pore channels (macroporous scaffolds; FIG. 4A), and
FGF2 release (FIG.4B) on the viability and outward migration of myoblasts were next
examined. Creation of macropores significantly enhanced both the viability and migration of
myoblasts (FIG. 5A-B), as compared to similar micro or nanoporous scaffolds. Release of
HGF further increased both survival and migration of myoblasts. The percentage of viable
cells under this condition was 63% at 24 hr, and an enhanced viability was maintained
through the 96 hr of the experiment (FIG. 5A). Further, release of HGF and FGF2 together
led to the greatest level of outward migration (FIG. 5B).
            Western blot analysis of cell lysates was performed to determine the differentiation
state of cells within and migrating from these scaffolds. Cells present in or migrating from
scaffolds releasing HGF and FGF2 expressed high levels of MyoD (FIG. 6). Cells present in
scaffolds without peptide modification nor HGF/FGF2 did not express significant levels of
MyoD. In contrast, neither cells within any of the scaffolds, nor those that migrated from the
scaffolds expressed myogenin, a transcription factor associated with end stage differentiation
of myogenic cells (FIG. 6).
Enhanced myocyte survival and migration to target tissues
            The viability and ability of myoblasts to migrate from transplanted scaffolds was
found to be strongly regulated by the presence of cell adhesion ligands associated with the
scaffold material, the pore structure, and release of growth factors from the material.
                                                   44
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

            Incorporation of myoblasts into scaffolds lacking cell adhesion ligands led to rapid
and severe loss of viability, and cell migration was minimal. However, modification of
alginate with a G4RGDSP peptide increased cell viability and migration.
            Alginate modified with a cell adhesion peptide(s) directed cells to adhere to the
polymer, proliferate and in the case of myoblasts fuse into myofibrils. Peptides that present
motifs found in fibronectin, (e.g., RGD) are especially relevant to skeletal muscle engineering
because myoblast adhesion to fibronectin is associated with the early proliferative phase of
myogenesis. The RGD peptide provided a signal for migration of myoblasts out of the
scaffolds; however, additional features of the scaffold in combination with the RGD signal
yielded move robust migration. Alignment of macropores in the scaffolds led to a higher cell
survival at later time points, and most importantly, a very efficient migration of cells out of
the scaffolds. Macroporosity was important for the migration of cells, and smooth muscle
cells have been demonstrated to grow most favorably on scaffolds with larger pores.
            Incorporation of growth factors known, e.g., HGF and FGF in the case of myoblasts,
significantly increased the viability and migration of seeded myoblasts under all variations of
scaffold chemistry and architecture. FGF's were the first growth factors shown to have an
effect on myogenic cells, and the FGF2 effect on myogenic cells is enhanced by the addition
of HGF. In addition, myogenic repair in a muscle crush injury was hindered by the injection
of FGF2 antibodies. These data indicate an important physiological role for FGF2, and a role
for combined FGF2 and HGF signaling in skeletal muscle regeneration. However, injection
of FGF2 into skeletal muscle after injury did not enhance muscle repair, suggesting the
importance of using this factor in the proper context. In particular, in the current approach to
regenerate skeletal muscle, myogenic cells must be directed to bypass their normal tendency
to differentiate, and remain in a proliferative phase until a sufficient number of cells is
attained to regenerate the tissue, and the cells have also migrated from the scaffold. FGF2 is
particularly useful in preventing the premature differentiation of the transplanted cells, while
the migration-inducing effects of HGF provide the latter function.
             These results indicate that scaffolds for transplanted cells can be optimized and
designed for any phenotype to maintain cell viability and promote migration out of the
vehicle. Appropriate combinations of scaffold architecture, adhesion ligands that maintain
viability and allow migration, and growth factors that regulate phenotype are used in
combination to obtain complex control over the fate of the transplanted cells.
                                                    45
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

Activation of transplanted cells for muscle regeneration
            Macroporous alginate scaffolds were designed to serve as a micorenvironment for
transplanted muscle progenitor cells (satellite cells) at a muscle laceration site. By releasing
factors that promote activation and migration (hepatacyte growth factor and fibroblast growth
factor 2), but not terminal differentiation of satellite cells, cells competent to participate in
regeneration of damaged host tissues are released in a sustained manner, effectively using the
scaffold as a niche to sustain a pool of progenitor cells for regeneration of muscle fibers.
            In vivo studies were carried out using C57Bl/6J mice in which the tibialis anterior
muscle was completely lacerated at the midline of the muscle. Following laceration, the
muscle ends were sutured together using non-resorbable sutures, and scaffolds containing
combinations of growth factors and cells were placed on top of the injury. Muscle
regeneration was assayed at 30 days.
            Explanted tissues show largest area of new tissue formation when treated with
scaffolds containing cells and both growth factors as quantified by muscle mass and decrease
in defect area.
            Morphological analysis of regenerated muscle fibers showed increased fiber diameter
and an increase in the number of centrally located nuclei in animals treated with scaffolds
containing growth factors and cells, as compared to all other sample types.
            Transplantation of myoblasts derived from transgenic Rosa 26 mice that contain the
P
galactosidease gene allows for observation of incorporation of transplanted cells into
regenerating host tissue. Transplanting cells on scaffolds containing growth factors increases
grafting of transplanted cells into regenerating fibers as compared to injection of cells without
a scaffold or growth factors.
Example 2: Niche scaffolds promote muscle regeneration using transplanted cells
            Transplanting myoblasts within synthetic niches that maintain viability, prevent
terminal differentiation, and promote outward migration significantly enhances their
repopulation and regeneration of damaged host muscle. Myoblasts were expanded in
culture, and delivered to tibialis anterior muscle laceration sites in mice by direct injection
into muscle, transplantation on a macroporous delivery vehicle releasing factors that induce
myoblast activation and migration (HGF and FGF), or transplantation on materials lacking
factor release. Controls included the implantation of blank scaffolds, and scaffolds releasing
factors without cells. Injected cells in the absence of a scaffold demonstrated a limited
repopulation of damaged muscle, and led to a slight improvement in muscle regeneration.
                                                   46
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

Delivery of cells on scaffolds that did not promote migration resulted in no improvement in
muscle regeneration. Strikingly, delivery of cells on scaffolds which promoted myoblast
activation and migration led to extensive repopulation of host muscle tissue, increased the
regeneration of muscle fibers, and led to a higher overall mass of the injured muscle. This
strategy for cell transplantation significantly enhance muscle regeneration from transplanted
cells, and is broadly applicable to the various tissues and organ systems.
            The scaffolds described herein are not intended to guide tissue formation around the
scaffold, but in contrast, maintain the viability of passenger cells while simultaneously
encouraging and directing their outward migration to repopulate the surrounding host
damaged tissue and to enhance its regeneration. The scaffold serves a function analogous to
the special tissue microenvironments, termed niches, that maintain the potential of stem cell
populations while allowing the daughter cells to migrate and attain specialized functions
distant to the niche. The physical and chemical aspects of the scaffold to successfully
promote host tissue repopulation and simultaneously prevent the premature terminal
differentiation of precursor cells.
            Scaffolds were designed to promote myoblast survival, migration, and prevent
terminal differentiation to enhance repopulation of injured muscle from transplanted
myoblasts. As described above, HGF and FGF2 release from macroporous scaffolds
fabricated from RGD-presenting alginate polymers significantly enhanced the viability of
satellite cells cultured in the scaffolds in vitro, and that HGF and FGF2 worked additively to
promote outward migration of the seeded cells while preventing terminal differentiation in
the scaffold. An in vitro muscle laceration model was used to recapitulate injuries common
in athletes and in trauma. This model is an accurate and reliable model of human injury.
Some other mouse studies has been criticized in part due to the indirect relation of the models
(irradiation, injection of cardiotoxin, or cryoinjury) to human injuries or disease. Further, to
determine the participation of donor versus host myoblasts in muscle regeneration, donor
myoblasts were obtained from Rosa26 mice to allow identification by their over-expression
of p -galactosidase.
Scaffold preparation
            Ultra pure MVG alginate powder (Pronova, Oslo Norway) was irradiated with a
cobalt-60 source for 4 hours at a y-dose of 5.0 Mrad (Phoenix Lab, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, USA to produce low molecular weight alginate (Mw = 5.3x10 4 g/mol). Alginates
were further modified with covalently conjugated oligopeptides with a sequence of
G4 RGDSP (Commonwealth Biotechnology Inc.) at an average density of 3.4 mM
                                                  47
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

peptide/mole of alginate monomer, using carbodiimide chemistry. High molecular weight
ultra-pure alginate (MVG, Pronova, Mw = 2.7 X 101 g/mol) was also covalently modified
with this oligopeptide.
            To fabricate alginate scaffolds that were highly porous, molds (2mmx5mmx5mm)
were constructed from polyvinylsulfoxane (PVS) (Kerr). Porogens were constructed from
size 14 stainless steel orthodontic straight wire cut to 10mm lengths. The orthodontic wire
was aligned in two sets of parallel rows 500pm apart, sterilized and placed in the scaffold
mold. A solution containing equal concentrations of irradiated low molecular weight (1%,
w:v) and non-irradiated high molecular weight modified alginate (1%, w:v) was prepared in
calcium free DMEM (Invitrogen). HGF (Santa Cruz Biotechnologies, CA.), and FGF2
(B&D) were added to the alginate solution (final concentrations 100 ng/ml). A calcium
sulfate slurry (0.41g CaS0 4/ml dd H 2 0) (Aldrich), was added at a ratio of 40 pLl CaSO4 / 1 ml
alginate and vigorously mixed. The resulting solution was immediately expressed into the
PVS mold containing the wire porogens. A sterile glass plate was placed over the mold, and
after the alginate has completely gelled (30 minutes), the gel containing the wire porogens
was carefully lifted from the PVS mold and placed in a 100 cm3 petri dish. To produce
macroporous scaffolds with open, interconnected pores, the gels were cooled to -70 0 C, the
wire porogens were carefully removed, and the gels were lyophilized and stored at -20 0 C
until needed.
Cell culture and seeding
            Four month old B6.129S7-Gt(ROSA)26Sor/J (Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor ME)
were sacrificed and the satellite cells were isolated from hind limbs. Hind limb skeletal
musculature was surgically excised, finely minced and disassociated in 0.02% Trypsin
(GIBCO) and 2% Collagenase type 4 (Worthington Biochemical, Lakewood, NJ) for 60
minutes at 37'C/5% CO 2 while agitating on an orbital shaker. Disassociated muscle was
strained in a 70ptm sieve, centrifuged at 1600 rpm for 5 min. and resuspended in 10ml high
glucose DMEM, supplemented with pyruvate (GIBCO). Media was further supplemented
with 10% fetal bovine serum and 1% penicillin/streptomycin (GIBCO). Resuspended cells
were plated in 75cm 3 tissue culture flasks (Fisher), and HGF (50ng/ml) and FGF2 (50ng/ml)
were added to the medium. After seven days, cultures were passaged and purified satellite
cell suspensions were obtained via percoll fractionation. Purified cultures were incubated for
seven days at 37'C until 80 % confluent and then were collected via trypsinization and
seeded at 107 cells/ml onto modified open pore alginate scaffolds.
                                                   48
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

Surgical procedure and analysis
            Four week old C57BL/6 mice were anesthetized via intra-peritoneal injection of
ketamine (0.5ml/kg) and xylazine (0.25 ml/kg). Bilateral incisions were made to expose the
tibialis anterior muscle of both hindlimbs. Once exposed, the muscle was completely
lacerated at the midlength ventral-dorsally. The proximal ends of the lacerated muscle were
then closed using a #4 black silk continuous suture, and scaffolds were placed over the
wound or myoblasts injected into the muscle. In all conditions utilizing myoblast
transplantation, a total of 5x 105 cells was delivered. The surgical site was closed with #4
black silk interrupted suture and the surgical site was left undisturbed until the muscle was
retrieved at 10 or 30 days.
            Tibialis anterior muscle was excised and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde for 2 hr and
rinsed for 1 hr in PBS. Whole muscle was then incubated overnight infp-galactosidase
staining solution containing 25 pl/ml Xgal stock solution. The muscle was paraffin
embedded, cut into serial sections (5 pm thick) and placed on glass slides for histological
analysis. Sections were deparaffinized through descending series of EtOH and rehydrated in
H 20 and washed for 5 minutes in 3% H 20          2 (Sigma) in PBS to quench any endogenous
peroxidase activity. Sections were stained with Gill's 3 hematoxylin (Sigma) and aqueous
eosin solution (Sigma) to visualize tissue morphology. Finally, serial sections were incubated
with a monoclonal antifp-galactosidase antibody (1:1000), (Chemicon, Temecula CA) for one
hour and then incubated with a HRP-conjugated secondary antibody (1:1000)
(DakoCytomation,Carpinteria, CA). Samples were rinsed, and mounted with Permount
(Fisher, Fairlawn, NJ).
            Defect size analysis was performed using Adobe Photoshop and Image Pro Plus
software. High powered (1 OOX) images were obtained using a Leica CTR 5000 light
microscope and Open Lab software (Improvision). Six samples were analyzed for each
condition. Areas of muscle defect were identified in hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained
sections via their lack of organized muscle fibers. Fiber size and nuclei number were
determined via high powered microscopic analysis of ten random fields of regenerating
muscle fibers adjacent to the muscle defect. Only centrally located nuclei, a hallmark of
regenerating muscle fibers, were counted in the quantification of number of nuclei.
            Statistically significant differences were determined using two tailed students t-test.
Statistical significance was defined by p<0.05. All data was plotted as the mean +/- standard
deviation of the mean (SD).
                                                     49
100869471 (GHMatter) P77900.AU.3

Repopulation of muscle tissue with transplanted cells
            The tibialis muscle of each mouse was lacerated and the laceration was subsequently
closed with suture. One of five conditions was used to treat the laceration site: 1) myoblasts
were directly injected into the muscle at the laceration site, 2) blank scaffolds were placed
over the laceration, 3) scaffolds seeded with myoblasts were placed over the laceration, 4)
scaffolds releasing HGF and FGF2 (- cells) were placed over the laceration, and 5) scaffolds
containing myoblasts and releasing HGF and FGF2 were placed. The implants were placed
without the aid of any adhesive or glue, and upon retrieval at 10 and 30 days, 80% of the
implants were in the same location as the day of surgery. The implants were attached to the
injury site and the overlying epidermis by fascia like tissue. A gross difference in the size of
injured muscle treated with scaffolds containing growth factors and myoblasts, as compared
to all other conditions, was observed at 30 days, as these muscles were larger in every
dimension than the other conditions tested (FIG. 7A-C). Quantification of the mass of these
muscles revealed a statistically significant 30% increase in mass, as compared to the other
conditions (FIG. 7D). Gross observation also revealed that p -galactosidase activity, as
indicated by lacZ staining, was noticeably more intense in muscles treated with the scaffolds
containing myoblasts and growth factors (FIG. 7A) than in the other conditions in which
myoblasts were transplanted, indicating a greater repopulation of the native muscle by cells
transplanted in this condition.
            Analysis of tissue sections revealed a defect at 10 days that appeared largely necrotic
in all conditions (FIG. 8A-E). No normal muscle tissue appeared within the defect at this
early time point. The defect was filled with cellular debris, blood and basophilic cells. There
were no myofibers that spanned the defect area. The muscle fibers that lined the borders of
the defect were largely disorganized and contained centrally located nuclei. The muscle
injury treated with a localized sustained delivery of growth factors alone had a larger
remaining defect area than any other condition at this time-point, although this difference was
only statistically significant when compared to the injury treated with sustained delivery of
both myoblasts and growth factors. When sections from muscle defects treated with
myoblast transplantation were viewed under high power magnification, there were no gross
differences observed in the number of lacZ (+) cells present in the tissue at this time.
            In contrast to the early results, the defects in the muscles treated with sustained
localized delivery of myoblasts and growth factors were largely resolved at 30 days (FIG. 8J).
In many of these animals, the only remaining defect was that caused by the closing suture. In
addition there were few areas of fat deposit and virtually no scar tissue at this time point. The
                                                      50
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

unresolved defect areas in the other experimental conditions had also decreased in size (FIG.
8F-I), as compared to the defect area at 10 days, but were still much larger than the cell/HGF
and FGF2 delivery condition. In addition, scar tissue or fat deposits were apparent in these
other conditions. When the areas of unresolved defects were quantified, there were no
statistically significant differences between the conditions at 10 days (FIG. 9A). However, at
30 days post injury the defects in muscles treated with scaffolds delivering cells and growth
factors were significantly smaller than in any other condition (FIG. 9B). A lesser reduction
in defect size was also seen in muscles treated with injected cells or scaffolds delivering HGF
and FGF2.
            To further analyze muscle regeneration, the mean width of regenerated myofibers and
number of post mitotic centrally located nuclei per length of myofiber in the region proximal
to the resolving muscle defects were quantified via high powered light microscopic analysis.
The mean width of regenerating fibers and density of centrally located nuclei were
qualitatively greater in muscles treated with scaffold delivery of cells and growth factors
(FIG. 1OB), as compared to scaffolds delivering only growth factors (FIG. 10A), or any other
experimental condition. Determination of the mean width of fibers 30 days post injury
confirmed that muscles treated with myoblasts in combination with growth factors exhibited
a 3 fold increase in fiber size as compared to the blank scaffolds, injected cells, or cells
transplanted alone in scaffolds (FIG. 1C). The fiber width also increased in the experimental
group involving HGF and FGF2 delivery, but not as dramatically. In addition, the muscle
fibers in the injury group treated with myoblasts and growth factors via scaffold delivery
contained 30% more centrally located nuclei than any other conditions at 30 days post injury
(FIG. 1OD), indicating more fusion of myoblasts into the fibers, which supports the finding
that these fibers were larger in size.
            Finally, immunostaining of tissue sections from the tibialis anterior muscle 30 day
post-injury revealed that the increases in the muscle size, fiber width, and fiber nuclei were
accompanied by robust engraftment of transplanted myoblasts into host regenerating muscle,
when cells were transplanted on scaffolds releasing HGF/FGF2 (FIG. 11 A, C). A more
limited number of engrafted donor cells were noted in the condition using direct myoblast
injection (FIG. 11B, D). No LacZ (+) cells were noted in the other experimental and control
conditions.
            Modulation of skeletal muscle regeneration, subsequent to injury, by myoblast
transplantation requires the survival of donor myoblasts and their stable incorporation into
muscle fibers within the host tissue. Transplantation of myoblasts on scaffolds that promote
                                                   51
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

their outward migration combines the advantages of host muscle fiber regeneration obtained
with direct cell injection with the control over transplanted cell fate made possible with the
use of cell-instructive scaffolds. Direct injection of myoblasts into injured muscles enhances
regeneration, as does localized delivery of HGF and FGF2 in combination from a scaffold,
but transplanting the cells from a scaffold that simultaneously delivers HGF and FGF2
dramatically enhanced the participation of transplanted cells in muscle regeneration and the
overall extent of regeneration.
            Transplantation of myoblasts via direct injection, and delivery with a scaffold not
releasing growth factors led to distinct outcomes in the model system. Injection of myoblasts
alone enhanced muscle regeneration, although to a modest extent. The injected cells
participated in muscle fiber formation, as evidenced by identification of Rosa26-derived cells
in the defect site, decreased mean defect size at 30 days, and increased skeletal muscle fiber
width. In contrast, transplantation of the same cell number on the scaffolds without growth
factor release led to no detectable changes in muscle regeneration, as compared to
implantation of blank scaffolds at the defect site. Cell migration out of scaffolds is low in the
absence of the activating effects of HGF and FGF2 (20-30% of seeded cells migrate from
scaffolds over 4 days in vitro) and those scaffolds provide few cells to the surrounding tissue
that can participate in regeneration compared to the HGF/FGF2 scaffolds.
            Delivery of a combination of HGF and FGF2 from the scaffolds, in the absence of
transplanted cells, had a modest effect on muscle regeneration. The width of regenerating
fibers was increased in this condition, as compared to blank scaffolds, and the number of
centrally located nuclei in these fibers, a hallmark of regenerating myofibers was increased as
well. These effects were consistent with the modest decrease in defect area noted at 30 days.
Other studies of local HGF and FGF2 delivery to sites of muscle regeneration have led to
results distinct from those reported herein. Local HGF delivery has been previously
documented to increase the number of activated myoblasts within injured muscle, consistent
with its role in activating satellite cells, but repeated presentation of HGF actually inhibited
regeneration. Miller et al., 200 Am. J. Physiol. Cell. Physiol. 278: C174-181. The high dose
of HGF may have retarded the ability of host myoblasts to withdraw from the cell cycle and
terminally differentiate. In addition, application of endogenous FGF2 had been previously
reported to not enhance muscle regeneration. In contrast to those previous studies, the
scaffolds described herein delivered small quantities of the factors (e.g., 5 ng), continually
released the factors over an extended time period, e.g., 3-10 days, delivered a combination of
the two factors rather than a single factor, and the type of muscle injury was also different
                                                   52
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

from previous systems. The model system used to generate the foregoing data more closely
resembles a human injury or muscle defect compared to the earlier studies.
            Transplanting myoblasts on a scaffold that released HGF and FGF2 significantly
enhanced muscle regeneration by every measure examined. The number of transplanted cells
participating in muscle regeneration, as indicated by immunohistochemical staining for p
galactosidase, dramatically increased. The width of regenerating fibers was significantly
enhanced, as was the number of centrally located nuclei in the fibers, which are both
consistent with an increased number of myoblasts participating in muscle formation. The
enhanced regeneration led to almost complete resolution of the injury defect by 30 days, and
to a significant recovery of muscle mass following the atrophy induced by the injury. Cells
placed in these growth factor releasing scaffolds very efficiently migrate out from the
scaffolds in vitro (100% migration in 4 days), and the growth factor release maintains the
cells in an activated, proliferating, but non-differentiated state (myoD positive, myogenin
negative) in the scaffold. Prior to the invention, myoblasts injected into muscle had poor
survival due to the lack of an adhesion substrate and the inflammatory environment present in
the injury. Transplantation of cells in scaffolds maintains the viability of the transplanted
cells, while protecting them from the inflammatory environment. Activation of myoblasts by
exposure to HGF and FGF2 also increases their migration and proliferation, and thus
enhances their ability to populate host musculature. The increase in muscle mass, muscle
fiber size and the number of myonuclei per fiber, resemble the normal regeneration of muscle
tissue associated with healing of muscle lacerations and other defects of muscular tissue (e.g.,
applications ranging from hematopoietic system reconstitution to neural regeneration).
Example 3: Treatment skin wounds
            In the context of a skin defect, the goals of the therapy are dictated by the type of
wound (e.g., acute bum, revision of scar, or chronic ulcer) and size of the wound. In the case
of a small chronic ulcer, the objective is closure of the wound by regeneration of the dermis.
The epidermis regenerates via migration of host keratinocytes from the adjacent epidermis.
For large wounds, keratinocytes, optimally autologous, are provided by the device to promote
regeneration of the epidermis. Cells are loaded into a scaffold material that is placed directly
over the wound site, e.g., a scaffold structure in the form of a bandage. The material provides
a stream of appropriate cells to promote regeneration. For dermal regeneration, fibroblasts
cells are used to seed the device, and these cells are either autologous (biopsy taken from
another location and expanded before transplantation) or allogeneic. Advantages of
autologous cells include a decreased risk of disease transmission, and immune acceptance of
                                                    53
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

the cells. However, a time interval of several days to a few weeks would be required after
patient biopsy to generate sufficient cells for treatment. Allogeneic cells allow immediate
treatment of the patient from a stored bank of cells, and significant reductions in therapy cost.
Immunosuppressive agents are optionally co-administered to reduce or prevent rejection of
these cells by the patients immune system..
            The device design includes one or a combination of the following features: 1.
(physical properties) pores that would readily allow cells to migrate out of the device into the
underlying tissue; 2. (physical properties) a semipermeable external membrane designed to
control fluid loss from the wound, prevent infection, and prevent cell migration out of the
device away from the tissue; 3. (adhesion ligands) inclusion of cell adhesion ligands to allow
fibroblasts to migrate through and out of the material, e.g., RGD containing peptides; 4.
(growth factors) local presentation of FGF2 to induce fibroblast proliferation within the
device; 5. (enzymes) the device is designed to allow for the rapid release into the wound of
enzymes useful in debriding the wound; 6. (helper cells) if the individual was anticipated to
have a limited angiogenic response, endothelial cells or endothelial progenitors are be
included in the device, and stimulated to repopulate the wound in concert with the fibroblasts
to promote vascularization.
            This application utilizes materials with a relatively low elastic modulus, e.g., 0.1-100,
1-100 kPa. Stiff materials would not be suitable, as such materials would not conform to a
wound. Hydrogels or elastomeric polymers are useful in this device in order to conform to
the wound and provide control over fluid transport, prevent infection, and allow the physical
contact required for cells to migrate out of the device into the wound. The hydrogel or other
material also has adhesive properties. An adhesive surface permits contact to the wound so
the remains fixed, even as the patient moves. Optionally, the device itself is adhesive;
alternatively, the device is fixed in place over the wound using an adhesive composition such
as a pharmaceutically acceptable tape or glue. A semipermeable outer surface is provided by
either using a composite material (e.g., nonporous silicone sheet placed on outer surface of
porous device) or processing the device to create anisotropic porosity.
Example 4: Devices and systems for promoting angiogenesis
            Angiogenesis is a critical element in any tissue regeneration effort, and the temporally
distinct signaling of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is crucial in this process.
Devices that contain compositions which promote angiogenesis together with endothelial
cells resulted in a synergistic angiogenic effect. The approach utilizes cells that play a role in
                                                    54
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

the angiogenic process, e.g., endothelial progenitor cells and outgrowth endothelial cells (e.g.,
derived from cord blood or from peripheral blood samples).
            An injectable alginate hydrogel was developed to provide spatial distribution and
temporal control of factors inducing neovascularization of hypoxic tissues. The hindlimbs of
C57BL/6J mice were made ischemic by femoral artery and vein ligation, and the hydrogel
containing growth factors was directly injected into the ischemic muscle (bolus delivery of
VEGF was used as a control), and the in vivo release kinetics and distribution of VEGF 12 1
and VEGFi6 5 were assessed using an ELISA on tissue samples. The gel led to complete
return of tissue perfusion to normal levels by day 28, whereas normal levels of perfusion
were not achieved with bolus delivery of VEGF.
            Several types of stem cells, including endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) cultivated
from cord blood are useful in therapeutic angiogenesis. These cell-based therapies present
several advantages over protein or gene-based therapies. Co-transplanting endothelial
progenitor cells (EPC) and outgrowth endothelial cells (OEC) enhances vascularization
compared to transplantation of each cell type alone. These cells are delivered through the
intramuscular injection as well as to other tissues in which vascularization is desired. Co
transplantation of EPC and OEC in a synthetic extracellular matrix device, which was
specifically designed as a niche to support cell growth and migration led to dramatically
improved vascularization at an ischemic site. Microporous alginate-based hydrogels
contained synthetic oligopeptides containing the Arg-Gly-Asp sequence (RGD peptides) and
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). The RGD peptide supports cell adhesion, growth
and migration in the gel matrix and the sustained release of VEGF stimulates cell migration.
            Hydrogels were prepared by cross-linking alginate molecules containing covalently
bound RGD peptides with calcium ions. VEGF was loaded in the gel matrix by mixing with
alginate solution prior to cross-linking. Micro-sized pores in the gel matrix were induced by
freezing the gel at -20 0 C followed by lyophilization. Human microvascular endothelial cells
were seeded into alginate scaffolds and placed into a collagen gel in a 24 well plate. After 3
days of culture, gel was degraded and cell number was quantified.
            The mixture of EPC and OEC was loaded into the micropores and transplanted to the
ligation site. The femoral artery in the hind limb of SCID mice was ligated and the ends of
the artery were tied off with sutures. The recovery of blood perfusion in the right hind limb
was evaluated using laser Doppler perfusion imaging (LDPI) system.
            Human endothelial cells placed in matrices containing the RGD peptide migrated out
of the alginate gel scaffolds and populated the surfaces of culture dishes in contact with the
                                                   55
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

matrix, but their outward migration was significantly enhanced by the inclusion of VEGF in
the matrix. A higher number of endothelial cells were localized in collagen and quantified at
day 3 (Fig. 12) Transplanting EPC and OEC within synthetic microenvironments, including
VEGF, completely recovered the blood perfusion in the right hind limb within 6 weeks (Fig.
13a). In contrast, the bolus injection of cells led to limited recovery of blood perfusion, and
eventually the right hind limb was lost to necrosis (Fig. 13b). Transplanting both EPC and
OEC within the gel matrix led to a superior recovery of blood perfusion, as compared with
transplanting either EPC or OEC alone within the gel matrix (Fig. 13c). Fig. 13d further
illustrates the recovery of blood perfusion in the animals tested. The device and cell niche
system described above provides transplanted cells with the proper microenvironment that
leads to synergistic enhancement of vascularization in vivo.
Example 5: Vaccine devices that regulate cell migration
            Polymeric-based delivery systems were designed to regulate local in vivo cellular
migration. Cells of the body into which the device is administered enter the device/scaffold,
pick up an agent (e.g., a target antigen or immune stimulatory molecule), and later emigrate
to distant sites. These types of polymeric systems are especially useful in tissue and cellular
engineering applications or vaccination protocols that seek to deliver molecules, such as
peptides, proteins, oligonucleotides, siRNA or DNA to specific target cells in vivo that
effectively modulates their function. The device recruits cells of the body into the scaffold
where the cells encounter agents that alter their function (e.g., the state of differentiation or
activation), and the modified cells leave the implant site and have biological effects at
diseased sites or elsewhere. Exit of the cells from the device is controlled by the
composition, pore size, and or agents (e.g., cytokines) associated with the device.
            Delivery of GM-CSF from poly-lactide-co-glycolide matrices promoted in vivo
recruitment and infiltration of CD1 lc+ dendritic cells (DCs) in a dose dependant manner
(Figs. 14A-C and 15A-B).         Incorporation of a fluorescent tag, fluoroscein, in the matrices
permitted tracking of the migration of matrix of host DCs away from the scaffolds and into
the draining lymph nodes using flow cytommetry (Fig. 16A-C).             GM-CSF delivery enhanced
the total number of DCs in the lymph nodes that were derived from the implant site at days
14 and 28 after matrix implantation. These data indicate that the device scaffold systems
effectively both promote the migration of cells into and out of a local site, in vivo, while
picking up a bioactive agent, thereby modifying cell function such as immune activation.
            The patent and scientific literature referred to herein establishes the knowledge that is
available to those with skill in the art. All United States patents and published or unpublished
                                                     56
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

United States patent applications cited herein are incorporated by reference. All published
foreign patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference. All
other published references, documents, manuscripts and scientific literature cited herein are
hereby incorporated by reference.
            While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to
preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various
changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the
invention encompassed by the appended claims.
            The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
Application No. 2006326405 and 2014200405 and 2015264807 are by this cross-reference
incorporated into the present application.
                                                   57
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
             1. A device comprising a scaffold composition and a bioactive composition, said
bioactive composition being incorporated into or coated onto said scaffold composition,
wherein said scaffold composition temporally controls egress of a resident cell or wherein
said bioactive composition spatially regulates egress of said resident cell.
            2. The device of claim 1, wherein said bioactive composition is an extracellular
matrix (ECM) component.
            3. The device of claim 1, wherein said ECM component comprises an RGD
sequence.
            4. The device of claim 1, wherein said bioactive composition is covalently linked to
said scaffold composition.
            5. The device of claim 1, wherein said device comprises a second bioactive
composition.
            6. The device of claim 5, wherein said second bioactive composition is a growth
factor or differentiation factor.
            7. The device of claim 6, wherein said growth factor is vascular endothelial growth
factore (VEGF).
            8. The device of claim 6, wherein said growth factor is hepatocyte growth factor
(HGF) or fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2).
            9. The device of claim 5, wherein said second bioactive composition is an inhibitor of
differentiation
             10. The device of claim 5, wherein said second bioactive composition is covalently
linked to said scaffold composition.
                                                  58
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

             11. The device of claim 1, wherein the scaffold composition degrades at a
predetermined rate based on a physical parameter selected from the group consisting of
temperature, pH, hydration status, and porosity.
             12. The device of claim 1, wherein said scaffold composition is enzymatically
digested by a composition elicited by a resident cell, said egress of said cell being dependent
upon the rate of enzymatic digestion.
             13. The device of claim 1, wherein said scaffold composition comprises pores.
             14. The device of claim 13, wherein said pore size is 400-500 pm.
             15. The device of claim 1, wherein said device further comprises a cell.
             16. A device comprising a scaffold composition and a bioactive composition, said
bioactive composition being incorporated into or coated onto said scaffold composition,
wherein said scaffold composition temporally or spacially controls egress of a resident cell.
             17. A device comprising a scaffold composition and a bioactive composition, said
bioactive composition being incorporated into or coated onto said scaffold composition,
wherein said bioactive composition temporally or spatially regulates egress of said resident
cell.
             18. A method of making a scaffold, comprising providing a scaffold composition,
covalently linking said scaffold composition with a first bioactive composition comprising an
cell adhesion ligand, and contacting said scaffold composition with a second bioactive,
wherein said second bioactive composition is non-covalently associated with said scaffold
composition to yield a doped scaffold.
             19. The method of claim 18, wherein said linking and said contacting steps are
repeated to yield a plurality of doped scaffolds, wherein each of said contacting steps
comprises a different amount of said second bioactive composition to yield a gradient of said
second bioactive composition in said doped scaffold.
                                                  59
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

            20. The method of claim 18, further comprising contacting said scaffold with a
purified population of cells.
            21. A method of regenerating a target tissue of a mammal, comprising providing a
device comprising a scaffold composition with a bioactive composition being incorporated
therein or thereon and a mammalian cell bound to said scaffold and contacting a mammalian
tissue with said device wherein said scaffold composition temporally controls egress of said
cell and wherein said bioactive composition spatially regulates egress of said cell.
            22. A method of regenerating a target tissue of a mammal, comprising providing a
device comprising a scaffold composition with a bioactive composition being incorporated
therein or thereon and a mammalian cell immobilized within said scaffold and contacting a
mammalian tissue with said device, wherein said mammalian cell said remains immobilized
within said scaffold and wherein said scaffold composition temporally controls egress of a
progeny cell of said mammalian cell and wherein said bioactive composition spatially
regulates egress of said progeny of said mammalian cell.
            23. A method of modulating an activity of a cell, comprising (a) administering to a
mammal a device comprising a scaffold composition and a recruitment composition
incorporated therein or thereon, and (b) contacting said cell with a deployment signal,
wherein said deployment signal induces egress of said cells and wherein said activity of said
cell at egress differs from that prior to entering said device.
            24. The method of claim 23, wherein said cell is an immune cell.
            25. The method of claim 23, wherein said immune cell is selected from the group
consisting of a dendritic cell, macrophage, T cell, and B cell.
                                                  60
10086947_1(GHMattes) P77900.AU.3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
