   ABSTRACT
           An equipment isolation system (10) for remotely isolating equipment (20,
   21, 210, 250) in a plant comprising equipment (20, 21, 210, 250) energisable by
 5 an energy source and a control system (50) for controlling operation of said
   equipment (20, 21, 210, 250) and isolation of said equipment from said energy
   source to an isolated state by an operator, wherein said control system (50, 260,
   700) includes an identification device (790) for an operator to provide operator
   identification data; and a processor for comparing said operator identification data
10 with stored identification data (261) for operators authorised to use the equipment
   isolation system (10) wherein said control system (50, 260, 700) is configured to
   enable use of the equipment isolation system (10) by said operator only where
   the processor matches operator identification data provided to the identification
   device (790) and said stored identification data (261).

                              4/16
            120
126                         C1720                           1719C
                                       [TB Ep                                124
                  1517211
                CONRLATV17                       50
                                                       17221769
                 FIS AVAILABLE        FIS NOT A   ILABLE    ISOLATION ST  US
                                                                                 122
                1 OISLATE             APPROVED                 30PROCEED
    1740                                                           6000       1760
                                                             )4lISOLATE
     1750 -   -                      12725 TRY STEP                    MA       500
                                                         Q                     400
                           6N PLN1 C  K                  7 80                  17 6 5
                                                -~600
                                127
                                                 Fig 4

                                              1
                         AN EQUIPMENT ISOLATION SYSTEM
           This invention relates to an equipment isolation system for remotely
   isolating equipment from an energy source.
           Various types of equipment must be isolated from a range of energy
 5 sources including electrical energy (the most common) and mechanical energy
   including pressure and potential energy to enable safe maintenance and other
   work to be carried out. Conveyor belt systems used in the mining industry for
   transporting iron ore or other bulk materials which can span significant distances
   are one such example of equipment which may require being isolated from time
10 to time.
           The distances such conveyor belt systems can span can be in the range of
   many kilometres. Such conveyors are typically powered by electric drive motors:
   three phase electrical power is supplied wherein the voltage may range from low
   voltage ranges (from below 600V to 1000V AC), to medium and high voltage
15 ranges (in the multiple kV range and extending to above 10kV AC and even 33kV
   AC). Such conveyors typically include brake systems which are also electrically
   operated.
           Although different mine procedures and relevant safety standards may
   apply, a typical pre-requisite before permitting mechanical maintenance or other
20 activity involving access to the conveyor belt system involves the electrical
   isolation of the conveyor belt system.      This isolation ensures that the energy
   source powering the conveyor belts and associated equipment, i.e. electrical
   power, is not just switched off but removed from systems that - if energised
   could cause a safety hazard.      It will, however, be understood that equipment
25 items other than conveyor belt systems also require isolation for maintenance and
   other purposes.
           The isolation process is safety critical and at the core of providing a safe
   system of work during maintenance and has, in the past, been time consuming,
   as described for example in the introduction to the Applicant's granted Australian
30 Patent No. 2010310881 and International Publication No. WO 2012/142674, the
   contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.

                                              2
           The    remote   isolation   system   described  in  Australian   Patent    No.
   2010310881 enables equipment isolation to be requested at a remote isolation
   station associated with the equipment and subsequently approved through a plant
   control system, without mandatory visitation to the equipment by authorised
 5 isolation personnel. This remote isolation system significantly reduces time for
   achieving safe isolation, especially production downtime which can be very costly.
           Equipment isolation in an industrial plant, being safety critical, is typically
   the subject of detailed procedures. Such procedures are necessary because of
   the innately hazardous nature of much plant equipment as well as its complexity.
10 Such detailed procedures usually contain rules on the following subjects:
       e   personnel authorised to isolate particular equipment (noting that a group of
           people may need to be involved in an isolation);
       e   permission to work in particular areas;
       e   the order in which equipment items are to be isolated and other steps
15         required in the isolation process; and
       e   the issuing of authorisations and permits.
           The procedures often rely on handwritten or printed materials which take
   significant time to issue for each isolation task.        Such procedures typically
   stipulate that operators are only authorised to use or isolate specific equipment in
20 accordance with their skill set, designated duties, authorised work date and time,
   authorised work area, works to be performed on equipment, hours worked,
   training and other permissives.       Such authorisation, through issue of isolation
   permits, may involve complex and essentially manual administrative systems
   which are often time consuming and may still be bypassed due to error or
25 omissions. That is, despite these detailed procedures, unauthorised isolations
   may sometimes be requested and even implemented without the requisite
   authority, especially in cases of emergency.
           The present invention has an object of addressing such problems in
   equipment isolation systems.
30         With this object in view, the present invention provides an equipment
   isolation system for remotely isolating equipment in a plant comprising:
           equipment energisable by an energy source; and

                                                3
           a control system for controlling operation of said equipment and isolation of
   said equipment from said energy source to an isolated state by an operator,
           wherein said control system includes an identification device for an
   operator to provide operator identification data; and a processor for comparing
 5 said operator identification data with stored identification data for operators
   authorised to use the equipment isolation system wherein said control system is
   configured to enable use of the equipment isolation system by said operator only
   where the processor matches operator identification data provided to the
   identification device and said stored identification data. This allows verification of
10 the operator's identity and authority to use the isolation system and can be
   understood as a pre-approval for isolation to be requested and effected,
   preferably through an isolation process configured for, and customised to, a
   particular operator using devices as described below.
           The identification device may take a number of possible forms.            The
15 identification device could, for example, be:
       e   a keypad for inserting personal identification information (numeric, alpha
           numeric or otherwise) for an operator;
       e   a card reader which reads operator identification data from contact or
           contactless smart cards; and/or
20     e   a biometric device which may include a camera and processor for operator
           facial, iris or retinal recognition, or a finger print pad and processor for
           operator fingerprint identification.
           Operator identification data may, as alluded to above, be provided directly
   to the operator identification device or by bringing an operator identification
25 means into communication with the operator identification device.            Operator
   identification means may comprise a range of devices including smart devices
   such as smart cards and smart phones.              Other devices for communicating
   operator identification data to the operator identification device may be used. All
   such devices may also function as a plant access means required for an operator
30 to access a plant or work area.         These devices may also advantageously be
   configured with data and rules governing a particular isolation process.
           A combination of identification devices and operator identification means
   could also be used to assure higher security for the equipment isolation system.

                                             4
   For example, an operator may be required to successfully pass a card scan and
   input both personal identification information or biometric data before being
   authorised to access and use the equipment isolation system.
           The equipment isolation system may minimise risk of documentation errors
 5 and misuse, for example, by only allowing specific authorised operators to isolate
   specific equipment or to only allow specific operators to isolate specific equipment
   for specific tasks, in a specific order and/or even at specific dates and times. In
   any case, the control system may issue identification data to operators, such
   identification corresponding with the authority, typically in form of an isolation
10 work permit, to be given to the operator in line with the above considerations. To
   this end, the control system conveniently includes a database with a record for
   storing permit data for each operator. This record may be updated with permit
   data that authorises an operator to perform particular tasks taking permissives
   such as those described above into account. An operator may be provided with a
15 device, such as a smart card, containing identification and isolation work permit
   data as downloaded from the control system database or the permit data may be
   tied to the operator's biometric data. Such isolation work permit data may be
   verified by the identification device or checked in the field by personnel with
   suitable identification devices.
20          If an operator fails to demonstrate requisite authority, for example by
   inputting incorrect or unauthorised identification data to the identification device,
   the equipment isolation system may sense and flag this, issuing an alert signal
   and enabling an opportunity for correction, for example by control room, plant
   security or supervision/management.       Situations may arise where an operator,
25 once authorised, has had that authority withdrawn.         Such situations may be
   handled in the same manner as if unauthorised identification data had been input
   to the identification device.
           Smart devices are configured and programmed with operator identification
   data using a conventional programming process, preferably in a pre-configuration
30 step prior to an isolation process. Such electronic pre-configuration may have a
   significant impact on time and money in terms of reducing the administrative
   burden in comparison to setting isolation permits corresponding to particular
   operators and tasks using a physical/paper system.

                                              5
           Smart devices may conveniently be provided with other functionality and
   may also include appropriate communications equipment to store and transmit
   plant and other relevant data (including operator tracking (e.g. by GPS), reports,
   alarms and so on). Interfacing with plant control system including its messaging
 5 systems (by text, voice message or otherwise) is also possible.
           Where smart cards are used (which can be conveniently standard
   production smart cards), operator identification data is stored in smart card
   memory and also in a memory of the control system conveniently in the form of
   the operator database described above using conventional processes in a
10 convenient and flexible pre-configuration step that stores data and rules
   governing an isolation process as operator identification data on smart cards prior
   to isolation. In particular, such smart cards carry the isolation permits for a given
   operator.    Isolation permits for an operator can also be tied to that operator's
   biometric data. Smart cards may be assigned to operator(s) being pre-configured
15 for specific tasks, dates and times or permanently assigned with isolation permit
   data being updated when required.
           The control system typically includes, or interfaces with, a plant control
   system which, when provided with operator identification data such as the above
   described isolation permits, may check and confirm an operator authority
20 including an operator authority selected from the group consisting of an operator
   is authorised to effect an isolation for the equipment, an operator has the correct
   isolation permit(s) and an operator has authority to access or depart from a work
   area or plant site. The control system may also track operator location through a
   locating device on the operator identification means to ensure operators are
25 working in the correct area.
           The    equipment    isolation system   may advantageously        include the
   Applicant's remote isolation systems with a control system that authorises
   isolation on permissible request lodged by an operator at a remote isolation
   station.    One or a plurality of such remote isolation stations for selected
30 equipment to be isolated may be provided. Such remote isolation stations are in
   communication with the control system to enable isolation on permissible request.
   Such remote isolation stations are provided with control panels having input
   means, such as a Human Machine Interface (HMI), for the operator request.

                                              6
   Such remote isolation station, and conveniently the Human Machine Interface,
   would conveniently include the operator identification device described above so
   that the operator must demonstrate authority through appropriate identification
   data input to the identification device before proceeding further to actually use the
 5 equipment isolation system.        Mobile isolation stations are described in the
   Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application Nos. 2015902561            and
   2015902562 each filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of which are hereby
   incorporated herein by way of reference. Remote isolation stations may be fixed
   or mobile or a combination of the two types depending on specific applications.
10         Such remote isolation stations typically include an equipment isolation
   switch for use in isolating equipment, the switch being movable between a first
   energised or de-isolated position in which said equipment item is energised by an
   energy source and a second isolated position in which the equipment is de
   energised and isolated from the energy source. Such equipment isolation switch
15 may advantageously be operated only where an operator has input authorised
   identification data in the form of data or rules governing a specific isolation
   process to the operator identification device. Where a plurality of operators are
   involved, the switch is desirably movable between the first and second positions
   only where a plurality of operators have input authorised identification data in the
20 form of data or rules governing a specific isolation process to said operator
   identification device using their operator identification means, for example a pre
   configured smart device such as a smart card.         The switch must be locked to
   complete isolation or unlocked during de-isolation, a personal padlock (whether
   alone or affixed to a hasp which is connected to the switch) currently being used
25 for the purpose.     A number of personal locks may be applied by different
   operators involved in an isolation process. For example, an equipment isolation
   switch may be configured with an electro-mechanical lock operable only where
   each concerned operator (as a plurality of operators may work on or during an
   isolation process) has input authorised identification data to the identification
30 device, for example using a card reader, keypad or both, as described above.
   Such an electro-mechanical lock may also obviate need for a padlock or hasp for
   locking out and, in doing so, increase safety by minimising unauthorised
   operation of such devices which currently occurs on occasion.

                                               7
           Though such pre-configuration of smart devices, such as smart cards, is
   highly advantageous and preferred, isolations may be configured to the same
   effect at a remote isolation station using smart devices such as smart cards.
   Authority to perform such configuration may be limited to more senior operators
 5 and managers. Such configuration might be undertaken, for example, when the
   system is in configurable isolation mode as described below.
           The control system can control, and record details of, the operator(s)
   equipment isolation switch operation, for example locking out using operator
   identification means, such as smart cards, including name, date and time.           A
10 similar procedure would be followed on de-isolation.         De-isolation may again
   require the concerned operator(s) to present valid identification data to the control
   system using the identification device as a pre-condition to de-isolation.
           The equipment isolation system may provide for a plurality of available
   isolation modes configured for the particular remote isolation system, as
15 described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
   2015902558 filed on 30 June 2015 the contents of which are hereby incorporated
   herein by way of reference, and having respective isolation demand inputs.         In
   such case, the control system may enable an operator to select particular modes
   of isolation (and perform corresponding tasks) only if the operator identification
20 data matches with authority to select that mode of isolation.
           A configurable isolation mode may be included as an available isolation
   mode and advantageously applied to isolate a selected sub-set of equipment
   items from a set of equipment items which together comprise the plant or a plant
   system.     The sub-set could include one equipment item.       In such a case, the
25 control system includes, for example at a remote isolation station, a selecting
   means for selecting a sub-set of equipment items for isolation as an isolation
   demand input. The selecting means may enable an operator to select, subject to
   authority verified by the identification device, a sub-set of equipment items to be
   isolated while leaving other equipment items operating.
30         Alternatively, or additionally, the control system may select the sub-set of
   equipment items for isolation in an automated process depending on other
   commands input to the control system. Such an isolation mode may enable
   isolation of all equipment items in the plant for a maintenance shutdown. At the

                                              8
   same time, or more preferably prior to the isolation time to save time and avoid
   deficiencies of the manual system, operator records in the control system
   database described above are updated with permit data authorising them to
   perform tasks in line with permissives such as those described above.            Such
 5 updating may be done by personnel supervising the isolation or automatically by
   the control system using historical operator permit data for specific tasks. Such
   permit data may be downloaded to an operator device such as a smart card or
   tied to biometric data to be verified by identification device(s) as described above.
           Where a plurality of operators are required to work on the equipment items
10 in such configurable isolation mode for example, the control system pre
   configures a plurality of operator identification means with data and rules
   governing isolation and operation of equipment items within said sub-set of
   equipment items.        The control system may pre-configure each operator
   identification means with the same or different data and rules governing isolation
15 and operation of equipment items dependent on tasks that each operator has to
   perform during isolation.
           The isolation system may enable equipment isolation through a wireless
   communications network including mobile isolation devices for requesting the
   control system to authorise equipment isolation. Such a remote isolation system
20 is described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
   2015902562 filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of which are hereby
   incorporated herein by way of reference.          In such case, the mobile isolation
   devices may include the operator identification device as described above.
           The remote isolation system may include features to prevent an operator
25 leaving equipment in an isolated state by mistake. For example, an operator who
   has isolated some equipment and locked out, for example using a personal lock
   may attempt to leave the equipment area or even the site without removing their
   personal lock. This may cause significant problems and consequences for both
   operator and plant owner. To this end, the control system may monitor operator
30 activity, for example by tracking the operator identification means, and trigger an
   alert if it detects and flags that an operator has failed to de-isolate equipment
   when safe to do so. One alert condition could be an attempt by an operator to

                                             9
   depart from the work area or plant site without having de-isolated equipment
   when safe to do so
           This may also be addressed by making operator departure from a
   particular area or site conditional on presenting operator identification means to
 5 an operator identification device located at any access means to the work area or
   plant site which, on communicating with the control system, may alert the
   operator that removal of the personal lock is required. Access means to the site,
   such as an automatically operated door or gate, may fail to operate in case of
   such an alert.
10         The equipment remote isolation system may be retro-fitted to existing
   equipment and plant in a range of industries, for example the materials handling
   and mining industries. The remote isolation system may also advantageously be
   used for isolating rail system components in railway infrastructure.
           The term "isolation" as used in this specification is to be understood in its
15 maintenance engineering and legal sense as not simply turning off a supply of
   energy to equipment, whatever the nature of that energy, but removing and/or
   dissipating energy to provide a safe work environment as required by applicable
   occupational health and safety regulations. In the case of electricity, as just one
   example, isolation is not achieved simply by turning off a power supply to the
20 equipment.     In such cases, the equipment could accidentally re-start or be
   restarted and cause injury to personnel, or worse.        Isolation instead prevents
   such accidental re-starting and typically will also involve processes to dissipate
   any hazardous stored energy, in whatever form that energy may take (e.g.
   potential energy), from the equipment. For example, such an additional energy
25 dissipation step could be effected in respect of a conveyor belt system by way of
   the braking cycle procedure as described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional
   Patent Application No. 2015902565, the contents of which are incorporated
   herein by way of reference.
           The equipment remote isolation system of the present invention may be
30 more fully understood from the following description of preferred embodiments
   made with reference to the following drawings in which:

                                              10
           FIG 1 shows a schematic layout of an equipment isolation system as
   applied to a conveyor belt system and configured in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention.
           FIG 2 shows a schematic of a control panel for a fixed equipment isolation
 5 station used in the equipment isolation system schematised in FIG 1.
           FIG 3 shows a schematic of a further embodiment of control panel for a
   fixed equipment isolation station useful for the equipment isolation system
   schematised in FIG 1.
           FIG 4 shows a front view of a mobile isolation device for use in the
10 equipment isolation system schematised in FIG 1, the mobile isolation device
   being in isolated condition.
           FIG 5 shows a first side perspective view of the mobile isolation device of
   FIG 4 in normal or "resting" position.
           FIG 6 shows a second side perspective view of the mobile isolation device
15 of FIGS 4 and 5.
           FIG 7 shows a side perspective view of the mobile isolation device of FIGS
   4 to 6 with isolation switch turned to the ISOLATE position prior to lockout.
           FIG 8 shows a side perspective view of the mobile isolation device of FIGS
   4 to 7 with isolation lockout point provided on completion of an isolation
20 procedure.
           FIG 9 shows a side perspective view of the mobile isolation device of FIGS
   4 to 8 in isolated and locked out condition.
           FIG 10 shows a first logic flow diagram for operation of an equipment
   isolation system as schematised in FIG 1 and using the control panel shown in
25 FIG 2.
           FIG 11 shows a second logic flow diagram for operation of an equipment
   isolation system as schematised in FIG 1 and using the control panel shown in
   FIG 3.
           FIG 12 shows a schematic of the memory block of a contactless smart
30 card for use in an equipment isolation system in accordance with embodiments of
   the present invention.

                                              11
           FIG 13 shows a schematic showing the first embodiment of identification
   device and its relationship to other components of the equipment isolation system
   schematised in FIG 1.
           FIG    14 shows    a schematic showing the second           embodiment of
 5 identification device and its relationship to other components of the equipment
   isolation system schematised in FIG 1.
           FIG 15 shows an equipment isolation system as applied to a conveyor belt
   system configured in accordance with a further embodiment of the present
   invention.
10         FIG 16 shows a schematic display screen for a control panel located in a
   control room for the equipment isolation system schematised in FIG 11.
            Referring to FIG 1, there is shown a schematic layout of a remote
   equipment isolation system 10, as retrofitted on to an existing conveyor belt
   system 20, for example a long range conveyor belt system for conveying iron ore.
15 The conveyor belt system 20 comprises a troughed conveyor belt 21 having a
   head pulley drive motor 22 driven by an electrical supply emanating from
   electrical contacts 31, whether provided as contactors or circuit breakers. The
   head pulley drive motor 22 is powered through a variable speed drive (VSD)
   which is electrically powered from a three phase AC power supply line 23
20 providing voltage of less than 1000V AC. Conveyor belt 21 is provided with an
   electrically powered braking system 21 A and a Tramp Metal Detector (TMD) 21 B
   for detecting metallic debris if present on the conveyor belt 21.
           Electrical power for conveyor belt system 20 is supplied from a sub-station
   30. The sub-station 30 houses the contacts 31. Activation of the contacts 31 (i.e.
25 placing them in the "off" or "break" state), de-energises all three phases of the
   electrical supply to the conveyor head pulley drive motor 22. Activation of similar
   contacts 310 also housed within the sub-station 30 similarly de-energises all three
   phases of the electrical supply to the conveyor braking system 21A. Such de
   energisation is continuously monitored by respective voltage monitor relays (not
30 shown) located downstream of contacts 31, i.e. on the conveyor belt system 20
   and conveyor braking system 21A side of the contacts 31 and 310 respectively.
           The conveyor belt system 20 and sub-station 30 are under the control and
   supervision of a plant control system 260 having a Central Control Room (CCR)

                                            12
   40, via a DCS (Distributed Control System), a PLC (Programmable Logic
   Controller) and a SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System) as
   are commonly used and would be well understood by the skilled person. Item 41
   in FIG 1 is representative of a communication and control network between the
 5 CCR 40 and various other plant systems and components.           A Control Room
   Operator (CRO) 42 is located within the CCR 40 and has various input/output
   (1/O) devices and displays available (not shown) for the proper supervision and
   control of the conveyor belt system 20. Except for the equipment isolation system
   10, the above description represents what may be considered a conventional
10 system in the materials handling and mining industries.
           The equipment isolation system 10 comprises fixed position equipment
   isolation stations 12 and 14 which are located proximate to the conveyor belt
   system 20.      Equipment isolation stations 12 and 14 could be replaced or
   supplemented by one or more mobile isolation devices 120, one form of which is
15 described in further detail below. Mobile isolation stations are also disclosed in
   the Applicant's Provisional Patent Application Nos. 2015902561 and 2015902562
   filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by
   way of reference. The equipment isolation stations 12 and 14 may be powered
   from the plant grid, other power networks or alternative power sources,
20 conveniently such as solar power.
           Mobile isolation devices 120, unlike fixed equipment isolation stations 12
   and 14, can be used anywhere around the plant providing significant flexibility
   and reducing the need to spend time travelling to and fro between fixed
   equipment     isolation stations  12 and    14   for communications    tasks and
25 maintenance tasks in a work area of the conveyor belt system 20.      This should
   reduce downtime and increase productivity without compromising safety. It will
   be understood that equipment isolation system 10 could altogether dispense with
   fixed equipment isolation stations in favour of mobile isolation devices 120 in
   certain applications.
30         The equipment isolation system 10 also includes a master controller 50
   incorporating a HMI in the form of a touch sensitive screen 51 which displays
   human interpretable information. The master controller 50 is also located within
   sub-station 30.

                                               13
           Equipment isolation stations 12 and 14 and mobile isolation devices 120
   communicate       with   master    controller  50   and   each   other  via   wireless
   communication channels 11 and 13 respectively. The communication channels
   11 and 13 form part of a wireless communications network for controlling the
 5 conveyor belt system 20 so saving costs and difficulty involved with installing fibre
   optic or other cable as described hereinbefore.
           The wireless communications network used in the control of conveyor belt
   system 20 requires a communication protocol to work effectively.                  This
   communication protocol is selected for ready interoperability with other plant
10 components making maintenance and trouble shooting requirements easier. That
   is, the communication protocol is open, not closed.          Plant personnel are not
   precluded from refining the communication protocol or left susceptible to system
   failures that only a third party to the plant operator/owner can address.
           In this    case,   the    communication    protocol   involves  an   industrial
15 communication protocol.       Communications relating to remote isolation must be
   via safety rated communications protocol software such as Interbus Safety or
   PROFIsafe which are Safety Integrity Level (SIL) rated and well known software
   applications within the mining and materials handling industries. This will ensure
   that the communication channels are monitored and diagnostic tools are available
20 for fault control and rectification when required.
           Further description of the electrical layout and operation of the remote
   isolation system 10 is provided in the Applicant's Australian              Patent No.
   2010310881,      the contents of which have been incorporated by reference.
   Advantageously, the remote isolation system 10 includes securing means for
25 continuously monitoring and maintaining isolation integrity as described in the
   Applicant's Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902556 filed 30 June 2015,
   the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.
           FIG 2 shows a schematic of a control panel 700 arranged as part of each
   equipment isolation station 12 and 14 for implementing the Applicant's remote
30 isolation system 10. Further detail of each equipment isolation station 12 and 14
   is provided below. Control panel 700 has a human machine interface (HMI) 710
   with a touch screen 1265 (though less fragile buttons, switches and other input
   devices may be used in alternative arrangements) for entering commands

                                             14
   (including isolation demand inputs in the form of operator initiated isolation
   requests).    Information about such isolation requests including isolation status
   and other plant data can also be presented on screen 1265.
           HMI 710 enables the operator to request isolation of equipment within
 5 conveyor belt system 20 following verification of operator authority to isolate using
   a smart card reader 790 incorporated in control panel 700. Smart card reader
   790 is of conventional form with an RF modem, powered by low voltage electricity
   supply, for communicating with smart cards 770 (as will be described further
   hereinafter).
10         Operators are provided with smart cards 770 with stored identification data
   appropriate to their duties. This identification data is issued by the plant control
   system 260 and stored in an operator database 261 with a record for each
   operator on site in a pre-configuration step. Such identification data is also stored
   in memory blocks 771 of the smart card as schematically shown in FIG 12 using a
15 conventional smart card programming process. The programming process may
   issue different operators with unique identification data which may act as an
   access card allowing the operator access to the site; and then both as authority to
   access the remote isolation system and isolation permit to work on specific tasks
   on the conveyor belt system 20 or be present within an area of works on the
20 conveyor belt system 20.         Multiple isolation permits may be issued and
   corresponding data stored on the smart cards 770.
           As schematically shown in FIGS 10 and 13 at step S1, smart card reader
   790 communicates wirelessly (at radio frequency along communication line 767)
   with the operator's contactless smart card 770. Although isolation is the focus for
25 such communication in the flowchart, smart cards 770 may be interfaced with
   smart card reader 790 and control system 260 for other purposes, for example to
   configure them, download data to them, retrieve logging data from them, interface
   with other plant components and so on. Smart cards 770 may, through use of
   appropriate communications equipment included in the smart card system, store
30 and transmit plant and other relevant data (including operator tracking for
   example through GPS tracking (useful for ensuring that operators only access
   areas they are authorised to work in), reports, alarms and so on). Interfacing with

                                              15
   plant control system 260 including its messaging systems (by text, voice message
   or otherwise) is also possible. This functionality is indicated in FIG 10.
           At step S2, smart card reader 790 reads its stored identification data from
   memory blocks 771 of smart card 770. The identification data is recorded and
 5 sent, at step S3, to plant control system 260 for smart card 770 validation through
   comparison, at step S4, with stored isolation authorities data in operator database
   261 regarding isolation of the conveyor belt system 20. Operator name, date and
   time of attempted access are recorded in the operator database 261.
           Even if smart card 770 is validated, plant control system 260 performs a
10 check to authorise permits to isolate conveyor belt system 20 at step S4Z.
           In either case, if the operator's input and stored identification data do not
   match showing a lack of validity of smart card 770 or a lack of authorisation
   through isolation permit, the plant control system 260 flags this situation at either
   step S5 or step S6 and issues an alarm to the CRO 42 for appropriate response.
15 At step S6, the operator is denied access to the isolation procedure through the
   control panel 700 and an alarm is generated at CCR 40. Various further actions
   could be taken. For example, the plant control system 260 may send a message
   or signal to the operator's supervisor initiating corrective action enabling isolation
   to proceed in a safe and cost effective manner.
20         Further security can be achieved by using a control panel 700 (as shown in
   FIG 3) including an additional identification device 755 taking the form of a
   keypad as schematically shown in FIGS 3 and 14. In such a case, an operator
   seeking to isolate conveyor belt system 20 brings operator identification means in
   the form of smart card 770 into communication with smart card reader 790 which
25 confirms that the smart card is valid at steps S1 to S4 as previously described. If
   not, the operator can take no further isolation action at control panel 700 and this
   situation may be flagged on screen 1265 and at the CCR 40 for the CRO 42 to
   take appropriate response action in steps S5 and S6 as described above.
           As will be evident from FIGS 11 and 14, if the operator's smart card 770 is
30 valid, the operator must still input identification data (a Personal Identification
   Code (PIC)) to keypad 755 before proceeding further to use remote isolation
   system 10. A corresponding signal is wirelessly sent through communication line
   752 to plant control system 260 which receives the identification data signal at

                                               16
   step S4A for verification and processing, through comparison with stored isolation
   authorities on operator database 261 at steps S4B and S4C.             If the input and
   stored identification data do not match, the plant control system 260 flags this
   situation at step S5 and issues an alarm to the CRO 42 for appropriate response.
 5 At step S6, the operator is denied access to the isolation system through the
   control panel 700.
           If the input and stored operator identification data successfully match,
   showing the operator has the necessary permit for standard isolation of the
   conveyor belt system 20, the operator may proceed to implement the isolation
10 procedure for the conveyor belt system 20 at step S7 by using the control panel
   700 at the equipment isolation station 12 to effect the isolation. Control panels
   700 are shown in FIGS 2 and 3.
           The control panel 700 also includes:
       "   Indicator light 720 showing whether or not the equipment isolation station
15         (RIS) 12 or 14 is available for isolation;
       e   Indicator light block 725 showing whether or not exclusive or maintenance
           mode for the remote isolation system is available or active as described in
           Australian Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902557 the contents of
           which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference; and respective
20         "select" and "cancel" buttons for initiating or terminating the maintenance
           mode;
       e   Indicator light 730 to provide zero energy confirmation when sensors, such
           as at least the load voltage monitor relay described above for contacts 31
           and preferably conveyor belt 21 movement sensors as well, indicate zero
25         hazardous energy in the conveyor belt system 20 (i.e. a zero energy
           indication is achieved when the culmination of all energy sources being
           monitored confirms that there is no stored or latent energy (whether
           potential, or electrical etc) remaining in the system desired to be isolated);
       e   Request to isolate button 740 which is activated by an operator (and which
30         illuminates when pressed) to request isolation and "request approved"
           indicator light 750 which also illuminates to provide status information to
           said operator;

                                              17
       "   Indicator light block 760 for indicating that control system checking is
           taking place subsequent to an isolation request being instigated; and
       e   Indicator light block 769 for showing whether or not the isolation is
           complete following control system checking.
 5         Control panel 700 also includes an equipment isolation switch 765 which
   prevents completion of the isolation process (i.e. by way of locking with an
   operator's padlock which may be affixed to a hasp attached to the switch 765)
   until the correct remote isolation request procedure, for example as described in
   granted Australian Patent No. 2010310881 or Australian Provisional Patent
10 Application No. 2015902554 , has been completed.
           If the operator demonstrates authority to isolate conveyor belt system 20
   with the use of the smart card system as above described, the conveyor belt
   system 20 is isolated by a procedure involving the following sequence of steps:
           1)      Operator request by pressing button 711 on screen 1265 of HMI
15         710 of equipment isolation station 12 for plant control system 260 to
           approve isolation of all or part of conveyor belt system 20 including
           conveyor 21 and head pulley drive motor 22;
           2)      Isolation approved if operator request meets permissives for
           isolation, for example as described in granted Australian Patent No.
20         2010310881;
           3)      Isolation automatically implemented by the control system 260;
           4)      Try start step being invoked to check that the isolation is effective,
           which involves checking that electrical contacts 31 for the conveyor belt
           system 20 are in isolated position with no voltage downstream of electrical
25         contacts 31 as continuously monitored by the above described voltage
           monitor relay (and desirably conveyor belt 21 movement sensors as well);
           an attempt to re-start the conveyor belt system 20 using a try step button
           780 or an automated process; and checking that there is no re
           energisation of conveyor belt system 20 (which may involve monitoring as
30         described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
           2015902556, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference);
           and

                                               18
           5)       Lockout at a control panel 700 of equipment isolation station 12
           and/or 14 if the try start is unsuccessful (as required).
           In particular, a correct remote isolation process requires a try start step to
   be completed by an operator by activation of try step button 780 before any
 5 manual lock out is possible. The equipment isolation switch 765 is designed to
   prevent any such manual lock out before the correct isolation process has been
   completed.
           Equipment isolation switch 765 includes an equipment isolation switch 400
   operable by turning key 500 between a first "NORMAL" position in which the head
10 pulley drive motor 22 for conveyor 21 is electrically energised (i.e. not isolated)
   and a second "ISOLATE" position in which the drive motor 22 is electrically
   isolated and thus without power facilitating any maintenance works which may be
   required. However, turning key 500 from the NORMAL to ISOLATE positions is a
   necessary but not sufficient condition for the equipment isolation system to
15 properly isolate conveyor belt 21 and its drive motor 22. The switch 400 must be
   locked out. This has been done to date, as described above, by a manual lock out
   procedure using a personal lock in the form of a padlock.
           It will be understood that other isolation switch equipment could be used.
   An alternative isolation switch assembly, including a securing means to maintain
20 key 500 in co-operation with isolation switch 400 as described in the Applicant's
   Australian Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902554 filed 30 June 2015,
   the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference, could
   also be used.
           In an alternative embodiment, using the same control panel 700, the hasp
25 for locking out isolation switch 400 would be substituted by an electro-mechanical
   lock operable (through lock out or lock off) on presentation of valid smart card(s)
   770 to smart card reader 790 during the isolation procedure. This minimises risk
   of misuse of the prior mechanical locks which has occasionally been an issue.
           Referring now to FIGS 4 to 9, one or more mobile isolation device(s) 120,
30 rather than a fixed equipment isolation station, may be used for accessing the
   equipment isolation system. Such mobile isolation device 120 is similar to that
   described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
   2015902562, the contents of which have previously included herein by reference,

                                               19
   and which has advantages of portability and flexibility to handle a number of
   isolation scenarios in a number of plant settings.
           It should be noted that for certain specific applications, the mobile isolation
   device could take the form of a re-configured smart phone or other smart device
 5 in which telephonic function (or Voice Over Internal Protocol (VOIP)) is integrated
   for communications with CRO 42. Control panel 124 is used for implementing the
   Applicant's remote isolation system 10 and includes an antenna 126 for
   implementing wireless communications, in the above described manner, with
   plant control system 260 and master controller 50. Wireless communications are
10 line of sight with additional repeaters used if necessary to maintain satisfactory
   communications integrity.        Plant transport vehicles may also include such
   repeaters.
           Mobile device 120 is powered by a rechargeable battery (not shown). The
   mobile isolation device 120 is manually portable having dimensions (provided as
15 an example only) of 230mm x 370 mm.
           As can be seen in Figure 4, the control panel 124 includes:
       e   Battery storage indicator light block 1719;
       e   Wireless signal strength indicator light block 1720;
       e   Lamp test request button 1721;
20     e   Indicator lights 1722 and 1724 showing whether or not the mobile isolation
           device 120 is available for isolation;
       e   Exclusive control selection button 1725 for selecting exclusive control and
           illuminable to indicate whether or not exclusive control is active (exclusive
           control where conveyor belt system 20 isolation is controlled exclusively
25         from mobile isolation device 120 is described below);
       e   Request to isolate button 1740 which is activated by an operator (and
           which illuminates when pressed) to request isolation;
       e   Request approved indicator light 1750 which illuminates to provide
           approved status information to said operator;
30     e   Indicator light block 1760 for indicating checking of the isolation procedure;
       e   Indicator light block 1769 for showing whether or not the isolation process
           is complete following control system checking;

                                               20
       e    Try step button 1780 for requesting a try step in which a restart of
            conveyor belt system 20 is attempted (and which illuminates when
            pressed); and
       e    Graphics (in the form of arrows and text) illustrating the sequence of steps
 5          to be followed in the required isolation procedure.
            Mobile isolation device 120 also enables the operator to request isolation
   of equipment within conveyor belt system 20 following verification of operator
   authority to isolate using a smart card reader 1800 incorporated in control panel
   124.    This smart card reader 1800 operates in the same way as smart card
10 reader 790 described above and the operator follows the same procedure to
   isolate as schematised in FIGS 10 and 13, control panel 700 being replaced with
   control panel 124 and smart card reader 790 being replaced with smart card
   reader 1800.
            It will be understood that the mobile isolation device 120 could be provided
15 with a touch screen for issuing commands and providing isolation status and plant
   status information. Any such touch screen for the mobile device 120 could
   conveniently be provided as a low power consumption LCD screen.             However,
   where the isolation device is likely to be subjected to demanding service where
   wear and damage is almost inevitable, the touch screen may be omitted.
20          Mobile isolation device 120 may also be provided with alarms in the form
   of an audible alarm and/or alarm lights as required.
            Control panel 124 also includes an equipment isolation switch block 1765
   and isolation switch as described above for control panel 700. It is again noted
   that a correct remote isolation procedure request requires a try start step to be
25 completed by an operator by activation of try step button 1780 before any manual
   lock out is possible. .
            Equipment isolation switch 400 is again operable by turning the key 500
   between a first "NORMAL" position in which the drive motor 22 for the conveyor
   21 is electrically energised (i.e. not isolated) and a second "ISOLATE" position in
30 which the drive motor 22 is electrically isolated and thus without power thereby
   facilitating any maintenance works which may be required.            This condition is
   shown in FIG 7.

                                             21
           By following the correct remote isolation procedure, an engaging means in
   the form of an isolation lockout point is provided for the operator at which they
   can apply a hasp 600 and personal lock. The isolation lockout point is provided
   by an electrically driven extension of sliding retractable pin 127- normally located
 5 within, and so concealed (though protected) by, a socket 128 of mobile isolation
   device console 122 - at the conclusion of the isolation procedure.          A small
   electric motor (not shown) is provided for this purpose. The isolation lockout point
   is formed by an aperture 129 extending through a diameter of pin 127 and hasp
   600 may readily be applied to this lockout point as shown in FIGS 4 and 9. Other
10 operators may also need to apply personal locks to the hasp 600 and apertures
   600A allow for this. Lockout by an operator at the lock out point provided by pin
   127 ensures the isolation switch 400 is unable to be returned to a NORMAL
   condition without certain pre-defined steps being followed.          Lockout by an
   operator at the lock out point provided by pin 127 ensures the isolation switch 400
15 is unable to be returned to a NORMAL condition without certain pre-defined steps
   prescribed by the isolation process being followed.
           Again, and similarly as described with reference to control panel 700, in an
   alternative embodiment, using the same control panel 124, the hasp 600 for
   locking out isolation switch 400 could be substituted by an electro-mechanical
20 lock operable (through lock out or lock off) on presentation of valid smart card(s)
   770 to smart card reader 1800 during the isolation procedure. This minimises risk
   of misuse of the prior mechanical locks which has occasionally been an issue.
           The equipment isolation switch 400 is only operable when the key 500 is
   engaged with it. Equally, the key 500 must be removed from the isolation switch
25 400 when deactivation of the equipment isolation switch 400 is required. Control
   system or authorised personnel approval would be required prior to any such
   removal which, even then, is only permitted when the isolation switch 400 is in the
   NORMAL condition. Importantly, key removal is not permitted without additional
   validation steps if the key switch 400 is in the ISOLATE condition. Deactivation
30 would typically require other tasks to be completed before a remote isolation
   system is safely and completely removed from service and the equipment item in
   question can be re-energised for normal operation.         Completion of such tasks
   may involve the use of other keys, preferably rendered operable using the key

                                              22
   exchange unit described         in the Applicant's Australian     Provisional   Patent
   Application No. 2015902557, the contents of which have previously been
   incorporated herein by reference.
          It will be understood that communications between the mobile isolation
 5 device 120 and plant control system 260 are sent through the wireless
   communications network and antenna 126 to mobile isolation device 120. Hence
   the operator request is sent wirelessly, as is the control system approval.
          In an alternative embodiment, mobile isolation device 120 could omit a
   card reader in preference for a keypad for inputting a personal identification code
10 (PIC) and/or a biometric identification device in the form of a fingerprint pad and
   processor of conventional form.        Operator identity would then be verified by
   comparing by both the operator's PIC as keyed into the keypad and fingerprint
   with PICs and fingerprints for personnel authorised to isolate conveyor belt
   system 20 as stored in operator database 261 of plant control system 260. To
15 that end, the operator's fingerprint data would be wirelessly sent to plant control
   system 260 for processing and comparison.         If input and stored fingerprint data
   match, the operator would proceed to log an isolation request and the isolation
   procedure proceeds, essentially as described above, using the mobile isolation
   device 120. If not, the control system 260 would flag this situation and issues an
20 alarm to the CRO 42 for appropriate response.           The operator would also be
   denied access to the isolation procedure through mobile isolation device 120.
   The logic flow is very similar to that described with respect to FIG 11.
          A standard isolation mode, with appropriate operator identification data
   stored on smart cards 770, has been described above.               It will however be
25 understood that the control system may provide for selection of one of a plurality
   of available isolation modes as described in the Applicant's                 Australian
   Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902558, the contents of which have
   previously been incorporated herein by reference.         Such isolation modes may
   also be conveniently enabled through the wireless communications network.
30        Referring to FIGS 15 and 16, the remote isolation system 10 may be used
   in a configurable isolation mode (selected from a plurality of available isolation
   modes at control panel 700) in which the plant control system 260 may allow for a
   number of options for isolating a selected sub-set of equipment items from a set

                                              23
   of equipment items together comprising the conveyor belt system 20 which forms
   part of a material handling plant. These equipment items may include conveyor
   belts 21, 210 and 250, the respective conveyor belt braking systems 21 A and
   21 CA, any belt clamps (not shown) which may be arranged with respect to the
 5 conveyor belts, and shuttle locking pins 250A. Other components are of course
   also included within conveyor belt system 20 but do not require detailed
   description for present purposes.
           In this case, the CRO 42 configures an isolation for conveyor belt system
   20 at CCR 40 by selection from a suite of configuration options displayed on the
10 screen 142 of control room panel 140. Each configuration option is selectable by
   a selecting means involving activation of a button corresponding to the desired
   isolation configuration option. As shown in FIG 16: Button 142A is provided to
   isolate conveyor 21 (leaving braking system 21A energised);             Button 142B is
   provided to isolate conveyor 21 and its braking system 21A;             Button 142C is
15 provided to isolate conveyor 250; Button 142D is provided to isolate conveyor
   250 and its shuttle locking pins 250A; and Button 142E enables all these
   conveyor belt system items to be selected for isolation.
           If the CRO (or isolation permit officer) 42 selects all the required equipment
   in conveyor belt system 20 for isolation by pressing button 142E, for a shutdown
20 planned some time in advance, members of a team of operators still need to
   attend equipment isolation stations 12 (or conveyor belt 21), 215 (for conveyor
   belt 210) and 255 (for conveyor belt 250) to complete isolation procedures using
   essentially the same isolation procedure for conveyor belt system 20 as
   described above.
25         A team of operators A, B, C, D and E are assigned to this task. Each
   operator A, B, C, D and E would be provided with a smart card 770 on which
   permit data is written from operator database 261 into memory blocks 771 of their
   smart cards using a conventional process. Tasks are assigned, and recorded
   through permit data on operator smart cards 770, in accordance with the following
30 table, representing an extract from operator database 261 as updated for
   purposes of the conveyor belt system shutdown by supervising personnel during
   a preliminary planning process:

                                               24
   Operator               Task
   A                      Isolate conveyor 21 only.
   B                      Isolate conveyor 210 only.
   C                      Isolate conveyor 250 only.
   D                      Isolation lock on for each of conveyors 21, 210 and 250.
                          Perform mechanical work on each over days 1 and 2.
   E                      Isolation lock on for each of conveyors 21, 210 and 250.
                          Perform mechanical work on each over days 1 to 3.
           The above described pre-configuration process provides the CRO (or
   isolation permit officer) 42 with flexibility and strict control over what operators A
   to F can and cannot do in respect of the specific conveyors 21, 210 and 250 and
 5 the surrounding work areas and at what times. The process also ensures that
   operators do not erroneously isolate incorrect conveyor belts or associated
   equipment or erroneously isolate too many equipment items at the same time.
   The operators can only perform work governed by the rules and data governing
   the isolation process as stored as operator identification data on their smart cards
10 770.
           Operators A, B, C, D and E attend at equipment isolation stations 12, 215
   and 255 respectively. They present their smart cards 770 for verification using
   the smart card reader 790 as described above. The data matches as described
   above and they complete isolation and lock out using the above described
15 procedure.     It will be understood that if any of operators A, B or C attend the
   incorrect equipment isolation station, they would be unable to complete isolation.
   However, operators D and E who have isolation permits for each conveyor belt
   21, 210 and 250, and need to perform mechanical work on each, are authorised
   to confirm isolation by verifying their identity and isolation permits by locking on
20 with their personal isolation locks (which could include electro-magnetic locks
   actuated by use of validated smart cards 770) at each relevant equipment
   isolation station prior to starting work. D and E are not permitted to start work
   without this step and disciplinary procedures would be implemented if this were to
   happen. Their smart cards 770 will not permit this to occur.

                                             25
           The isolation process, coupled with the nature of equipment isolation
   system 10, enables the operator team to perform their duties more quickly and
   with less risk of error than current, and typically manual, administrative systems
   concerning isolation will allow. Isolation process costs are similarly reduced.
 5         By way of the present invention, preconfigured isolations can be loaded to
   specific smart cards or smart devices which can confirm that a permit is in place,
   what the isolation points are for a given task, and the timing and location of the
   isolation that is required.
           Modifications and variations to the remote isolation system of the present
10 invention may be apparent to the skilled reader of this disclosure. Such
   modifications and variations are deemed within the scope of the present
   invention. For example, whilst the remote isolation system has been described
   with reference to materials handling plant for a mining application, it may be used
   in a range of industrial and other applications including isolating rail system
15 components in railway infrastructure as described in the Applicant's Australian
   Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902560, the contents of which are hereby
   incorporated herein by way of reference.
           Furthermore, while the control panel 700 has primarily been described as
   including a Human Machine Interface (HMI) 710 with a touch screen 1265 and a
20 series of buttons and lights (e.g. 740, 750, 760, 770, 780 etc) to enable an
   operator to request an isolation event, it should be noted that the control panel
   700, and specifically the touch screen 1265, may be configured to provide greater
   control and more information about isolation system steps to an operator (or
   indeed full control and all information to do with the isolation system). That is, a
25 more 'digitally' based input means (or indeed a totally digital system) may be
   arranged for operation instead of an analogue or part analogue system as
   described herein to enable control of the equipment isolation system according to
   the present invention. Such configuration would equally apply to control panel
   124.
30

                                             26
   CLAIMS:
   1.      An equipment isolation system for remotely isolating equipment in a plant
   comprising:
           equipment energisable by an energy source; and
 5         a control system for controlling operation of said equipment and isolation of
   said equipment from said energy source to an isolated state by an operator,
           wherein said control system includes an identification device for an
   operator to provide operator identification data; and a processor for comparing
   said operator identification data with stored identification data for operators
10 authorised to use the equipment isolation system wherein said control system is
   configured to enable use of the equipment isolation system by said operator only
   where the processor matches operator identification data provided to the
   identification device and said stored identification data.
   2.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 1 wherein operator
15 identification data is provided directly to the operator identification device or by
   bringing an operator identification means into communication with the operator
   identification device.
   3.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said operator
   identification means includes a smart device.
20 4.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding
   claims wherein said operator identification data includes data and rules governing
   a specific isolation process.
   5.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said rules
   include at least one isolation permit.
25 6.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 4 or 5 wherein operator
   identification data including at least one isolation permit determines operator
   authority to isolate specific equipment for specific tasks, in a specific order and/or
   at specific dates and times.

                                             27
   7.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding
   claims wherein said control system issues operator identification data from a
   database to an operator identification means.
   8.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 7 wherein said operator
 5 identification means is pre-configured with operator identification data prior to
   isolation.
   9.      An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 8 wherein said operator
   identification means is a smart device such as a smart card.
   10.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding
10 claims wherein said control system is configured to respond to an isolation
   demand input corresponding with one of a plurality of available equipment
   isolation modes, each of which enable automatic isolation of at least one of said
   plurality of equipment items from said energy source when authorised by the
   control system.
15 11.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said
   plurality of available isolation modes includes an isolation mode to isolate said
   plurality of equipment items being a selected sub-set of equipment items from a
   set of equipment items which together comprise a plant or plant system.
   12.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the isolation
20 demand input is provided by a selecting means for selecting said sub-set of
   equipment items for isolation.
   13.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 12 wherein said
   selecting means enables said sub-set of equipment items to be isolated while
   leaving other equipment items operating.
25 14.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 13
   wherein said control system pre-configures said operator identification means
   with operator identification data prior to isolation, said operator identification data
   including data and rules governing isolation and operation of equipment items
   within said sub-set of equipment items.

                                            28
   15.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 14 wherein said control
   system pre-configures a plurality of operator identification means with data and
   rules governing isolation and operation of equipment items within said sub-set of
   equipment items.
 5 16.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said control
   system pre-configures each operator identification means with different data and
   rules governing isolation and operation of equipment items within said sub-set of
   equipment items dependent on tasks that each operator has to perform during
   isolation.
10 17.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 15 or 16 wherein said
   control system pre-configures each operator identification means with the same
   data and rules governing isolation and operation of equipment items within said
   sub-set of equipment items dependent on tasks that each operator has to perform
   during isolation.
15 18.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding
   claims wherein in case of incorrect or unauthorised identification data input to the
   identification device, the equipment isolation system flags this by issuing an alert
   signal.
   19.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 18
20 wherein said smart device functions as a plant access means.
   20.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 3 to 19
   wherein said smart device includes communications equipment to store and
   transmit plant and operator data.
   21.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 20 wherein said control
25 system includes a plant control system which, when provided with operator
   identification data, checks and confirms an operator authority including an
   operator authority selected from the group consisting of an operator is authorised
   to effect an isolation, an operator has the correct isolation permit(s) and an
   operator has authority to access or leave a work area or plant site.

                                            29
   22.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 21 wherein said control
   system is configured to monitor and trigger an alert if said control system detects
   and flags that said operator has failed to de-isolate equipment when safe to do
   so.
 5 23.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 19 to 22
   wherein said work area or plant site has at least one access means operable by
   an operator identification means and said access means fails to operate if said
   control system flags that said operator has failed to de-isolate equipment when
   safe to do so.
10 24.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding
   claims including a remote isolation station for requesting equipment isolation, said
   remote isolation station including said operator identification device.
   25.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 24 wherein said control
   system authorises isolation on permissible request logged by an operator at said
15 remote isolation station.
   26.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 24 or 25 wherein said
   remote isolation station is mobile.
   27.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 24 to 26
   wherein said remote isolation station includes an equipment isolation switch for
20 use in isolating equipment, said switch being movable between a first energised
   or de-isolated position in which said equipment item is energised by an energy
   source and a second isolated position in which the equipment is isolated from the
   energy source only where an operator has input authorised identification data in
   the form of data or rules governing a specific isolation process to said operator
25 identification device.
   28.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 27 wherein said switch
   is movable between said first and second positions only where a plurality of
   operators have input authorised identification data in the form of data or rules
   governing a specific isolation process to said operator identification device.

                                            30
  29.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in claim 27 or 28 wherein said
  control system controls, and records details of, the operator(s) switch operation.
  30.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of claims 5 to 29
  wherein said isolation permit data is tied to an operator's biometric data.
5 31.     An equipment isolation system as claimed in any one of the preceding
  claims wherein the control system tracks operator location through monitoring a
  locating device on the operator identification means to ensure operators are
  working     in the   correct area corresponding      with   pre-configured  operator
  identification data.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               5/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       6/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                7/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       8/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 9/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       10/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             12/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       13/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                14/16

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/16

16/16 <removed-apn> <removed-date>
