ABSTRACT
               A gaming machine has a cabinet having a longitudinal axis, a display
coupled to the cabinet, and a display transition system. The display transition system
is configured for selectively moving the display relative to the cabinet in a direction
substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis and between a closed position in which
game play at the gaming machine is enabled and an open position in which game play
is disabled.

                           1/5
                                    100
                               140
               1321
              13016
          194                       136
               138                 102
                  1016
          134
         104
     106                           114
                 190
                                    108
 120       112 --
      Y                              110
                    118
z               x
                        FIG. 1

                    GAMING MACHINE INCLUDING DISPLAY
                                TRANSITION SYSTEM
FIELD
                [0001]   The embodiments described herein relate generally to gaming
machines and, more particularly, to a gaming machine that includes a transition
system that enables at least a portion of a gaming machine display to selectively move
vertically.
BACKGROUND
                [0002]   To increase the entertainment potential for and to attract
players to gaming machines, at least some gaming machines are being formatted with
increasing size and complexity.      For example, at least some gaming machines use
larger and/or curved displays, in order to increase a playable, interactive, and/or
entertainment surface of the gaming machines. However, such gaming machines may
be difficult to service, as the displays can be heavy and difficult or cumbersome to
move to enable an interior of the gaming machine to be accessible. Moreover, at least
some gaming machines may be unstable or top-heavy when the display is moved.
Some gaming machines may alternatively be serviced by opening a side or back panel
of the gaming machine, however, such an arrangement increases a footprint of the
gaming machines and increases the inconvenience of maintenance thereof.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                [0003]   In one aspect, a gaming machine is provided.        The gaming
machine includes a cabinet having a longitudinal axis, a display coupled to the
cabinet, and a display transition system for selectively moving the display relative to
the cabinet in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis and between a
closed position in which game play at the gaming machine is enabled and an open
position in which game play is disabled.
                [0004]   In another aspect, a gaming machine is provided. The gaming
machine includes a cabinet, a display coupled to the cabinet, and a display transition
                                              -1-

system for selectively elevating the display from a closed position in which game play
at the gaming machine is enabled to an open position in which game play is disabled
while maintaining the center of gravity of the gaming machine relative to a plane
defined perpendicular to a direction of movement of the display.
                [0005]   In yet another aspect, a gaming machine is provided. The
gaming machine includes a cabinet, a curved display coupled to the cabinet, and a
display transition system a display transition system for selectively moving the curved
display relative to the cabinet within a plane, between a closed position in which
game play at the gaming machine is enabled and an open position in which game play
is disabled.
                [0006]   In a further aspect, a gaming machine is provided.         The
gaming machine includes a cabinet having a longitudinal axis, a display coupled to
the cabinet, the display having a longitudinal axis, and a display transition system for
selectively moving the display relative to the cabinet between a closed position in
which game play at the machine is enabled and the display longitudinal axis is a
distance from the cabinet longitudinal axis, and an open position in which game play
is disabled and the display longitudinal axis is the same distance from the cabinet
longitudinal axis.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                [0007]   The embodiments of the invention described herein may be
better understood by referring to the following description in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings.
                [0008]   FIG. 1 is a front perspective view of an exemplary gaming
machine in a closed configuration;
                [0009]   FIG. 2 is a front perspective view of the gaming machine
shown in FIG. 1 in an open configuration;
                [0010]   FIG. 3 is a rear cut-away view of the gaming machine shown
in FIG. 1 in the closed configuration;
                                             -2-

                [0011]    FIG. 4 is an enlarged, rear cut-away view of the gaming
machine shown in FIG. 1 in the open configuration; and
                [0012]    FIG. 5 is an enlarged, rear cutaway view of a portion of the
gaming machine shown in FIG. 4.
                [0013]    Although specific features of various embodiments may be
shown in some drawings and not in others, this is for convenience only. Any feature
of any drawing may be referenced and/or claimed in combination with any feature of
any other drawing.
                [0014]    Unless otherwise indicated, the drawings provided herein are
intended to illustrate features of embodiments of the disclosure. These features are
believed to be applicable in a wide variety of systems comprising one or more
embodiments of the disclosure. As such, the drawings are not meant to include all
conventional features known by those of ordinary skill in the art to be required for the
practice of the embodiments disclosed herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                [0015]    The following detailed description illustrates embodiments of
the disclosure by way of example and not by way of limitation. It is contemplated
that the disclosure has general application to gaming machine embodiments providing
player comfort and ergonomic considerations in industrial, commercial, and
residential applications.
                [0016]    The following description       refers to the accompanying
drawings, in which, in the absence of a contrary representation, the same numbers in
different drawings represent similar elements.
                [0017]    A gaming machine is described herein that includes a cabinet,
a display, and a display transition system.        The display is selectively moveable
relative to a longitudinal axis of the cabinet using the display transition system. More
specifically, the display transition system display enables the display to be selectively
moved in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the cabinet and
                                              -3-

between a closed position in which game play of the gaming machine is enabled and
an open position in which game play is disabled. Moreover, an open position may
cause the gaming machine to enter a maintenance or service mode. In the exemplary
embodiment, the display transition system is used to selectively move at least a
display of the gaming machine. In other embodiments, the display transition system
may, additionally or alternatively, selectively move a door (e.g., a cabinet door
located on a front, rear, or side face of the cabinet) and/or any other component of the
gaming machine which may or may not include a display device of the gaming
machine.    In the example embodiment, the display is a curved display. In other
embodiments, the display may be a flat display, or a combination of curved and flat
display screens. In some embodiments, a top box may be coupled to the display and
may or may not be moved selectively within the display transition system.
                [0018]    In the exemplary embodiment, the longitudinal axis of the
cabinet extends substantially vertically through the gaming machine as defined by a
vertical axis (e.g., a Y-Axis in a 3-dimensional coordinate system). Accordingly, in
the exemplary embodiment, the display transition system enables selective movement
of the display between different positions relative to the vertical axis of the cabinet,
while the display is maintained in its original orientation with respect to the cabinet.
Thus, for example, a technician is able to view the display during maintenance in a
substantially identical orientation as when the display is in its closed, operational
position. Moreover, the display transition system enables the display to move such
that a location of a center of gravity of the gaming machine within a plane
perpendicular to the vertical direction (e.g., an X-Z plane) is substantially unchanged
between the operational mode (i.e., the closed position) and the maintenance mode
(i.e., an open position).      Thus, a stability of the gaming machine in an open
configuration is improved, and a risk of tipping of the gaming machine in the open
configuration is reduced or eliminated. The design of a gaming machine including the
display transition system disclosed herein also facilitates maintaining a substantially
identical cabinet footprint between the closed, or operating, configuration and the
open, or service, configuration. In other embodiments, the display transition system
may be configured additionally or alternatively to selectively move the display along
axes other than the vertical/longitudinal axis of the cabinet.
                                              -4-

                 [0019]   In the exemplary embodiment, the display transition system
includes a guide rail that is coupled to the cabinet and that is used in cooperation with
a slider coupled to the display. The guide rail may be a channel guide rail that enables
the slider to selectively slide within the channel to selectively transition the display up
and down. In the exemplary embodiment, the guide rail includes a C-channel guide
rail, and the slider includes at least one of a wheel and a bearing.               In other
embodiments, the guide rail and/or the slider may include any other type of guide rail,
channel, and/or slider configuration that enables the display transition system to
function as described herein. In the exemplary embodiment, the display transition
system includes a support cylinder that includes a cylinder base and a piston arm. The
piston arm is slideable with respect to the cylinder base, and enables the support
cylinder to maintain the display in an open position when engaged (i.e., when the
piston arm is partially or fully extended outward from the cylinder base).              For
example, in one embodiment, the support cylinder may be a gas strut that assists in
lifting and closing the gaming machine display, as described herein.
                 [0020]   In other embodiments, the cabinet also includes a cabinet
frame, and the display transition system also includes a display frame coupled to the
display. In these embodiments, a guide rail is coupled to the cabinet frame and a
slider is coupled to the display frame. As described above, the slider is slideable
within the guide rail to selectively move the display frame relative to the cabinet
frame. The display transition system includes a support cylinder including a cylinder
base that is coupled to the cabinet frame and a piston arm is coupled to the display
frame. The piston arm is slideable with respect to the cylinder base such that the
support cylinder can selectively maintain the display frame in an open position with
respect to the cabinet frame.
                 [0021]   Referring now to the figures, FIG. 1 is a front perspective
view of an exemplary gaming machine 100 in a closed configuration. FIG. 2 is front
a perspective view of gaming machine 100 in an open configuration. FIG. 3 shows a
rear cut-away view of gaming machine 100 in the closed configuration, and FIG. 4
shows an expanded rear cut-away view of gaming machine 100 in the open
configuration.     FIG. 5 is an enlarged, rear cutaway view of a portion of gaming
                                              -5-

machine 100. In the exemplary embodiment, gaming machine 100 includes a cabinet
102 that houses a plurality of components, such as a gaming machine controller,
peripheral devices, displays, and/or player interaction devices (e.g., switches,
buttons). Cabinet 102 includes, broadly, a player interface 104. Player interface 104,
in some embodiments, includes one or more touch screens used as player interfaces.
Player interface 104 may additionally or alternatively include a credit input device,
such as a coin acceptor for accepting coins and/or tokens, a bill acceptor for accepting
and/or validating cash bills, coupons, and/or ticket vouchers, a card reader or a
validator for use with credit cards, debit cards, identification cards, and/or smart
cards, and/or a credit input module that interfaces with a server to accept credit and
wagers.
                 [0022]   In the exemplary embodiment, cabinet         102 includes a
plurality of faces, specifically a front face 106, a rear face 108, and opposing side
faces 110 and 112. Cabinet 102 also includes a lower portion or base 114 and an
upper portion or body 116.        In the exemplary embodiment, cabinet 102 has a
longitudinal axis 118 that extends longitudinally through base 114 and body 116, and
is substantially vertical. Accordingly, longitudinal axis 118 may also be referred to as
a "vertical" axis 118. In the exemplary embodiment, longitudinal axis 118 may also
be considered a centerline of cabinet 102 with respect to faces 110 and 112.       With
reference to a coordinate system 120 (illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 2), longitudinal axis
118 extends generally along a Y-Axis, and an X-Z plane is defined perpendicular to
longitudinal axis 118. For example, cabinet base 114 may be positioned on a floor
(not shown) oriented in the X-Z plane.
                 [0023]   In the exemplary embodiment, gaming machine 100 also
includes a display 130 that is coupled to cabinet 102.        More specifically, in the
exemplary embodiment, display 130 uses a single monolithic display screen. In other
embodiments, display 130 may include a plurality of display screens adjacently tiled
to give the appearance of being a single video display screen.                In further
embodiments, the plurality of display screens are tiled with a border or spacing that
extends about at least a portion of one or more of the plurality of display screens.
Additionally, display 130 may include a concavely curved transparent window
                                             -6-

including a plurality of flat panel video display screens arranged behind the window
on an opposite, convex side of the window. The flat panel display screens may be
adjacently tiled with respect to each other and/or may be overlapping with a portion of
one flat panel display screen in front of, or behind, another of the flat panel display
screens. Display 130 may also include, without limitation, a plasma display, a liquid
crystal display (LCD), a TFT LCD (Thin-Film-Transistor Liquid Crystal Display), a
display based on light emitting diodes (LEDs), organic light emitting diodes
(OLEDs), polymer light emitting diodes (PLEDs), and/or surface-conduction electron
emitters (SEDs), a speaker, an alarm, and/or any other device capable of presenting
information to a user.     Display 130 is mounted to cabinet 102 and is selectively
moveable relative thereto, as described herein. In the exemplary embodiment, display
130 includes a curved or arcuate display.        However, in one or more alternative
embodiments, display 130 may include a flat or planar display, and/or a display
having any other shape or profile.
                [0024]   In one embodiment, display 130 displays a game presentation
that includes one or more game presentation objects, game images, symbols, or
indicia, such as a visual representation or exhibition of movement of an object (e.g., a
mechanical, virtual, or video reel), dynamic lighting, video images, and the like.
Display 130 may include touch screen capabilities to facilitate player interaction with
the game presentation. In addition, display 130 is bordered by a plurality of edges,
specifically a top edge 132, a bottom edge 134, and opposing side edges 136 and 138.
Display 130 has a vertical or longitudinal axis 142, or a vertical axis of symmetry 142
(shown in FIG. 2). Display longitudinal axis 142 is substantially parallel to cabinet
longitudinal axis 118.
                [0025]   In the exemplary embodiment, gaming machine 100 includes
a top box 140. Top box 140 may include artwork (not shown), such as, for example,
artwork depicting one or more pay tables, bonus award information, an upper display,
and/or other game information or imagery. At least a portion of top box 140 is
coupled to display 130, such that the at least a portion of top box 140 moves with
display 130, as described herein. In alternative embodiments, gaming machine 100
does not include top box 140.       In other alternative embodiments, top box 140 is
                                             -7-

coupled to cabinet 102 such that top box 140 does not move with respect to cabinet
102.
                [0026]    Gaming machine 100 also includes a display transition system
150 for selectively moving display 130 between at least a closed position and an open
position. In the exemplary embodiment, when display 130 is in a closed position,
gaming machine 100 is in a closed configuration, as illustrated in FIGS. 1 and 3, and
gaming machine 100 is operable for play of a game by a player, and/or game play is
enabled. When display 130 is in an open position, gaming machine 100 is in an open
configuration, as illustrated in FIGS. 2 and 4, such that gaming machine 100 is
inoperable for play of the game, and/or game play is disabled. For example, when
gaming machine 100 is placed in an open configuration, such a configuration may
correspond to a maintenance or service mode of gaming machine 100, and an interior
152 of gaming machine 100 may be accessible. It should be understood that display
130 is selectively moveable between the closed position and a plurality of positions in
which gaming machine 100 is open. Any such position may be an "open position,"
and accordingly, the "open position" need not be limited to a maximum or fully open
position.
                [0027]    In the exemplary embodiment, cabinet 102 includes a cabinet
frame 154 extending within body 116 of cabinet 102. Cabinet frame 154 at least
partially defines front face 106, rear face 108, and opposing side faces 110 and 112 of
cabinet 102. Cabinet frame 154 also defines a top 156 of cabinet body 116. Display
transition system 150 includes a display frame 160 coupled to display 130. Display
frame 160 is sized and oriented to move with respect to cabinet frame 154 as display
130 is moved between the closed and open positions.
                [0028]    In one embodiment, display 130 is in an open position when
top box 140 is elevated a distance above cabinet body top 156, and/or when display
bottom edge 134 is separated a distance from cabinet base 114.                 In other
embodiments, display 130 is in an open position when display top edge 132 is raised a
distance above cabinet body top 156. In some embodiments, display 130 is in the
closed position when display bottom edge 134 is in contact with cabinet base 114,
when display top edge 132 is aligned with cabinet body top 156, and/or when top box
                                              -8-

140 is in contact with cabinet body top 156, in instances when top box 140 is
selectively movable via display transition system 150. It should be understood that
additional and/or alternative definitions of the open and/or closed positions of display
130 may be used. In the exemplary embodiment, display transition system 150 is
used to selectively move display 130 between the closed and open positions and in a
direction that is substantially parallel to longitudinal axis 118.   More specifically, as
display 130 is moved between the open and closed positions, display 130 is translated
along the Y-axis, such that display 130 does not move along either the X- or Z-axes.
In other words, display transition system 150 selectively moves display 130 only
vertically between the closed and open positions.          In addition, in the exemplary
embodiment, display transition system 150 causes display 130 to move within an X-Y
plane parallel to the Y-axis.
                 [0029]   In the closed configuration, gaming machine 100 has a first
center of gravity 190. In the exemplary embodiment, first center of gravity 190 is
positioned along longitudinal axis 118.       In alternative embodiments, first center of
gravity 190 is positioned at any suitable location in the X-Z plane relative to
longitudinal axis 118. In the open configuration, gaming machine 100 has a second
center of gravity 192.     Because transition system 150 causes display 130 to move
parallel to the Y-axis, a location of second center of gravity 192 within the X-Z plane
is substantially unchanged from the location of first center of gravity 190 within the
X-Z plane.      Thus, in some embodiments, display transition system 150 reduces
movement of the center of gravity of gaming machine 100 relative to a footprint of
gaming machine 100 when display 130 is opened, such that a risk of tipping of
gaming machine 100 in the open configuration is limited.
                 [0030]   In addition, display 130 in the closed position is oriented in a
first orientation 194 with respect to cabinet 102.        For example, in the exemplary
embodiment, an upper portion of display 130 is parallel to longitudinal axis 118. In
alternative embodiments, first orientation 194 is any suitable orientation of display
130 with respect to cabinet 102 that enables gaming machine 100 to function as
described herein. Display 130 in the open position is oriented in a second orientation
196 with respect to cabinet 102. Because display transition system 150 causes display
                                               -9-

130 to move parallel to the Y-axis, second orientation 196 is substantially identical to
first orientation 194. Thus, for example, display transition system 150 enables a
technician to view display 130 during maintenance or troubleshooting in a
substantially identical orientation as when display 130 is in its closed, operational
position. In addition, in the closed position, display longitudinal axis 142 is a first
distance from cabinet longitudinal axis 118. In some embodiments, the first distance
is "zero," such that display longitudinal axis 142 substantially corresponds to and/or
overlaps cabinet longitudinal axis 118. In any open position, display longitudinal axis
142 is a second distance from cabinet longitudinal axis 118.              Because display
transition system 150 causes display 130 to move within the X-Y plane parallel to the
Y-axis, the second distance is substantially identical to the first distance.
                 [0031]   Similarly, a profile of gaming machine 100 projected onto the
X-Z plane defines a footprint of gaming machine 100. Because display transition
system 150 causes display 130 to move parallel to the Y-axis, the footprint of gaming
machine 100 in the open configuration is substantially identical to the footprint of
gaming machine 100 in the closed configuration.           Thus, in some embodiments, a
spacing of gaming machine 100 from other machines or fixtures need not be increased
to enable maintenance of gaming machine 100.
                 [0032]   In the exemplary embodiment, display transition system 150
includes one or more support cylinders 162 that assist in lifting and closing display
130.    In one embodiment, display transition system 150 includes two support
cylinders 162.     However, it should be understood that less than or more than two
support cylinders 162 may be used, depending on the size of display 130 and/or the
operating specifications of support cylinders 162. Each support cylinder 162 includes
a cylinder base 164 and a piston arm 166 that is slideable with respect to the
corresponding cylinder base 164. In the exemplary embodiment, support cylinder 162
also includes a seal (not shown) that maintains a constant volume of gas within
cylinder base 164.      In the exemplary embodiment, piston arm 166 is coupled to
display frame 160 (e.g., via a bracket 168), and cylinder base 164 is coupled to
cabinet frame 152 (e.g., via a bracket 170). Support cylinders 162 include hydraulic
support cylinders, such as gas struts, that assist in lifting display 130 and maintaining
                                              -10-

display 130 in the open position.        More specifically, as display 130 is lifted to
transition display 130 from the closed position to an open position, display frame 160
translates relative to cabinet frame 154, and accordingly, piston arm 166 slides
relative to cylinder base 164 into an extended position (see FIG. 4). The pressure of
gas in cylinder base 164 functions to maintain piston arm 166 in the extended
position. Thereby, display 130 is maintained in the open position, until display 130 is
selectively lowered to the closed position (or to a different open position).
                [0033]    Display transition system 150 also includes a guide rail 172.
More particularly, guide rail 172 is integral to or is coupled to cabinet frame 152, and
one or more sliders 174 are coupled to display frame 160 (e.g., via a respective
bracket 176).    In the exemplary embodiment, guide rail 172 is a C-channel guide rail
that defines a channel 178 therein.      Slider 174 is slideable within channel 178 as
display frame 160 is translated relative to cabinet frame 154 to selectively transition
display 130 between the closed and open positions.          Slider 174 may include, for
example, a guide wheel or a bearing. In the exemplary embodiment, guide rail 172 is
oriented substantially parallel to cabinet longitudinal axis 118, thereby limiting the
movement of display 130 between the closed and open positions and ensuring vertical
translation of display frame 160 relative to cabinet frame 154 along the Y-axis.
                [0034]    Display transition system 150 may include one or more stops
180 positioned within guide rail channel 178. Stops 180 are configured to stop the
travel of at least one slider 174 within channel 178. Accordingly, stops 180 may be
positioned at locations within channel 178 that correspond to a lowermost position of
a slider 174 (i.e., a lowermost position of display frame 160, where display 130 is in
the closed position) and to an uppermost position of a slider 174 (i.e., an uppermost
position of display frame 160, where display 130 is in a maximum open position).
                [0035]    The display transition system described herein enables
movement of a gaming machine display between a closed position in which game
play at the gaming machine is enabled and an open position in which game play is
disabled. More specifically, the display transition system enables selective movement
of the display only between different vertical positions, and only within a plane that is
substantially parallel to a vertical or longitudinal axis of a gaming machine cabinet.
                                             -11-

Consequently, the center of gravity of the gaming machine, with respect to a plane
perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, is maintained. The display transition system
facilitates having a gaming machine with a smaller physical footprint, and may also
facilitate improving stability of the gaming machine during the transition between a
closed and an open configuration of the gaming machine. Accordingly, a risk of the
gaming machine tipping while in the open configuration is substantially reduced or
eliminated.
                [0036]   The systems and methods described herein are not limited to
the specific embodiments described herein but, rather, operations of the methods
and/or components of the system and/or apparatus may be utilized independently and
separately from other operations and/or components described herein. Further, the
described operations and/or components may also be defined in, or used in
combination with, other systems, methods, and/or apparatus, and are not limited to
practice with only the systems and/or methods as described herein.
                [0037]   Although the present disclosure is described in connection
with an exemplary gaming system environment, embodiments of the present
disclosure are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose
gaming system environments or configurations. The gaming system environment is
not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of any
aspect of the disclosure. Moreover, the gaming system environment should not be
interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or
combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment.
                [0038]   When introducing elements of aspects of the present
disclosure or embodiments thereof, the articles "a," "an," "the," and "said" are
intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms "comprising,"
including," and "having" are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be
additional elements other than the listed elements.
                [0039]   The present disclosure uses examples to disclose the best
mode, and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the claimed subject
matter, including making and using any devices or systems and performing any
                                             -12-

incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the present disclosure is defined by the
claims, and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such
other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have
structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims, or if they
include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal
languages of the claims.
                                            -13-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                 1.      A gaming machine comprising:
                 a cabinet having a longitudinal axis;
                 a display coupled to the cabinet; and
                 a display transition system for selectively moving the display relative
to the cabinet in a direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis and between
a closed position in which game play at the gaming machine is enabled and an open
position in which game play is disabled.
                 2.      The gaming machine of claim 1, wherein the display transition
system comprises a guide rail coupled to the cabinet and a slider coupled to the
display, the slider slideable within the guide rail to move the display.
                 3.      The gaming machine of claim 2, wherein the guide rail
comprises a C-channel guide rail.
                 4.      The gaming machine of claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the slider
comprises at least one of a wheel and a bearing.
                 5.      The gaming machine of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the
guide rail is oriented substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis.
                 6.      The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
display transition system comprises at least one support cylinder, the support cylinder
comprising a cylinder base and a piston arm slideable with respect to the cylinder
base.
                 7.      The gaming machine of claim 6, wherein the support cylinder
maintains the display in the open position.
                 8.      The gaming machine of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the piston
arm is extended from the cylinder base when the display is in the open position.
                                              -14-

                 9.     The gaming machine of claim 1, wherein the cabinet comprises
a cabinet frame, and the display transition system comprises a display frame coupled
to the display.
                 10.    The gaming machine of claim 9, wherein the display frame is
moveable relative to the cabinet frame to move the display between the closed and
open positions.
                 11.    The gaming machine of claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the
display transition system further comprises a support cylinder, the support cylinder
comprising a cylinder base and a piston arm slideable with respect to the cylinder
base.
                 12.    The gaming machine of claim 11, wherein the cylinder base is
coupled to the cabinet frame and the piston arm is coupled to the display frame.
                 13.    The gaming machine of claim 12, wherein the display frame is
translated parallel to the longitudinal axis to move the display between the closed and
open positions, and the piston arm is extended from the cylinder base when the
display is in the open position.
                 14.    The gaming machine of claim 11, wherein the support cylinder
maintains the display in the open position.
                 15.    The gaming machine of any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein the
cabinet frame comprises a guide rail and the display transition system further
comprises a slider coupled to the display frame, the slider slideable with respect to the
guide rail to move the display.
                 16.    The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 15 further
comprising a top box coupled to the display.
                 17.    The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the
display comprises a curved display.
                                              -15-

                 18.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 17 wherein the
gaming machine has a first center of gravity when the display is in the open position,
the first center of gravity positioned in a first location relative to a plane defined
perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, and a second center of gravity when the display
is in the closed position, the second center of gravity positioned in a second location
relative to the plane, wherein the first location is the same as the second location.
                 19.     The gaming machine of any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein the
display has a first orientation relative to the cabinet in the closed position and a
second orientation relative to the cabinet in the open position, wherein the first
orientation is substantially identical to the second orientation.
                 20.     A gaming machine comprising:
                 a cabinet;
                 a display coupled to the cabinet; and
                 a display transition system for selectively elevating the display from a
closed position in which game play at the gaming machine is enabled to an open
position in which game play is disabled while maintaining the center of gravity of the
gaming machine relative to a plane defined perpendicular to a direction of movement
of the display.
                21.      A gaming machine comprising:
                 a cabinet;
                 a curved display coupled to the cabinet; and
                 a display transition system for selectively moving the curved display
relative to the cabinet within a plane, between a closed position in which game play at
the gaming machine is enabled and an open position in which game play is disabled.
                22.      A gaming machine comprising:
                 a cabinet having a longitudinal axis;
                                              -16-

                a display coupled to the cabinet, the display having a longitudinal axis;
and
                a display transition system for selectively moving the display relative
to the cabinet between a closed position in which game play at the machine is enabled
and the display longitudinal axis is a distance from the cabinet longitudinal axis, and
an open position in which game play is disabled and the display longitudinal axis is
the same distance from the cabinet longitudinal axis.
                                            -17-

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      3/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      4/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/5

