                                         Abstract
Aspects of the invention relate to compounds, extracts and compositions thereof, and
methods of using of the same, to treat neurodegenerative disorders and/or improve brain
health. In certain embodiments, said compounds are pomegranate flavonoids.

                            Compounds, Compositions and Methods for
                     Protecting Brain Health in Neurodegenerative Disorders
                                    RELATED APPLICATION
           This application claims the benefit of priority to United States Provisional Patent
 5 Application serial number 61/228,374, filed July 24, 2009; the contents of which are hereby
   incorporated by reference.
                                           BACKGROUND
           Neurodegenerative disorders and brain health are among the major emerging public
   health challenges facing our aging society. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is by far the most
10 prevalent of the neurodegenerative disorders. Several aging pathologies, such as
   Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and ALS, are known to share some
   pathophysiology with Alzheimer's disease, including aberrant protein folding and oxidative
   stress. Sayre, L. M., G. Perry, et al. (2008). "Oxidative stress and neurotoxicity." Chem Res
   Toxicol 2(1): 172-88.
15         In addition to selective neuronal degeneration, AD is characterized pathologically
   by the presence of two hallmark lesions in the brain: extracellular senile plaques (SP) and
   intrancuronal neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). SP contain amyloid-p (AP) peptides, primarily
   Ap(1 -42); whereas, NFT are composed mainly of the microtubule-associated protein Tau in
   the form of paired helical filaments. The pathophysiology of AD is also characterized by
20 increased production of soluble peptides of Amyloid Beta -- peptides Ap(1-40) and A$(I
   42). Some recent findings suggest that neuronal toxicity and compromised synaptic
   transmission may be due to increased production of soluble oligomers of Ap.
           A need exists for compounds and compositions that treat neurodegenerative
   disorders and/or improve brain health. Ideally, such compounds would have good
25 pharmaceutical properties, such as solubility, bioavailability and/or few side effects.
                                             SUMMARY
           Certain aspects of the invention relate compounds, extracts and compositions
   thereof, and methods of using them to treat neurodegenerative disorders and/or improve
   brain health. In certain embodiments, said compounds are pomegranate flavonoids. In

     certain embodiments, said compounds, extracts, and/or compositions may be used for the
    treatment, management or prevention of a disease or condition associated with the damage
     induced by fibril formation, or the increased risk of fibril formation.
             In one aspect, the invention relates to a composition comprising a compound or
  5 extract of the invention, such as a pharmaceutical composition, a nutraceutical formulation,
    a medical food (also known as dietary food for special medical purpose), a functional food,
    a food additive, or a dietary supplement (also known as phytomedical product), comprising
    one or more anti-aggregation compounds of the invention. The compositions may also
    contain an additional therapeutic agent, or may be administered in combination with
 10 another therapeutic compound. Other aspects of the invention relate to packaged products
    containing the above-mentioned compositions and a label and/or instructions for use in
    preventing aggregation in a patient at risk, for the treatment of a disease or condition
    associated with damage to the brain associated with typical aging diseases and/or for
    preventing and/or managing associated cell dealth.
15           Additional aspects, embodiments, and advantages of the invention are discussed
    below in detail. Moreover, the foregoing information and the following detailed description
    are merely illustrative examples of various aspects and embodiments of the invention, and
    are intended to provide an overview or framework for understanding the nature and
    character of the claimed aspects and embodiments. The accompanying drawings are
20  included to further understanding of the various aspects and embodiments, and are
    incorporated in and constitute a pail of this specification. The drawings, together with the
    remainder of the specification, serve to explain principles and operations of the described
    and claimed aspects and embodiments. Various aspects of at least one embodiment are
    discussed below with reference to the accompanying figures. The figures are provided for
25  the purposes of illustration and explanation and are not intended as a definition of the limits
    of the invention.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
             Figure 1 depicts selected compounds of the invention.
             Figure 2 depicts the 1H NMR spectrum of Punicalagin.
30           Figure 3 depicts the mass spectrum of Punicalagin.
             Figure 4 depicts the 1H NMR spectrum of Punicalin.
                                                     2

            Figure 5 depicts the mass spectrum of Punicalin.
            Figure 6 depicts the 'H NMR spectrum of Tellimagrandin.
            Figure 7 depicts the mass spectrum of Tellimagrandin.
            Figure 8 depicts the 'H NMR spectrum of Compound A.
 5          Figure 9 depicts the mass spectrum of Compound A.
            Figure 10 depicts the mass spectrum of Pedunculagin.
            Figure 11 depicts the results of the screening assays for inhibition of aggregation
   using Ap2s- 3s and ThT fluorescence with various fractions isolated using different extraction
   solvents.
10          Figure 12 depicts molecules identified in the extracts as bioactive as well as their
   IC5 values for inhibiting aggregation of Ap 2 s-3 5.
           Figure 13 depicts the results using Punicalin in dose-response fluorescence in vitro
   assays on A 2s-3s.
            Figure 14 depicts the results using Pedunculagin in dose-response fluorescence in
15 vitro assays on AP25-35.
           Figure 15 depicts the results using Punicalagin in dose-response fluorescence in
   vitro assays on AJp25-35.
           Figure 16 depicts the results using Compound A (31) in dose-response fluorescence
   in vitro assays on Ap 2s.35 .
20         Figure 17 depicts the results using Tellimagrandin in dose-response fluorescence in
   vitro assays on Ap25-35.
           Figure 18 depicts the results using Corilagin in dose-response fluorescence in vitro
   assays on Ap25-35.
           Figure 19 depicts the results of the PC12 cells assays showing inhibition of the
25 neuronal toxicity induced by AP using a fraction from the pomegranate husk shown to
   contain Punicalagin (dosing at 500 jg/mL).
           Figure 20 depicts the HPLC (254 nm) profile of several pomegranate extracts of the
   invention.
           Figure 21 depicts f-amyloid induced cell death assay in PC12 cells.
                                                   3

             Figure 22 depicts the HPLC profiles of several subfractions of Extract 1767. These
     profiles were obtained from a Varian analytic HPLC equipped with a Diode Array detector
     (DAD) using a 250 mm x 4.6 mm 0-0.5 pim Varian "XRS C18 "column. The solvent and
     gradient used are shown in Figure 23.
  5          Figure 23 decipts the solvent and gradient used in to obtain the HLPC traces; and a
     graph showing the bioactivity of 1767 subfractions on PC12 cell survival against Ap
    toxicity. All subfractions were assayed at 30 gg/mL. Subfractions 1767-2 and 1767-3
    exhibit the highest activities; as they also display high similarities in their HPLC profile,
    they were pooled for further fractionation and analysis.
 10          Figure 24 depicts the result of the Morris Water Maze probe test at the end of a 3
    month treatment period with a pomegranate extract 31008 in a mouse AD model
    (administration beginning at four months).
             Figure 25 depicts the results of mouse brain section staining for diffuse amyloid
    plaques at the end of a 3-month treatment period with a pomegranate extract 31008 in a
15  mouse AD model (administration beginning at four months).
             Figure 26 depicts the result of the Morris Water Maze probe test at the end of a 3
    month treatment period with punicalagin or pomegranate extract 31008 (at two different
    doses, low and high), extract 61109 and extract 71109, in a mouse AD model
    (administration beginning at two months).
20           Figure 27 depicts results of a social recognition study with aged rats (wherein the
    extract is 31008).
             Figure 28 depicts results of a Morris Water Maze reversal test with aged rats
    (wherein the extract is 31008 and the dosing is 30 pg.mL).
             Figure 29 depicts Compound A.
25           Figure 30 depicts a flowchart showing an ultra sound assisted sequential
    pomegranate husk extraction by various solvent endowed with increasing polarity; and
    HPLC profiles of the resulting extracts. These profiles were obtained from a Varian
    analytic HPLC equipped with a Diode Array Detector (DAD) using a 250 x 4.6 mm, 00.5
    mm "XRS pursuit "diphenyl column. The solvent and gradient used are shown in Figure
30  31.
                                                     4

           Figure 31 decipts the solvent and gradient used in to obtain the HLPC traces; and a
   graph showing the bioactivity of husk subfractions on PCi 2 cell survival against Ap
   toxicity. All subfractions were assayed at 500 gg/mL. Fraction 1776 exhibits the highest
   activity and very interesting HPLC profile, distinct of that of 1777 and 1778 whose major
 5 peaks look like Punicalagin. This result may suggest that another compound, different from
   punicalagin may be able to protect PCI2 cells from Ap-induced toxicity. Therefore 1776
   was selected for further fractionation. Tellimagrandin was identified in extract fraction
    1776.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
10         Certain aspects of the invention relate to compounds (as well as extracts and
   compositions containing the same) and methods for effective administration of said
   compounds, extracts or compositions to a subject in need thereof
   Amyloidosis
           In certain embodiments, the compounds inhibit protein folding that causes AP
15 peptide aggregation (i.e., amyloid plaque formation).
           A number of incurable, ageing-related or degenerative diseases have been linked to
   a generic and fundamental pathogenic process of protein or peptide misfolding and
   aggregation called "amyloidosis". These include Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's
   diseases and type II diabetes. The amyloid deposits present in these diseases consist of
20 particular peptides that are characteristic for each of these diseases but regardless of their
   sequence the amyloid fibrils have a characteristic g-sheet structure and share a common
   aggregation pathway. In each disease, a specific protein or peptide misfolds, adopts p-sheet
   structure and oligomerizes to form soluble aggregation intermediates en route to fibril
   formation ultimately forming insoluble amyloid fibres, plaques or inclusions. These
25 insoluble forms of the aggregated protein or peptide form by the intermolecular association
   of D-strands into p-sheets. Recent evidence suggests that the soluble amyloid oligomers
   may be the principal cause of neurotoxicity.
           The amyloidoses are defined as diseases in which normally soluble proteins
   accumulate in various tissues as insoluble deposits of fibrils that are rich in p-sheet structure
30 and have characteristic dye-binding properties. Although the specific polypeptides that
   comprise the deposits are different for each amyloidosis, the disorders have several key
                                                    5

     features in common. The most prominent of these is the ability of proteins that are highly
     soluble in biological fluids to be gradually converted into insoluble filamentous polymers
     enriched in p-pleated sheet conformation.
             Furthermore, they tend to forn by a similar molecular mechanism (by the
  5  intermolecular association of p-strands into extended n-sheets), so they tend to share a
    similar molecular structure and a common ability to bind certain dyes, such as Congo Red
    and Thioflavin T.
             These diseases and disorders, which are collectively referred to herein as "amyloid
    related diseases", fall into two main categories: (a) those which affect the brain and other
10  parts of the central nervous system; and (b) those which affect other organs or tissues
    around the body.
             Examples of amyloid-related diseases which fall under these two categories are
    listed in the following two sections; however, many other examples of rare, hereditary
    amyloid-related diseases are known which are not included here, and additional forms of
15  amyloid-related disease are likely to be discovered in future.
    NeurodegenerativeDiseasesAssociated with Ainyloidosis
             Many different neurodegenerative diseases are associated with the misfolding and
    aggregation of a specific protein or peptide in a particular pail of the brain, or elsewhere in
    the central nervous system, depending on the specific disease. Examples of such diseases
20  follow.
             Various forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as Down's syndrome, hereditary
    cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis (HCH WA, Dutch type), cerebral amyloid
    angiopathy, and possibly also mild cognitive impairment and other forms of dementia are
    associated with the aggregation of a 40/42-residue peptide called    p-amyloid,  Ap(1-40) or
25  Aj(l-42), which forms insoluble amyloid fibres and plaques in the cerebral cortex,
    hippocampus or elsewhere in the brain, depending on the specific disease. Alzheimer's
    disease is also associated with the formation of neurofibrillary tangles by aggregation of a
    hyperphosphorylated protein called tau, which also occurs in frontotemporal dementia
    (Pick's disease),
30           Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and multiple system
    atrophy (MSA) are associated with the aggregation of a protein called a-synuclein, which
                                                    6

    results in the formation of insoluble inclusions called "Lewy bodies". Huntington's disease
     (HD), spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA, also known as Kennedy's disease),
    dentatorubral pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), different forms of spinocerebellar ataxia
    (SCA, types 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7), and possibly several other inheritable neurodegenerative
  5 diseases are associated with the aggregation of various proteins and peptides that contain
    abnormally expanded glutamine repeats (extended tracts of polyglutamine). Creutzfeldt
    Jakob disease (CJD), bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in cows, scrapie in sheep,
    kuru, Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker disease (GSS), fatal familial insomnia, and possibly
    all other forms of transmissible encephalopathy are associated with the self-propagating
 10 misfolding and aggregation of prion proteins.
            Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and possibly also some other forms of motor
    neuron disease (MND) are associated with the aggregation of a protein called superoxide
    dismutase.
            Familial British dementia (FBD) and familial Danish dementia (FDD), respectively,
15  are associated with aggregation of the ABri and ADan peptide sequences derived from the
    BRI protein.
            Hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis (HCHWA, Icelandic type) is
    associated with the aggregation of a protein called cystatin C.
    Systemic DiseasesAssociated with Amyloidosis
20          In addition to the neurodegenerative diseases listed above, a wide variety of
    systemic ageing-related or degenerative diseases are associated with the misfolding and
    aggregation of a particular protein or peptide in various other tissues around the body (i.e.,
    outside of the brain). Examples of such diseases follow.
            Type II Diabetes (also known as adult-onset diabetes, or non-insulin dependent
25  diabetes mellitus) is associated with the aggregation of a 37-residue peptide called the islet
    amyloid polypeptide (IAPP, or "amylin"), which forms insoluble deposits that are
    associated with the progressive destruction of insulin-producing    P cells in the islets of
    Langerhans within the pancreas.
            Dialysis-related amyloidosis (DRA) and prostatic amyloid are associated with the
30  aggregation of a protein called p 2-microglobulin, either in bones, joints and tendons in
                                                   7

    DRA, which develops during prolonged periods of hemodialysis, or within the prostate in
   the case of prostatic amyloid.
            Primary systemic amyloidosis, systemic AL amyloidosis and myeloma-associated
   amyloidosis are associated with the aggregation of immunoglobulin light chain (or in some
 5 cases immunoglobulin heavy chain) into insoluble amyloid deposits, which gradually
   accumulate in various major organs such as the liver, kidneys, heart and gastrointestinal
   (GI) tract.
            Reactive systemic AA amyloidosis, secondary systemic amyloidosis, familial
   Mediterranean fever and chronic inflammatory disease are associated with the aggregation
10 of serum arnyloid A protein, which forms insoluble amyloid deposits that accumulate in
   major organs such as the liver, kidneys and spleen; Senile systemic amyloidosis (SSA),
   familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP) and familial amyloid cardiomyopathy (FAC) are
   associated with the misfolding and aggregation of different mutants of transthyretin protein
   (TTR), which form insoluble inclusions in various organs and tissues such as the heart
15 (especially in FAC), peripheral nerves (especially in FAP) and gastrointestinal (GI) tract.
   Another form of familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP, type II) is associated with the
   aggregation of apolipoprotein AI in the peripheral nerves; Familial visceral amyloidosis and
   hereditary non-neuropathic systemic amyloidosis are associated with misfolding and
   aggregation of various mutants of lysozyme, which form insoluble deposits in major organs
20 such as the liver, kidneys and spleen.
           Finnish hereditary systemic amyloidosis is associated with aggregation of a protein
   called gelsolin in the eyes (particularly in the cornea).
           Fibrinogen a-chain amyloidosis is associated with aggregation of the fibrinogen A
   a- chain, which forms insoluble amyloid deposits in various organs, such as the liver and
25 kidneys.
           Insulin-related amyloidosis occurs by the aggregation of insulin at the site of
   injection in diabetics.
           Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is associated with the aggregation of calcitonin
   in surrounding tissues.
30         Isolated atrial amyloidosis is associated with the aggregation of atrial natriuretic
   peptide (ANP) in the heart.
                                                    8

            Various forms of cataract are associated with the aggregation of y-crystallin proteins
   in the lens of the eyes.
   Pathogenic Mechanism ofAmyloid-Related Diseases
            While all of the amyloid-related diseases share the common pathogenic process of
 5 amyloidosis, the precise molecular mechanisms by which this generic process of
   protein/peptide misfolding and aggregation is linked to the progressive degeneration of
   affected tissues is unclear. In some cases, including many of the systemic amyloid-related
   diseases, it is thought that the sheer mass of insoluble protein or peptide simply overwhelms
   the affected tissues, ultimately leading to acute organ failure. In other cases, including most
10 of the neurodegenerative diseases listed above, the symptoms of disease develop with the
   appearance of only very small aggregates. Therefore, it has been suggested that the
   insoluble deposits are inherently toxic and might cause the progressive destruction of cells,
   for example by causing inflammation and oxidative stress, or by directly interfering with
   cell membranes or other cellular components or processes.
15          Recently, it has been established that the specific proteins and peptides involved in
   at least some of these amyloid-related diseases form various soluble oligomeric species
   during their aggregation, which range in size from dimers and trimers to much larger
   species comprising tens or even hundreds or thousands of protein or peptide monomers.
   Moreover, the oligomers are inherently toxic to cells in vitro in the absence of insoluble
20 aggregates, and they appear to share a common structural feature as they can all be
   recognized by the same antibody despite the fact that they may be formed by proteins or
   peptides with very different amino acid sequences.
            The molecular structure of these toxic soluble oligomers is not known and the
   precise mechanism by which they kill cells is also unclear, but several theories have been
25 proposed. According to one theory, called the "channel hypothesis," the oligomers form
   heterogeneous pores or leaky ion channels, which allow ions to flow freely through cell
   membranes, thereby destroying their integrity which ultimately causes cell death.
   Alternatively, or additionally, the oligomers may form protofibrils that kill cells by a
   similar or different mechanism.
30          Regardless of the precise pathogenic mechanism, however, an overwhelming
   amount of evidence has now been accumulated which suggests that the general process of
                                                   9

     protein/peptide aggregation is the primary cause of these and possibly other amyloid-related
     diseases.
             The present invention relates to chemical compounds, extracts and compositions
     which are inhibitors of amyloid-related toxicity and, as such, will be useful in the treatment
  5  of amyloid-related diseases and disorders.
    Eary Detection ofAmyloid-Related Diseasesand Disorders
             It is always desirable to detect diseases early in their progress. Early detection
     enables early treatment which has generally been proven to yield a higher success rate in
    treating various diseases. Recently, it has been discovered that analyzing peoples' eyes, and
 10  in particular the lenses of the eyes, can yield indications of various types of diseases. For
    example, measurements taken of light scattering within the eye has been shown to provide
    useful diagnostic information to detect and monitor the progress of diseases such as
    Alzheimer's disease. US Patent Application Publication No. 2008/0088795 and U.S. Patent
    No. 7,107,092; both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In
15  addition, changes in the brain measured with MRI and PET scans, ELISA assays, and
    diffraction-enhanced imaging (DEI), alone or combined with memory tests and detection of
    risk proteins in body fluids, may also lead to earlier and more accurate diagnosis of
    Alzheimer's.
    Compounds of the Invention
20           One aspect of the invention relates to compounds s which when administered lead to
    the treatment or prevention of neurodegenerative disorders and/or the improvement of brain
    health. As discussed in more detail below, in certain embodiments the administraiton of the
    compound results in fewer depositions of amyloid fibrils in the brains of animals fed
    compositions which comprise one or more compounds of the invention; and resulted in an
25  increase or restoration of memory in the animals fed the compositions comprising one or
    more compounds of the invention.
             For example, compounds of the invention include Punicalin, Punicalagin,
    Pedunculagin, Tellimagrandin, Corilagin, Granatine A, Granatine B, Terminalin,
    Gallagyldilactone, and Compound A, as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
30  biologically active metabolites, solvates, hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers
    thereof
                                                     10

           The present invention also relates to a pure and isolated compound, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
   enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof; wherein the compound is represented by formula I:
                                                         O       OR'
                                             0
                                                  OOR
                                               x                'OR 2
                                                  V
                                                         OR3
 5
           wherein independently for each occurrence
                                  OH
                           HO
                           HO
                            0           0
                         O              OH                 OH
                   HOW      I           OH           HO
                   HO             0                  HO
                     0         0                      0          0
                               OH                                OH
                               OH                                OH
           Xis           OH                    or          OH           ;and
           R', R 2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a
   sugar; or
                                                                   OH
                                                            HON
                                                            HO          -r
10         R1 is hydrogen, altkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy,                0   , or a sugar, R 2 is
                        OH                              OH
                 HO      NHO
                 HO )(-\HO                                 l\
   hydrogen or               0     , and R3 is                0    ; or
                                                    11

            Ri is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a sugar, and R2 and R3 taken
                           OH N
                    HO
                     O
                     0       " 0
                                 O0H
                                OH
   together are            OH
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
                                                                  OH
                                                           HO
                                                           HO
                                                            0          0
                                                         0       NOO
                                                                       OH
                                                   HO
                                                                       OH
                                                   HO
                                                    0
                                                               OH
                                                        N      OH
   aforementioned compounds, wherein X is                OH
 5         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
                                                         OH       O
                                                   HO
                                                    O          0
                                                               OH
   aforementioned compounds, wherein X is                OH
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned compounds, wherein Ri is hydrogen.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
10 aforementioned compounds, wherein Ri is a sugar selected from the group consisting of
   allose ("All"), altrose ("Alt"), arabinose ("Ara"), erythrose, erythrulose, fructose ("Fru"),
   fucosamine ("FucN"), fucose ("Fuc"), galactosamine ("GaiN"), galactose ("Gal"), galloyl
                                                   12

     p-glucose,  glucosamine ("GlcN"), glucosaminitol ("GlcN-ol"), glucose ("Glc"),
     glyceraldehyde, 2,3-dihydroxypropanal, glycerol ("Gro"), propane-1,2,3-triol, glycerone
     ("1,3-dihydroxyacetone"), 1,3-dihydroxypropanone, gulose ("Gul"), idose ("Ido"), lyxose
     ("Lyx"), mannosamine ("ManN"), mannose ("Man"), psicose ("Psi"), quinovose ("Qui"),
  5  quinovosamine, rharnitol ("Rha-ol"), rhamnosamine ("RhaN"), rhamnose ("Rha"), ribose
    ("Rib"), ribulose ("Rut"), rutinose, sialic acid ("Sia" or "Neu"), sorbose ("Sor"), tagatose
    ("Tag"), talose ("Tal"), tartaric acid, erythraric/threaric acid, threose, xylose ("Xyl"), or
    xylulose ("Xul").
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
 10 aforementioned compounds, wherein R2 is hydrogen.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned compounds, wherein R2 is a sugar selected from the group consisting of
    allose ("All"), altrose ("Alt"), arabinose ("Ara"), erythrose, erythrulose, fructose ("Fru"),
    fucosamine ("FucN"), fucose ("Fuc"), galactosamine ("GaiN"), galactose ("Gal"), galloyl
15   3-glucose, glucosamine ("GlcN"), glucosaminitol ("GlcN-ol"), glucose ("Gic"),
    glyceraldehyde, 2,3-dihydroxypropanal, glycerol ("Gro"), propane-1,2,3-triol, glycerone
    ("l,3-dihydroxyacetone"), 1,3-dihydroxypropanone, gulose ("Gul"), dose ("Ido"), lyxose
    ("Lyx"), mannosamine ("ManN"), mannose ("Man"), psicose ("Psi"), quinovose ("Qui"),
    quinovosamine, rhamnitol ("Rha-ol"), rhamnosamine ("RhaN"), rhamnose ("Rha"), ribose
20  ("Rib"), ribulose ("Rut"), rutinose, sialic acid ("Sia" or "Neu"), sorbose ("Sor"), tagatose
    ("Tag"), talose ("Tal"), tartaric acid, erythraric/threaric acid, threose, xylose ("Xyl"), or
    xylulose ("Xul").
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned compounds, wherein R3 is hydrogen.
25          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned compounds, wherein R3 is a sugar selected from the group consisting of
    allose ("All"), altrose ("Alt"), arabinose ("Ara"), erythrose, erythrulose, fructose ("Fru"),
    fucosamine ("FucN"), fucose ("Fuc"), galactosamine ("GaiN"), galactose ("Gal"), galloyl
    p-glucose, glucosamine ("GlcN"), glucosaminitol ("GlcN-ol"), glucose ("Gic"),
30  glyceraldehyde, 2,3-dihydroxypropanal, glycerol ("Gro"), propane-1,2,3-triol, glycerone
    ("1,3-dihydroxyacetone"), 1,3-dihydroxypropanone, gulose ("Gul"), idose ("Ido"), lyxose
    ("Lyx"), mannosamine ("ManN"), mannose ("Man"), psicose ("Psi"), quinovose ("Qui"),
                                                    13

    quinovosamine, rhamnitol ("Rha-ol"), rhamnosamine ("RhaN"), rhamnose ("Rha"), ribose
   ("Rib"), ribulose ("Rul"), rutinose, sialic acid ("Sia" or "Neu"), sorbose ("Sor"), tagatose
   ("Tag"), talose ("Tal"), tartaric acid, erythraric/threaric acid, threose, xylose ("Xyl"), or
   xylulose ("Xul").
 5         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned compounds, wherein R', R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl,
   aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a sugar.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned compounds, wherein R', R2 and R3 are hydrogen.
10         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned compounds, wherein R' is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy,
           OH                                                OH
    HO                                                HO      N
    HO                                                HO
                O     or a sugar, R2 is hydrogen or                0     , and R is
          OH
    HO
    HO
                0
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
                                                                           OH
                                                                   HO       N
                                                                   HO
15 aforementioned compounds, wherein R' is hydrogen, R is      2
                                                                                0    ,and R3 is
          OH
   HO
   HO
                0
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
                                                         OH
                                                 HO       N
                                                 HO
   aforementioned compounds, wherein       R1 is              0
                                                   14

             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
                                                         OH
                                                   HO
                                                   HO
     aforementioned compounds, wherein R' is                   0    , R2 is hydrogen, and R3 is
             OH
     HO
     HO
                  0
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
  5 aforementioned compounds, wherein R' is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a
                                                        OH
                                                 HO
                                                 HO
                                                   0         0
                                                             OH
                                                             OH
    sugar, and   R2 and R3 taken together are           OH
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned compounds, wherein R 1is hydrogen, and R2 and R3 taken together are
               OH
       HO
       HO
         0          O
                    OH
              OH
10           The invention also encompasses multimers of formula 1, such as dimers in which
    two monomers of the formula are bonded as described in Reed, J. D., C. G. Krueger, et al.
    (2005). "MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry of oligomeric food polyphenols." Phytochemisty
    66(18): 2248-63. The dimers are naturally occuring dimers of ellagitannins; their detailed
    structures are not fully elucidated, but they contain the basic structural backbone identified
15  in this invention. Trimers, tetramers and larger oligimers are also encompassed in the
                                                    15

   present invention. In otherwords, multimers with, for example, two, three, four, five, six,
   seven, eight, nine, ten, or more repeats are encompased in the present invention.
            Certain compounds of the invention which have acidic substituents may exist as
   salts with pharmaceutically acceptable acids or bases. Many of the compounds of the
 5 invention may be provided as salts with pharmaceutically compatible counterions (i.e.,
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts). A "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" means any non
   toxic salt that, upon administration to a recipient, is capable of providing, either directly or
   indirectly, a compound or a prodrug of a compound of this invention. A "pharmaceutically
   acceptable counterion" is an ionic portion of a salt that is not toxic when released from the
10 salt upon administration to a recipient. Pharmaceutically compatible salts may be formed
   with many acids, including but not limited to hydrochloric, sulfuric, acetic, lactic, tartaric,
   malic, succinic, etc. Salts tend to be more soluble in aqueous or other protonic solvents
   than are the corresponding free base forms.
            Acids commonly employed to form pharmaceutically acceptable salts include
15 inorganic acids such as hydrogen bisulfide, hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydroiodic, sulfuric
   and phosphoric acid, as well as organic acids such as para-toluenesulfonic, salicylic,
   tartaric, bitartaric, ascorbic, maleic, besylic, fumaric, gluconic, glucuronic, formic,
   glutamic, methancsulfonic, ethanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic, lactic, oxalic, para
   bromophenylsulfonic, carbonic, succinic, citric, benzoic and acetic acid, and related
20 inorganic and organic acids. Such pharmaceutically acceptable salts thus include sulfate,
   pyrosulfate, bisulfate, sulfite, bisulfite, phosphate, monohydrogenphosphate,
   dihydrogenphosphate, metaphosphate, pyrophosphate, chloride, bromide, iodide, acetate,
   propionate, decanoate, caprylate, acrylate, formate, isobutyrate, caprate, heptanoate,
   propiolatc, oxalate, malonate, succinate, suberate, sebacate, fumarate, maleate, butyne- 1,4
25 dioate, hexyne-1,6-dioate, benzoate, chlorobenzoate, methylbenzoate, dinitrobenzoate,
   hydroxybenzoate, methoxybenzoate, phthalate, terephathalate, sulfonate, xylenesulfonate,
   phenylacetate, phenylpropionate, phenylbutyrate, citrate, lactate, .beta.-hydroxybutyrate,
   glycolate, maleate, tartrate, methanesulfonate, propanesulfonate, naphthalene- 1-sulfonate,
   naphthalene-2-sulfonate, mandelate and the like salts. Exemplary pharmaceutically
30 acceptable acid addition salts include those formed with mineral acids such as hydrochloric
   acid and hydrobromic acid, and especially those formed with organic acids such as maleic
   acid.
                                                     16

            Suitable bases for forming pharmaceutically acceptable salts with acidic functional
   groups include, but are not limited to, hydroxides of alkali metals such as sodium,
   potassium, and lithium; hydroxides of alkaline earth metal such as calcium and magnesium;
   hydroxides of other metals, such as aluminum and zinc; ammonia, and organic amines, such
 5 as unsubstituted or hydroxy-substituted mono-, di-, or trialkylamines; dicyclohexylamine;
   tributyl amine; pyridine; N-methyl,N-ethylamine; diethylamine; triethylamine; mono-, bis-,
   or tris-(2-hydroxy-lower alkyl amines), such as mono-, bis-, or tris-(2-hydroxyethyl)amine,
   2-hydroxy-tert-butylamine, or tris-(hydroxymethyl)methylamine, N,N-di alkyl-N-(hydroxy
   alkyl)-amines, such as N,N-dimethyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)amine, or tri-(2
10 hydroxyethyl)amine; N-methyl-D-glucamine; and amino acids such as arginine, lysine, and
   the like.
            Certain compounds of the invention and their salts may exist in more than one
   crystal form and the present invention includes each individual crystal form and mixtures
   thereof.
15          Certain compounds of the invention and their salts may also exist in the form of
   solvates, for example hydrates, and the present invention includes each solvate and
   mixtures thereof.
            Certain compounds of the invention may contain one or more chiral centers, and
   exist in different optically active forms. When compounds of the invention contain one
20 chiral center, the compounds exist in two enantiomeric forms and the present invention
   includes both enantiorners and mixtures of enantiomers, such as racemic mixtures. The
   enantiomers may be resolved by methods known to those skilled in the art, for example by
   formation of diastercoisomeric salts which may be separated, for example, by
   crystallization; formation of diastereoisomeric derivatives or complexes which may be
25 separated, for example, by crystallization, gas-liquid or liquid chromatography; selective
   reaction of one enantiomer with an enantiomer-specific reagent, for example enzymatic
   esterification; or gas-liquid or liquid chromatography in a chiral environment, for example
   on a chiral support for example silica with a bound chiral ligand or in the presence of a
   chiral solvent. It will be appreciated that where the desired enantiomer is converted into
30 another chemical entity by one of the separation procedures described above, a further step
   may be used to liberate the desired enantiomeric form. Alternatively, specific enantiomers
   may be synthesized by asymmetric synthesis using optically active reagents, substrates,
                                                  17

     catalysts or solvents, or by converting one enantiomer into the other by asymmetric
     transformation.
             When a compound of the invention contains more than one chiral center, it may
     exist in diastercoisomeric forms. The diastereoisomeric compounds may be separated by
  5  methods known to those skilled in the art, for example chromatography or crystallization
     and the individual enantiomers may be separated as described above. The present invention
     includes each diastereoisomer of compounds of the invention and mixtures thereof.
             Certain compounds of the invention may exist in different tautomeric forms or as
     different geometric isomers, and the present invention includes each tautomer and/or
 10  geometric isomer of compounds of the invention and mixtures thereof
             Certain compounds of the invention may exist in different stable conformational
     forms which may be separable. Torsional asymmetry due to restricted rotation about an
     asymmetric single bond, for example because of steric hindrance or ring strain, may permit
     separation of different conformers. The present invention includes each conformational
15   isomer of compounds of the invention and mixtures thereof.
             Certain compounds of the invention may exist in zwitterionic form and the present
     invention includes each zwitterionic form of compounds of the invention and mixtures
    thereof.
             As used herein the term "pro-drug" refers to an agent which is converted into the
20  parent drug in vivo by some physiological chemical process (e.g., a prodrug on being
    brought to the physiological pH is converted to the desired drug form). Pro-drugs are often
    useful because, in some situations, they may be easier to administer than the parent drug.
    They may, for instance, be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the parent drug is
    not. The prodrug may also have improved solubility in pharmacological compositions over
25  the parent drug. An example, without limitation, of a pro-drug would be a compound of the
    present invention wherein it is administered as an ester (the "pro-drug") to facilitate
    transmittal across a cell membrane where water solubility is not beneficial, but then it is
    metabolically hydrolyzed to the carboxylic acid once inside the cell where water solubility
    is beneficial. Pro-drugs have many useful properties. For example, a pro-drug may be
30  more water soluble than the ultimate drug, thereby facilitating intravenous administration of
    the drug. A pro-drug may also have a higher level of oral bioavailability than the ultimate
                                                   18

     drug. After administration, the prodrug is enzymatically or chemically cleaved to deliver
     the ultimate drug in the blood or tissue.
             Exemplary pro-drugs upon cleavage release the corresponding free acid, and such
     hydrolyzable ester-forming residues of the compounds of this invention include but are not
  5  limited to carboxylic acid substituents (e.g., -C(0) 2 H or a moiety that contains a carboxylic
     acid) wherein the free hydrogen is replaced by (Ci-C4)alkyl, (C2-C2)alkanoyloxymethyl,
     (C4 -C9)1-(alkanoyloxy)ethyl, 1-methyl-1-(alkanoyloxy)-ethyl having from 5 to 10 carbon
     atoms, alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl having from 3 to 6 carbon atoms, 1
     (alkoxycarbonyloxy)ethyl having from 4 to 7 carbon atoms, 1-methyl-I
 10  (alkoxycarbonyloxy)ethyl having from 5 to 8 carbon atoms, N
     (alkoxycarbonyl)aminomethyl having from 3 to 9 carbon atoms, I -(N
     (alkoxycarbonyl)amino)ethyl having from 4 to 10 carbon atoms, 3-phthalidyl, 4
     crotonolactonyl, gamma-butyrolacton-4-yl, di-N,N-(C-C 2 )alkylamino(C 2-C3)alkyl (such
    as P-dimethylaminoethyl), carbamoyl-(C-C 2)alkyl, N,N-di(C-C2)-alkylcarbamoyl-(C
 15 C 2)alkyl and piperidino-, pyrrolidino- or norpholino(C 2-C3)alkyl.
             Exemplary pro-drugs release an hydroxyl of a compound of the invention wherein
    the free hydrogen of a hydroxyl is replaced by (CI-C6)alkanoyloxymethyl, 1-((C
    C)alkanoyloxy)ethyl, 1-methyl-I-((C -C)alkanoyloxy)ethyl, (C-C)alkoxycarbonyl
    oxymethyl, N-(C -C6 )alkoxycarbonylamino-methyl, succinoyl, (C-C 6 )alkanoyl, a
20  amino(C 1 -C4)alkanoyl, arylactyl and a-aminoacyl, or a-aminoacyl-a-aminoacyl wherein
    said a-aminoacyl moieties are independently any of the naturally occurring L-amino acids
    found in proteins, -P(O)(OH) 2 , -P(O)(O(C-C)akyl) 2 or glycosyl (the radical resulting
    from detachment of the hydroxyl of the hemiacetal of a carbohydrate).
             A compound may be isolated and extracted (i.e., separated from the compounds
25  with which it naturally occurs), or it may be synthetically prepared (i.e., manufactured
    using a process synthesis) so that in any cases the level of contaminating compounds or
    impurities does not detract from or adversely effect to the effectiveness of the compound of
    the invention.
             Certain compounds of the invention may be extracted from natural sources such as
30  Punica granatum juice, leaves, bark, pericarp, or peel. Lansky, E. P. and R. A. Newman
    (2007). "Punica granatum (pomegranate) and its potential for prevention and treatment of
    inflammation and cancer." JEthnophanmacol109(2): 177-206. Some of the compound
                                                    19

       may also be isolated from Walnuts, Euscaphis japonica, Geum japonicum Thunb. var.
       chinense, Blackberries (Rubus sp.), Juglans regia, Pimenta dioica, Quercus, Acer, Cornus
      officinalis, Emblica officinalis (amla), Terminalia chebula Retz, and Terminalia catappa L,
       as well as other similar species.
   5           For example, Punicalin, Punicalagin, Pedunculagin and Tellimagrandin have been
      previously isolated and characterized. Tanaka, K., G. Nonaka, et al. (1986). "Tannins and
      Related Compounds. XLL 1) Isolation and Charactherization of Novel Ellagitannins,
      Punicacorteins A, B, C, and Punigluconin from the bark of Punica granatun L." Chem.
      Pharm. Bull 34(2): 656-663; Tanaka, K., G. Nonaka, et al. (1986). "Tannins and Related
 10   Compounds. XLI. 1). Revision of the Structures of Punicalin and Punicalagin, and Isolation
      and Charactherization of 2-0-Galloylpunicalin from the Bark of Punicagranatum L."
      Chen. Pharm. Bull 34(2): 650-655; and Satomi, H., K. Umemura, et al. (1993). "Carbonic
      anhydrase inhibitors from the pericarps of Punica granatum L." Biol Pharn Bull 16(8): 787
      90.
 15            In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is at least about 1 % pure up
      to about 99 % pure. In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is at least
      about 10% pure. In certain embodiments, the compounds is at least about 20 % pure. In
     certain embodiments, the compounds is at least about 30 % pure. In certain embodiments,
     the compounds is at least about 40 % pure. In certain embodiments, the compounds is at
20   least about 50 % pure. In certain embodiments, the compounds is at least about 60 % pure.
     In certain embodiments, the compounds is at least about 70 % pure. In certain
     embodiments, the compounds is at least about 80 % pure. In certain embodiments, the
     compounds is at least about 90 % pure. In certain embodiments, the compounds is at least
     about 95 % pure. In certain embodiments, the compounds is at least about 99 % pure. In
25   certain embodiments, such extracts which contain one or more compounds of the invention
     at any of the aforementioned purities may be also suitable for use as or in functional foods
     and dietary supplements. Such extracts are discussed more fully below.
              One aspect of the invention relates to a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
     salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stercoisomer
30   thereof, which generates the spectra in Figures 2 and 3.
                                                     20

              One aspect of the invention relates to a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
     salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stereoisomer
     thereof, which generates the spectra in Figures 4 and 5.
              One aspect of the invention relates to a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
  5  salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stereoisomer
     thereof, which generates the spectra in Figures 6 and 7.
              One aspect of the invention relates to a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
     salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stercoisomer
     thereof, which generates the spectra in Figures 8 and 9.
 10           One aspect of the invention relates to a compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
    salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stercoisomer
    thereof, which generates the spectrum in Figure 10.
              In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any of the aforementioned
    compounds, wherein said compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically
 15 active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stercoisomer thereof, was
    prepared by extraction from a plant material, as described herein. For example, one aspect
    of the invention relates to a compound prepared by a process comprising the steps of using
    an adsorbent to bind said compound; and eluting the bound compound from the adsorbent.
    Isolation/Preparation
20           As noted above, extracts enriched in one or more compounds of the invention may
    be recovered from plant material, which plant material may include fruit, husks, juice,
    leaves, woody stems, and the like. Plants suitable for extraction include Punica granatum.
    Methods of purification are described in US Patent Application Publication No. US
    2008/0318877 to Seeram et at., which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
25           A suspension of material from the plant material may be prepared by a variety of
    methods as known in the art, e.g., blending and aqueous extraction. The plant material may
    be subjected to enzymatic treatment including but not limited to extractase, pectinase and
    the like. The aqueous solution comprising compounds of the invention is applied to a
    polymeric adsorbent column, which is then washed with an aqueous buffer to remove
30  unbound material. The compounds of interest bind to the resin, and may be eluted with a
    polar solvent, e.g., water, ethanol, methanol, and acetone.
                                                    21

              The resin has a surface to which the compounds are adsorbed. A class of adsorptive
     resins are polymeric crosslinked resins composed of styrene and divinylbenzene such as,
     for example, the AMBERLITE series of resins, e.g., AMBERLITE XAD-16, which are
     available commercially from Rohm & Haas Co., Philadelphia, PA. Other polymeric
  5  crosslinked styrene and divinylbenzene adsorptive resins suitable for use according to the
     invention are XFS-4257, XFS-4022, XUS-40323 and XUS-40322, all manufactured by The
     Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Michigan.
             One may use commercially available, FDA-approved, styrene-divinyl-benzene
     (SDVB) cross-linked copolymer resin, (e.g., AMBERLITE XAD-16, as described in U.S.
 10  Pat. No. 4,297,220, herein incorporated by reference). This resin is a non-ionic
    hydrophobic, cross-linked polystyrene divinyl benzene adsorbent resin. AMBERLITE
    XAD- 16 has a macroreticular structure, with both a continuous polymer phase and a
    continuous pore phase. In certain embodiments, the resin used in the present invention has
    a particle size ranging from 100-200 microns.
 15          Other adsorbents, such as those in the AMBERLITE XAD adsorbent series which
    contain hydrophobic macroreticular resin beads, with particle sizes in the range of 100-200
    microns, may also be effective in the methods of the present invention. Moreover, different
    variations of the AMBERLITES, such as the AMERCHROM CG series of adsorbents, used
    with particle sizes in the range of 100-200 microns, may also be suitable for use in the
20  present invention.
             The resins are washed, e.g., with water or an aqueous buffer to remove unbound
    material from the extract. A solvent can be used to remove the adsorbed compounds, such
    as ethyl acetate or butanol.
             The eluted compounds are substantially purified relative to the starting material, and
25  may be further purified, e.g., by chromatography, etc., or may be directly used in
    formulations of interest. The final composition may be enriched, filtered, dialyzed, etc.,
    using methods known in the art.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention provides a compound of the
    invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate,
30  hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, substantially free of other compounds
    found in the plant material from which it is extracted. As used herein, the term
    "substantially free" means that the compound is made up of a significantly greater
                                                   22

     proportion of a compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt,
     biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or stercoisomer
     thereof, as compared with the compound as found in the plant material from which it is
     extracted or extracts thereof
  5          In some embodiments, the present invention provides a compound of the invention,
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate,
    prodrug, enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, in an amount of about I weight percent to
    about 99 weight percent.
             In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided in greater than
10  about 2% chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is
    provided in greater than about 10% chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the
    compound of the invention is provided in greater than about 20% chemical purity. In
    certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided in greater than about 30%
    chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided in
15  greater than about 40% chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the
    invention is provided in greater than about 50% chemical purity. In certain embodiments,
    the compound of the invention is provided in greater than about 75% chemical purity. In
    certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided in greater than about 80%
    chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided in
20  greater than about 85% chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the
    invention is provided in greater than about 90% chemical purity.
             In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided at between
    about 2% chemical purity and 10% chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the
    compound of the invention is provided at between about 10% chemical purity and 30%
25  chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided at
    between about 20% chemical purity and about 40% chemical purity. In certain
    embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided at between about 30% chemical
    purity and about 50% chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the
    invention is provided at between about 40% chemical purity and about 60% chemical
30  purity. In certain embodiments, the compound of the invention is provided at between
    about 50% chemical purity and about 70% chemical purity. In certain embodiments, the
    compound of the invention is provided at between about 75% chemical purity and 95%
    chemical purity.
                                                   23

            In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically
    acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or
    stereoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 50 area percent HPLC of other
    components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of the
 5  HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
    enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 25 area percent HPLC of
   other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
   the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
10 pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
   enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 20 area percent HPLC of
   other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
   the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
15 enantiomer or stercoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 15 area percent HPLC of
   other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
   the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
   enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 10 area percent H.PLC of
20 other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
   the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
   enantiomer or stercoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 9 area percent HPLC of
   other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
25 the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
   enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 8 area percent HPLC of
   other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
   the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
30 pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
   enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 7 area percent HPLC of
   other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
   the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
                                                  24

     pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
     enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 6 area percent HPLC of
     other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
     the HPLC chromatogram. In other embodiments, the compound of the invention, or a
  5  pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
     enantiomer or stercoisomer thereof, contains no more than about 5 area percent HPLC of
     other components of the plant material from which it is extracted relative to the total area of
     the HPLC chromatogram. In certain embodiments, said plant source is Punica granatum.
             In addition, compounds of the present invention may be prepared by semi-synthetic
 10 processes starting from other compounds found in extracts. This may be accomplished
    either by chemical or biological transformation of an isolated compound or an extract
    fraction or mixture of compounds. Chemical transformation may be accomplished by, but
    not limited to, manipulation of temperature, pH, and/or treatment with various solvents.
    Biological transformation may be accomplished by, but not limited to, treatment of an
15  isolated compound or an extract fraction or mixture of compounds with plant tissue, plant
    tissue extracts, other microbiological organisms or an isolated enzyme from any organism.
    Extracts
            One aspect of the present invention relates to an extract comprising an
    aforementioned compound or compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts,
20  biologically active metabolites, solvates, hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers
    thereof
            Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract comprising between
    about 1%to about 10% of an aforementioned compound or compounds, or
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates, hydrates,
25  prodrugs, enantiomers or stercoisomers thereof.
            Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract comprising between
    about 10% to about 20% of an aforementioned compound or compounds, or
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates, hydrates,
    prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof.
30          Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract comprising between
    about 20% to about 30% of an aforementioned compound or compounds, or
                                                  25

    pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates, hydrates,
    prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
            Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
    comprising between about 30% to about 40% of an aforementioned compound or
  5 compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
    hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
            Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
    comprising between about 40% to about 50% of an aforementioned compound or
    compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
 10 hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof.
            Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
    comprising between about 50% to about 60% of an aforementioned compound or
    compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
    hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
15         Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
    comprising between about 60% to about 70% of an aforementioned compound or
    compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
    hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
           Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
20  comprising between about 70% to about 80% of an aforementioned compound or
    compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
    hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
           Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
    comprising between about 80% to about 90% of an aforementioned compound or
25  compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
    hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
           Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
    comprising between about 90% to about 95% of an aforementioned compound or
    compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
30  hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
                                                 26

             Another aspect of the present invention relates to an extract or composition
    comprising between about 95% to about 99% of an aforementioned compound or
    compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts, biologically active metabolites, solvates,
    hydrates, prodrugs, enantiomers or stereoisomers thereof
  5          In certain embodiments, said extract is a Punica granatum extract.
    Compositions
             The compounds and extracts of the invention may be used to formulate
    pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals, botanical drugs, herbal medicines, food additive, functional
    foods, medical foods, nutrition products, cosmetics, beverages, and the like.
10           The compounds and/or extracts of the invention may be provided as a composition
    with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Such dosage forms encompass physiologically
    acceptable carriers that are inherently non-toxic and non-therapeutic. Examples of such
    carriers include vegetable proteins, soy proteins, ion exchangers, soft gels, oils, alumina,
    aluminum stearate, lecithin, serum proteins, such as human serum albumin, buffer
15  substances such as phosphates, glycine, sorbic acid, potassium sorbate, partial glyceride
    mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids, water, salts, or electrolytes such as protamine
    sulfate, disodium hydrogen phosphate, potassium hydrogen phosphate, sodium chloride,
    zinc salts, colloidal silica, magnesium trisilicate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, cellulose-based
    substances, and PEG. Carriers for topical or gel-based forms include polysaccharides such
20  as sodium carboxymethylcellulose or methylcellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyacrylates,
    polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene-block polymers, PEG, and wood wax alcohols. For all
    administrations, conventional depot forms are suitably used. Such forms include, for
    example, microcapsules, nano-capsules, liposomes, plasters, inhalation forms, nose sprays,
    sublingual tablets, and sustained-release preparations.
25          In certain embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such
    vehicles at a concentration of about 0.01 g/mL to about 200 mg/rnL. In certain
    embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such vehicles at a
    concentration of about 1 gg/mL to about 250 ptg/mL. In certain embodiments, the
    compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such vehicles at a concentration of about
30  250 pg/mL to about 500 tg/mL. In certain embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts
    may be formulated in such vehicles at a concentration of about 500 pg/mL to about 750
    pg/mL. In certain embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such
                                                    27

     vehicles at a concentration of about 750 pig/mL to about 1 mg/mL. In certain embodiments,
     the compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such vehicles at a concentration of
     about I mg/mL to about 25 mg/mL. T In certain embodiments, the compounds and/or
     extracts may be formulated in such vehicles at a concentration of about 25 mg/mL to about
  5  50 mg/mL. In certain embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in
     such vehicles at a concentration of about 50 mg/mL to about 100 mg/mL. In certain
     embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such vehicles at a
     concentration of about 100 mg/mL to about 125 mg/mL. In certain embodiments, the
    compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such vehicles at a concentration of about
 10  125 mg/mL to about 150 mg/mL. In certain embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts
    may be formulated in such vehicles at a concentration of about 150 mg/mL to about 175
    mg/mL. In certain embodiments, the compounds and/or extracts may be formulated in such
    vehicles at a concentration of about 175 mg/mL to about 200 mg/mL.
             In certain embodiments, compounds, compositions and/or extracts of the invention
15  may be combined with herbal medicines. Herbal medicines of interest include, but not
    restricted to, active fractions from certain herbal preparations, such as nettles (Urtica
    dioica)-turmeric (Curcuma longa), tea; marine or terrestrial animal products, e.g., bioactive
    lipids from Perna canaliculus, or Dromaius nova hollandiac.
             In certain embodiments, compounds, compositions and/or extracts of the invention
20  may be formulated as botanical drugs. As used herein, a "botanical drug" is a product
    consists of vegetable materials, which may include plant materials, algae, macroscopic
    fungi, or combinations thereof, which is intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation,
    treatment or prevention of disease in humans. In certain embodiments, the botanical drug
    product may be available as (but not limited to) a solution (e.g., tea), powder, tablet,
25  capsule, elixir, topical, or injection.
             In certain embodiments, compounds, compositions and/or extracts of the invention
    may be formulated as nutraceuticals. Nutraceutical formulations of interest include foods
    for veterinary or human use, including health food bars, drinks and drink supplements, and
    the like. These foods are enhanced by the inclusion of a biologically active compound,
30  composition and/or extract of the invention. For example, in the treatment of
    neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's, the normal diet of a patient may be
    supplemented by a nutraceutical formulation taken on a regular basis. Such nutraceuticals
    may or may not contain calories.
                                                   28

              The term nutraceutical composition as used herein include food product, foodstuff,
     dietary supplement, nutritional supplement or a supplement composition for a food product
     or a foodstuff. Thus, in another embodiment the present invention relates to a nutraceutical
     wherein the nutraceutical is a food product, foodstuff, dietary supplement, nutritional
  5  supplement or a supplement composition for a food product or a foodstuff.
             As used herein, the term food product refers to any food or feed suitable for
     consumption by humans or animals. The food product may be a prepared and packaged
     food (e.g., mayonnaise, salad dressing, bread, or cheese) or an animal feed (e.g., extruded
     and pelleted animal feed, coarse mixed feed or pet food composition). As used herein, the
 10 term foodstuff refers to any substance fit for human or animal consumption. Food products
    or foodstuffs are for example beverages such as non-alcoholic and alcoholic drinks as well
    as liquid preparation to be added to drinking water and liquid food, non-alcoholic drinks are
    for instance soft drinks, sport drinks, fruit juices, such as for example orange juice, apple
    juice and grapefruit juice; lemonades, teas, near-water drinks, milk, milk replacements, and
15  other dairy drinks such as for example yoghurt drinks, and diet drinks. In another
    embodiment food products or foodstuffs refer to solid or semi-solid foods comprising the
    composition according to the invention. These forms can include, but are not limited to
    baked goods such as bars, cakes, cookies, puddings, dairy products, confections, snack
    foods, or frozen confections or novelties (e.g., ice cream, milk shakes), prepared frozen
20  meals, candy, snack products (e.g., chips), liquid food such as soups, spreads, sauces, salad
    dressings, prepared meat products, cheese, yogurt and any other fat or oil containing foods,
    and food ingredients (e.g., wheat flour). The term food products or foodstuffs also includes
    functional foods and prepared food products, the latter referring to any pre-packaged food
    approved for human consumption.
25           In certain embodiments, the nutraceutical formulation may further comprise
    curcumin or tea catechins, such as EGCG, L-theanines, and resveratrol. In certain
    embodiments, the nutraceutical formulation may comprise extracts of acai berry, blueberry,
    cranberry, blackberry, raspberry, elderberry, St-Johns Wort, ginkgo biloba, kava, cocoa,
    wine grapes, grape seeds extracts, soy extracts, soy phytoestrogens, or combinations
30  thereof.
            In certain embodiments, compounds, compositions and/or extracts of the invention
    may be formulated as dietary supplements. Dietary supplements of the present invention
    may be delivered in any suitable format. In certain embodiments, dietary supplements are
                                                     29

     formulated for oral delivery. The ingredients of the dietary supplement of this invention are
     contained in acceptable excipients and/or carriers for oral consumption. The actual form of
    the carrier, and thus, the dietary supplement itself, is not critical. The carrier may be a
     liquid, gel, gelcap, capsule, powder, solid tablet (coated or non-coated), tea, or the like.
  5 The dietary supplement is preferably in the form of a tablet or capsule and most preferably
    in the form of a hard (shell) gelatin capsule. Suitable excipient and/or carriers include
    maltodextrin, calcium carbonate, dicalcium phosphate, tricalcium phosphate,
    microcrystalline cellulose, dextrose, rice flour, magnesium stearate, stearic acid,
    croscarmellose sodium, sodium starch glycolate, crospovidone, sucrose, vegetable gums,
10  lactose, methylcellulose, povidone, carboxymethylellulose, corn starch, and the like
    (including mixtures thereof). Exemplary carriers include calcium carbonate, magnesium
    stearate, maltodextrin, and mixtures thereof The various ingredients and the excipient
    and/or carrier are mixed and formed into the desired form using conventional techniques.
    The tablet or capsule of the present invention may be coated with an enteric coating that
15  dissolves at a pH of about 6.0 to 7.0. A suitable enteric coating that dissolves in the small
    intestine but not in the stomach is cellulose acetate phthalate. Further details on techniques
    for formulation for and administration may be found in the latest edition of Remington's
    Pharmaceutical Sciences (Maack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa.).
             In other embodiments, the dietary supplement is provided as a powder or liquid
20  suitable for adding by the consumer to a food or beverage. For example, in some
    embodiments, the dietary supplement can be administered to an individual in the form of a
    powder, for instance to be used by mixing into a beverage, or by stirring into a semi-solid
    food such as a pudding, topping, sauce, puree, cooked cereal, or salad dressing, for
    instance, or by otherwise adding to a food; e.g., enclosed in caps of food or beverage
25  containers for release immediately before consumption. The dietary supplement may
    comprise one or more inert ingredients, especially if it is desirable to limit the number of
    calories added to the diet by the dietary supplement. For example, the dietary supplement
    of the present invention may also contain optional ingredients including, for example,
    herbs, vitamins, minerals, enhancers, colorants, sweeteners, flavorants, inert ingredients,
30  and the like.
             In some embodiments, the dietary supplements further comprise vitamins and
    minerals including, but not limited to, calcium phosphate or acetate, tribasic; potassium
    phosphate, dibasic; magnesium sulfate or oxide; salt (sodium chloride); potassium chloride
                                                   30

     or acetate; ascorbic acid; ferric orthophosphate; niacin, niacinamide; zinc sulfate or oxide;
     calcium pantothenate; copper gluconate; riboflavin; beta-carotene; pyridoxine
     hydrochloride; thiamin mononitrate; folic acid; biotin; chromium chloride or picolonate;
     potassium iodide; sodium selenate; sodium molybdate; phylloquinone; vitamin D3;
  5  cyanocobalamin; sodium selenite; copper sulfate; vitamin A; vitamin C; inositol; potassium
     iodide; L-tryptophan; nicotinic acid; nicotinamide; nicotinamide riboside; omega-3 fatty
     acid (such as DHA, EPA and ALA); anthocyanines; isoflavones; choline; UMP; soy
     phospholipids; phosphatidyl shrine; S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM); acethyl-L-carnitine
     (ALCAR); magnesium salts; magnesium acetate; magnesium chloride; magnesium citrate;
 10 magnesium lactate; magnesium gluconante; and magnesium pidolate.
             In other embodiments, the present invention provides nutritional supplements (e.g.,
    energy bars or meal replacement bars or beverages) comprising a compound, composition
    and/or extract according to the invention. The nutritional supplement may serve as meal or
    snack replacement and generally provide nutrient calories. However, as noted above,
 15 supplements which do not contain calories may also be used. In certain embodiments, the
    nutritional supplements provide carbohydrates, proteins, and fats in balanced amounts. The
    nutritional supplement can further comprise carbohydrate, simple, medium chain length, or
    polysaccharides, or a combination thereof. A simple sugar can be chosen for desirable
    organoleptic properties. Uncooked cornstarch is one example of a complex carbohydrate. If
20  it is desired that it should maintain its high molecular weight structure, it should be included
    only in food formulations or portions thereof which arc not cooked or heat processed since
    the heat will break down the complex carbohydrate into simple carbohydrates, wherein
    simple carbohydrates are mono- or disaccharides. The nutritional supplement contains, in
    one embodiment, combinations of sources of carbohydrate of three levels of chain length
25  (simple, medium and complex; e.g., sucrose, maltodextrins, and uncooked cornstarch).
             Sources of protein to be incorporated into the nutritional supplement of the
    invention can be any suitable protein utilized in nutritional formulations and can include
    whey protein, whey protein concentrate, whey powder, egg, soy flour, soy milk soy protein,
    soy protein isolate, caseinate (e.g., sodium caseinate, sodium calcium caseinate, calcium
30  caseinate, potassium caseinate), animal and vegetable protein and hydrolysates or mixtures
    thereof Soy protein have an almost perfect PDCAA, Protein Digestibility Corrected
    Amino Acid Score (PDCAAS) and by this criterion soy protein is the nutritional equivalent
    of meat and eggs for human growth and health. These proteins have high biological value;
                                                    31

     that is, they have a high proportion of the essential amino acids. See Modem Nutrition in
     Health and Disease, eighth edition, Lea & Febiger, publishers, 1986, especially Volume 1,
     pages 30-32. The nutritional supplement can also contain other ingredients, such as one or
     a combination of other vitamins, minerals, antioxidants, fiber and other dietary supplements
  5  (e.g., protein, amino acids, choline, lecithin, omega-3 fatty acids, and others discussed
     herein). Selection of one or several of these ingredients is a matter of formulation, design,
     consumer preference and end-user. The amounts of these ingredients added to the dietary
     supplements of this invention are readily known to the skilled artisan. Further vitamins and
    minerals that can be added include, but are not limited to, calcium phosphate or acetate,
 10 tribasic; potassium phosphate, dibasic; magnesium sulfate or oxide; salt (sodium chloride);
    potassium chloride or acetate; ascorbic acid; ferric orthophosphate; anthocyanins;
    nicotinamide riboside; magnesium salts; nicotinamide; zinc sulfate or oxide; calcium
    pantothenate; copper gluconate; riboflavin; beta-carotene; pyridoxine hydrochloride;
    thiamin mononitrate; folic acid; biotin; chromium chloride or picolonate; potassium iodide;
15  sodium selenate; sodium molybdate; phylloquinone; vitamin D3; cyanocobalamin; sodium
    selenite; copper sulfate; vitamin A; vitamin C; inositol; potassium iodide.
              The nutritional supplement can be provided in a variety of forms, and by a variety of
    production methods. In one embodiment, to manufacture a food bar, the liquid ingredients
    are cooked; the dry ingredients are added with the liquid ingredients in a mixer and mixed
20  until the dough phase is reached; the dough is put into an extruder, and extruded; the
    extruded dough is cut into appropriate lengths; and the product is cooled. The bars may
    contain other nutrients and fillers to enhance taste, in addition to the ingredients specifically
    listed herein.
              It is understood by those of skill in the art that other ingredients can be added to
25  those described herein, for example, fillers, emulsifiers, preservatives, for the processing or
    manufacture of a nutritional supplement.
              Additionally, flavors, coloring agents, spices, nuts and the like may be incorporated
    into the formulations described herein. Flavorings can be in the form of flavored extracts,
    volatile oils, chocolate flavorings, peanut butter flavoring, cookie crumbs, crisp rice, vanilla
30  or any commercially available flavoring. Examples of useful flavoring include, but are not
    limited to, pure anise extract, imitation banana extract, imitation cherry extract, chocolate
    extract, pure lemon extract, pure orange extract, pure peppermint extract, imitation
    pineapple extract, imitation rum extract, imitation strawberry extract, or pure vanilla
                                                      32

      extract; or volatile oils, such as balm oil, bay oil, bergamot oil, cedarwood oil, walnut oil,
      cherry oil, cinnamon oil, clove oil, or peppermint oil.
              Emulsifiers may be added for stability of the formulations. Examples of suitable
     emulsifiers include, but are not limited to, lecithin (e.g., from egg or soy), and/or mono- and
  5  di-glycerides. Other emulsifiers are readily apparent to the skilled artisan and selection of
     suitable emulsifier(s) will depend, in part, upon the formulation and final product.
     Preservatives may also be added to the formulations to extend product shelf life. For
     example, preservatives such as potassium sorbate, sodium sorbate, potassium benzoate,
     sodium benzoate or calcium disodium EDTA are used.
 10           In addition to the carbohydrates described above, the formulations can contain
     natural or artificial (preferably low calorie) sweeteners, e.g., saccharides, cyclamates,
     aspartamine, aspartame, acesulfame K, and/or sorbitol. Such artificial sweeteners can be
     desirable if the nutritional supplement is intended to be consumed by an overweight or
     obese individual, or an individual with type II diabetes who is prone to hyperglycemia.
 15           Moreover, a multi-vitamin and mineral supplement may be added to the
     formulations of the present invention to obtain an adequate amount of an essential nutrient,
    which is missing in some diets. The multi-vitamin and mineral supplement may also be
    useful for disease prevention and protection against nutritional losses and deficiencies due
    to lifestyle patterns.
20            The dosage and ratios of the compound(s) of the invention administered via a such
    formulations will, of course, vary depending upon known factors, such as the physiological
    characteristics of the particular composition and its mode and route of administration; the
    age, health and weight of the recipient; the nature and extent of the symptoms; the kind of
    concurrent treatment; the frequency of treatment; and the effect desired which can be
25  determined by the expert in the field with normal trials, or with the usual considerations
    regarding the formulation of a nutraceutical composition.
             In certain embodiments, the formulation comprises per serving an amount of I mg
    to 10,000 mg of the active ingredient(s), e.g., a compound or compounds of the invention.
    In certain embodiments, the formulation comprises per serving an amount of I mg to 2,500
30  mg of the active ingredient(s). In certain embodiments, the formulation comprises per
    serving an amount of 2500 mg to 5000 mg of the active ingredient(s). In certain
    embodiments, the formulation comprises per serving an amount of 5000 mg to 7500 mg of
                                                      33

     the active ingredient(s). In certain embodiments, the formulation comprises per serving an
     amount of 7500 mg to 10000 mg of the active ingredient(s).
              For cosmetic formulations, the compounds, compositions and/or extracts of the
     invention may optionally comprise skin benefit materials. These include estradiol;
  5 progesterone; pregnanalone; coenzyme Q10; methylsolanomethane (MSM); copper peptide
    (copper extract); plankton extract (phytosome); glycolic acid; kojic acid; ascorbyl
    palmitate; all-trans-retinol; azaleic acid; salicylic acid; broparoestrol; estrone;
    adrostenedione; androstanediols; etc. The steroids will generally be present at a
    concentration of less than about 2% of the total by weight of the composition, while the
 10 other skin benefit materials may be present at higher levels, for example as much as about
     10 to 15%.
             The compounds, compositions and/or extracts of the invention may comprise a
    cosmetically acceptable vehicle to act as a dilutant, dispersant or carrier, so as to facilitate
    its distribution when the composition is applied to the skin. Vehicles other than or in
 15 addition to water can include liquid or solid emollients, solvents, humectants, thickeners
    and powders.
             The cosmetically acceptable vehicle will usually constitute from 0.1%, or 5% to
    99.9%, preferably from 25% to 80% by weight of the composition, and can, in the absence
    of other cosmetic adjuncts, constitute the balance of the composition.
20           In accordance with the present invention, a compound, composition and/or extract
    of the present invention may be prepared as pharmaceutical compositions, such as those
    which may be particularly useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Such
    compositions comprise a compound of the present invention or a pharmaceutically
    acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or
25  stereoisomer thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and/or excipient.
             The compositions of the present invention may be administered by various means,
    depending on their intended use, as is well known in the art. For example, if compositions
    of the present invention are to be administered orally, they may be formulated as tablets,
    capsules, granules, powders or syrups, Alternatively, formulations of the present invention
30  may be administered parenterally as injections (intravenous, intramuscular or
    subcutaneous), drop infusion preparations or suppositories. For application by the
    ophthalmic mucous membrane route, compositions of the present invention may be
                                                     34

     formulated as eye drops or eye ointments. These formulations may be prepared by
     conventional means, and, if desired, the compositions may be mixed with any conventional
     additive, such as an excipient, a binder, a disintegrating agent, a lubricant, a corrigent, a
     solubilizing agent, a suspension aid, an emulsifying agent or a coating agent.
  5          In formulations of the subject invention, wetting agents, emulsifiers and lubricants,
     such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate, as well as coloring agents, release
     agents, coating agents, sweetening, flavoring and perfuming agents, preservatives and
    antioxidants may be present in the formulated agents.
             Subject formulations may be suitable for oral, nasal, topical (including buccal and
 10 sublingual), rectal, vaginal, aerosol and/or parenteral administration. The formulations may
    conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any methods well
    known in the art of pharmacy. The amount of composition that may be combined with a
    carrier material to produce a single dose vary depending upon the subject being treated, and
    the particular mode of administration.
15           Methods of preparing these formulations include the step of bringing into
    association compositions of the present invention with the carrier and, optionally, one or
    more accessory ingredients. In general, the formulations are prepared by uniformly and
    intimately bringing into association agents with liquid carriers, or finely divided solid
    carriers, or both, and then, if necessary, shaping the product.
20           Formulations suitable for oral administration may be in the form of capsules,
    cachets, pills, tablets, lozenges (using a flavored basis, usually sucrose and acacia or
    tragacanth), powders, granules, or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non
    aqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as an elixir or syrup,
    or as pastilles (using an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and acacia), each
25  containing a predetermined amount of a subject composition thereof as an active ingredient.
    Compositions of the present invention may also be administered as a bolus, electuary, or
    paste.
             In solid dosage forms for oral administration (capsules, tablets, pills, dragees,
    powders, granules and the like), the subject composition is mixed with one or more
30  pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate, and/or
    any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches, lactose, sucrose, glucose,
    mannitol, and/or silicie acid; (2) binders, such as, for example, carboxymethylcellulose,
                                                    35

      alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose and/or acacia; (3) humectants, such as
     glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate, potato or tapioca
     starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate; (5) solution retarding agents,
     such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium compounds; (7)
  5  wetting agents, such as, for example, acetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate; (8)
     absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such a talc, calcium stearate,
     magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and mixtures
     thereof; and (10) coloring agents. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the
     compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a similar type
 10  may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using excipients
     such as lactose or milk sugars, as well as high molecular weight polyethylene glycols and
     the like.
             A tablet may be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or more
     accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared using binder (for example,
15   gelatin or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose), lubricant, inert diluent, preservative,
     disintegrant (for example, sodium starch glycolate or cross-linked sodium carboxymethyl
     cellulose), surface-active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a
    suitable machine a mixture of the subject composition moistened with an inert liquid
     diluent. Tablets, and other solid dosage forms, such as dragees, capsules, pills and
20  granules, may optionally be scored or prepared with coatings and shells, such as enteric
    coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical-formulating art.
             Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
    emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups and elixirs. In addition to the
    subject composition, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in
25  the art, such as, for example, water or other solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers,
    such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol,
    benzyl benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed,
    groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor and sesame oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol,
    polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan, and mixtures thereof
30           Suspensions, in addition to the subject composition, may contain suspending agents
    as, for example, ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan
    esters, microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and
    tragacanth, and mixtures thereof
                                                     36

              Formulations for rectal or vaginal administration may be presented as a suppository,
    which may be prepared by mixing a subject composition with one or more suitable non
     irritating excipients or carriers comprising, for example, cocoa butter, polyethylene glycol,
     a suppository wax or a salicylate, and which is solid at room temperature, but liquid at body
  5 temperature and, therefore, will melt in the body cavity and release the active agent.
    Formulations which are suitable for vaginal administration also include pessaries, tampons,
    creams, gels, pastes, foams or spray formulations containing such carriers as are known in
    the art to be appropriate.
              Dosage forms for transdermal administration of a subject composition includes
10  powders, sprays, ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, solutions, patches and inhalants.
    The active component may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically
    acceptable carrier, and with any preservatives, buffers, or propellants which may be
    required.
              The ointments, pastes, creams and gels may contain, in addition to a subject
15  composition, excipients, such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes, paraffins, starch,
    tragacanth, cellulose derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites, silicic acid,
    talc and zinc oxide, or mixtures thereof
              Powders and sprays may contain, in addition to a subject composition, excipients
    such as lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates and polyamide
20  powder, or mixtures of these substances. Sprays may additionally contain customary
    propellants, such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons,
    such as butane and propane.
              Compositions of the present invention may alternatively be administered by aerosol.
    This is accomplished by preparing an aqueous aerosol, liposomal preparation or solid
25  particles containing the compound. A non-aqueous (e.g., fluorocarbon propellant)
    suspension could be used. Sonic nebulizers may be used because they minimize exposing
    the agent to shear, which may result in degradation of the compounds contained in the
    subject compositions.
              Ordinarily, an aqueous aerosol is made by formulating an aqueous solution or
30  suspension of a subject composition together with conventional pharmaceutically
    acceptable carriers and stabilizers. The carriers and stabilizers vary with the requirements
    of the particular subject composition, but typically include non-ionic surfactants (Tweens,
                                                    37

     Pluronics@, or polyethylene glycol), innocuous proteins like serum albumin, sorbitan
     esters, oleic acid, lecithin, amino acids such as glycine, buffers, salts, sugars or sugar
     alcohols. Aerosols generally are prepared from isotonic solutions.
              Compositions of this invention suitable for parenteral administration comprise a
  5 subject composition in combination with one or more pharmaceutically-acceptable sterile
    isotonic aqueous or non-aqueous solutions, dispersions, suspensions or emulsions, or sterile
    powders which may be reconstituted into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior
    to use, which may contain antioxidants, buffers, bacteriostats, solutes which render the
    formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient or suspending or thickening
10  agents.
             Examples of suitable aqueous and non-aqueous carriers which may be employed in
    the compositions of the invention include water, ethanol, polyols (such as glycerol,
    propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof,
    vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Proper
15  fluidity may be maintained, for example, by the use of coating materials, such as lecithin,
    by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use of
    surfactants.
             In certain embodiments, the compositions are formulated as a tablet, pill capsule or
    other appropriate ingestible formulation, to provide a therapeutic dose in 10 ingestible
20  formulations or fewer. In another example, a therapeutic dose is provided in 20, 15, 10, 5
    or 3 ingestible formulations.
             The compositions of the present invention may be in the form of a dispersible dry
    powder for pulmonary delivery. Dry powder compositions may be prepared by processes
    known in the art, such as lyophilization and jet milling, as disclosed in International Patent
25  Publication No. WO 91/16038 and as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,921,527, both of which
    are incorporated by reference. The composition of the present invention may be placed
    within a suitable dosage receptacle in an amount sufficient to provide a subject with a unit
    dosage treatment. The dosage receptacle may be one that fits within a suitable inhalation
    device to allow for the aerosolization of the dry powder composition by dispersion into a
30  gas stream to form an aerosol and then capturing the aerosol so produced in a chamber
    having a mouthpiece attached for subsequent inhalation by a subject in need of treatment.
    Such a dosage receptacle includes any container enclosing the composition known in the art
                                                    38

     such as gelatin or plastic capsules with a removable portion that allows a stream of gas
     (e.g., air) to be directed into the container to disperse the dry powder composition. Such
     containers are exemplified by those shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,227,522; U.S. Pat. No.
    4,192,309; and U.S. Pat. No. 4,105,027. Suitable containers also include those used in
  5  conjunction with Glaxo's Ventolin@ Rotohaler brand powder inhaler or Fison's Spinhaler@
    brand powder inhaler. Another suitable unit-dose container which provides a superior
    moisture barrier is formed from an aluminum foil plastic laminate. The pharmaceutical
    based powder is filled by weight or by volume into the depression in the formable foil and
    hermetically sealed with a covering foil-plastic laminate. Such a container for use with a
 10 powder inhalation device is described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,778,054 and is used with Glaxo's
    Diskhaler@ (U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,627,432; 4,811,731; and 5,035,237); all four of the US patents
    cited in this sentence are incorporated herein by reference.
              The terms "transdermal delivery system", "transdermal patch", or "patch" refer to an
    adhesive system placed on the skin to deliver a time released dose of a drug(s) by passage
15  from the dosage form through the skin to be available for distribution via the systemic
    circulation. Transdermal patches are a well-accepted technology used to deliver a wide
    variety of pharmaceuticals, including, but not limited to, scopolamine for motion sickness,
    nitroglycerin for treatment of angina pectoris, clonidine for hypertension, estradiol for
    postmenopausal indications, and nicotine for smoking cessation. Patches suitable for use in
20  the present invention include, but are not limited to, (1) the matrix patch; (2) the reservoir
    patch; (3) the multi-laminate drug-in-adhesive patch; and (4) the monolithic drug-in
    adhesive patch; TRANSDERMAL AND TOPICAL DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS, pp.
    249-297 (Tapash K. Ghosh et al. eds., 1997), hereby incorporated herein by reference.
    These patches are well known in the art and generally available commercially.
25            In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition features any subject
    compound, and/or extract provided in an amount sufficient to treat Mild Cognitive
    Impairment, Alzheimer's disease, enhance long-term memory, short-term memory,
    declarative memory, procedural memory or cognitive processes such as attention, executive
    function, reaction time or learning in a patient by a statistically significant amount when
30  assessed by a standardized performance test.
             In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition features one or more
    subject compound, and/or extract provided in an amount sufficient to enhance long-term
    memory in a patient by a statistically significant amount when assessed by one or more of a
                                                      39

     Rey Auditory and Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), Cambridge Neuropsychological Test
     Automated Battery (CANTAB); a Children's Memory Scale (CMS); a Contextual Memory
     Test; a Continuous Recognition Memory Test (CMRT); a Denman Neuropsychology
     Memory Scale; a Fuld Object Memory Evaluation (FOME); a Graham-Kendall Memory for
  5  Designs Test; a Guild Memory Test; a Learning and Memory Battery (LAMB); a Memory
     Assessment Clinic Self-Rating Scale (MAC-S); a Memory Assessment Scales (MAS); a
     Randt Memory Test; a Recognition Memory Test (RMT); a Rivermead Behavioral Memory
    Test; a Russell's Version of the Wechsler Memory Scale (RWMS); a Test of Memory and
     Learning (TOMAL); a Vermont Memory Scale (VMS); a Wechsler Memory Scale; and a
 10  Wide Range Assessment of Memory and Learning (WRAML); First-Last Name
    Association (Youngjohn J. R., et al., Archives of Clinical Neuropsychology 6:287-300
    (1991)); Name-Face Association; Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised; (Wechsler, D.,
    Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised Manual, NY, N.Y., The Psychological Corp. (1987));
    California Verbal Learning Test--Second Edition (Delis, D. C., et al., The Californian
15  Verbal Learning Test, Second Edition, Adult Version, Manual, San Antonio, Tex.: The
    Psychological Corporation (2000)); Facial Recognition (delayed non-matching to sample);
    Cognitive Drug Research (CDR) Computerized Assessment Battery-Wesnes; Buschke's
    Selective Reminder Test (Buschke, H., et al., Neurology 24:1019-1025 (1974)); Telephone
    Dialing Test; and Brief Visuospatial Memory Test-Revised.
20  Kits
            This invention also provides kits for conveniently and effectively implementing the
    methods of this invention. Such kits comprise any subject compound, composition and/or
    extract, and a means for facilitating compliance with methods of this invention. Such kits
    provide a convenient and effective means for assuring that the subject to be treated takes
25  the appropriate active in the correct dosage in the correct manner. The compliance means
    of such kits includes any means which facilitates administering the actives according to a
    method of this invention. Such compliance means include instructions, packaging, and
    dispensing means, and combinations thereof. Kit components may be packaged for either
    manual or partially or wholly automated practice of the foregoing methods. In other
30  embodiments involving kits, this invention contemplates a kit including compositions of the
    present invention, and optionally instructions for their use.
            For example, the present invention also provides for kits containing at least one dose
    of a subject compound, composition and/or extract, and often many doses, and other
                                                  40

     materials for a treatment regimen. For example, in one embodiment, a kit of the present
     invention contains sufficient subject composition for from five to thirty days and optionally
     equipment and supplies necessary to measure one or more indices relevant to the treatment
     regiment. In another embodiment, kits of the present invention contain all the materials and
  5  supplies, including subject compositions, for carrying out any methods of the present
     invention. In still another embodiment, kits of the present invention, as described above,
     additionally include instructions for the use and administration of the subject compositions.
             In one embodiment, the invention is a pharmaceutical kit comprising one or more
     subject compound, composition and/or extract in an amount sufficient to enhance long-term
10   memory in a patient, a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and instructions (written and/or
    pictorial) describing the use of the subject compound, composition and/or extract for
     enhancing memory.
    Dosage
             The dosage of any compound, composition and/or extract of the present invention
15  will vary depending on the symptoms, age and body weight of the patient, the nature and
    severity of the disorder to be treated, the route of administration, and the form of the subject
    composition. Any of the subject formulations may be administered in a single dose or in
    divided doses. Effective dosages for the compositions of the present invention may be
    readily determined by techniques known to those of skill in the art or as taught herein. The
20  dosage may be selected to assuage the disorder in a subject in such a way as to provide at least
    partial relief if not complete relief. The skilled artisan may identify this amount as provided
    herein as well as by using other methods known in the art.
             A therapeutically effective amount (i.e., dose) of a compound of the present
    invention can be determined by methods known in the art. The therapeutically effective
25  quantities will depend on the age and on the general physiological condition of the patient,
    the route of administration and the pharmaceutical formulation used. In certain
    embodiments, the therapeutic doses may be between about 10 mg/day and 10,000 mg/day,
    between about 100 mg/day and 2,500 mg/day, or between 250 mg to about 1,000 mg/day.
    In other embodiments, other ranges may be used, including, for example, 50-250 mg/day,
30  250-500 mg/day, and 500-750 mg/day. The amount of the compound required for
    prophylactic treatment, referred to as a prophylactically-effective dosage, is generally the
    same as described for therapeutic treatment.
                                                     41

             In certain embodiments, a therapeutic low dose of a compound or composition of
     the invention is administered. In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective dose is
     between about 50 mg/day to about 150 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic
     dose is between about 10 mg/day and about 20 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the
  5  therapeutic dose is between about 20 mg/day and about 30 mg/day. In certain
     embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 30 mg/day and about 40 mg/day. In
     certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 40 mg/day and about 50
     mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 50 mg/day and
     about 60 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 60 mg/day
10   and about 70 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 70
     mg/day and about 80 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between
     about 80 mg/day and about 90 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is
     between about 90 mg/day and about 100 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic
     dose is between about 100 mg/day and about 110 mg/day. In certain embodiments, the
15   therapeutic dose is between about 110 mg/day and about 120 mg/day. In certain
     embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 120 mg/day and about 130 mg/day. In
    certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 130 mg/day and about 140
    mg/day. In certain embodiments, the therapeutic dose is between about 140 mg/day and
    about 150 mg/day, Administration may be once a day, twice a day, or more often, and may
20  be decreased during a maintenance phase of the treatment of a disease or disorder, e.g.,
    once every second or third day instead of every day or twice a day. The dose and the
    administration frequency will depend on the clinical signs, which confirm maintenance of
    the remission phase, with the reduction or absence of at least one or more clinical signs of
    the acute phase known to the person skilled in the art.
25           An effective dose or amount, and any possible affects on the timing of
    administration of the formulation, may need to be identified for any particular composition
    of the present invention. This may be accomplished by routine experiment as described
    herein, using one or more groups of animals, or in human trials if appropriate. The
    effectiveness of any subject composition and method of treating may be assessed by
30  administering the composition and assessing the effect of the administration by measuring
    one or more applicable indices, and comparing the post-treatment values of these indices to
    the values of the same indices prior to treatment.
                                                  42

             The precise time of administration and amount of any particular subject composition
     that will yield the most effective treatment in a given patient will depend upon the activity,
     pharmacokinetics, and bioavailability of a subject composition, physiological condition of
     the patient (including age, sex, disease type and stage, general physical condition,
  5  responsiveness to a given dosage and type of medication), route of administration, and the
     like.
             While the subject is being treated, his or her health may be monitored by measuring
    one or more of the relevant indices at predetermined times during the treatment period.
    Treatment, including composition, amounts, times of administration and formulation, may
 10 be optimized according to the results of such monitoring. The patient may be periodically
    reevaluated to determine the extent of improvement by measuring the same parameters.
    Adjustments to the amount(s) of subject composition administered and possibly to the time
    of administration may be made based on these re-evaluations.
             Treatment may be initiated with smaller dosages which are less than the optimum
15  dose of the compound. Thereafter, the dosage may be increased by small increments until
    the optimum therapeutic effect is attained.
             The use of the subject compositions may reduce the required dosage for any
    individual agent contained in the compositions because the onset and duration of effect of
    the different agents may be complimentary.
20           Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of subject compositions may be determined by
    standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, e.g., for
    determining the LD 50 and the ED 50 .
             The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies may be used in
    formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of any subject composition
25  lies typically within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED 5 o with little or
    no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form
    employed and the route of administration utilized.
    Methods of Use
             Certain aspects of the invention relate treating a subject having an impairment in
30  memory and/or cognition. The subject can have an impairment in memory consolidation
    (the process of storing new information in long term memory), an impairment in short term
                                                    43

     memory processes, an impairment in long-term memory, an impairment in declarative
     memory or an impairment in procedural memory. The subjects are treated with the
     compounds described herein to enhance, prevent and/or restore long-term memory function
     and performance, e.g., to improve the process of storing new information in long term
  5  memory in humans (memory consolidation) or to improve short term memory.
              One aspect of the invention relates to a method, comprising the step of
    administering to a subject an amount of a pomegranate extract; wherein
              the extract contains an active fraction comprising at least one polyphenol; and
              the extract has been prepared by:
10            a juicing and manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by
    centrifugation and/or ultrafiltration, before being dried;
              a juicing and manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by
    centrifugation and/or ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric
    chromatographic resin, washed with water, and cluted with a solvent; or
15            a juicing and manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by
    centrifugation and/or ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric
    chromatographic resin, washed with water, cluted with a solvent, and subsequently dried.
              In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract has been prepared by a juicing and
20  manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by centrifugation and/or
    ultrafiltration, before being dried
              In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract has been prepared by a juicing and
    manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by centrifugation and/or
25  ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric chromatographic resin, washed
    with water, and eluted with a solvent.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract has been prepared by a juicing and
    manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by centrifugation and/or
30  ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric chromatographic resin, washed
    with water, eluted with a solvent, and subsequently dried.
                                                     44

             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is dried by spray drying.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is dried under vacuum (e.g. 40 C at 50 mbar).
  5          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is fractionalized by cetrifugation.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is fractionalized by ultrafiltration.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
10  aforementioned methods, wherein the solvent is an alcohol (e.g. ethanol).
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the resin is a polyvynil-styrene divinyl benzene resin. In
    certain embodiments, concentration on such resins can be achieved via an adsoption in
    water at normal pressure or tinder vacuum, followed by extensive washing with water to
15  remove highly polar constituants like sugars, fibers, and minerals. Sugar elution during the
    washing steps is followed with a standard refractometer and measured as Brix contant.
    Elution is then initiated by changing the buffer to more polar solvant like ethanol, methanol
    or mix of ethanol in water. In addition, in some embodiments, whole molecule elution can
    be followed by UV detection at 205 nm for example. See, for example, the "Purification of
20  Ellagitannins" seciton of U.S. Patent 7,638,640, which is hereby incorporated by reference
    for said section and in its entirety.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the resin is Amberlite XAD-1 6 (Rohm & Haas).
            Another aspect of the invention relates to a method, comprising the step of
25  administering a compound of the invention to a subject.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is pure and isolated.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is administered as part of an extract.
                                                  45

              In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is adminstered as part of an extract; and
     the extract is substantially free of polyphenols other than the compound.
              In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
  5  aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is adminstered as part of an extract; and
    the molar ratio of the moles of compound to the total moles of polyphenols in the extract is
    greater than about 0.99. In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of
    the aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is adminstered as part of an extract;
    and the molar ratio of the moles of compound to the total moles of polyphenols in the
 10 extract is greater than about 0.9. In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to
    any one of the aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is adminstered as part of an
    extract; and the molar ratio of the moles of compound to the total moles of polyphenols in
    the extract is greater than about 0.85. In certain embodiments, the present invention relates
    to any one of the aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is adminstered as part of
 I5 an extract; and the molar ratio of the moles of compound to the total moles of polyphenols
    in the extract is greater than about 0.8. In certain embodiments, the present invention
    relates to any one of the aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is adminstered as
    part of an extract; and the molar ratio of the moles of compound to the total moles of
    polyphenols in the extract is greater than about 0.75.
20           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is whole fruit extract 1766.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is husk extract 1767.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
25  aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 31008.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 31008-L or 31008-H.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 61109.
30           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 71109.
                                                   46

           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 1767-1.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 1767-2.
 5         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 1767-3.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 1767-4.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
10 aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 1767-5.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the extract is extract 1767-6.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is administered as part of a nutraceutical
15 composition.
          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is administered as part of a functional
   food or functional nutrition product.
          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
20 aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is administered as part of a medical food
   or medical nutrition product.
          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is administered as part of a dietary
   supplement.
25        In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
   pharmaceutical composition.
          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
   aforementioned methods, wherein the subject is a human.
                                                47

            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein said human is elderly.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein said human is not elderly.
  5         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein said human is less than 20 years old.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein said human is between 20 and 40 years old.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
 10 aforementioned methods, wherein said human is between 40 and 60 years old.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein said human is between 60 and 80 years old.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein said human is between 80 and 100 years old.
15         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein said human is between 100 and 120 years old.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein said human is healthy.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
20  aforementioned methods, wherein said human is not healthy.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the subject is a mammal.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the mammal is a veterinary animal.
25         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the general cognition of the subject is improved.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the memory of the subject is improved.
                                                48

            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the general cognition of the subject is maintained.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the memory of the subject is maintained.
  5         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein a neuron or plurality of neurons in said subject are
    protected.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the subject's neurons are partially or substantially
10  protected.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the method treats or prevents a neurodegenerative
    disorder.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
15  aforementioned methods, wherein the rate of the progression of said neurodegenerative
    disorder is decreased.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein onset of said neurodegenerative disorder is delayed.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
20  aforementioned methods, wherein the method treats or prevents metabolic syndrome, type
    II diabetes, dislipidemia, or obesity.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the method treats or prevents an amyloidosis-related
    condition in said subject.
25          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the the amyloidosis-related condition is MCI or AAMI.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the method treats or prevents ALS, Huntington's disease,
    Parkinson's disease, or Down syndrome.
                                                 49

             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the method treats or prevents Alzheimer's disease.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the method treats a memory impairment in a human.
  5         In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the memory impairment results from one or more of age
    associated memory impairment, minimal cognitive impairment, amnesia, dementia,
    learning disabilities, memory impairment associated with toxicant exposure, brain injury,
    brain aneurysm, Parkinson's disease, head trauma, Huntington's disease, Pick's disease,
 10 Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, stroke, schizophrenia, epilepsy, mental retardation, Alzheimer's
    disease, age, age-associated memory impairment, Mild Cognitive Impairment, attention
    deficit disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, Multiple Sclerosis, Anterior
    Communicating Artery Syndrome or AIDS-related dementia.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
15  aforementioned methods, wherein memory is improved in the human following said
    administration.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the improvement in memory is an improvement in at
    least one measure selected from the group consisting of an improvement in short-term
20  memory, long-term memory, memory consolidation, procedural memory and declarative
    memory.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein attention is improved in the human following said
    administration.
25          In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein executive function is improved in the human following
    said administration.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein reaction time is improved in the human following said
30  administration.
                                                    50

             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein learning is improved in the human following said
     administration.
             A person skilled in the art will be able to envision subjects that can benefit from the
  5 methods described herein. For example, such subject includes peoples with suspected
    memory impairment of the Alzheimer's disease type, MCI, AAMI, Parkinson's disease, or
    ALS. Healthy elderly subject showing sign of cognitive impairment may also benefit from
    the compounds preventive affect of the present invention. One skilled in the art would
    recognize that the practitioner may apply different criteria for a determination of signs
 10 memory impairment. Such criteria include, but are not limited to Diagnostic and Statistical
    Manual of Mental Disorders, third edition (DSM-1II) Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and
    Treatment Center (ADDTC), International Statistical Classification of Diseases, IV'
    Revision (ICD-IO), National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-Association
    Internationale pour la Recherche et Enseignment en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) and
 15 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). See
    Pohjasvaara et al, Stroke 2000, 31, 2952-2957. Clinical characterization of a patient as
    mild cognitive impairment is well within the skill of the practitioner. Such testing of a
    patient to elucidate such a condition involves performing a series of mental tests. The
    methods for clinical diagnosis are widely reviewed and are discussed in, e.g., Petersen et al,
20  Arch. Neurol. 1999, 56, 303-308.
            In addition, there is growing evidence that type-Il Diabetes is a risk factor for
    people to develop Alzheimer's disease; hence, people with predisposition to type-Il
    Diabetes may benefit from a preventive therapy that would slow down progression of
    neurodegenerative disorders. Ho, L., W. Qin, et al. (2004). "Diet-induced insulin resistance
25  promotes amyloidosis in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease." FASEB J
    18(7): 902-4; and Kojro, E. and R. Postina (2009). "Regulated Proteolysis of RAGE and
    AbetaPP as Possible Link Between Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Alzheimer's Disease." J
    Alzheimers Dis 16(4): 865-78.
            Another aspect of the invention relates to a method of inhibiting aggregation of a
30  peptide or protein, comprising the step of contacting the peptide or protein with an effective
    amount of a compound of the invention.
                                                    51

              In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is a compound of the invention, or
     pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug,
     enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof.
  5           In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
     aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is pure and isolated.
              In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to any one of the
    aforementioned methods, wherein the compound is in an extract.
    Combination Therapy
 10           In one aspect of the invention, a compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically
    acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or
    stercoisomer thereof, or an extract or composition containing the same, can be used alone or
    in combination with another therapeutic agent to treat diseases. It should be understood
    that the compounds of the invention can be used alone or in combination with an additional
 15 agent, e.g., a therapeutic agent, said additional agent being selected by the skilled artisan for
    its intended purpose. For example, the additional agent can be a therapeutic agent that is
    art-recognized as being useful to treat the disease or condition being treated by the
    compound of the present invention. The additional agent also can be an agent that imparts
    a beneficial attribute to the therapeutic composition e.g., an agent that affects the viscosity
20  of the composition.
             The combination therapy contemplated by the invention includes, for example,
    administration of a compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
    thereof, and additional agent(s) in a single pharmaceutical formulation as well as
    administration of a compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
25  thereof, and additional agent(s) in separate pharmaceutical formulations. In other words,
    co-administration shall mean the administration of at least two agents to a subject so as to
    provide the beneficial effects of the combination of both agents. For example, the agents
    may be administered simultaneously or sequentially over a period of time.
             It should further be understood that the combinations included within the invention
30  are those combinations useful for their intended purpose. The combination can also include
    more than one additional agent, e.g., two or three additional agents if the combination is
    such that the formed composition can perform its intended function. In some embodiments,
                                                    52

     the additional agent could be another compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically
     acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate, prodrug, enantiomer or
     stereoisomer thereof
             In certain embodiments, the compounds, compositions and/or extracts of the present
  5  invention may be administered at least once per day in combination with a prescribed drug.
    For example, the composition of the present invention may be administered together with
    existing anticholinesterase drugs now prescribed for Alzheimer's, with various anti
    inflammatory agents, or with statins. In certain embodiments the prescribed drug is a
    cholinesterase inhibitor. In certain embodiments the prescribed drug is selected from the
10  group consisting of Namenda@ (memantine), Reminyl@ (galantamine), Exelon@
    (rivastigmine), Aricept@ (donepezil), Cognex@ (tacrine), Carbex (selegiline) and
    Eldepryl@ (selegiline).
             In another aspect, the composition of the present invention is administered at least
    once per day in combination with a dietary or nutritional supplement believed to have
15  beneficial health effects. Examples of dietary or nutritional supplements with which a
    compound, composition and/or extract may combined are below.
             Coenzyme Q10 (also known as CoQ10, Qi0, vitamin Q10, ubiquinone and
    ubidecarenone), a benzoquinone compound synthesized naturally by the human body, is
    used by cells of the body in oxidative metabolism or cell respiration and as an endogenous
20  antioxidant. An "antioxidant" is a substance that at least partially protects cells from free
    radicals, which are highly reactive chemicals often containing oxygen atoms, that are
    capable of damaging important cellular components, such as DNA and lipids. The plasma
    level of CoQ10 has been used in studies as a measure of oxidative stress, a situation in
    which normal antioxidant levels are reduced. Various investigations have explored the
25  usefulness of CoQ10 as a treatment for diseases, including, but not limited to, cancer and
    cardiovascular disease.
             Idebenone, a synthetic analog of CoQ 10, has been investigated in elderly patients
    with dementia. Studies suggest that it may diminish nerve cell damage due to ischemia and
    facilitate memory and learning.
30           Huperzine A, a natural acetylcholinesterase inhibitor derived from the Chinese herb
    Huperzia serrata, has antioxidant and neuroprotective properties, and has been proposed as
    a disease-modifying treatment for AD.
                                                   53

             Galantamine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, is used to treat symptoms of AD.
             Vincamine and vinpocetine, a semisynthetic derivative of vincamine, an alkaloid
     derived from the plant Vina minor L, are used in Europe, Japan and Mexico as
     pharmaceutical agents for the treatment of cerebrovascular and cognitive disorders.
  5          Acetyl-L-carinitine, an acetylated derivative of carnitine, has been shown to
     promote fatty acid beta-oxidation in liver and to prevent motor nerve condition velocity
     slowing in diabetic rats.
             Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), a steroid, is being studied in the prevention of
     cancer. In the body, it is a precursor produced by the adrenal gland and converted to
 10  testosterone or the estrogens.
             Phosphatidylcholine, a phospholipid that is a major component of cell membranes,
    has putative activity as a cognition enhancer and in cell-membrane repair
             Gingko, an herb, has putative properties as a neuroprotective agent, an antioxidant, a
    free-radical scavenger, a membrane stabilizer, and an inhibitor of platelet- activating factor.
15  Sherpina, V.S., et al., American Family Physician 68(5) 923-926 (2003). Gingko extract
    also has been shown to inhibit beta-amyloid deposition. Id.
             Circumin, an active ingredient in turmeric, which is in curry, purportedly has
    antiinflammatory and cholesterol-lowering properties.
             Berberine, which is a quaternary ammonium salt from the group of isoquinoline
20  alkaloids. It is found in such plants as Berberis, goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis), and
    Coptis chinensis, usually in the roots, rhizomes, stems, and bark. As a traditional medicine
    or dietary supplement, berberine has showed some activity against fungal infections,
    Candida albicans, yeast, parasites, and bacterial/viral infections.
             Ginseng, a Chinese herb, has been used for centuries in Asia as a cure for many
25  maladies.
             Research has shown that Vitamin E (DL-alpha-tocopherol), an essential vitamin that
    functions as an antioxidant, can help prevent cardiovascular disease and increase the
    immune response. It has been hypothesized that Vitamin E and its analogs and derivatives
    may prevent brain cell damage by destroying toxic free radicals. The term "tocol" generally
30  refers to 2-methyl-2-(4,8,12-trimetyltridecyl)chroman-6-ol; the term "tocopherol" generally
    refers to all mono, di, and trimethyltocols, including, but not limited to, alpha-tocopherol
                                                   54

     (5,7,8-trimethyltocol), beta-tocopherol (5,8-dimethyltocol), gamma-tocopherol (7,8
     dimethyltocol), delta-tocopherol (8-methyltocol), the term "tocotrienol" refers to 2-methyl
     2- (4,8,12-trimethyltrideca-3,7,l 1-trienyl)chroman-6-ol; and the term "vitamin E" generally
     refers to all tocol and tocotrienol derivatives exhibiting qualitatively the biological activity
  5  of alpha-tocopherol.
             It is well-known that N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) promotes cellular glutathione
    production, and thus reduces, or even prevents, oxidant mediated damage. Treatment with
    NAC provides beneficial effects in a number of respiratory, cardiovascular, endocrine,
     infectious, and other disease settings.
 10          B vitamins, such as folic acid, are known to reduce levels of homocysteine, an
    amino acid already linked, at high levels, to an increased risk of heart attacks, strokes and
    Alzheimer's disease.
             Lecithin, a lipid material composed of choline and inositol, is a major component of
    cell membranes. As used by producers of lecithin for commercial use, the term "lecithin"
15  refers to a complex mix of phosphatides and other substances that contain
    phosphatidylcholine.
             Choline (trimethyl ethanolamine), a quaternary saturated amine classified as an
    essential nutrient by the Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine, is a
    component of lecithin. Choline is needed by the body to make the neurotransmitter
20  acetylcholine.
             Omega-3 fatty acids are a family of unsaturated fatty acids that have in common a
    final carbon-carbon double bond in the n-3 position; that is, the third bond from the methyl
    end of the fatty acid. Nutritionally important n-3 fatty acids include ct-linolenic acid
    (ALA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), all of which are
25  polyunsaturated. Some experts believe these compounds can help regulate cholesterol in the
    body. They may also help protect the brain from cognitive problems associated with
    Alzheimer's disease.
             Omega 6-fatty acids are a family of unsaturated fatty acids that have in common a
    final carbon-carbon double bond in the n-6 position, that is, the sixth bond, counting from
30  the end opposite the carboxyl group. The biological effects of the n-6 fatty acids are largely
    mediated by their conversion to n-6 eicosanoids that bind to diverse receptors found in
    every tissue of the body. The conversion of tissue arachidonic acid (20:4n-6) to n-6
                                                     55

     prostaglandin and n-6 leukotriene hormones provides many targets for pharmaceutical drug
     development and treatment to diminish excessive n-6 actions in atherosclerosis, asthma,
     arthritis, vascular disease, thrombosis, immune-inflammatory processes, and tumor
     proliferation. Competitive interactions with the n-3 fatty acids affect the relative storage,
  5  mobilization, conversion and action of the n-3 and n-6 eicosanoid precursors.
              Deprenyl (selegiline, Eldepryl@), a monoamine oxidase inhibitor, is prescribed for
     the treatment of early-stage Parkinson's disease and senile dementia.
              The formulations of the invention can be used alone or in combination with other
     pharmaceuticals or herbals to prolong mental health, to maintain or enhance cognitive
10   functioning or memory, or to preserve mental or physical well-being and health. The
     formulations can also be used to prevent or treat effects of a number of ailments, including,
    but not limited to, Alzheimer's disease; Parkinson's disease; heart disease; arthritis; age
    related degeneration; functional impairments; diabetes; cancer; and other diseases having an
    impact on cognitive function.
15            The effectiveness of the compositions and methods of the present invention can be
    assayed by a variety of protocols. The effects of increasing cognitive function in a human
    subject can be determined by methods routine to those skilled in the art including, but not
    limited to, both paper and pencil, and computer tests. One of skill in the art can also
    directly measure PP2A methylation levels, tau protein phosphorylation levels,
20  neurofibrillary tangle formation and neurodegeneration in animal models.
             The combination therapy contemplated by the invention includes, for example,
    administration of a compound of the invention and additional agent(s) in a single
    formulation as well as administration of a compound of the invention and additional
    agent(s) in separate formulations. In other words, co-administration shall mean the
25  administration of at least two agents to a subject so as to provide the beneficial effects of
    the combination of both agents. For example, the agents may be administered
    simultaneously or sequentially over a period of time.
             It should further be understood that the combinations included within the invention
    are those combinations useful for their intended purpose. The combination can also include
30  more than one additional agent, e.g., two or three additional agents if the combination is
    such that the formed composition can perform its intended function.
                                                    56

     Exemplary Tests for Cognitive Function
             There are a variety of tests for cognitive function, especially learning and memory
     testing (see, for example, United States Patent Applicaiton Publication No. 2010/0010097).
     Learning and/or memory tests include, for example, Inhibitory Avoidance Test (also
  5  referred to herein as "Passive Avoidance Test"), contextual fear conditioning, visual delay
    non-match to sample, spatial delay non-match to sample, visual discrimination, Barnes
    circular maze, Morris water maze., radial arm maze tests, Ray Auditory-Visual Learning
    Test, the Wechsler Logical Memory Test, and the Providence Recognition Memory Test.
             An exemplary Inhibitory Avoidance Test utilizes an apparatus that consists of a lit
 10 chamber that can be separated from a dark chamber by a sliding door. At training, the
    animal is placed in the lit chamber for some period of time, and the door is opened. The
    animal moves to the dark chamber after a short delay--the step-through latency--which is
    recorded. Upon entry into the dark chamber, the door is shut closed and a foot shock is
    delivered. Retention of the experience is determined after various time intervals, e.g., 24 or
15  48 hours, by repeating the test and recording the latency. The protocol is one of many
    variants of the passive avoidance procedures (for review, see Rush (1988) Behav. Neural.
    Biol. 50:255).
             An exemplary maze testing embodiment is the water maze working memory test. In
    general, the method utilizes an apparatus which consists of a circular water tank. The water
20  in the tank is made cloudy by the addition of milk powder. A clear plexiglass platform,
    supported by a movable stand rest on the bottom of the tank, is submerged just below the
    water surface. Normally, a swimming rat cannot perceive the location of the platform but it
    may recall it from a previous experience and training, unless it suffers from some memory
    impairment. The time taken to locate the platform is measured and referred to as the
25  latency. During the experiment, all orientational cues such as ceiling lights, etc., remain
    unchanged. Longer latencies are generally observed with rats with some impairment to their
    memory.
             Another memory test includes the eyeblink conditioning test, which involves the
    administration of white noise or steady tone that precedes a mild air puff which stimulates
30  the subject's eyeblink. With training the auditory cue is sufficient to stimulate the
    eyeblinking response. This response is impared in the presence of memory deficiencies.
                                                    57

             Still another memory test which can be used is fear conditioning, e.g., either "cued"
     and "contextual" fear conditioning. In one embodiment, a freeze monitor administers a
    sequence of stimuli (sounds, shock) and then records a series of latencies measuring the
    recovery from shock induced freezing of the animal.
  5          Another memory test for the lesioned animals is a holeboard test, which utilizes a
    rotating holeboard apparatus containing (four) open holes arranged in a 4-corner
    configuration in the floor of the test enclosure. A mouse is trained to poke its head into a
    hole and retrieve a food reward from a "baited" hole which contains a reward on every trial.
    There is a food reward (e.g., Fruit Loops) in every exposed hole which is made
 10 inaccessible by being placed under a screen. The screen allows the odor of the reward to
    emanate from the hole, but does not allow access to the reinforcer. When an individual
    hole is baited, a reward is placed on top of the screen, where it is accessible. The entire
    apparatus rests on a turntable so that it may be rotated easily to eliminate reliance on
    proximal (e.g., olfactory) cues. A start tube is placed in the center of the apparatus. The
 15 subject is released from the tube and allowed to explore for the baited ("correct") hole. The
    performance of the mouse in this assay is affected by memory impairment,
             Another model for measuring memory impairment makes use of fornix-lesioned
    animals for testing the ability of compounds to modulate memory consolidation, as well as
    for side effects and toxicity. In general, the subject method utilizes an animal which has
20  been manipulated to create at least partial disruption of fornix-mediated signalling to the
    hippocampus, the disruption affecting memory consolidation and learned behavior in the
    animal. The animal is conditioned with a learning or memory regimen which results in
    learned behavior in the mammal in the absence of the fornix lesion. Compounds are
    administered to the animal in order to assess their effects on memory consolidation. An
25  increase in learned behavior, relative to the absence of the test agents, indicates that the
    administered combination enhances memory consolidation.
            Another memory test especially developed for use in pharmaceutical studies is the
    Providence Recognition Memory Test. This test consists of one pictorial and one verbal
    assessment of long-term declarative memory. In each of the two modes, the patient views
30  stimuli on a computer screen and is later asked to recognize those stimuli in a two
    alternative forced-choice format. The pictorial assessment mode consists of two parts: a
    study phase and a recognition phase. In the study phase, patients view a series of 120
    pictures, for 3 seconds each. They are told to look at the pictures and remember them, so
                                                    58

     that they can recognize them later. In the recognition phase, patients view pictures two at a
     time and are asked to indicate by button press which of the two pictures they saw in a study
     phase. Recognition memory testing occurs at ten minutes, one hour, and 24 hours after the
     end of the study phase. The verbal assessment mode consists of two parts: a study phase
  5  and a recognition phase. In the study phase, patients view a series of 60 sentences one at a
     time. They are asked to read the sentences aloud and remember them, so that they can
     recognize them later. Each sentence remains on the computer screen until the patient has
     finished reading it aloud. If patients read words incorrectly, the examiner supplies the
     correct word or words. In the recognition phase, patients view sentences two at a time and
 10  are asked to indicate by button press which of the two sentences they saw in the study
    phase. Recognition memory testing occurs at ten minutes, one hour, and 24 hours after the
    end of the study phase.
             In the methods of the present invention, retention of the learned behavior can be
    determined, for example, after at least about 12-24 hours, 14-22 hours, 16-20 hours and or
15   18-19 hours after completion of the learning phase to determine whether the agents promote
    memory consolidation. In a particular embodiment, retention of the learned behavior can be
    determined 24 hours after completion of the learning phase.
             In addition to models for studying memory consolidation, models to assess side
    effects of amphetamine compounds on behavior have been utilized including locomotor
20  activity models. An exemplary locomotor activity test utilizes an apparatus that consists of
    photocell activity cages with a grid of photocell beams placed around the cage. The animals
    are placed in individual activity cages some period of time prior to administration of agents.
    Locomotor activity is measured by the number of interruptions of the photoelectric beam
    during a given period of time.
25           As used herein, a "control mammal" can be an untreated lesion mammal (i.e., a
    lesion animal receiving no agents or not the same combinations to be assessed), a trained
    control mammal (i.e., a mammal that undergoes training to demonstrate a learned behavior
    without any lesion) and/or an untrained control mammal (i.e., a mammal with or without a
    lesion, that receives no training to demonstrate a learned behavior).
                                                   59

     Definitions
              All definitions, as defined and used herein, should be understood to control over
     dictionary definitions, definitions in documents incorporated by reference, and/or ordinary
     meanings of the defined terms.
  5           The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in the
     claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least
     one."
              The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should be
     understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements that are
10   conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple
     elements listed with "and/or" should be construed in the same fashion, i.e., "one or more"
     of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the
     elements specifically identified by the "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those
     elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to "A and/or
15   B", when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising" can refer, in
    one embodiment, to A only (optionally including elements other than B); in another
    embodiment, to B only (optionally including elements other than A); in yet another
    embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc.
              As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood to
20  have the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating items
    in a list, "or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion of at least
    one, but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and, optionally,
    additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such as "only one
    of' or "exactly one of," or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will refer to the
25  inclusion of exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general, the term "or"
    as used herein shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e., "one or the
    other but not both") when preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as "either," "one of,"
    "only one of," or "exactly one of" "Consisting essentially of," when used in the claims,
    shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.
30           As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
    reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
    element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
                                                    60

     necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the
     list of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements.
    This definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements
    specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least one" refers,
  5 whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non
    limiting example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A or B," or,
    equivalently "at least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at least one,
    optionally including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally including
    elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more
10  than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements other than A); in yet
    another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, A, and at least
    one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other elements); etc.
              It should also be understood that, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, in any
    methods claimed herein that include more than one step or act, the order of the steps or acts
15  of the method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the steps or acts of the method
    are recited.
              In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
    "comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding,"
    "composed of," and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including
20  but not limited to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of' and "consisting essentially
    of' shall be closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the
    United States Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures.
              For purposes of this invention, the chemical elements are identified in accordance
    with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of Chemistry and
25  Physics, 67th Ed., 1986-87, inside cover.
              As used here, the term "anti-aggregation compound" refers to a compound that
    exhibits anti-aggregation properties, i.e., inhibits the formation of protein or peptide soluble
    or insoluble aggregate in vitro and/or in vivo. For purpose of this definition, such effect can
    be quantified and tested in vitro as is known in the art, for example, as described in the
30  examples in the following references, each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
    Ono, K., Y. Yoshiike, et al. (2003). "Potent anti-amyloidogenic and fibril-destabilizing
    effects of polyphenols in vitro: implications for the prevention and therapeutics of
                                                      61

      Alzheimer's disease." JNeurochen 87(1): 172-81; Riviere, C., T. Richard, et al. (2007).
      "Inhibitory activity of stilbenes on Alzheimer's beta-amyloid fibrils in vitro." Bioorg Med
      Chem 15(2): 1160-7; and Riviere, C., T. Richard, et al. (2008). "New polyphenols active on
     beta-amyloid aggregation." Bioorg Med Chem Lett 18(2): 828-3 1.
  5            "Treating" is used herein to refer to any treatment of, or prevention of, or inhibition
     of a disorder or disease in a subject and includes by way of example: (a) preventing the
     disease or disorder from occurring in a subject that may be predisposed to the disease or
     disorder, but has not yet been diagnosed as having it; (b) inhibiting the disease or disorder,
     i.e., arresting or delaying its progression; or (c) relieving or ameliorating the disease or
 10  disorder, i.e., causing regression.
               The term "heteroatom" as used herein is art-recognized and refers to an atom of any
     element other than carbon or hydrogen. Illustrative heteroatoms include boron, nitrogen,
     oxygen, phosphorus, sulfur and selenium.
              The term alkyll" means an aliphatic or cyclic hydrocarbon radical containing from 1
 15  to 12 carbon atoms. Representative examples of alkyl include, but are not limited to,
     methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, iso-butyl, tert-butyl, n-pentyl,
     isopentyl, neopentyl, n-hexyl, 2-methylcyclopentyl, and 1-cyclohexylethyl.
              The term "alkylene" is art-recognized, and as used herein pertains to a bidentate
    moiety obtained by removing two hydrogen atoms of an alkyl group, as defined above.
20            The term "alkenyl" as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon
    containing from 2 to 10 carbons and containing at least one carbon-carbon double bond
    formed by the removal of two hydrogens. Representative examples of alkenyl include, but
    are not limited to, ethenyl, 2-propenyl, 2-methyl-2-propenyl, 3-butenyl, 4-pentenyl, 5
    hexenyl, 2-heptenyl, 2-methyl-1-heptenyl, and 3-decenyl.
25            The term "alkynyl" as used herein means a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon
    group containing from 2 to 10 carbon atoms and containing at least one carbon-carbon
    triple bond. Representative examples of alkynyl include, but are not limited, to acetylenyl,
     1-propynyl, 2-propynyl, 3-butynyl, 2-pentynyl, and 1-butynyl.
              The term "carbocyclyl" as used herein means monocyclic or multicyclic (e.g.,
30  bicyclic, tricyclic, etc.) hydrocarbons containing from 3 to 12 carbon atoms that is
    completely saturated or has one or more unsaturated bonds, and for the avoidance of doubt,
                                                     62

     the degree of unsaturation does not result in an aromatic ring system (e.g. phenyl).
     Examples of carbocyclyl groups include 1-cyclopropyl, 1-cyclobutyl, 2-cyclopentyl, 1
     cyclopentenyl, 3-cyclohexyl, 1-cycLohexenyl and 2-cyclopentenylmethyl.
             The term "heterocyclyl", as used herein include non-aromatic, ring systems,
  5  including, but not limited to, monocyclic, bicyclic and tricyclic rings, which can be
     completely saturated or which can contain one or more units of unsaturation, for the
     avoidance of doubt, the degree of unsaturation does not result in an aromatic ring system,
     and have 3 to 12 atoms including at least one heteroatom, such as nitrogen, oxygen, or
    sulfur. For purposes of exemplification, which should not be construed as limiting the scope
 10 of this invention, the following are examples of heterocyclic rings: azepines, azetidinyl,
    morpholinyl, oxopiperidinyl, oxopyrrolidinyl, piperazinyl, piperidinyl, pyrrolidinyl,
    quinicludinyl, thiomorpholinyl, tetrahydropyranyl and tetrahydrofuranyl. The heterocyclyl
    groups of the invention are substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents independently
    selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, halo, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl,
15  hydroxy, alkoxy, alkyenyloxy, alkynyloxy, carbocycyloxy, heterocycyloxy, haloalkoxy,
    fluoroalkyloxy, sulfhydryl, alkylthio, haloalkylthio, fluoroalkylthio, alkyenylthio,
    alkynylthio, sulfonic acid, alkylsulfonyl, haloalkylsulfonyl, fluroralkylsulfonyl,
    alkenylsulfonyl, alkynylsulfonyl, alkoxysulfonyl, haloalkoxysulfonyl, fluroralkoxysulfonyl,
    alkenyloxysulfonyl, alkynyloxysulfony, aminosulfonyl, sulfinic acid, alkylsulfinyl,
20  haloalkylsulfinyl, fluroralkylsulfinyl, alkenylsulfinyl, alkynylsulfinyl, alkoxysulfinyl,
    haloalkoxysulfinyl, fluroralkoxysulfinyl, alkenyloxysulfinyl, alkynyloxysulfiny,
    aminosulfinyl, formyl, alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl, fluoroalkylcarbonyl,
    alkenylcarbonyl, alkynylearbonyl, carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, haloallcoxycarbonyl,
    fluoroalkoxycarbonyl, alkenyloxycarbonyl, alkynyloxycarbonyl, alkylcarbonyloxy,
25  haloalkylcarbonyloxy, fluoroalkylcarbonyloxy, alkenylcarbonyloxy, alkynylcarbonyloxy,
    alkylsulfonyloxy, haloatkylsulfonyloxy, fluroralkylsulfonyloxy, alkenylsulfonyloxy,
    alkynylsulfonyloxy, haloalkoxysulfonyloxy, fluroralkoxysulfonyloxy,
    alkenyloxysulfonyloxy, alkynyloxysulfonyloxy, alkylsulfinyloxy, haloalkylsulfinyloxy,
    fluroralkylsulfinyloxy, alkenylsulfinyloxy, alkynylsulfinyloxy, alkoxysulfinyLoxy,
30  haloalkoxysulfinyloxy, fluroralkoxysulfinyloxy, alkenyloxysulfinyloxy,
    alkynyloxysulfinyloxy, aminosulfinyloxy, amino, amido, aminosulfonyl, aminosulfinyl,
    cyano, nitro, azido, phosphinyl, phosphoryl, silyl, silyloxy, and any of said substiuents
    bound to the heterocyclyl group through an alkylene moiety (e.g. methylene).
                                                   63

             The term "aryl," as used herein means a phenyl group, naphthyl or anthracenyl
     group. The aryl groups of the present invention can be optionally substituted with 1, 2, 3, 4
     or 5 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl, alkenyl,
     alkynyl, halo, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, hydroxy, alkoxy, alkyenyloxy, alkynyloxy,
  5  carbocycyloxy, heterocycyloxy, haloalkoxy, fluoroalkyloxy, sulfhydryl, alkylthio,
     haloalkylthio, fluoroalkylthio, alkyenylthio, alkynylthio, sulfonic acid, alkylsulfonyl,
     haloalkylsulfonyl, fluroralkylsulfonyl, alkenylsulfonyl, alkynylsulfonyl, alkoxysulfonyl,
     haloalkoxysulfonyl, fluroralkoxysulfonyl, alkenyloxysulfonyl, alkynyloxysulfony,
     aminosulfonyl, sulfinic acid, alkylsulfinyl, haloalkylsulfinyl, fluroralkylsulfinyl,
 10 alkenylsulfinyl, alkynylsulfinyl, alkoxysulfinyl, haloalkoxysulfinyl, fluroralkoxysulfinyl,
    alkenyloxysulfinyl, alkynyloxysulfiny, aminosulfinyl, formyl, alkylcarbonyl,
    haloalkylcarbonyl, fluoroalkylcarbonyl, alkenylcarbonyl, alkynylcarbonyl, carboxy,
    alkoxycarbonyl, haloalkoxycarbonyl, fluoroalkoxycarbonyl, alkenyloxycarbonyl,
    alkynyloxycarbonyl, alkylcarbonyloxy, haloalkylcarbonyloxy, fluoroalkylcarbonyloxy,
15  alkenylcarbonyloxy, alkynylcarbonyloxy, alkylsulfonyloxy, haloalkylsulfonyloxy,
    fluroralkylsulfonyloxy, alkenylsulfonyloxy, alkynylsulfonyloxy, haloalkoxysulfonyloxy,
    fluroralkoxysulfonyloxy, alkenyloxysulfonyloxy, alkynyloxysulfonyloxy, alkylsulfinyloxy,
    haloalkylsulfinyloxy, fluroralkylsulfinyloxy, alkenylsulfinyloxy, alkynylsulfinyloxy,
    alkoxysulfinyloxy, haloalkoxysulfinyloxy, fluroralkoxysulfinyloxy, alkenyloxysulfinyloxy,
20  alkynyloxysulfinyloxy, aminosulfinyloxy, amino, amido, aninosulfonyl, aminosulfinyl,
    cyano, nitro, azido, phosphinyl, phosphoryl, silyl, silyloxy, and any of said subsituents
    bound to the aryl group through a methylene, ethylene or propylene moiety.
            The term "arylene," is art-recognized, and as used herein pertains to a bidentate
    moiety obtained by removing two hydrogen atoms from adjacent carbons of an aryl ring, as
25  defined above.
            The term "arylalkyl" or "aralkyl" as used herein means an aryl group, as defined
    herein, appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group, as defined herein.
    Representative examples of aralkyl include, but are not limited to, benzyl, 2-phenylethyl, 3
    phenylpropyl, and 2-naphth-2-ylethyl.
30          The term "heteroaryl" as used herein include aromatic ring systems, including, but
    not limited to, monocyclic, bicyclic and tricyclic rings, and have 3 to 12 atoms including at
    least one heteroatom, such as nitrogen, oxygen, or sulfur. For purposes of exemplification,
    which should not be construed as limiting the scope of this invention: azaindolyl,
                                                   64

     benzo(b)thienyl, benzimidazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzoxazolyl, benzothiazolyl,
     benzothiadiazolyl, benzotriazolyl, benzoxadiazolyl, furanyl, imidazolyl, imidazopyridinyl,
     indolyl, indolinyl, indazolyl, isoindolinyl, isoxazolyl, isothiazolyl, isoquinolinyl,
     oxadiazolyl, oxazolyl, purinyl, pyranyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl,
  5 pyrrolyl, pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrinidinyl, pyrazolo[3,4-dJpyrimidinyl, quinolinyl, quinazolinyl,
    triazolyl, thiazolyl, thiophenyl, tetrahydroindolyl, tetrazolyl, thiadiazolyl, thienyl,
    thiomorpholinyl, triazolyl or tropanyl. The heteroaryl groups of the invention are
    substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substituents independently selected from the group
    consisting of alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, halo, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, hydroxy, alkoxy,
10  alkyenyloxy, alkynyloxy, carbocycyloxy, heterocycyloxy, haloalkoxy, fluoroalkyloxy,
    sulfhydryl, alkylthio, haloalkylthio, fluoroalkylthio, alkyenylthio, alkynylthio, sulfonic acid,
    alkylsulfonyl, haloalkylsulfonyl, fluroralkylsulfonyl, alkenylsulfonyl, alkynylsulfonyl,
    alkoxysulfonyl, haloalkoxysulfonyl, fluroralkoxysulfonyl, alkenyloxysulfonyl,
    alkynyloxysulfony, aminosulfonyl, sulfinic acid, alkylsulfinyl, haloalkylsulfinyl,
15  fluroralkylsulfinyl, alkenylsulfinyl, alkynylsulfinyl, alkoxysulfinyl, haloalkoxysulfinyl,
    fluroralkoxysulfinyl, alkenyloxysulfinyl, alkynyloxysulfiny, aminosulfinyl, formyl,
    alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl, fluoroalkylcarbonyl, alkenylcarbonyl, alkynylcarbonyl,
    carboxy, alkoxycarbonyl, haloalkoxycarbonyl, fluoroalkoxycarbonyl, alkenyloxycarbonyl,
    alkynyloxycarbonyl, alkylcarbonyloxy, haloalkylcarbonyloxy, fluoroalkylcarbonyloxy,
20  alkenylcarbonyloxy, alkynylcarbonyloxy, alkylsulfonyloxy, haloalkylsulfonyloxy,
    fluroralkylsulfonyloxy, alkenylsulfonyloxy, alkynylsulfonyloxy, haloalkoxysulfonyloxy,
    fluroralkoxysulfonyloxy, alkenyloxysulfonyloxy, alkynyloxysulfonyloxy, alkylsulfinyloxy,
    haloalkylsulfinyloxy, fluroralkylsulfinyloxy, alkenylsulfinyloxy, alkynylsulfinyloxy,
    alkoxysulfinyloxy, haloalkoxysulfinyloxy, fluroralkoxysulfinyloxy, alkenyloxysulfinyloxy,
25  alkynyloxysulfinyloxy, aminosulfinyloxy, amino, amido, aminosulfonyl, aminosulfinyl,
    cyano, nitro, azido, phosphinyl, phosphoryl, silyl, silyloxy, and any of said subsituents
    bound to the heteroaryl group through an alkylene moiety (e.g. methylene).
            The term "heteroarylene," is art-recognized, and as used herein pertains to a
    bidentate moiety obtained by removing two hydrogen atoms from adjacent atoms of a
30  heteroaryl ring, as defined above.
            The term "heteroarylalkyl" or "heteroaralkyl" as used herein means a heteroaryl, as
    defined herein, appended to the parent molecular moiety through an alkyl group, as defined
    herein. Representative examples of heteroarylalkyl include, but are not limited to, pyridin
                                                    65

     3-ylmethyl and 2-(thien-2-yl)ethyl.
             The term "halo" or "halogen" means -Cl, -Br, -I or -F.
             The term "haloalkyl" means an alkyl group, as defined herein, wherein at least one
     hydrogen is replaced with a halogen, as defined herein. Representative examples of
  5  haloalkyl include, but are not limited to, chloromethyl, 2-fluoroethyl, trifluoromethyl,
    pentafluoroethyl, and 2-chloro-3-fluoropentyl.
             The term "fluoroalkyl" means an alkyl group, as defined herein, wherein all the
    hydrogens are replaced with fluorines.
             The term "hydroxy" as used herein means an -OH group.
 10          The term "alkoxy" as used herein means an alkyl group, as defined herein, appended
    to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom. Representative examples of alkoxy
    include, but are not limited to, methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, 2-propoxy, butoxy, tert-butoxy,
    pentyloxy, and hexyloxy. The terms "alkyenyloxy", "alkynyloxy", "carbocycyloxy", and
    "heterocycyloxy" are likewise defined.
 15          The term "haloalkoxy" as used herein means an alkoxy group, as defined herein,
    wherein at least one hydrogen is replaced with a halogen, as defined herein. Representative
    examples of haloalkoxy include, but are not limited to, chloromethoxy, 2-fluoroethoxy,
    trifluoromethoxy, and pentafluoroethoxy. The term "fluoroalkyloxy" is likewise defined.
            The term "aryloxy" as used herein means an aryl group, as defined herein, appended
20  to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen. The term "heteroaryloxy" as used
    herein means a heteroaryl group, as defined herein, appended to the parent molecular
    moiety through an oxygen. The terms "heteroaryloxy" is likewise defined.
            The term "arylalkoxy" or "arylalkyloxy" as used herein means an arylalkyl group, as
    defined herein, appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen. The term
25  "heteroarylalkoxy" is likewise defined. Representative examples of aryloxy and
    heteroarylalkoxy include, but are not limited to, 2-chlorophenylmethoxy, 3-trifluoromethyl
    phenylethoxy, and 2,3-dimethylpyridinylmethoxy.
            The term "sulfhydryl" or "thio" as used herein means a -SH group.
            The term "alkylthio" as used herein means an alkyl group, as defined herein,
30  appended to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfur. Representative examples of
    alkylthio include, but are not limited, methylthio, ethylthio, tert-butylthio, and hexylthio.
                                                   66

     The terms "haloalkylthio", "fluoroalkylthio", "alkyenylthio", "alkynylthio",
     "carbocycylthio", and "heterocycylthio" are likewise defined.
             The term "arylthio" as used herein means an aryl group, as defined herein, appended
     to the parent molecular moiety through an sulfur. The term "heteroarylthio" is likewise
  5  defined.
             The term "arylalkylthio" or "aralkylthio" as used herein means an arylalkyl group,
     as defined herein, appended to the parent molecular moiety through an sulfur. The term
     "heteroarylaMkylthio" is likewise defined.
             The term "sulfonyl" as used herein refers to -S(=0)2- group.
 10          The term "sulfonic acid" as used herein refers to -S(=0) 20H.
             The term "alkylsulfonyl" as used herein means an alkyl group, as defined herein,
     appended to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfonyl group, as defined herein.
    Representative examples of alkylsulfonyl include, but are not limited to, methylsulfonyl
    and ethylsulfonyl. The terms "haloalkylsulfonyl", "fluroralkylsulfonyl", "alkenylsulfonyl",
 15 "alkynylsulfonyl", "carbocycylsulfonyl", "heterocycylsulfonyl", "arylsulfonyl",
    "aralkylsulfonyl", "heteroarylsulfonyl" and "heteroaralkylsulfonyl" are likewise defined.
             The term "alkoxysulfonyl" as used herein means an alkoxy group, as defined herein,
    appended to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfonyl group, as defined herein.
    Representative examples of alkoxysulfonyl include, but are not limited to,
20  methoxysulfonyl, ethoxysulfonyl and propoxysulfonyl. The terms "haloalkoxysulfonyl",
    "fluroralkoxysulfonyl", "alkenyloxysulfonyl", "alkynyloxysulfonyl",
    "carbocycyloxysulfonyl", "heterocycyloxysulfonyl", "aryloxysulfonyl",
    "aralkyloxysulfonyl", "heteroaryloxysulfonyl" and "heteroaralkyloxysulfonyl" are likewise
    defined.
25           The terms triflyl, tosyl, mesyl, and nonaflyl are art-recognized and refer to
    trifluoromethanesulfonyl, p-toluenesulfonyl, methanesulfonyl, and
    nonafluorobutanesulfonyl groups, respectively. The terms triflate, tosylate, mesylate, and
    nonaflate are art-recognized and refer to trifluoromethanesulfonate ester, p-toluenesulfonate
    ester, methanesulfonate ester, and nonafluorobutanesulfonate ester functional groups and
30  molecules that contain said groups, respectively.
             The term "aminosulfonyl" as used herein means an amino group, as defined herein,
                                                    67

     appended to the parent molecular moiety through a sulfonyl group.
            The term "sulfinyl" as used herein refers to -S(=O)- group. Sulfinyl groups are as
     defined above for sulfonyl groups. The term "sulfinic acid" as used herein refers to
     S(=O)OH.
  5         The term "oxy" refers to a -0- group.
            The term "carbonyl" as used herein means a -C(=O)- group.
            The term "thiocarbonyl" as used herein means a -C(=S)- group.
            The term "formyl" as used herein means a -C(=0)H group.
            The term "alkylcarbonyl" as used herein means an alkyl group, as defined herein,
 10 appended to the parent molecular moiety through a carbonyl group, as defined herein,
    Representative examples of alkylcarbonyl include, but are not limited to, acetyl, I
    oxopropyl, 2,2-dimethyl-I-oxopropyl, 1-oxobutyl, and 1-oxopentyl. The terms
    "haloalkylcarbonyl", "fluoroalkylcarbonyl", "alkenylcarbonyl", "alkynylcarbonyl",
    "carbocycylcarbonyl", "heterocycylcarbonyl", "arylcarbonyl", "aralkylcarbonyl",
 15 "heteroarylcarbonyl", and "heteroaralkylcarbonyl" are likewise defined.
            The term "carboxy" as used herein means a -CO 2 H group.
            The term "alkoxycarbonyl" as used herein means an alkoxy group, as defined
    herein, appended to the parent molecular moiety through a carbonyl group, as defined
    herein. Representative examples of alkoxycarbonyl include, but are not limited to,
20  methoxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, and tert-butoxycarbonyl. The terms
    "haloalkoxycarbonyl", "fluoroalkoxycarbonyl", "alkenyloxycarbonyl",
    "alkynyloxycarbonyl", "carbocycyloxycarbonyl", "heterocycyloxycarbonyl",
    "aryloxycarbonyl", "aralkyloxycarbonyl", "heteroaryloxycarbonyl",
                                                                         and
    "heteroaralkyloxycarbonyt" are likewise defined,
25          The term "alkylcarbonyloxy" as used herein means an alkylcarbonyl group, as
    defined herein, appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom.
    Representative examples of alkylcarbonyloxy include, but are not limited to, acetyloxy,
    ethylcarbonyloxy, and tert-butylcarbonyloxy. The terms "haloalkylcarbonyloxy",
    "fluoroalkylcarbonyloxy", "alkenylcarbonyloxy", "alkynylcarbonyloxy",
30  "carbocycylcarbonyloxy", "heterocycylearbonyloxy", "arylcarbonyloxy",
    "aralkylcarbonyloxy", "heteroarylcarbonyloxy", and "heteroaralkylcarbonyloxy" are
                                                 68

     likewise defined.
             The term "alkylsulfonyloxy" as used herein means an alkylsulfonyl group, as
     defined herein, appended to the parent molecular moiety through an oxygen atom. The
     terms "haloalkylsulfonyloxy", "fluroralkylsulfonyloxy", "alkenylsulfonyloxy",
  5  "alkynylsulfonyloxy", "carbocycylsulfonyloxy", "heterocycylsulfonyloxy",
     "arylsulfonyloxy", "aralkylsulfonyloxy", "heteroarylsulfonyloxy",
     "heteroaralkylsulfonyloxy", "haloalkoxysulfonyloxy", "fluroralkoxysulfonyloxy",
     "alkenyloxysulfonyloxy", "alkynyloxysulfonyloxy", "carbocycyloxysulfonyloxy",
     "heterocycyloxysulfonyloxy", "aryloxysulfonyloxy", "aralkyloxysulfonyloxy",
 10 "heteroaryloxysulfonyloxy" and "heteroaralkyloxysulfonyloxy" are examples of thereof
             The term "amino" as used herein refers to -NH 2 and substituted derivatives thereof
    wherein one or both of the hydrogens are independently replaced with substituents selected
    from the group consisting of alkyl, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carbocycyl,
    heterocycyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl, heteroaralkyl, alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl,
15  fluoroalkylcarbonyl, alkenylcarbonyl, alkynylcarbonyl, carbocycylcarbonyl,
    heterocycylcarbonyl, arylcarbonyl, aralkylcarbonyl, heteroarylcarnbonyl,
    heteroaralkylcarbonyl and the sufonyl and sulfinyl groups defined above; or when both
    hydrogens together are replaced with an alkylene group (to form a ring which contains the
    nitrogen). Representative examples include, but are not limited to methylamino,
20  acetylamino, and dimethylamino.
            The term "amido" as used herein means an amino group, as defined herein,
    appended to the parent molecular moiety through a carbonyL.
            The term "cyano" as used herein means a -C=N group.
            The term "nitro" as used herein means a -NO 2 group.
25          The term "azido" as used herein means a -N 3 group.
            The term "phosphinyl" as used herein includes -PH 3 and substituted derivatives
    thereof wherein one, two or three of the hydrogens are independently replaced with
    substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, alkenyl,
    alkynyl, carbocycyl, heterocycyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl, heteroaralkyl, alkoxy,
30  haloalkoxy, fluoroalkyloxy, alkenyloxy, alkynyloxy, carbocycyloxy, heterocycyloxy,
    aryloxy, aralkyloxy, heteroaryloxy, heteroaralkyloxy, and amino.
                                                   69

              The tern "phosphoryl" as used herein refers to -P(=O)OH 2 and substituted
     derivatives thereof wherein one or both of the hydroxyls are independently replaced with
     substituents selected from the group consisting of alkyl, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, alkenyl,
     alkynyl, carbocycyl, heterocycyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl, heteroaraLkyl, alkoxy,
  5  haloalkoxy, fluoroalkyloxy, alkenyloxy, alkynyloxy, carbocycyloxy, heterocycyloxy,
     aryloxy, aralkyloxy, heteroaryloxy, heteroaralkyloxy, and amino.
             The term "silyl" as used herein includes H3Si- and substituted derivatives thereof
    wherein one, two or three of the hydrogens are independently replaced with subsitutuents
    selected from alkyl, haloalkyl, fluoroalkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, carbocycyl, heterocycyl, aryl,
 10  aralkyl, heteroaryl, and heteroaralkyl. Representative examples include trimethylsilyl
    (TMS), tert-butyldiphenylsilyl (TBDPS), tert-butyldimethylsilyl (TBS/TBDMS),
    triisopropylsilyl (TIPS), and [2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxyjmethyl (SEM).
             The term "silyloxy" as used herein means a silyl group, as defined herein, is
    appended to the parent molecule through an oxygen atom.
15           The abbreviations Me, Et, Ph, Tf, Nf, Ts, and Ms represent methyl, ethyl, phenyl,
    trifluoromethanesulfonyl, nonafluorobutanesulfonyl, p-toluenesulfonyl and
    methanesulfonyl, respectively. A more comprehensive list of the abbreviations utilized by
    organic chemists of ordinary skill in the art appears in the first issue of each volume of the
    Journalof Organic Chemistry; this list is typically presented in a table entitled Standard
20  List of Abbreviations.
             As used herein, a "carbohydrate" (or, equivalently, a "sugar") is a saccharide
    (including monosaccharides, oligosaccharides and polysaccharides) and/or a molecule
    (including oligomers or polymers) derived from one or more monosaccharides, e.g., by
    reduction of carbonyl groups, by oxidation of one or more terminal groups to carboxylic
25  acids, by replacement of one or more hydroxy group(s) by a hydrogen atom, an amino
    group, a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups, etc. The term "carbohydrate" also
    includes derivatives of these compounds. In some cases, the carbohydrate may be a pentose
    (i.e., having 5 carbons) or a hexose (i.e., having 6 carbons); and in certain instances, the
    carbohydrate may be an oligosaccharide comprising pentose and/or hexose units, e.g.,
30  including those described above.
             "Carbohydrate" and "sugar" as used herein also includes sugar-mimetics and sugar
    like moieties. Sugar-mimetics are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art and include
                                                    70

     those described in detail in "Essentials of Glycobiology" Edited by Varki, A., et al, Cold
     Spring Harbor Laboratory Press. Cold Spring Harbor, N. Y. 2002. For example, sugar
     mimetic groups contemplated by the present invention include cyclitols, such as a
     cycloalkane containing one hydroxyl group on each of three or more ring atoms, as defined
  5  by IUPAC convention. In other embodiments, such cyclitol moieties include inositols such
     as scyllo-inositol. Suitable sugar-like moieties include acyclic sugar groups. Such groups
     include linear alkytols and erythritols, to name but a few. It will be appreciated that sugar
     groups can exist in either cyclic or acyclic form. Accordingly, acyclic forms of a sugar
    group are contemplated by the present invention as a suitable sugar-like moieties.
 10          The term "gallic acid equivalents" is a well- known term of art, refering to the use
    of gallic acid as a standard for quantification of the phenol content of various analytes by
    the Folin-Ciocalteau assay.
             The term "extract" or "botanical extract" as used herein refers to a product prepared
    by separating, by chemical or physical process, medicinally active portions of a plan from
 15 the inactive or inert components.
             As used herein, the term "cognitive function"refers to the ability to perform mental
    tasks, such as thinking, learning, judging, remembering, computing, controlling motor
    functions, and the like. The expression "resilience of cognitive function" refers to the
    ability of functional elements of cognitive function to resist deterioration over time.
20           As used herein, the terms "therapeutically effective amount," "memory-enhancing
    amount", and "cognition enhancing amount" are used interchangeably to refer to the
    amount of the composition of the invention that results in a therapeutic or beneficial effect,
    including a subject's perception of health or general well-being, following its administration
    to a subject.
25           In particular, "cognitive function enhancing amount" refers to that amount of the
    composition of the present invention that will noticeably impact the ability to perform
    mental tasks, as measured by tests for memory, computation, attention, or other mental or
    cognitive attribute, or as suggested by an individual's perception of his or her abilities in
    these realms.
30           The terms "dietary supplement" and "nutritional supplement" are used
    interchangeably herein to mean (1) a product intended to supplement the diet that bears or
    contains one or more of the following dietary ingredients: (A) a vitamin, (B) a mineral, (C)
                                                    71

     an herb or other botanical, (D) an amino acid, (E) a dietary substance for use by man to
     supplement the diet by increasing the total dietary intake; and/or (F) a concentrate,
     metabolite, constituent, extract, or combination of any ingredient described in clause (A),
     (B), (C), (D), or (E); and (2) a product that (A)(i) is intended for ingestion; (B) is not
  5 represented for use as a conventional food or as a sole item of a meal or the diet; and (C) is
     labeled as a dietary supplement.
             The term "food" as used herein refers to (1) articles used for food or drink for man
    or other animals; (2) chewing gum; and (3) articles used for components of any such article.
    The term "functional food" or "functional nutrition product" refers to a food or nutrition
10  product that is sold (e.g. in a supermarket or online) without any restrictions. The term
    "medical food" or "medical nutrition product" refers to a food or nutrition product with is
    prescribed by a physician. Foods or nutrition products may be solids, liquids, gels, powders
    or gases. Examples of solids are fruit-based drinks, coffee-based drinks, tea-based drinks,
    sport drinks, nutrition bars, snack foods, gums, cereals, candies, baby formulas, energy
15  drinks, adult nutritional drinks, health drinks, and other food products. The term "sports
    drink" refers to a beverage that is supposed to rehydrate athletes, as well as restoring
    electrolytes, sugar and other nutrients, for example, Gatorade, POWERade, and AU Sport.
    As used herein, the term "energy drink" refers to a beverage, including, but not limited to,
    Jolt Cola, Red Bull and similar products, that contains legal stimulants, vitamins and
20  minerals; these products are formulated to give the user a burst of energy. The term "adult
    nutritional drink" as used herein refers to such products as Ensure, Longetics or a similar
    product. The term "health drink" refers to any beverage purported to have beneficial health
    effects, including, but not limited to, reducing inflammation; supporting the immune
    system; neutralizing infectious agents; preventing clogged arteries, preserving cognitive
25  function and inhibiting cancer growth.
                                         EXEMPLIFICATION
            The invention will be more readily understood by reference to the following
    examples, which are included merely for purposes of illustration of certain aspects and
    embodiments of the present invention, and are not intended to limit the invention.
                                                    72

     Example 1: Screening Assay for Pomegranate Compounds Which Inhibit
     Aggregation of Aj(25-35)
             Monomeric Ap(25-35) purchased from Bachem Pharma, was dissolved in distilled
     sterile water at 4 *C, then sonitcated for about 1 minute. The peptide stock solution was
  5  then aliquoted and stored at -20 *C. All steps were carried out at 4 'C to prevent Ap(25-35)
     polymerization.
             Fractions of polyphenols were all standardized to 10 mg/mL, before being assessed
     and stored at -20 *C. Measurement of inhibition was performed by following the kinetic of
     Ap(25-35) polymerization in a reaction mixture containing 70 L phosphate buffer, 10 gtL
10   Thioflavin-T (100 gM stock solution), 10 L MeOH (10 mM final concentration) pH 7.2
     and 10 L of Ap(25-35) (100 gM final concentration) adapting known in the art
    procedures. LeVine, H., 3rd (1993). "Thioflavine T interaction with synthetic Alzheimer's
     disease beta-amyloid peptides: detection of amyloid aggregation in solution." ProteinSci
     2(3): 404-10. When Af(25-35) was added to the buffer solution, the solution was sonicated
15   for an additional minute.
             To study the inhibitory activity of the fractions, the extracts were diluted to the final
    concentration in MeOH and 10 gL was added to the mixture at 4 *C. Fluorescence
    spectroscopy was recorded with the excitation at 450 nm and emission at 490 nm. The
    polymerization kinetics was monitored at 25 'C between 0 and 120 minutes. The IC50 was
20  calculated by using a least-square fitting technique to match the experimental data with a
    sigmoidal curve. The IC50 was the effective concentration dose of the compound inhibiting
    the formation of AP fibrils to 50% of the control value.
             Pomegranate (Punica granatum, Wonderful variety) was extracted using three
    different buffers to yield fractions enriched with molecules of increased polarity. The
25  pomegranate was blended and extracted with water, butanol, and ethyl-acetate buffers. The
    three fractions were tested in the assay as described in Example 1 at 10 mg/nL each. The
    results showed that the ethyl acetate fraction contained the highest activity, being able to
    inhibit over 65% of the aggregation (Figure 11).
             The ethyl-acetate, butanol and water fraction were further sub-fractionated by
30  centrifugal partition chromatography and pure compounds were isolated using standard
    HPLC methods. The molecules were identified using HPLG/MS and NMR studies. Each
                                                    73

     molecule was used at purity above 90% in the assay for aggregation described in Example
      1. The results are depicted in Figures 12-18 and summarized below.
              Fraction A3J inhibited aggregation with an IC 3 o of 10 uM and NMR confirmed the
     identity of the molecule to be Punicalin; fraction AID inhibited aggregation with an IC5 of
  5   11 pM. MS data confirmed the identity of the molecule to be Pedunculagin; fraction W12
     inhibited aggregation with an IC5 of 6 M and was confirmed to be Punicalagin; and
     fraction A31 inhibited aggregation with an an IC 50 of 9.3 pM.. Finally, fraction A3G
     inhibited aggregation with an ICso of 6.8 gM and NMR and MS data confirmed the identity
     of the molecule to be Tellimagrandin. Corilagin inhibited aggregation with an IC50 of 65
 10  pM.
     Example 2: Measuring Inhibition of AP-Oligomer Induced Neuronal Cell Death
              The fractions that were able to inhibits oligomer formation were also tested for their
     ability to inhibit Ap-oligomer induced neuronal cell death using P12 cells, a well known
     and accepted model of neuronal cell culture.
 15           Beta Amyloid peptide (AP) 25-35 trifluoroacetate salt (ref. H-1 192, lot 2000718)
    was purchased from Bachem (Bubebdorf, Switzerland). Thiazolyl Blue Tetrazolium
    Bromide (MTT, ref. M2128) was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (Saint-Quentin Fallvier,
    France). Albumin Bovine Fraction V (BSA, ref.160069) was purchased from MPBio
    (Irvine, USA).
20            Cells: Rat Pheochromocytoma cells (PC 12) were maintained in DMEM (4.5 g/L
    glucose) supplemented with 10% Horse Serum (HS), 5% Fetal Bovine Serum (FCS) and
     100 U/mL penicillin and 100 gg/mL Streptomycin at 37*C under 5% C0 2 .
             PreparationofAf] (25-35): It has been reported that As oligomers are more toxic to
    neurons than monomers. Therefore, the A (25-35) that was used for this study was pre
25  aggregated prior to use. Ap was dissolve to 1 mM in water and stored at -20*C. Ap (25-35)
    was incubated in 37*C for 3 days to induce aggregation just prior to use.
             Determinationof hydro-alcoholicPomegranateextracts ability to protect PC2
    cells againstA/ insult: The ability of Pomegranate extracts to protect PC12 cells from Ap
    (25-35) oligomer induced toxicity was determined by measuring reduction of MTT to MTT
30  formazan, which reflects cell viability. PC12 cells were plated in 96 wells culture platesand
    once confluent, were pretreated with different concentrations of Pomegranate extracts
                                                    74

      (0.1% DMSO) for Iih in DMEM 0.1% BSA. The cells were then incubated with or without
     pre-aggregated AP (25-35) at 10 gM for an additional 24 h. After the 24h, MTT solution
     300 pg/mL in cell culture medium (stock solution 3 mg/mL in PBS) was added for 2 h at
     370 C. The medium was then removed and the formazan crystals are dissolved in 100 gL of
  5  DMSO. The level of MTT reduction and thus cell viability was determined by a
     colorimetric assay measuring the optical density at 595nm using a microplate reader
     (BioTek EL808).
              As shown in Figure 24, Extracts 1766 and 1767 were able to protect PCI2 neuronal
     cells from the toxicity of AD (25-35) oligomers. Extract 1766 is a hydro-alcoholic extract
 10  for the whole pomegranate fruit, Extract 1767 is a hydro-alcoholic extract of the
     pomegranate husk and For the extraction, whole fruit and husks were separated out and cut,
     crushed and placed into a blender. The resulting pieces were incubated in a hydro-alcoholic
     solution (EtOH/water), 80/20) and submitted to agitation at room temperature for 4 hours.
     After additional maceration in a light protected environment, the solutions were filtered and
15   dried under vacuum (40*C at 50 mbar) and then stored at - 20*C until use of further
     fractionation. Subfractions of Extract 1767 were made and tested for their ability to protect
     against Ap-inducted cytotoxictiy in PCI2 cells. Fractions 1767-2 and 1767-3 were shown
     to be the most active. Further analysis, concentration and testing of these two fractions led
    to the indentification of punicalagin as the natural compound responsible for the observed
20   activity. DMSO was used as a carrier and showed no interference on the assay.
    Example 4: Extraction Procedure
             The pomegranate extract 31008 containing the specific molecules was prepared
    using an extraction procedure, based on adsorption of polyphenols in a standard polymer
    adsorption-based column as described. The pomegranates (e.g., Mollar variety) were juiced
25  using a standard juicing and manufacturing process and clarified by centrifugation before
    being adsorbed into the polymeric chromatographic resin as pure juice. The resin
    Amberlite XAD- 16 (Rohm & Haas) was packed into semi preparative columns and loaded
    with the extracted juice. The column was washed with water to remove the sugars until
    completion (Brix levels were below 0.1%). The polyphenols were eluted with 100%
30  ethanol. The remaining ethanol was evaporated under vacuum to produce a concentrated
    extract containing 4.5 g of total polyphenol per liter as determined using the Folin assay for
    total polyphenol content.
                                                   75

               Extract 31008 was shown to contain the molecules Punicalagins, Punicalin,
      Tellimagrandin, and Pedunculagin, using HPLC-MS identification for the compounds
      described above.
              This technique is a modification of methods known in the art as described by several
  5  published method for purification of polyphenols form various plant and berry. Tuck, K. L.
     and P. J. Hayball (2002). "Major phenolic compounds in olive oil: metabolism and health
     effects." JNutrBiochem 13(11): 636-644; and Schieber, A., P. Hilt, et al. (2003). "A new
     process for the combined recovery of pectin and phenolic compounds from apple pomace."
     Inno Vations Food Sci. Emerging TechnoL 4: 99-107.
 10  Example 4 Animal Testing-- Morris Water Maze
              The extract 31008 was tested in an animal model of Alzheimer's disease expressing
     both the Amyloid mutant London mutations and the prenisilin-1 human mutation. Animals
     in this model develop plaques by 4 months of age and memory deficits by 6 months. Dense
     plaque load is visible after 7 months.
 15           In one set of experiments, four-month old APP-PS I transgenic mice were fed with a
     fixed dose of approximately 97 mg total polyphenols/kg/days of the extract via their
     drinking water. After 3 months of feeding, the mice (then 7 months old) were tested in the
     Morris-Water mazed spatial test.
             The Morris Water Maze was performed during days 84-87 of treatment. The pool
20   (a white, circular vessel 1 m in diameter) contained water at 20 0C with titanium-dioxide as
     an odorless, nontoxic additive to hide the escape platform (I cm beneath the water level).
     Swimming of each mouse was videotaped and analyzed (Ethovision, Noldus information
    Technology, Wageningen, the Netherlands). Prior to training, each mouse was placed on
    top of the platform for 15 seconds. For place navigation tests, mice were trained to locate
25  the hidden platform in five blocks of three trials over three consecutive days. Each trial
    consists of a forced swim test of maximum 120 seconds, followed by 60 seconds of rest.
    The time each mouse needed to locate the platform was measured during the five
    consecutive blocks of training to determine a learning curve for each mouse.
             24 hours after the final training, each animal underwent a probe trial with the
30  platform removed. Mice were allowed to search for the missing platform for 60 seconds
    and the search time spent in each quadrant of the pool, as well as the number of crossings of
    the original platform position was measured. As shown in Figure 24, the mice fed with
                                                     76

     Extract 31008 showed an increase performance in the probe test as demonstrated by the
     increased frequency of crossings of the area were the platform was formally located.
     Example 5: Animal Testing - Amyloid Plaque Load
             As the level of amyloid plaque load has been shown to correlate with the progress of
  5  amyloid based diseases, the effects of treatment with the extract 31008 was examined. Mice
     were sacrificed and their brains collected and prepared for immune histochemistry using
     standard methods. Sagital vibratome sections (40 gm) were cut for free floating incubations
     and stored at 4 'C until staining in PBS with 0.1% sodium azide. Thirty consecutive
     sections per brain in the region of the subiculum were selected for staining (laterale
 10  between 2.18 and 1.08 mm). Sections 1, 7, 13, 19, 25 were stained with IHC for AP (anti
     amyloid). Sections of all animals used were randomized for staining and blind
     quantification.
             Free floating sections were incubated in Nett-wells to stain all sections in one single
    assay and minimize intensity variation. Sections were washed twice in PBS and incubated
15  for 15 minutes in hydrogen peroxide 1.5 % in PBS and methanol (1:1) to remove
    endogenous peroxidase activity. After washing the sections three times in PBS containing
    0.1 % Triton XIOO (PBST), the sections were blocked for 30 minutes in 10% Fetal Calf
    Serum (FCS) in PBST followed by an overnight incubation with the biotinylated primary
    antibody in PBST with 10 % FCS (anti-amyloid against N-terminal end of AP, labeled with
20  biotin, using a dilution of 1:2800). After rinsing, the sections were incubated in 0.01 %
    trypsin in PBS for 15 minutes at 37 'C, followed by an incubation with avidin-biotin
    peroxidase complex (Vectastain Elite ABC, Vector, Burlingame, CA).The signal was
    developed with 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride tablets (DAB, ICN, I tablet / 10
    mL Tris-HCl with 3 gL H2 0 2 per 10 mL). Sections were counterstained with Mayers
25  hematoxylin, dehydrated in five steps (50, 70, 95 and 2 x 100 %) in ethanol and xylene
    (Merck Eurolab) and mounted in Depex (Depex mounting medium, BDH Laboratory).
            As shown in Figure 25, the mice fed with the extract has a significant reduction in
    brain amyloid plaque load consistent with the effect of the identified molecules on
    aggregation.
30          In a second set of experiments, two- months- old APP-PS1 transgenic mice were fed
    with a fixed dose of approximately 90 mg (Extract 31008 -L-) and 800 mg (Extract 31008
    H-) total polyphenols/kg/days of a highly enriched Punicalagin extract, Extract 31008, via
                                                   77

     their drinking water. Another group was also fed with a highly enriched Punicalagin
     extract, Extract 61109 at a dose of 468 mg/kg/d. A final group was fed a pomegranate husk
     derived extract 71109 at a dose of 120 mg/kg/d. After 4 months of feeding, the mice (then
     about 6.5 months old) were tested in the Morris-Water Maze spatial memory test.
  5          As shown in Figure 26, the mice fed with the extract 31008 at a dose of 97 mg/day
     showed an increase performance during the probe test, as shown by the increase in the time
     spent in the platform zone. On the other hand, mice fed the extract 31008 at a dose of 828
     mg/day showed no change in performance as compared to the control transgenic
     administered the isocaloric vehicle. This result illustrates a dose effect on the improvement
10   of memory with the employed pomegranate extract. Mice receiving extracts 61109 and
     71109 showed a significantly improved performance in the probe test (P < 0.05 with Tukey's
     Multiple Comparison Test versus vehicle hAPP-Tg).
     Example 6: Animal Testing -- Aged Rats
             The effect of oral administration of polyphenols from pomegranate extracts on the
15  cognitive performance of aged rats was studied. This model system was selected to evaluate
    the effects of the treatment in animals displaying impaired brain function as a result of the
    ageing process in order to highlight potential benefits that may not be detectable in normal
    young adults. Treatments were initiated in male Sprague-Dawley rats at the age of 19
    months, corresponding approximately to the onset of cognitive impairments (see Martinez
20  Serrano A, Bj6rklund A. "Ex vivo nerve growth factor gene transfer to the basal forebrain
    in presymptomatic middle-aged rats prevents the development of cholinergic neuron
    atrophy and cognitive impairment during aging" Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Feb 17;
    95(4):1858-63; and Bisson JF, Nejdi A, Rozan P, Hidalgo S, Lalonde R, Messaoudi M.
    "Effects of long-term administration of a cocoa polyphenolic extract (Acticoa powder) on
25  cognitive performances in aged rats" Br J Nutr. 2008 Jul;100(1):94-101, Epub 2008 Jan 8).
    Animal performance was mainly monitored using behavioral tests for swim task learning
    and social recognition memory.
             Polyphenols were administered orally, by dilution in the drinking water, to
    reproduce the ultimately targeted mode of delivery. Experiments compared two doses of
30  polyphenol-enriched extracts from pomegranate.
            a) Social Recognition. In the social recognition discrimination task, each aged rat
    was placed in its home cage together with a juvenile male Sprague-Dawley rat (< 5 weeks
                                                   78

     old) for 5 minutes. Thirty minutes later, the same exact procedure was repeated with the
     same juvenile to determine a second time the degree of interaction between the two
     animals. In animals with a proper functioning memory, less contact is expected as the two
     animals have had previous interactions. Thirty minutes after the second exposure, a novel
  5  juvenile rat was placed for 5 minutes together with the aged rat, in order to measure
     whether the animal could discriminate between the two different juvenile individuals.
     During each period of interaction between the two animals, the total time of contact was
     measured to assess social recognition. This test was performed after 2.5 to 3 months of
     treatment.
 10           As shown in Figure 27, in the aged rats fed the low dose of extract 31008 (15 mg
     gallic acid equivalent/kg/day) the decrease observed in the time spent with juvenile #1
     during second exposure indicated improved performance in recognition memory as a result
     of treatment. When subsequently exposed to the new juvenile rat #2, the interaction time
     increased in aged rats treated with extract at 15 mg gallic acid equivalent/kg/day, showing
15   that the treated aged rats can distinguish between the two different juvenile rats and have a
     functioning memory. On the other hand, isocaloric control-treated aged rats have
     comparable interaction times for the 1 " and 2    exposure to juvenile rat #1, indicating an
     impairment in their recognition memory. Control aged rats exposed to juvenile #2 show a
     comparable interaction time with all prior exposures to juvenile #1, indicating the control
20  animals are unable to distinguish between these interactions, a hallmark of reduced
    cognition and a decline in memory. (N= 12 for isocaloric controls, N= 14 for the extract
    treated group). Aged rats treated with the extract at a dose of 75 mg gallic acid
    equivalent/kg/day (N= 10), unlike rats treated with th 15 mg GAE, have a performance
    similar to the isocaloric control group, when exposed a second time to juvenile rat #1 or to a
25  novel juvenile rat #2. Thus demonstrating the importance of dosing in this effect.
             b) Morris Water Maze: Reversal Test, Aged rats were treated continuously with the
    extract 31008 (15 mg garlic acid equivalent/kg/day) or an isocaloric control for a period of
    3 months starting at the age of 19 months. Aged rats were tested for their performance in
    the reversal task: following training and probe test, the platform was placed in the opposite
30  quadrant (WEST-+EAST) and the animal was subjected to three training sessions. In this
    test, the rapidity to re-adapt to a new platform location in a similar task further evaluates
    learning ability of the animals.
                                                    79

             As shown in Figure 28, aged rats treated with the extract at 15 mg gallic acid
    equivalent/kg/day were significantly more efficient at localizing the platform in the reversal
    test, as compared to the isocaloric control aged rats (one-way ANOVA, P<0.02; isocaloric
    control N=I 1; extract: N=14). This illustrates the beneficial effects of a low dose of extract
 5  (15 mg gallic acid equivalent/kg/day) on memory improvement and protection versus the
   natural memory decline observed in control, non-treated aged rats. The observed effects of
   the 15 mg gallic acid equivalent/kg/day dose is consistent with the observations in the
   social recognition memory evaluation and the importance of proper dosing to achieve
   memory improvements.
10                             INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
             All of the U.S. patents and U.S. patent application publications cited herein are
   hereby incorporated by reference.
                                             EQUIVALENTS
             Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
15 routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
   described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by this disclosure.
                                                    80

We claim:
1.     A method comprising the step of administering to a subject an amount of Punicalin,
       Punicalagin, Pedunculagin, Tellimagrandin, Corilagin, Granatine A, Granatine B,
       Terminalin, Gallagyldilactone, Compound A or a compound of Formula I:
                                                  O       OR 1
                                      0
                                        x0               'OR 2
                                                  OR3
       or pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate,
       prodrug, enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof; wherein, independently for each
       occurrence,
                            OH
                      HO
                      HO
                       0         0
              HOX           N    OH          HO       NH
              HON           0                HO
                0         0                    0          0
                          OH                              OH
                          OH                              OH
      X is           OH                 or          OH         ;and
       R1, R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a
      sugar; or
                                             81

                                                          OH
                                                    HO
                                                    HO
   R' is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy,                0      , or a sugar, R2 is
                        OH                             OH
                HO                              HO
                HO )                            HO )
   hydrogen or                0     , and RW is              0    ; or
   R' is hydrogen, altkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a sugar, and R2 and R3 taken
                          OH
                  HO
                  HO
                   0            0
                                OH
                                OH
   together are           OH
                                                             OH
                                                      HO
                                                      HO
                                                       0          0
                                                     O            OH
                                              HO            N     OH
                                              HON            O
                                                O         0
                                                          OH
                                                          OH
2. The method of claim 1, wherein X is               OH
                                                     OH
                                              HO
                                              HO
                                                O         0
                                                          OH
                                                          OH
3. The method of claim 1, wherein X is               OH
                                           82

4.  The method of claim I, wherein R' is hydrogen.
5.  The method of claim 1, wherein R1 is a sugar selected from the group consisting of
    allose ("All"), altrose ("Alt"), arabinose ("Ara"), erythrose, erythrulose, fructose
    ("Fru"), fucosamine ("FueN"), fucose ("Fuc"), galactosamine ("GaIN"), galactose
    ("Gal"), galloyl-p-glucose, glucosamine ("GIcN"), glucosaminitol ("GlcN-ol"),
    glucose ("Gle"), glyceraldehyde, 2,3-dihydroxypropanal, glycerol ("Gro"), propane
    1,2,3-triol, glycerone ("1,3-dihydroxyacetone"), 1,3-dihydroxypropanone, gulose
    ("Gut"), idose ("Ido"), lyxose ("Lyx"), mannosamine ("ManN"), mannose ("Man"),
    psicose ("Psi"), quinovose ("Qui"), quinovosamine, rhamnitol ("Rha-ol"),
    rhamnosamine ("RhaN"), rhamnose ("Rha"), ribose ("Rib"), ribulose ("Rul"),
    rutinose, sialic acid ("Sia" or "Neu"), sorbose ("Sor"), tagatose ("Tag"), talose
    ("Tal"), tartaric acid, erythraric/threaric acid, threose, xylose ("Xyl"), or xylulose
    ("Xul").
6. The method of claim 1, wherein R 2 is hydrogen.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein R 2 is a sugar selected from the group consisting of
   allose ("All"), altrose ("Alt"), arabinose ("Ara"), erythrose, erythrulose, fructose
   ("Fru"), fucosamine ("FucN"), fucose ("Fuc"), galactosamine ("GaIN"), galactose
   ("Gal"), galloyl-3-glucose, glucosamine ("GlcN"), glucosaminitol ("GlcN-ol"),
   glucose ("Gle"), glyceraldehyde, 2,3-dihydroxypropanal, glycerol ("Gro"), propane
    1,2,3-triol, glycerone ("1,3-dihydroxyacetone"), 1,3-dihydroxypropanone, gulose
   ("Gul"), idose ("Ido"), lyxose ("Lyx"), mannosamine ("ManN"), mannose ("Man"),
   psicose ("Psi"), quinovose ("Qui"), quinovosamine, rhamnitol ("Rha-ol"),
   rhamnosamine ("RhaN"), rhamnose ("Rha"), ribose ("Rib"), ribulose ("Rut"),
   rutinose, sialic acid ("Sia" or "Neu"), sorbose ("Sor"), tagatose ("Tag"), talose
   ("Tal"), tartaric acid, erythraric/threaric acid, threose, xylose ("Xyl"), or xylulose
   ("Xul").
8. The method of claim 1, wherein R 3 is hydrogen.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein R3 is a sugar selected from the group consisting of
   allose ("All"), altrose ("Alt"), arabinose ("Ara"), erythrose, erythrulose, fructose
   ("Fru"), fucosamine ("FucN"), fucose ("Fuc"), galactosamine ("GalN"), galactose
   ("Gal"), galloyl-3-glucose, glucosamine ("GlcN"), glucosaminitol ("GIcN-ol"),
   glucose ("Gle"), glyceraldehyde, 2,3-dihydroxypropanal, glycerol ("Gro"), propane
                                             83

     1,2,3-triol, glycerone ("1,3 -dihydroxyacetone"), 1,3-dihydroxypropanone, gulose
    ("Gul"), idose ("Ido"), lyxose ("Lyx"), mannosamine ("ManN"), mannose ("Man"),
    psicose ("Psi"), quinovose ("Qui"), quinovosamine, rhamnitol ("Rha-ol"),
    rhamnosamine ("RhaN"), rhamnose ("Rha"), ribose ("Rib"), ribulose ("Rul"),
    rutinose, sialic acid ("Sia" or "Neu"), sorbose ("Sor"), tagatose ("Tag"), talose
    ("Tal"), tartaric acid, erythraric/threaric acid, threose, xylose ("Xyl"), or xylulose
    ("Xul").
10. The method of claim 1, wherein R1 , R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen,
    alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a sugar.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein R', R2 and R3 are hydrogen.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein R' is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a
                          OH                             OH
                   HO                            HO
                        1                              1
                   HO                            HO
    sugar,R 2 is                     , and R3 is
                                                                      OH
                                                               HO
                                                               HO
13. The method of claim 1, wherein      R1 is hydrogen, R2 is             0       and RW is
             OH
     HO       N
    HO
                   0
14. The method of claim 1, wherein R' is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a
                                                          OH
                                                  HO
                                                  HO
                                                    0          0
                                                               OH
                                                               OH
    sugar, and R2 and R 3 taken together are              OH
                                             84

 15. The method of claim 1, wherein R' is hydrogen, and R 2 and R3 taken together are
              OH
        HO
         0          0
                    OH
                    OH
              OH
16.  The method of claim 1, wherein the compound of the invention is pure and isolated.
17.  The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
     nutraceutical composition.
18.  The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
     pharmaceutical composition.
19.  The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
     functional food or functional nutrition product.
20.  The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is administered as part of a medical
     food or medical nutrition product.
21.  The method of claim I, wherein the compound is administered as part of a dietary
     supplement.
22.  The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is administered as part of a botanical
     drug.
23.  The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a mammal.
24.  The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a human.
25.  The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a veterinary animal.
26.  The method of claim 1, wherein the general cognition of the subject is improved.
27.  The method of claim 1, wherein the memory of the subject is improved.
28,  The method of claim 1, wherein the general cognition of the subject is maintained.
29.  The method of claim 1, wherein the memory of the subject is maintained.
30.  The method of claim 1, wherein a neuron or plurality of neurons in said subject are
     protected.
                                           85

31.  The method of claim 1, wherein the method treats or prevents a cognitive disorder.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the method treats or prevents a neurodegenerative
     disorder.
33. The method of claim 1, wherein the method treats or prevents metabolic syndrome,
    type-11 diabetes, dislipidemia, or obesity.
34. The method of claim 1, wherein the method treats or prevents an amyloidosis
    related condition in said subject.
35. The method of claim 35, wherein the the amyloidosis-related condition is MCI or
    AAML
36. The method of claim 1, wherein the method treats or prevents ALS, Huntington's
    disease, Parkinson's disease, or Down syndrome.
37. The method of claim 1, wherein the method treats or prevents Alzheimer's disease,
38. The method of claim 1, wherein the method treats a cognitive impairment in a
    human.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein memory is improved in the human following said
    administration.
40. The method of claim 38, wherein the improvement in memory is an improvement in
    at least one measure selected from the group consisting of an improvement in short
    term memory, long-term memory, memory consolidation, procedural memory and
    declarative memory.
41. The method of claim 38, wherein attention is improved in the human following said
    administration.
42. The method of claim 38, wherein reaction time is improved in the human following
    said administration.
43. The method of claim 38, wherein learning is improved in the human following said
    administration.
44. A method comprising the step of administering to a subject an amount of a
    pomegranate extract; wherein
    the extract contains an active fraction comprising at least one polyphenol; and
                                           86

     the extract has been prepared by:
     a juicing and manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by
    centrifugation and/or ultrafiltration, before being dried;
    a juicing and manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by
    centrifugation and/or ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric
    chromatographic resin, washed with water, and eluted with a solvent; or
    a juicing and manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by
    centrifugation and/or ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric
    chromatographic resin, washed with water, eluted with a solvent, and subsequently
    dried.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the extract has been prepared by a juicing and
    manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by centrifugation
    and/or ultrafiltration, and subsequently dried.
46. The method of claim 44, wherein the extract has been prepared by a juicing and
    manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by centrifugation
    and/or ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric chromatographic
    resin, washed with water, and eluted with a solvent.
47. The method of claim 44, wherein the extract has been prepared by a juicing and
    manufacturing process, optionally followed by fractionalization by centrifugation
    and/or ultrafiltration, before being adsorbed into the polymeric chromatographic
    resin, washed with water, eluted with a solvent, and subsequently dried.
48. The method of claim 44, wherein the extract is fractionalized by cetrifugation.
49. The method of claim 44, wherein the extract is fractionalized by ultrafiltration.
50. The method of claim 44, wherein the solvent is an alcohol (e.g. ethanol).
51. The method of claim 44, wherein the resin is Amberlite XAD-16 (Rohm & Haas).
52. The method of claim 44, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
    nutraceutical composition.
53. The method of claim 44, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
    pharmaceutical composition.
                                            87

54. The method of claim 44, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
     fmetional food or functional nutrition product.
55. The method of claim 44, wherein the compound is administered as part of a medical
    food or medical nutrition product.
56. The method of claim 44, wherein the compound is administered as part of a dietary
    supplement.
57. The method of claim 44, wherein the compound is administered as part of a
    botanical drug.
58. The method of claim 44, wherein the subject is a mammal.
59. The method of claim 44, wherein the subject is a human.
60. The method of claim 44, wherein the subject is a veterinary animal.
61. The method of claim 44, wherein the general cognition of the subject is improved.
62. The method of claim 44, wherein the memory of the subject is improved.
63. The method of claim 44, wherein the general cognition of the subject is maintained.
64. The method of claim 44, wherein the memory of the subject is maintained.
65. The method of claim 44, wherein a neuron or plurality of neurons in said subject are
    protected.
66. The method of claim 44, wherein the method treats or prevents a cognitive disorder
    on said subject.
67. The method of claim 44, wherein the method treats or prevents a neurodegenerative
    disorder.
68. The method of claim 44, wherein the method treats or prevents metabolic syndrome,
    type-II diabetes, dislipidemia, or obesity.
69. The method of claim 44, wherein the method treats or prevents an amyloidosis
    related condition in said subject.
70. The method of claim 70, wherein the the amyloidosis-related condition is MCI or
    AAMJ.
                                           88

71. The method of claim 44, wherein the method treats or prevents ALS, Huntington's
    disease, Parkinson's disease, or Down syndrome.
72. The method of claim 44, wherein the method treats or prevents Alzheimer's disease.
73. The method of claim 44, wherein the method treats a memory impairment in a
    human.
74. The method of claim 73, wherein memory is improved in the human following said
    administration.
75. The method of claim 73, wherein the improvement in memory is an improvement in
    at least one measure selected from the group consisting of an improvement in short
    term memory, long-term memory, memory consolidation, procedural memory and
    declarative memory.
76. The method of claim 73, wherein attention is improved in the human following said
    administration.
77. The method of claim 73, wherein reaction time is improved in the human following
    said administration.
78. The method of claim 73, wherein learning is improved in the human following said
    administration.
79. A method of inhibiting aggregation of a peptide or protein, comprising the step of
    contacting the peptide or protein with an effective amount of Punicalin, Punicalagin,
    Pedunculagin, Tellimagrandin, Corilagin, Granatine A, Granatine B, Terminalin,
    Gallagyldilactone, Compound A or a compound of Formula 1:
                                               O       OR 1
                                    0
                                                       OR 2
                                               OR3
    or pharmaceutically acceptable salt, biologically active metabolite, solvate, hydrate,
    prodrug, enantiomer or stereoisomer thereof; wherein, independently for each
    occurrence,
                                          89

                       OH
               HO
               HO
                 O          0
              O      x      OH                OH
        HO           N      OH          HO
        HO             0                HO
          O   0                           0         0
                    OH                              OH
                    OH                              OH
Xis           OH                   or         OH          ;and
R1, R2 and R3 are each independently hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a
sugar; or
                                                                      OH
                                                                HON
                                                                HO         lr
R' is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a sugar, R2 is             0  , and
             OH
      HO
      HO
R3 is             0      or
R' is hydrogen, alkyl, aralkyl, alkylcarboxy, or a sugar, and R2 and R5 taken
                      OH
               HO
               HO
                0           0
                            OH
                            OH
together are          OH
                                       90

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
