                            Anstracy    01 uescripuon
     a new type of turnover lift foot valve, including valve body, opening
mechanism, valve core, guide mechanism and recovery mechanism; the valve body
is set with two guide mechanisms, which are symmetrical and on both sides of
valve core. The guide mechanism is provided with main guide rod at one end and
with guide groove; there is side guide rod extending into the guide groove; the side
guide rod is provided with bearing sleeve. The recovery mechanism includes
spring and spring cage, the spring is set between valve core and spring cage; the
spring cage is connected to the guide mechanism. Guide groove of the foot valve is
in arc shape, so that valve core can deviate from the right above of valve opening
and fluid cannot flow into valve body not only from the side of valve opening but
also from the right above, which increases flow rate, improves working efficiency
and solves the problems of traditional lift foot valve that flow rate is small and
unloading is slow due to blockage by valve core.

   r igures o nescriprion
           44           71
           43
2K
         Figure 1
       S43                 71
         Figure 2

                                      ueseription
                      A New Type of Turnover Lift Foot Valve
Technical field
      This utility model belongs to technical field of valves, specifically involving a
novel turnover lift foot valve.
Background technology
      Guide mechanism of traditional lift foot valve is set on the side of valve core.
There are 3 guide mechanisms, which are in contact with valve core to assist valve
core in opening and closing. When foot valve is opened and closed, there will be
friction between valve core and guide mechanism; long-term use will cause
damage to seal ring of foot valve and valve leakage due to wear of valve core and
thus affect service life of foot valve; meanwhile, debris generated during valve
core friction will fall into foot valve, which thus results in pollution of fluid in foot
valve.
      At present, guide mechanism of traditional lift valve is generally set
perpendicularly to the opening of foot valve, so that valve core is just above the
opening of foot valve when foot valve is opened and the fluid can only enter or exit
the foot valve on the side, with large flow resistance; thus flow of foot valve is
small and the efficiency is low.
Utility model content
      Purpose of the utility model is to provide a new type of lift foot valve that
avoids valve core wear, reduce opening torque and increase service life of foot
valve and flow rate so as to solve the problems raised in the above background
technology.

                                    ueseription
      In order to realize the above purpose, the utility model provides following
technical solutions: a new type of turnover lift foot valve, including valve body,
opening mechanism, valve core, guide mechanism and recovery mechanism; the
opening mechanism is set to valve body; the valve body is set with two guide
mechanisms, which are symmetrical and on both sides of valve core. The guide
mechanism is provided with main guide rod at one end and with guide groove;
there is side guide rod extending into the guide groove; the side guide rod is
provided with bearing sleeve. The recovery mechanism includes spring and spring
cage, the spring is set between valve core and spring cage; the spring cage is
connected to the guide mechanism.
      Preferably, the guide grooves include vertical, oblique and arc-shaped grooves;
central axis of vertical groove is perpendicular to the plane of valve opening;
vertical and oblique valves are connected with an arc.
      Preferably, the opening mechanism includes handle, valve rod and opening
components; the handle is connected with one end of valve rod; valve rod is
connected with opening component.
       Compared with existing technology, beneficial effects of the utility model
are as follows: compared with traditional foot valve, number of guide mechanisms
of the new type of lift foot valve decreases from three to two, thereby saving
material and reduces production cost. Guide mechanism is changed from
traditional contact guide to guide groove, thus only side guide rod and bearing
sleeve come into rolling contact with guide groove when foot valve is opened and
closed, thereby avoiding direct friction between valve core and guide mechanism
and preventing seal leakage caused by damage to valve core due to wear and
increasing service life of valve core. Guide groove of the foot valve is in arc shape,

                                     ueseription
so that valve core can deviate from the right above of valve opening and fluid can
not flow into valve body not only from the side of valve opening but also from the
right above, which increases flow rate, improves working efficiency and solves the
problems of traditional lift foot valve that flow rate is small and unloading is slow
due to blockage by valve core.
Description of figures
      Figure 1 refers to schematic diagram of the new type of lift foot valve
      Figure 2 refers to schematic diagram of the new type of lift foot valve from
another perspective view;
      Figure 3 refers to cross-sectional view of the new type of lift foot valve;
      Figure 4 refers to open-state diagram of the new type of lift foot valve.
      In figures: 1 valve body, 11 diameter, 2 handle, 3 opening component, 4 valve
core, 42 main guide rod, 43 side guide rod, 44 bearing sleeve, 5 spring, 6 spring
cage, 7 guide mechanism, 71 guide groove.
Specific mode of execution
      The following is clear and complete description of technical solution of the
new utility model in combination with figures of new embodiment. Obviously,
embodiments described are merely part of embodiments of the utility model
instead of all embodiments. Based on utility embodiments of the utility model, all
the other embodiments obtained by ordinary technical staff in this field under the
premise of without creative efforts are all within the protection scope of the present
utility model.
      The utility model provides a new type of lift foot valve as shown in figure 1-4,
including valve 1, handle 2, opening component 3, valve core 4, spring 5, spring
cage 6 and guide mechanism 7; one end of the valve body is connected with handle

                                     ueseription
2; handle 2 is connected with opening component 3 via valve rod; there is side
guide 43 and main guide rod 42 on both sides of valve core 4; one side of spring 5
is connected with upper end face of valve core, while the other side is connected
with spring cage 6; guide mechanism 7 is provided with guide groove 71.
      Valve core 4 achieves the function of lifting and rotating by main guide rod 42
and assists valve core in lifting and rotating in guide groove 71 by side guide rod
43 on both sides and bearing sleeve 44. During installation of spring cage 6, spring
cage 6 first presses spring 5, and then rotates to connect with hook in guide
mechanism on valve body; this structure not only ensures simple and easy
installation but also increases the stability of connection.
      Compared with traditional lift foot valve, number of guide mechanisms of this
new type of lift foot valve decreases from three to two, thereby saving material and
reduces production cost; guide mechanism 7 changes from traditional single-hole
guide to guide groove 71 guide, thus only side guide rod 43 comes into rolling
contact with bearing sleeve and guide groove 71 when foot valve is opened and
closed, thereby avoiding direct friction between valve core 4 and one of three
traditional guide mechanisms and preventing seal leakage caused by damage to
valve core 4 due to wear and increasing service life of valve core 4 and
consequently service life of foot valve; meanwhile, there is very subtle friction
between side guide rod 42, bearing sleeve 44 and side guide groove 71, thereby
avoiding the drawbacks resulting from traditional foot valve friction and pollution
of fluid in valve body 1 and damage to sealing gasket by debris.
      In this embodiment, spring 4 described can be replaced by another elastic
member, meanwhile spring cage 6 can also be replaced by other fixing member.
The present invention does not limit the specific type of elastic member, as long as

                                      ueseription
elastic number described meets the function of recovering to valve core position.
      In this embodiment, guide groove 71 described involves vertical groove,
oblique groove and arc-shaped groove; central axis of vertical groove is
perpendicular to the plane of valve body 1 diameter 11; vertical groove and oblique
groove are connected with each other via arc-shaped groove. In this way, valve
core 4 may first freely rise perpendicularly to valve body 1 under the guidance of
guide groove and then make a rotational movement, then valve core 4 deviates
from the right above of diameter of valve body 1, thus increasing the area that fluid
flows through valve body and work efficiency and solving the problem that the
flow rate becomes small due to large flow resistance of traditional lift foot valve.
      For the opening of new type of lift foot valve, first rotate handle 2 on valve
body 1; handle 2 drives opening component 3 upward by valve rod; opening
component 3 holds out against valve core 4 and jacks up it; side guide rod 43 of
valve core 4 and bearing sleeve 44 slide along guide groove 71 of guide
mechanism 7 to drive valve core 4 to move along guide slot 71 until valve core
reaches predetermined position. Gap forms between valve core 4 and valve body 1
diameter 11; fluid flows into or out of valve body through the gap; for the closing,
rotate handle 2 so that valve core 4 starts to move downward under the action of
spring 5, meanwhile side guide rod 43 of valve core 4 and bearing sleeve 44 slide
backward along guide groove 71 of guide mechanism 7 until valve core 4 is sealed
at the valve body 1 diameter 11, thus foot valve is closed.
      Finally, it shall be noted that the above description involves merely preferred
embodiments of the present utility model and is not limited to the utility model.
Although there is detailed description of the present utility model by referring to
the foregoing embodiments, technical staff in this field may still modify technical

                                    ueseription
solutions of the foregoing embodiments or carry out equivalent replacement for
part of its technical     features;  all   modifications, equivalent replacements,
improvements, etc. under the spirit and principal of this utility model shall be
included in protection scope of the utility model.

                                           claims
      1. a new type of turnover lift foot valve, including valve body (1)         , opening
mechanism, valve core (4) , guide mechanism (7)              and recovery mechanism; the
opening mechanism is set to valve body (1)         ; the valve body    (1) is set with two
guide mechanisms (7), which are symmetrical and on both sides of valve core (4).
The guide mechanism (7)          is provided with main guide rod      (42) at one end and
with guide groove (71)       ; there is side guide rod     (43)   extending into the guide
groove (71)    ; the side guide rod    (43 ) is provided with bearing sleeve (44) . The
recovery mechanism includes spring          (5) and spring cage (6) , the spring (5)       is
set between valve core (4) and spring cage (6); the spring cage (6)           is connected
to the guide mechanism (7)         .
      2, a new type of turnover lift foot valve, the guide grooves           (71)    include
vertical, oblique and arc-shaped grooves; central axis of vertical groove is
perpendicular to the plane of valve opening; vertical and oblique valves are
connected with an arc.
      3, a new type of turnover lift foot valve,        the opening mechanism includes
handle (2)  , valve rod and opening components (3) ; the handle (2)           is connected
with one end of valve rod; valve rod is connected with opening component (3) .

              Figures of Description
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                   Figure 1
                   Figure 2
                        1

              Figures of Description
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                   Figure 3
                   Figure 4
                        2

