                                          ABSTRACT
        Methods, processes and compositions are provided for improved wound dressings
comprising an antimicrobial composition. The wound dressings maintain conformability and
strength, as well as antimicrobial performance, upon use after storage.

       WOUND DRESSING COMPRISING AN ANTIMICROBIAL COMPOSITION
                                      CROSS-REFERENCES
[0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
No. 2014265336, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. This
application also claims the benefit of priority of GB 1308770.5, filed May 15, 2013, which is
herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0002] This invention relates to wound dressings which comprise an antimicrobial composition
where the dressing can be applied to skin, wounds, cuts, abrasions or bums for the prevention or
treatment of infections. More particularly the invention relates to a dressing capable of providing
effective antimicrobial activity while at the same time avoiding wound and skin irritation and
retardation of wound healing. In particular the invention relates to a dressing comprising
chemically modified cellulosic fibres comprising an antimicrobial composition where the
dressing properties are not compromised by the addition of the antimicrobial composition.
[0003] Overuse of antibiotics and the associated increase in bacterial resistance is impacting the
efficacy of antibiotics in the treatment of wound infection. Effective alternatives to antibiotics
are thus desirable.
[0004] Topical antimicrobial materials and preparations containing them have long been
recognised as playing an important part in minimising the opportunity for skin and wound
infections. Non-antibiotic antimicrobials are non-selective chemical agents that can be safe to
use on living tissue. Molecular iodine, ionic silver and oxidising agents such as sodium
hypochlorite and chlorine dioxide have been recognised as antimicrobial agents with
effectiveness against a wide range of micro-organisms. There are however several barriers to
making an effective antimicrobial composition for application to wounds based on such agents.
One barrier is that these antimicrobial agents tend to react with organic materials found in the
wound other than the intended microbial targets. This means that to be effective, antimicrobial
agents need to be included in treatment compositions at high levels, which may cause
undesirable side effects with prolonged use such as cell toxicity, hypersensitivity reactions, skin
staining and systemic effects. Such side effects are further described in "In vitro cytotoxity of
silver: implication for clinical wound care". Poon VK, Burd A. Burns. 2004 Mar;30(2):140-7,
"A review of iodine toxicity reports". Pennington JA. J Am Diet Assoc. 1990 Nov;90(11):1571
81 and "Topical antimicrobial toxicity". Lineaweaver W, Howard R, Soucy D, McMorris S,
Freeman J, Crain C, Robertson J, Rumley T. Arch Surg. 1985 Mar;120(3):267-70.

[0005] A further barrier is in the delivery of the antimicrobial composition to the wound. If the
composition is to be delivered from a wound dressing, it is preferable that the dressing be
sufficiently usable such that the antimicrobial wound dressing is conformable, in its dry state, so
that a close contact between the wound bed and the dressing is obtained, that the antimicrobial
wound dressing maintain its form and structure upon storage and that sufficient strength is
maintained in the dressing. If the dressing is stiff, it is possible that not only will the dressing
not conform to the wound site on the patient but also will not conform to the contour of the
wound bed. In that circumstance, voids can exist between the dressing and the wound which
allow bacteria to grow. If large enough, those voids will not be closed even when the dressing is
hydrated (on absorbtion of exudate) allowing the spread of bacteria under the dressing. Dry
conformability in the dressing is therefore desirable as is close contouring of the dressing to the
wound when hydrated. Jones, SA, Bowler PG, Walker, M., "Antimicrobial activity of silver
containing dressings is influenced by dressing conformability with a wound surface" Wounds
17:263-270 (2005); Bowler, P., Jones, S., Towers, V., Booth, R., Parsons, D., Walker, M.,
"Dressing conformability and silver-containing wound dressings" Wounds U.K. 6:14-20 (2010).
[0006] There is also a need for a means to make treatment compositions effective without
simply increasing the level of antimicrobial agent included in the composition. It has also been
recognised that wound bacteria often exist in biofilms and that these are more difficult to treat
than their planktonic counterparts.
               SUMMARY/DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0007] It is known to increase the effectiveness of antimicrobial metal ions by including a
quaternary cationic surfactant in the formulation. WO 2012/136968 discloses an antimicrobial
composition suitable for use on skin and wounds comprising a source of antimicrobial metal ion
and a quaternary cationic surfactant.
[0008] The presence of the quaternary cationic surfactant enhances the effect of the
antimicrobial metal ion so that the performance of the antimicrobial metal ion is improved. For
instance the presence of the quaternary cationic surfactant can increase the rate at which the
antimicrobial metal ion exerts its antimicrobial effect. The composition preferably also
comprises ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (EDTA). EDTA is preferably present as the di-, tri
or tetra-basic salts of EDTA. We have found that these salts enhance the antimicrobial effect of
the ionic metal in disrupting biofilm.
[0009] While the presence of the quaternary cationic surfactant enhances the effect of the
antimicrobial metal ion, when that metal ion is being applied to a wound from a wound dressing,
the presence of the surfactant can affect the drying properties of the dressing so that dressing
performance is affected and the wound dressing is sufficiently usable. Treatment with a

quaternary cationic surfactant can especially affect the rate of drying of the dressing, increasing
it so that the resulting dressing is stiff and does not conform well to the wound.
[0010] It is known to make wound dressings from chemically modified cellulosic fibres. For
instance GB-A-2220881 and GB-A-2094802 describe the production of carboxymethylcellulose
fibres from regenerated cellulose fibres (viscose rayon) fibres or from cotton. It is also known
that carboxymethylcellulose fibre of greater absorbency and strength can be produced from
solvent-spun cellulose fibre. Such fibres are described in EP 0616650 and are manufactured by
reacting solvent spun cellulose fibre with a strong alkali and a monochloroacetic reagent. It is
also known that alternative chemical modification of cellulose fibres is possible and also has the
effect of increasing the absorbency of the cellulose fibre. The cellulose fibre can for instance be
modified by sulphonation, for example by substitution with an alkyl sulphonate at one or more
of the hydroxyl groups on the anhydroglucose monomers that make up the cellulose backbone
forming ether linkages. Modified cellulose of this type is known as cellulose sulphonate or
cellulose alkyl sulphonate some of the insoluble forms of which are described in
W02012/061225.
[0011] Modifying the cellulose fibre requires the fibre to be exposed to one or more reagents
which modify the cellulose by substitution, the degree of substitution determining the
absorbency and solubility of the fibre.
[0012] Once the modification has taken place, the fibres are washed to remove any unreacted
alkali, chloroacetate, alkylsulphonate, other modifying agent or any by-products such as sodium
chloride or sodium glycollate. An aqueous wash is generally used initially, preferably a mixture
of water with a water-miscible organic solvent such as water and IMS (industrial methylated
spirit), the major portion of the wash being organic solvent. After washing, the fibres can be
treated with the antimicrobial composition including an antimicrobial metal in a manner such as
those described in EP1318842, EP1425050, EP1882482, EP1343510 or EP2262545.
[0013] Following this the fibres are dried at low temperature for instance as described in EP
0680344, by forced air drying or radiant heat drying.
[0014] As the washing step or steps and the treatment steps, to which the fibres are subjected
following modification, involve the use of relatively high percentages of organic solvents such
as IMS, the drying of the fibres requires the solvents that are released to be managed from an
environmental and safety perspective.
[0015] We have also found that the treating modified cellulose fibres with an antimicrobial
composition comprising a cationic surfactant can result in fibres that have different drying
characteristics than untreated fibres, and lead to decreased usability of the resulting wound
dressing. For instance, for fibres with an increased rate and/or extent of drying insufficient

moisture can lead to embrittlement which in turn leads to fibre breakage on opening, carding and
needling and the formation of dust. The subsequent reduced length staple fibre may then
produce a weaker and lighter fabric with less loft, and lower absorbency. More importantly, the
conformability of the dressing can be affected which itself can lead to poor antimicrobial
performance as the dressing is not in close contact with the wound.
[0016] We have now found that it is possible to mitigate the problem of decreased usability,
such as a lack or decrease of conformability of wound dressings comprising modified cellulosic
fibres treated with an antimicrobial composition comprising a quaternary ammonium surfactant
by controlling the moisture content of the wound dressing at the time of packaging and
maintaining that moisture content in the dressing until the time of use.
[0017] Accordingly, there is described herein a wound dressing comprising modified cellulosic
fibres treated with an antimicrobial composition comprising a source of an antimicrobial metal
ion and a quaternary cationic surfactant, the dressing having a moisture content of at least 10%
or at least 10.5%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14% or 15%, more preferably between 10% and 20% by
weight at the time of packaging in a sealed package to maintain the moisture content in that
range until the time of use of the dressing.
[0018] In one aspect, the present invention provides a packaged wound dressing comprising
modified cellulosic fibres treated with an antimicrobial composition comprising a source of an
antimicrobial metal ion and a quaternary cationic surfactant, the dressing having a moisture
content of between 10% and 2 0% by weight.
[0019] By the term antimicrobial is meant a substance that inhibits the growth of, or kills,
micro-organisms from the taxonomical kingdoms of bacteria, fungi and protozoa. An effective
antimicrobial composition is therefore one which is used to reduce and prevent the spread and
proliferation of micro-organisms in a specific application. In wound care this can be interpreted
in terms of control of cross-infection, prevention or elimination of infection and the reduction of
recalcitrant bioburden that can cause delayed healing and chronicity.
[0020] The dressing according to a first aspect of the invention comprises an antimicrobial
agent, preferably a metal ion for example the transition metals, antimony, silver, iron, nickel,
copper, chromium, manganese, gold, gallium, germanium, mercury, arsenic, aluminium, lead,
zinc, bismuth, tin and palladium. Preferably the metal ion is silver. The antimicrobial agent is
preferably included in the dressing at a level of from 0.010%to 10% by weight, more preferably
0.1% to 5% and even more preferably 0.5% to 1.5% by weight or 1% to 5%. If the composition
is in aqueous solution the antimicrobial metal ion is preferably in an aqueous solution
comprising from 0.00001% to 1.0% by weight or more preferably 0.0001% to 0.1%, even more
preferably 0.0001% to 0.02% by weight or 0.001% to 1.0% by weight.

[0021] The dressings according to the invention comprise a cationic surfactant. The cationic
surfactant can be a quaternary ammonium salt, an alkyl pyridinium salt, an alkyl imidazolium
salt, an alkyl morpholinium salt, a benzethonium salt or an ethoxylated quaternary ammonium
salt or mixtures thereof. Preferably where the salt is a quaternary ammonium salt, it is selected
from the group of monoalkyl trimethyl ammonium salts, dialkyl dimethyl ammonium salts and
monoalkyl monobenzyl dimethyl ammonium salts. Preferably the cationic surfactant is a
quaternary cationic surfactant and more preferably a quaternary ammonium surfactant.
Preferably the cationic surfactant is selected from the group of benzethonium, benzalkonium,
dimethyldialkylonium, alkylpyridinium and alkyltrimethylammonium cations with any counter
ion, for example: bromide, chloride, acetate or methyl sulphate. Preferably the quaternary
cationic surfactant is present at a level of more than or equal to 0.025% by weight, more
preferably from 0.050% to 4% by weight and more preferably from 0.10% to 2% by weight.
[0022] The dressing preferably comprises a metal chelating agent, for example a citrate or
polyphosphate or ethylenediaminetetra-acetic acid (EDTA). EDTA is preferably present as the
di-, tri- or tetra-basic salts of EDTA. We have found that these salts enhance the antimicrobial
effect of the ionic metal in disrupting biofilm.
[0023] The pH of the composition is preferably between 4 and 8, more preferably between 4 and
6 and most preferably between 4.5 and 5.5. The desired pH may be achieved by incorporating
buffering agents in the composition. Examples of buffering agents which may be included are
citric acid/di-sodium hydrogen phosphate, citric acid/sodium citrate, acetic acid/sodium acetate.
The buffering agent may conveniently be present in an amount of about 0.5% to 2% by weight
of the composition so as to provide an isotonic composition.
[0024] The antimicrobial compositions may be in the form of a solution which can be used as a
spray to be applied to the dressing or a solution dip into which the dressing can be immersed.
Preferably the pH of the formulation is buffered at around 5.5 as this does not alter the pH
balance of the peri-wound tissue and therefore protects it. EDTA is preferably present in the
compositions at a level of 0.l1% to 4% by weight of the composition, more preferably less than
2% by weight, more preferably 0.2 to 1% by weight.
[0025] The dressings according to the invention can be made by modifying cellulosic fibres for
instance by the methods described in EP 0616650 or WO 2012/061225 to obtain a fibre which is
capable of gelling on the absorption of exudate from the wound. The antimicrobial metallic ion
can then be added to the fibres by an ion exchange process in a largely organic solvent followed
by washing in an aqueous organic solution which also comprises an optional salt for
photostabilising the metallic ion if appropriate and the optional metal chelating agent. The fibre
is then washed again in an organic solvent wash and warm air dried. The fibre can then be

processed to form a dressing by conventional means.        The optional photostabilising agent can
be added as described in EP1343510.
[0026] The moisture content of the dressing is between 10% and 20%. Preferably the moisture
content of the dressing is between 11% and 18%, more preferably it is between 11.5% and 15%
by weight and most preferably it is between 11.5 and 13% by weight. In some embodiments,
the moisture content of dressing is at least 10% or at least 10.5%, 11%, 11.5%, 12%, 12.5%,
13%, 13.5%, 14%, 14.5% or 15%. A moisture content of 12% or 12 .5 % is particularly preferred.
The moisture content of the dressing may, amongst other techniques, be measured indirectly by
measuring conductivity of the resulting wound dressing. In other embodiments, the moisture
content of the dressing may be measured by measuring the loss on drying of the manufactured
dressing. In still other embodiments the moisture content may be measured by titration
techniques (Karl Fischer) which is done by solvent extraction of the water in the dressing or by
oven heating followed by water capture by solvent chemicals. The method of measuring
moisture content in a dressing is not limited to the above, but may be accomplished using other
techniques and/or by other technologies known in the field.
[0027] The moisture content of the dressings provided herein may be maintained by controlling
environmental conditions during manufacturing. For example, cleanrooms may be employed
during manufacturing controlling several environmental factors, including air pressure, air flow
(including directional flow), air quality (including filtration) and humidity (including room
temperature and pressure). All of these environmental factors may contribute to the
establishment of the required moisture content of the dressings as disclosed herein. For
example, temperature control is typically maintained at 18oC, + 2 oC, preferably +1 oC.
Relative humidity is typically maintained at pre-determined levels, including at least at 50% RH,
55%RH, 60%RH, 65%RH, 70%RH, 75%RH, 80%RH, 85%RH +5% RH, and preferably at +3%
RH, depending upon the moisture content of the fibre being processed. These environmental
factors may also be adjusted against each other in order to achieve the moisture content desired
as disclosed herein.
[0028] Moreover, dressings that are further processed (for example, textiled or conditioned)
and/or stored may be first packaged in moisture impermeable packaging material or film and
sealed prior to movement or storage of the dressings. Examples of moisture-impermeable
packaging material include polyethylene, aluminium, polyester, mixtures thereof or any other
suitable material or mixtures thereof, including a trilaminate film of polyethylene, aluminium
foil and a polyester that ensures protection from light, oxygen and moisture transmission.
[0029] In some embodiments, the improvement in usability of wound dressings comprising
surfactants as described herein results in the substantial maintenance of conformability as

compared to a wound dressing without surfactant present. In other embodiments, the
improvement in usability of wound dressings comprising surfactants as described herein results
in a measurable improvement in tensile strength as compared to wound dressings with a
moisture content of less than 10%. In yet other embodiments, the improvement in usability of
wound dressings comprising surfactants as described herein results in a measurable
improvement in tensile strength as compared to wound dressings stored at ambient temperature
or in zero humidity conditions. In still other embodiments, the improvement in usability of
wound dressings comprising surfactants as described herein results in the substantial
maintenance of wound dressing structure, including lack of dust formation, as compared to
wound dressings stored at ambient temperature or in zero humidity conditions.
[0030] In another aspect, the present invention provides a process for preparing the wound
dressing as described above.
[0031] In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for maintaining
conformability of a wound dressing comprising providing a wound dressing as described above.
[0032] A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art, is not
to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that the information
it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the
claims.
[0033] Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in this
specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the
stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or more
other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereto.
                                           EXAMPLES
[0034] The following examples are illustrative of the present invention.
Example 1
[0035] Effect of moisture content on the tensile strength of silver containing wound dressings
according to the invention.
[0036] Dressings according to the invention were prepared modification of solvent spun
cellulose tow to a degree of substitution of 0.3 to form carboxymethylcellulose, neutralising to a
pH of 5.5 with an organic acid. Adding 1.2% cationic silver by an ion exchange process in a
largely organic solvent such as by the process described in EP13435 10, washing in an aqueous
organic solution containing sodium chloride and di-sodium EDTA for light stabilisation and to
entrain approximately 0.4% EDTA. Followed by washing in organic solvent wash containing
fibre finishing agents including tween 20 and benzethonium chloride (to give 0.135%
benzethonium chloride on the finished product). Warm air drying, cutting to staple and

processing into a nonwoven felt by carding and a needle punching process. The dressings were
cut to size from the felt and packaged in a light, moisture and vapour impermeable heat sealed
foil pouch.
[0037] The dressings were removed from the packs and then subjected to various controlled
environments.
Controlled environments
[0038] Ambient as packed, tested without any preconditioning;
         Zero humidity: Stored in a square desiccator with 3 perforated perspex shelves
         above a layer of silica gel desiccant, conditioned for a minimum of 5 days;
         and the following by storing in humidity controlled rooms (Source Bioscience Ltd.) for a
         minimum of 6 days:
         25+ 2 0 C/60+5%RH
         30+ 2 0 C/65%+5RH
         40+_2 0 C/75%+5RH.
[0039] Samples (ambient as packed) were tested immediately after opening the packs. Samples
removed from the other environments were sealed into plastic bags during removal, and then
tested immediately. The plastic bags (also preconditioned in corresponding controlled
environments) were used to maintain the humidity of the environment of the samples until the
point of testing.
Loss on Drying (LOD)
[0040] LOD of the samples was determined using the Ohaus moisture balance MB23 operated
in accordance with the instruction manual. A sample mass of greater than 1 gram was used.
Samples were cut to fit within the weighing pan, ensuring there was adequate clearance from the
heating element. A standardised method was used with a maximum temperature limit of 1 10 C.
The endpoint was determined automatically when the sample mass stopped reducing and was
stable. Under these conditions the fabric did not char. Typically, samples would be subjected to
a 10 minute cycle.
Fabric Thickness (Loft)
[0041] Samples were tested using the Hampden Soft Materials Thickness Gauge, Model
FMTml-4D, S/N 14082. Fabric thickness (sometimes referred to as loft) was determined for 6
dressings per batch.
Fabric Dry Tensile Strength
[0042] 2.5cm x 7.5cm rectangular strips were cut from along the length (machine direction) and
across the width (transverse direction) using a ribbon cutting die and press. Samples were

conditioned as described in the table. The peak force and the extension at which that force
occurred were recorded when a 50mm test length was stretched at a constant separation rate of
100mm per minute.
Results
Relationship between absolute and relative humidity
Pre-              Dry     Ambient      25 0 C/60%RH      30'C/65%RH       40'C/75%RH
Conditioning
Moisture          0.00    9.50         13.81             19.71            38.29
(g/m 3 )
Thickness         0.170   0.190        0.198             0.183            0.202
(mm)
LOD%              9.28     11.93       14.17             15.27             18.10
Tensile           3.10    5.19         5.80              5.36             7.75
Machine
(N/cm)
Tensile           5.15    6.53         11.12             10.23             14.28
Transverse
(N/cm)
[0043] Loss on drying is the summation of all the volatile substances that can be removed by
heating at 110 C. These include ethanol, water and to some degree acetic acid.
[0044] It is believed that water is the most critical of these to the successful production of
gelling fibre products. Insufficient moisture leads to embrittlement which in turn leads to fibre
breakage during fibre processing and the formation of dust. The subsequent reduced length
stable fibre can then produce a weaker and lighter fabric with less loft which in turn leads to a
lower absorbency product.
[0045] For this particular fibre, for this example, textile trials have shown that fibres for use in
wound dressings according to the invention can be successfully textiled between 42% and 50%
RH at around 18 to 20'C. Trials suggest that fibres with 10.5% to 11.5% w/w moisture content
can be carded efficiently.

[0046] The results show that tensile strength, loft and LOD are all functions of equilibrium
moisture content. The results suggest that fibres with a moisture content of greater than 10.5%
will be able to be textiled to produce dressings suitable for use in the present invention.
Example 2
[0047] Effect of moisture content on conformability of examples of silver containing wound
dressings according to the invention
Materials:
Test Dressings:
[0048] AQUACEL Ag, commercial product, absorbent, gelling, fibrous-felt dressing containing
1.2% w/w ionic silver.
        Lot 1G 00157 5cm x 5cm
        Lot 1H 03025 10cm x 10cm
        Lot 1E 02908 15cm x 15cm
[0049] AQUACEL Ag treated with an antimicrobial composition comprising di-sodium EDTA
and benzethonium chloride during the addition of silver to the fibres.
        Lot 1H 01291B 5cm x 5cm
        Lot 1H 01302B+C 10cm x 10cm
        Lot 1H 01303D 15cm x 15cm
        Lot 1H 0125 1C+D 20cm x 30cm
Methods:
[0050] The samples of AQUACEL Ag according to the invention, that is those treated with an
antimicrobial composition comprising di-sodium EDTA and benzethonium chloride were
produced by the method of example 1.
[0051] The resulting dressings were conditioned in a laboratory environment maintained at an
average temperature of 20'C ± 2'C and an average relative humidity of 65% RH ±4% for at
least 24 hours prior to testing. The dressings had a moisture content as shown below.
        Lot 1H 01291B 5cm x 5cm LOD 12%
        Lot 1H 01302B+C 10cm x 10cm LOD 11%
        Lot 1H 01303D 15cm x 15cm LOD 11%
        Lot 1H 01251C+D 20cm x 30cm LOD 11%
[0052] The AQUACEL Ag dressings were similarly conditioned and packaged.
[0053] Dressing conformability was assessed using a panel of three laboratory staff who were
given six samples each of the dressing according to the invention and correspondingly sized
AQUACEL Ag as a comparator (or control). They wrapped each dressing around their forearm

(in the dry state directly from the packaging) and scored how well each dressing conformed to
the shape of the arm using a comparative score based on a five point system.
       (A) much better than the comparator
       (B) better than the comparator
       (C) the same as the comparator
       (D) worse than the comparator
       (E) much worse than the comparator.
[0054] The results are given in the following table.
Sample Details                                       Flexibility Score
                                                     A     B      C    D   E
Lot 1H 1302B                                                      6
Lot 1H 1302C                                               1      5
Lot 1H 1302D                                                      6
[0055] These results show that the dressings according to the invention were either equal to or
better than the AQUACEL Ag which is known to have good conformability.

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. A packaged wound dressing comprising modified cellulosic fibres treated with an
antimicrobial composition comprising a source of an antimicrobial metal ion and a quaternary
cationic surfactant, the dressing having a moisture content of between 10% and 20% by weight.
2. A wound dressing as claimed in claim 1 wherein the package maintains the moisture content
of the dressing in the range of 10% and 20% until the point of use.
3. A wound dressing as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the antimicrobial metal ion is
selected from the group of the transition metals but particularly silver, iron, nickel, copper,
chromium, manganese, gold, gallium, mercury, lead, aluminium, zinc, bismuth, tin and
palladium or combinations thereof.
4. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the metal ion is
silver.
5. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the metal ion is
included in the dressing at a level of from 0.01% to 10% by weight.
6. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the metal ion is
included in the dressing at a level of 0.1% to 50%by weight.
7. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the metal ion is
included in the dressing at a level of 0.5% to 1.5% by weight.
8. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the quaternary
cationic surfactant is a quaternary ammonium surfactant.
9. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the cationic
surfactant is selected from the group of the salts where the cation is benzethonium,
benzalkonium, dimethyldiakylonium, alkylpyridinium and alkyltrimethylammonium.
10. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the dressing
further comprises a chelating agent for example, EDTA present as the di-, tri- or tetra-basic salts
of EDTA.
11. A wound dressing as claimed in claim 10 wherein the metal chelating agent is present in the
dressing at a level of 0.1% to 4% by weight.
12. A wound dressing as claimed in claims 10 or 11 wherein the metal chelating agent is present
in the dressing at a level of less than 2% by weight.
13. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12 wherein the metal chelating
agent is present in the dressing at a level of 0.2% to 1% by weight.
14. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the moisture
content is between 11% and 18% by weight.

15. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the moisture
content is between 11. 5 % and 15% by weight.
16. A wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims wherein the moisture
content is between 11. 5 % and 13% by weight.
17. A process for preparing the wound dressing as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
18. A method for maintaining conformabilty of a wound dressing comprising providing a
wound dressing as claimed in any one of claims I to 16.

