                                           ABSTRACT
                 The invention is directed to systems, methods and apparatus for securing
   documents. The system comprises a server having a processor and a data storage device
 5 for storing documents, at least one document provider connected to the server, the at least
   one document provider operable to provide user documents to the server for storage in the
   data storage device, the user documents containing at least one object of security concern,
   and at least one document consumer connected to the server, the at least one document
   consumer operable to receive the user documents containing the at least one object of
10 security concern from the server. The processor in the server is operable to determine
   whether to provide the at least one object of security concern to the at least one document
   consumer based on at least one security setting, and based on the decision either provide
   the documents with the at least one object of security concern or provide a replacement
   documents without the security of concern and an indication on each replacement
15 document that that the at least one object of security concern has been excluded.

                                   CD
   C%4      .   %                   O'
                  C/)O
           CI
                         ww
         w
       0
       0
       z
                  ww
       0                        L
00         _  _      _ _
                                0      _ _
                            cv, I)

      SYSTEMS, METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR SECURING USER DOCUMENTS
   [0001]         This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
   itself a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2011202786, the entire contents of
 5 which are incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD
   [0001a]        The embodiments described herein are directed to securing documents and in
   particular to securing documents over a computer network.
10
   INTRODUCTION
   [0002]         The Internet provides a forum for sharing information. Generally, a user obtains
   information from the Internet using a software application known as a "web browser". The web
   browser application is operable to receive instructions in web documents and execute the
15 instructions to present information embedded therein to the user. The instructions in the web
   documents are typically provided in Hyper Text Mark-up Language (HTML) and other
   associated languages.
   [0003]         A person who wishes to share information with other individuals may do so by
   uploading a document to a server. The uploaded document will be then available on the server
20 for download and viewing by interested persons with appropriate levels of access. However,
   the uploaded document may contain inappropriate content and/or instructions that may produce
   undesirable results when executed by the web browser application.
   [0004]         To reduce the risk of documents causing undesirable results when they are
   executed, the web browser applications may prohibit execution of instructions of certain type.
25 For examples, the web browser application may not execute JavaScripts unless expressly
   requested by the user. However, categorically          refusing to execute particular types of
   instructions may deprive the user of beneficial integrations from files of that type.
   [0005]         In some environments, an application on the user's computer, for example a plug
   in application to the web browser application, may block web pages from websites that
30 are deemed to be not trustworthy. For example, there are various commercial software
   applications available that restrict web browsers from accessing inappropriate material from
   unauthorized persons (e.g., children). Generally, these applications provide different levels
   of access to different users. For example, parents using the application (upon password
   verification) may use the web browser to access any web site. Children (or those without
35
                                                   - 1-

    password verification) may only receive web pages from websites deemed by the
    application to be trustworthy. As such, a user of the software application may be limited to
    either use the filters provided by the application, or not use any filters at all. Specifically, the
    user may not have the option to customize filtering preferences.
  5 [0006]        Additionally, this type of software application is normally limited to the specific
    computer that the software is installed on. With the advance of mobile technology, a user
    may access the Internet using a multitude of devices such as desktops, laptops, smart
    phones, netbooks, and tablet computers.
    [0007]        Accordingly, the inventors have identified a need for improved systems,
 10 methods, and apparatus for securing documents that attempt to address at least some of
    these concerns.
    SUMMARY
    [0008]        According to one embodiment, there is provided a system for securing
 15 documents. The system comprises a server having at least one processor and at least one
    data storage device for storing documents, at least one document provider connected to
    the server, the at least one document provider operable to provide at least one user
    document to the server for storage in the at least one data storage device, the at least one
    user document containing at least one object of security concern, and at least one
 20 document consumer connected to the server, the at least one document consumer
    operable to receive the at least one user document containing the at least one object of
    security concern from the server. The at least one processor in the server is operable to
    determine whether to provide the at least one object of security concern to the at least one
    document consumer based on at least one security setting. If it is determined that the at
25  least one object of security concern should be provided, the at least one processor in the
    server is operable to provide the at least one user document with the at least one object of
    security concern to the at least one document consumer. If it is determined that the at least
    one object of security concern should not be provided, then the at least one processor in
    the server is operable to generate at least one replacement document containing the at
30  least one user document without the at least one object of security concern and including
                                                  -2-

    an indication that the at least one object of security concern has been excluded, and to
    provide the at least one replacement document to the at least one document consumer.
    [0009]         According to another embodiment, there is provided a server for securing
    documents. The server comprises at least data storage device for storing a plurality of user
  5 documents, at least one of the user documents containing at least one object of security
    concern, at least one network device for connecting to at least one document provider and
    at least one document consumer, the at least one document provider operable to provide at
    least one of the user documents to the server, the at least one document consumer
    operable to receive at least one of the plurality of user documents from the server, and at
 10 least one processor coupled to the at least one data storage device and the at least one
    network device. The at least one processor in the server is operable to determine whether
    to provide the at least one object of security concern in the at least one of the user
    documents concern to the at least one document consumer based on at least one security
    setting. If it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should be
 15 provided, then the at least one processor is operable to provide the at least one user
    document with the at least one object of security concern to the at least one document
    consumer. If it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should not be
    provided, then the at least one processor is operable to generate at least one replacement
    document containing the at least one user document without the at least one object of
 20 security concern and an indication that the at least one object of security concern has been
    excluded, and to provide the at least one replacement document to the at least one
    document consumer.
    [0010]         According to another embodiment, there is provided a method for securing
    documents at a server having at least one server processor and at least one data storage
25  device. The method comprises receiving at least one document from at least one document
    containing at least one object of security concern, storing the at least one document in at
    least one data storage device, using the at least one server processor to determine
    whether to provide the at least one object of security concern to at least one document
    consumer based on at least one security setting. If it is determined that the at least one
30  object of security concern should be provided, then the method comprises using the at
    least one server processor to provide the at least one document with the at least one object
                                                 -3-

    of security concern to the at least one document consumer. If it is determined that the at
    least one object of security concern should not be provided, then the method comprises
    using the at least one server processor to generate at least one replacement document
    containing the at least one document without the at least one object of security concern and
  5 further containing an indication that the at least one object of security concern has been
    excluded, and providing the at least one replacement document to the at least one
    document consumer.
    [0011]        According to another embodiment, there is provided a non-transitory
    computer readable medium comprising instructions executable by a processor to cause the
 10 processor to receive at least one document containing at least one object of security
    concern from at least one document provider, store the at least one document in at least
    one storage device, determine whether to provide the at least one object of security
    concern to at least one document consumer based on at least one security setting. If it is
    determined that the at least one object of security concern should be provided, then the
 15 instructions causes the processor to provide the at least one document with the at least one
    object of security concern to the at least one document consumer. If it is determined that
    the at least one object of security concern should not be provided, then instructions causes
    the processor to generate at least one replacement document containing the at least one
    document without the at least one object of security concern and an indication that the at
 ?0 least one object of security concern has been excluded, and to provide the replacement
    document to the at least one document consumer.
    DRAWINGS
    [0012]        The embodiments herein will now be described, by way of example only, with
25  reference to the following drawings, in which:
    [0013]        Figure 1 is a block diagram illustrating the connection between components of
    a system for securing documents according to one embodiment;
    [0014]        Figure 2 is a block diagram illustrating the components of the system shown
    in Figure 1;
                                                  -4-

    [0015]        Figure 3 is a block diagram illustrating exemplary user documents provided
    by the document provider shown in Figure 1;
    [0016]        Figure 4 is a block diagram illustrating exemplary user documents received by
    the document consumer shown in Figure 1;
  5 [0017]        Figure 5 is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary screening document
    generated by the server shown in Figure 1;
    [0018]        Figure 6 is a block diagram illustrating another exemplary screening
    document generated by the server shown in Figure 1;
    [0019]        Figure 7 is a block diagram illustrating another exemplary screening
 .0 document generated by the server shown in Figure 1;
    [0020]        Figure 8 is a block diagram illustrating an exemplary options document for
    indicating scope of applicability generated by the server shown in Figure 1;
    [0021]        Figure 9 is a block diagram illustrating exemplary contents of the data storage
    device shown in Figure 1; and
 15 [0022]        Figure 10 illustrates the information received in response to screening
    documents in the data storage device of Figure 1 organized as a table.
    DESCRIPTION OF VARIOUS EMBODIMENTS
    [0023]        It will be appreciated that numerous specific details are set forth in order to
20  provide a thorough understanding of the exemplary embodiments described herein.
    However, it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments
    described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances, well
    known methods, procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not
    to obscure the embodiments described herein. Furthermore, this description is not to be
25  considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein in any way, but
    rather as merely describing the implementation of various embodiments as described
    herein.
    [0024]        The embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may be
    implemented     in hardware or software, or combinations of both. However, these
                                                  -5-

    embodiments may be are implemented in computer programs executing on programmable
    computers each comprising at least one processor, a data storage device (including volatile
    and non-volatile memory and/or other storage elements), at least one input device, and at
    least one output device. For example and without limitation, the programmable computers
  5 may be a mainframe computer, server, personal computer, laptop, personal data assistant,
    tablet computer or cellular telephone. Program code may be applied to input data to
    perform the functions described herein and generate output information. The output
    information may be applied to one or more output devices in known fashions.
    [0025]        Each program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object
  0 oriented programming and/or scripting language to communicate with a computer system.
    However, the programs can be implemented in assembly or machine language, if desired.
    In any case, the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Each such computer
    program may be stored on a storage media or a device (e.g., read only memory (ROM) or
    magnetic diskette) readable by a general or special purpose programmable computer, for
 15 configuring and operating the computer when the storage media or device is read by the
    computer to perform the procedures described herein. The inventive system may also be
    considered to be implemented as a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium,
    configured with a computer program, wherein the storage medium so configured causes a
    computer to operate in a specific and defined manner to perform the functions described
 ?0 herein.
    [0026]        Referring now to Figures 1 and 2, illustrated therein is a system 10 for
    securing user documents according to one embodiment. The system 10 generally includes
    a server 20, a document provider 30, and a document consumer 40. As shown, the server
    20 may be connected to the document provider 30 and document consumer 40 through the
25   Internet 18.
    [0027]        The server 20 generally has at least one processor 22 and at least one data
    storage device 24.
    [0028]        The document provider 30 is operable to provide at least one user document
    60 to the server 20 for storage in the at least one data storage device 24.
                                                  -6-

     [0029]        The at least one user document 60 contains at least one object of security
     concern 63 (as shown for example in Figure 3).
     [0030]        The document consumer 40 is generally operable to receive the at least one
     user document 60 provided by the document provider 30 from the server 20.
  5  [0031]        The processor 22 of the server 20 is operable to determine whether to
     provide the at least one object of security concern 63 to the at least one document
     consumer 40 based on at least one security setting. For example, if it is determined that the
     object of security concern 63 should be provided, the processor 22 can then provide the at
     least one user document 60 with the at least one object of security concern 63 to the at
 10  least one document consumer 40.
     [0032]        However, if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern 63
    should not be provided (e.g., due to security concerns), the processor 22 is operable to
    generate at least one replacement document 74 containing the uploaded user document 60
    (without the at least one object of security concern 63) and an indication 75 that the at least
 15 one object of security concern 63 has been excluded, and then provide this replacement
    document 74 to the at least one document consumer 40.
    [0033]        The document provider 30 is a computing device connected to the Internet
    18, and through the Internet 18 to the server 20. The document provider 30 may be a
    desktop computer 32, a mobile computing device 34 such as a smart phone, a laptop 36,
 20 and so on. Generally, the document provider 30 has at least one processor, at least one
    data storage device and at least one network module configured to communicate with a
    network to access the Internet 18.
    [0034]        In some embodiments (e.g., depending on the type of device), a cellular
    network, Ethernet network, IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless network or some combination
25  thereof may be used to access the Internet 18. The network module generally includes
    suitable hardware and/or software components that facilitate access to such networks.
    [0035]        Generally, one or more users may use the document provider 30 to access
    the server 20. Each of the users may have an associated user profile 38. The user profile
    38 will generally contain profile information about the user associated with that profile such
                                                  -7-

   as the user's name, an email address, login information (login ID and password), and so
   on.
   [0036]         The document consumer 40 may be similar to the document provider 30. For
   example, the document consumer 40 may be a computing device connectable to the
 5  Internet 18, and through the Internet 18 to the server 20. The document provider 40 may be
   a desktop computer 42, a mobile computing device 44 such as a smart phone, a tablet
   computer, a laptop 46, and so on. Generally, the document consumer 40 has a processor,
   a data storage device and a network module configured to communicate with a network to
   access the Internet 18. Depending on the type of device, a cellular network, Ethernet
10 network, or IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless network may be used to access the Internet
   18.
   [0037]         In specific embodiments, for example, in an online educational community,
   the profile information may contain additional information related to the community such as
   the role of that user in the education community (e.g., instructor, student, administrator).
15 The profile information may include information that is indicative of a level of access
   granted to a particular user. For example, the user profile 38 with an assigned role of an
   "instructor" will generally have a higher access level than the user profile 38 with an
   assigned role of a "student". The access level may limit actions that the user profile 38 may
   perform on the server 20.
20 [0038]         The user profiles 38 may be stored in the data storage device 24 on the
   server 20. Storing the user profiles 38 in a centralized location such as the server 20 may
   allow the user associated with a specific user profile 38 to access that user profile 38 from
   different devices and/or locations. For example, the user may access his user profile 38 via
   a desktop 32, a mobile computing device 34, or a laptop 36.
25 [0039]         The system 10 may require the user to successfully authenticate before
   providing access to their user profile 38. Security authentication may involve providing a
   user name and associated password to the server 20. In some circumstances, a user may
   access the system using a guest or a generic user profile 38. This may occur if the user
   does not have an associated user profile 38 or if he is unable to authenticate him or herself.
                                                 -8-

    [0040]         In some embodiments, it may be desirable to have a user profile 38 include
    specific (e.g., non-generic) information about the associated user when providing the user
    document 60 to the server 20. The profile information associated with that user profile 38
    may then be recorded with the user document 60 that is provided. This information may be
  5 used to determine whether to provide one or more objects of security concern 63 contained
    in the user document 60.
    [0041]         Referring again to Figure 3, the user document 60 generally contains content
    information 61 that the user of the document provider 30 wishes to share. In some
    examples, the user document 60 may be a web page programmed in HTML or another
 10 suitable language. Content information may include text, images, audio, video or any other
    information that can be shared over the Internet. As part of the content 61, the user
    document 60 may also contain one or more objects of security concern 63.
    [0042]         The object of security concern 63 may be any data provided in the user
    document 60 that may cause the document consumer 40 to function in an undesired
 15 manner.
    [0043]         The object of security concern 63 may include instructions executable by the
    document consumer 40 to produce undesirable results. Generally, the web browser
    application offers a level of protection for scripts that it executes. For example, the web
    browser application will generally not permit scripts to modify files other than its own
 20 narrowly defined "cookie" files. However, there may be plug-in applications installed within
    the web browser application that may not adhere to the security policy of the web browsers.
    [0044]         As such, instructions provided to these plug-in applications, when executed,
    may harm the file-system in the document consumer 30, breach privacy of the files stored
    in the document consumer 30 or otherwise cause harm to the document consumer 30.
25  Generally, the instructions that may cause harm to the document consumer 40 are flagged
    as one or more objects of security concern 63. For example, a set of instructions in a
    scripting language, such as the JavaScript language as shown in the user document 64,
    may be flagged as an object of security concern 63.
    [0045]         The object of security 63 concern may also be instructions executable by the
30  document consumer 40 to obtain information from an external domain. For example, the
                                                  -9-

     object of security concern 63 may be a hotlink to an external website 80 from a different
     domain. A hotlink (also known as a direct or inline link) will cause the document consumer
    40 to obtain information (e.g., an image or text) from another website other than the server
     20, usually without the knowledge by or requiring consent of a user of the document
  5 consumer 40.
     [0046]        In some cases, hotlinks may be used for phishing attacks that fraudulently
    attempt to obtain sensitive information from a user, which may then be used to perpetuate
     unscrupulous activities such as credit card fraud or identity theft. For example, a phishing
    attack may be perpetuated by planting hotlinks to unscrupulous domains in a legitimate
 10 document to obtain the confidence of a victim.
    [0047]         In another example, the object of security concern 63 may be an iFrame
    displaying information from an external website 80 from a different domain. Generally, an
    iFrame is a feature provided in HTML that causes the browser application to create a
    window or a frame within a document that displays a different document from a different
 15 source.
    [0048]         In addition to vulnerability to phishing attacks, an object of security concern
    63 that has external links may be used to circumvent an organization's content policy. For
    example, the server 20 may be managed and controlled by an organization such as an
    educational institution. The document providers 30 may be used by students, instructors or
 20 administrative staff to upload content in documents, such as course material or personal
    items (e.g., blogs, personal home pages) to be shared with other members of the
    organization. The organization may exercise some degree of control over the content to
    prevent dissemination of undesired information (e.g., hateful speech, adult or violent
    material, and so on) using various content filters.
25  [0049]         However, conventional filters used by the organization will generally not be
    able to filter out content received through the external links provided in documents. As
    such, embodiments herein can offer a measure of protection against hotlinks or any other
    instructions executable by the document consumer 40 to obtain information from an
    external domain.
                                                   -10-

     [0050]         Despite the noted potential for security breaches by content 61 of some
     documents, particularly by an object of security concern 63, some of the content 61,
     including the objects of security concern 63, may be beneficial to a user of the document
     consumer 40. For example, external links may link to helpful and regularly updated
  5  documents on external domains. Furthermore, the instructions that can cause harm in
     some circumstances may also facilitate useful functions such as providing flash animations
     or other engaging means of conveying information. Because of the potential for beneficial
     integrations, categorically blocking all objects of security concern 63 is generally
     undesirable.
 10  [0051]         In some cases, one approach is for applications or systems to categorically
     block external links or warn a user when a document attempts to access an external link,
     but provide the user with the capability to override the block or warning. A user input may
     then be required to acknowledge the warning and/or override the block. However, because
     there may be a plurality of external links, requiring user input for each external link may
 15  become cumbersome and is also generally undesirable.
     [0052]        To address at least some of the above concerns, the processor 22 on the
     server 20 may be operable to determine whether to provide objects of security concern 63
     in uploaded user documents 60 to the document consumer 40 based on at least one
    security setting.
 20  [0053]        In some embodiments, the security settings may include one or more
    centralized lists managed by the server 20, and which may be applicable to all the
    documents provided by the document provider 30. Because the centralized list is generally
    applicable to all documents provided by the document provider 30, amendments to the
    centralized list 30 can easily cause changes in all the documents.
25  [0054]         In some embodiments, the centralized list may include a black list 56. The
    black list 56 can indicate objects of security concern 63 that should not be provided to the
    at least one document consumer 40.
    [0055]         In some embodiments, the centralized list may include a white list 52. The
    white list 52 generally indicates objects of security concern 63 that should be provided to
30  the at least one document consumer 40.
                                                 - 11 -

     [0056]         In some embodiments, objects that are not identified in either the black list 56
     or the white list 52 may be referred to generally as unknown objects 54.
     [0057]         The contents of each list 52 and 56 may include various "types" of objects of
     security concern 63, "sources" of the document provided, and other information about
  5 external links that the objects of security concern 63 may link to.
     [0058]         In some cases, the "types" of objects of security concern 63 may include the
    types of instructions executable by the document consumer 40 such as JavaScript or
     Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) types. Information about external links may
     include domain names, URL extensions, title of the externally linked document, or web
 10  pages. The source of the document may include author information, which may include the
     name of the person (i.e. the author of the document) who created the document and/or the
     user profile 38 that provided the document to the server 20.
    [0059]          In some embodiments, the white list 52 may include a list of trustworthy user
    profiles 38, and the black list 56 may include a list of untrustworthy user profiles 38. The
 15 server 20 may be configured to determine whether the user profile 38 that uploaded the
    document that contains the object of security concern 63 is on the black list 56 or the white
    list 2 and based on this information determine whether to provide the object of security
    concern 63. The server 20 may be configured to determine whether a user profile 38 is
    trustworthy based on previous actions associated with that user profile 38. For example, if
 20 the user profile 38 has uploaded a predetermined number of documents containing objects
    of security concern 63, the user profile may be deemed to be untrustworthy. Similarly, if the
    user profile has uploaded more than a predetermined percentage of documents containing
    objects of security concern 63, the user profile 38 may be deemed to be untrustworthy and
    placed on the black list 56. Conversely, the user profile 38 that has uploaded a certain
25  number or percentage of documents containing objects of security concern 63 below a
    specified threshold may be deemed to be trustworthy and placed on the white lit 32. In
    some embodiments, the server 32 may be configured to analyze historical reclassifications
    of items associated with the user profile 38 which had previously been identified as objects
    of security concern 63 to determine if that user profile 38 should be on the white list 52 or
30  the black list 56.
                                                  - 12-

     [00601        The information on the black list 56 and white list 52 may be used (e.g.,
     referenced) by the processor 22 to determine whether to provide objects of security
     concern 63 to the document consumer 40.
     [0061]         Generally, a user may use the document consumer 40 to access the
  5  documents provided by the document provider 30. The user may have a user profile 48
     associated with the user. In some cases, the user profile 48 may be the same as or similar
     to the user profile 38. In other cases, the user profile 48 may be different from the user
     profile 38.
     [0062]         In some cases, the same user profile (e.g., user profile 48) may be used to
 10  access both the document provider 30 and document consumer 40. For example, the user
     profile 48 associated with an instructor may be used to access a document provider 30 to
     upload user documents 60 containing course materials to the server 20 such that they are
     accessible by participants in a course. Once uploaded, the same user profile 48 may be
     used by the instructor to access the documents that were provided to the server 20,
 15 thereby acting as the document consumer 40.
    [0063]         In some cases, the system 10 may require the user to successfully
    authenticate before providing access to the user profile 48. Security authentication may
    involve providing a user name and associated password to the server 20. In some
    circumstances, the user may access the system using a guest or a generic user profile 48.
 20 This may occur if the user does not have an associated user profile 48 or if he is unable to
    authenticate himself.
    [0064]         In some embodiments, it may be desirable to have a user profile 48 include
    specific (e.g., non-generic) information about the associated user when accessing one or
    more documents 70 from the server 20. The user profile 48 may have associated
25  information received in response to screening documents 90 which can be used to
    determine whether to provide one or more objects of security concern 63 contained in the
    user document 60.
    [0065]         The document consumer 40 is operable to receive the user document 60
    provided by the document provider 30 that is stored in the data storage 24 on the server
30  20. Specifically, the document consumer may send one or more requests for the user
                                                -13-

    document 60. In response, the server will send back one or more documents 70, which in
    some cases will be a copy of the user document 60. However, in other cases, the
    document 70 may exclude one or more objects of security concern contained in the user
    document 60.
 5  [0066]         For example, if the processor 22 determines that the object of security
    concern 63 should be provided, the document 70 provided to the document consumer 40
    includes that object of security concern 63. For example, referring to Figure 4, if the object
    of security concern 63 comprises instructions 73 to download and display a whitelisted
    document 82 from a domain on the white list 52, then instructions to download and display
10  the whitelisted document 82 are provided to the document consumer 40 as part of the
    document 72. The instructions may be automatically executed to download and display the
   whitelisted document 82 as shown.
    [0067]        In other embodiments, instead of providing the instructions to download and
   display the whitelisted document 82, the processor 22 may simply retrieve the whitelisted
15 document 82 and provide it as part of the document 70.
   [0068]         However, if the processor 22 determines that the object of security concern
   63 should not be provided, the document 70 provided to the document consumer 40 then
   includes a replacement document 74 generated by the processor 22. The replacement
   document 74 contains the provided user document 60 without the at least one object of
20 security concern 63, and includes at least one indication 75 that the at least one object of
   security concern 63 has been excluded.
   [0069]         For example, if the object of security concern 63 comprises instructions to
   download and display a document 84 from a domain that is unknown, then the replacement
   document 74 provided to the document consumer 40 excludes the instructions to
25 download, and in their place, includes an indicator 75 that indicates that the object of
   security concern 63 has been "blocked".
   [0070]         In another example, the same replacement page 74 may also be provided to
   the document consumer 40 if the object of security concern 63 comprises instructions to
   download and display a blacklisted document 86 from a domain on the black list 56.
                                               - 14 -

     [0071]         In some embodiments, there may be a plurality of objects of security concern
     63 in a single user document 60. In such cases, the document 70 may be a replacement
     document 74 that excludes one or more of the objects of security concern 63 and includes
     one or more other objects of security concern 63 that have been determined to be
  5  allowable.
     [0072]         Referring to Figure 5, in some embodiments, the processor 22 may also
     generate a screening document 90 when the security object 63 is excluded from the
     document 70 that is provided to the document consumer 40. The screening document 90
     may contain information 91 about the object of security concern 63 that was excluded such
 10  that the user of the at least one document consumer 40 may be able use that information to
     assess security risk associated with the object of security concern 63.
     [0073]        The screening document 90 may be accessed in different ways. For example,
    the indication 75 for a blocked object of security concern 63 may contain a link to the
     screening document 90. In another example, the screening document may be provided as
 15  part of the document 70. The screening document 90 may also be accessible even if the
    object of security concern 63 is allowed such that the user may instruct the server to block
    the object of security concern 63.
    [0074]         In some embodiments, the information 91 about the object of security concern
    63 may include a non-executable rendering of the object of security concern 63. The type
 20 of information 91 about the object of security concern 63 may vary based on the type of
    object of security concern 63.
    [0075]         In the exemplary screening document 90 as shown in Figure 5, the
    information 91 about the object of security concern 63 comprises information about the
    external site referenced by the object of security concern 63, namely the URL address
25  information 92. This type of information 91 may be provided wherein when the object of
    security concern 63 includes instructions executable by the document consumer 40 to
    download and display one or more documents from an external site.
    [0076]         In another example, the information 91 about the object of security concern
    63 may also include information about the user profile 38 that provided the user document
30  60 or information about the author of the user document 60. Information about the user
                                                -15-

     profile 38 may include the user's role (e.g., instructor, student, administrative staff, or guest)
     in the system 10, the user's name, and so on. This may allow the document consumer 40
     to assess whether the user document 60 is from a trustworthy source based on the
     information 91 provided, and if so, then elect to receive the objects of security concern 63
  5  contained therein.
     [0077]        In another example, as shown in Figure 6, the non-executable information 91
    that is provided may be an image representation 102 of the object of security concern 63
    that was excluded. If the object of security concern 63 includes instructions executable by
    the document consumer 40 to download and display a document from an external domain,
 10 then the image representation 102 may be a screen capture of the document that was
    excluded. The image representation 102 may be useful to convey the "look and feel" of the
    external site to the document consumer 40. The "look and feel" of a document may be used
     by a user to assess whether the document is from a trustworthy domain.
    [0078]         In another example, as shown in Figure 7, the information 91 provided may
 15 be a text rendering 104 of the object of security concern 63 that was excluded. In the
    example as shown in Figure 7, the text rendering 104 contains non-executable text of
    javaScript displayed in a window. Depending on the length of the text, the window may be
    scrollable. The text rendering of the actual programming instructions may allow a more
    advanced user to discern risks associated with executing the instructions.
 20 [0079]         In some embodiments, the text rendering of the object of security concern 63
    may include the type of object that was blocked, and/or a list of potential risks associated
    with the type of object that was blocked. This type of rendering may be more easily
    understood by a less sophisticated user.
    [0080]         In some embodiments, the screening document 90 may contain more than
25  one type of information 91. For example, the exemplary screening document as shown in
    Figure 7 also contains author information and profile information generally indicated by
    reference numeral 93 in addition to the text rendering 104.
    [0081]         The screening document 90 may also contain one or more options for the
    user to provide information to the server 20 indicative of whether to provide the object of
30  security concern to the document consumer 40. In the exemplary screening document as
                                                   -16-

   shown, the options include an "ALLOW" button 94 and a "BLOCK" button 96. Clicking on
   the allow button 94 will indicate to the server 20 to permit the object of security concern to
   be provided to the document consumer 30. Conversely, clicking on the block button 96 will
   indicate to the server to exclude the object of security concern 63 from the document 70
 5 provided.
   [0082]         The screening document 90 may also have an input option to save the user's
   decision for subsequent use. Generally, this option may only be available the user is
   successfully associated with a user profile 48.
   [0083]         In the document 90 as shown, the input option is a checkbox 98 labeled
10 "Save Preference". The save preference checkbox 98 could be used to indicate to the
   system to apply the user's decision in the future. If the save preference checkbox 98 is
   selected when the user's decision to allow or block the object of security concern is
   communicated to the server 20, the processor 22 may associate the information provided
   with the user profile 48 associated with the user and store that information in the data
15 storage device 24. Subsequently, when similar objects of security concern 63 are
   encountered, the processor 22 may refer to the information associated with the user profile
   to attempt to decide whether to provide the object of security concern 63 before seeking
   user input. In some embodiments, the user's decision in response to one or more screening
   documents 90 may overrule the centralized black list 56 and white list 52.
20 [0084]         The screening document 90 may also provide input options for the user to
   indicate a scope of applicability of the information provided to the server 20. The scope of
   applicability may be indicative of when (e.g., under what circumstances) the server 20
   should apply the information provided by the user to determine whether to provide the
   object of security concern 63 in the future.
25 [0085]         In some embodiments, the scope of applicability may extend to a particular
   program, In some embodiments, the scope of applicability may extend to a particular tool.
   For example, in a program that generates and displays quizzes to users, the scope of
   applicability may extend to the content of the quiz. Accordingly, such a scope of
   applicability may allow or disallow an object of security concern within the contents of a
                                                -17-

     generated quiz. However, the scope of applicability may also extend to the responses
     provided by the users to the contents of the quiz.
     [0086]         The options to indicate the scope of applicability may be presented on the
     same document or on different documents. In the embodiment as shown in Figure 8, for
  5  example, the options to indicate the scope of applicability are shown on a different page.
     As shown, an exemplary document 110 contains various options 120 that the user may
     select to indicate the scope of applicability of the decision for the object of security concern
     63. The document may be accessed by clicking on the button 100 labeled as "Options"
     (shown in Figure 7).
 10  [0087]         The user may select to apply his decision to a current session by selecting
     checkbox 122 labeled "current session". The scope of a current session may generally
    approximate an amount of time that the user uses the document consumer 40 in one
    sitting. The length of the session may be inferred from various activities of the user. For
    example, if the user logs in at each session to an associated user profile 48, then the scope
 15 of the current session may apply until the user logs out of the associated user profile 48.
    [0088]          In another example, a server 20 may determine that a user profile has
    effectively logged out if there has been no activity associated with that user profile 48 for a
    certain period of time (e.g., a timeout). For example, if the user profile 48 has not requested
    any documents from the server for a given time, then the server may determine that the
 20 current session has ended.
    [0089]          There are other ways of determining when a session has ended, even without
    an associated user profile 48. For example, network address information (e.g., IP address)
    of the document consumer 40, and/or cookies containing unique session identifier may be
    used to approximate the duration of the current session.
25  [0090]          If the object of security concern 63 comprises a reference to an external
    domain, the user may select to apply his decision to all documents from that external
    domain by selecting the checkbox 124 labeled "all documents from the referenced site".
    This option will indicate that the user's decision should be applied to all objects received
    from that particular domain. Generally, the user may select this option if the user feels that
30  the referenced domain is a trustworthy domain and that all information, including objects of
                                                  - 18-

     security concern 63 from that site, should be allowed. Conversely, the user may select this
     option in combination with a BLOCK decision if the user feels that the reference domain is
     not a trustworthy site and all objects from that domain should be blocked.
     [0091]        The user may elect to apply his decision to all objects from the current
  5  domain by selecting the checkbox 126 labeled "all documents from this domain". This may
     indicate to the server 20 that the current domain from which the document containing the
     object of security concern is received is trustworthy and that all objects of security concern
     from the current domain should be allowed. Conversely, this may indicate to the server that
     the current domain is untrustworthy and that all objects of security concern 63 from the
 10  current domain should be blocked.
     [0092]        The scope of applicability may be for all files of a particular type. For example,
    the user may elect to apply his decision to all files of a particular type by selecting the
     checkbox 128 labeled "all files of this type". This option is generally provided when the
    object of security concern 63 comprises instructions executable by the document consumer
 15 40 to provide a functionality. Selecting the checkbox 128 may indicate to the server that the
     instructions of this particular type (e.g., flash, JavaScript) are considered to be "safe" or
    "unsafe" by the user and should be "allowed" or "blocked", respectively, during subsequent
    sessions.
    [0093]         The user may elect to apply his decision only to this particular object of
 20 security concern 63 by selecting the checkbox 128 labeled "this object only". This is the
    most limited scope of applicability in that the decision will only applied to this particular
    object of security concern 63 at this time. In this case, the processor 22 may not associate
    the user's decision with the user profile and save the association because the decision may
    not be used for subsequent sessions.
25  [0094]         The user may select the checkbox 132 labeled "always" to elect to apply his
    decision to all types of objects of security concern, from all documents, for all the time in
    the future. This may result in the processor blocking or allowing each and every object of
    security concern 63 for that user profile 48.
    [0095]         In some embodiments, the selections provided by the user will be allowed to
30  override the contents of the centralized black list 56 and white list 52. In other
                                                   -19-

     embodiments, only some of the decisions provided by the user will be allowed to override
     some of the contents of the centralized black list 56 and white list 52. For example, the user
     may be permitted to block objects of security concern 63 that are on the black list 56 but
     not allow objects of security concern 63 that are on the black list 56.
  5  [0096]         In some embodiments, the centralized lists 52, 56 may contain information
     about when a user's preference should be allowed to override its contents. This may be on
     an object by object basis, or may be more generalized (e.g., as an organizational policy).
     [0097]        To apply the user's decision to the selected scope of applicability, the
     processor 22 may associate each user decision with the user profile 48, and save the
 10  association on the data storage device 24. The processor 22, when determining whether to
     provide objects of security concern 63 to the document consumer 40 in the future may
    consider decisions associated with the user profile 48 that is requesting the document 70.
     [0098]        Referring now to Figure 9, illustrated therein are the exemplary contents of
    the data storage device 24 according to one embodiment. The data storage device 24
 15 contains user documents 60 provided by document consumers 30 as well as security
    settings, including the centralized black list 56 and white list 52. The data storage 24 also
    stores user profiles 38 and 48. Each of the user profiles 38 and 48 has profile information
    (e.g., user name, login information, role, etc.) associated with that user profile. In addition,
    the user profile may also have information received in response to screening documents
 20 associated with it.
    [0099]         The information received in response to screening documents is shown
    organized in the form of a table 120 in Figure 10. The table contains information about the
    decisions associated with that user profile rendered whether to provide objects of security
    concern in response to screening document 90 and/or the options document regarding the
25  scope of applicability.
    [00100]        In another example, a personalized black list and a white list for a user profile
    48 may be generated based on information provided by the user in the decisions and/or
    scope of applicability provided in response to the screening documents 90. In some cases,
    the contents of the personalized black list and white list may override the information
30  provided in the centralized black list 56 and white list 52.
                                                 -20-

     [00101]        The personalized black list and white list may be generated by creating a
     copy of the centralized black list 56 and white list 52, and modifying it in accordance with
     the information obtained from the screening document, and saving the modified black list
     and white list as the personalized black list and white list. This modified black list and white
  5  list may be consulted when determining whether to provide an object of security concern 63
     to the document consumer 40.
     [00102]        In another embodiment, the personalized black list and white list may be
     consulted first by the processor 22, and only when there is no information on the
     personalized lists about an object of security concern, the processor will consult the
 10  centralized lists 52 and 56. This embodiment effectively allows the personalized list to
    override the centralized lists 52 and 56.
     [00103]        The information provided by user in response to screening documents may
    also be utilized to amend the contents of the white list 52 and the black list 56. For
    example, if a predetermined number of users indicated that an object of security concern
 15 should be allowed, then the centralized lists 52, 56 may be modified to allow that object of
    security concern in the future. In some examples, the roles of the users in the organization
    that made the decision to allow or disallow may be considered. That is, if the user is an
    instructor, his decision may be given additional weight than if he is a student.
    [00104]         The trustworthiness of the users in the organization that made the decision to
 20 allow or disallow may also be considered when amending the contents of the lists 52 and
    56.    In other words, the server may be configured to analyze historical usage data
    associated with a particular user profile such as providing objects of security concern 63
    having links to external documents, and/or classifying objects of security concern 63 (e.g.
    external links or externally linked documents) on the lists 52 and 56. Based on the
25  trustworthiness of the particular user profile, the server may accept or deny the
    classification provided by the user. For example, if the server determines that the user
    profile is trustworthy, then the server may accept the classification provided by the user and
    modify the centralized lists accordingly.
    [00105]         The contents of the centralized black list and white list may also be modified
30  by a user with an appropriate level of access such as a system administrator who has an
                                                  -21 -

   administrative role for the server. The administrator may place a particular type of objects
   of security concern on the black list, for example, in response to security threats associated
   with that type of object of security concern.
   (00106]         The administrator may place one or more user profiles on the black list to
 5 indicate that all objects of security concern from that user be blocked. This may be in
   response to one or more violations of organizational policy by that user profile. Conversely,
   the administrator may place a particular user profile on the white list to indicate that all
   objects of security concern in the documents received from that user profile should be
   allowed.
10 [00107]         While certain features have been illustrated and described herein, many
   modifications, substitutions, changes, and equivalents will now occur to those of ordinary
   skill in the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to
   cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.
                                                  - 22 -

CLAIMS:
1. A system for securing documents comprising:
   a) a server having at least one processor and at least one data storage device for
       storing documents;
    b) at least one document provider connected to the server, the at least one document
       provider operable to provide at least one user document to the server for storage in
       the at least one data storage device, the at least one user document containing at
       least one object of security concern; and
   c) at least one document consumer connected to the server, the at least one document
       consumer operable to receive the at least one user document containing the at least
       one object of security concern from the server;
   d) wherein the at least one processor in the server is operable to:
       i) determine whether to provide the at least one object of security concern to the at
            least one document consumer based on at least one security setting;
       ii) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should be
            provided, provide the at least one user document with the at least one object of
            security concern to the at least one document consumer, and
       iii) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should not be
            provided, then:
            (1) generate at least one replacement document containing the at least one user
                 document without the at least one object of security concern and including an
                 indication that the at least one object of security concern has been excluded,
                 and
            (2) provide the at least one replacement document to the at least one document
                 consumer.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one security setting includes at
   least one centralized list managed by the server.
                                                - 23 -

3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the at least one centralized list comprises a
    black list indicative of a list of objects of security concern that should not be provided to
   the at least one document consumer.
4. The system according to claim 2, wherein the at least one centralized list comprises a
   white list indicative of a list of objects of security concern that should be provided to the
   at least one document consumer.
5. The system according to claim 2, wherein the at least one centralized list is applicable
   to all user documents provided by the at least one document provider.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processor in the server is
   further operable to provide a screening document containing information about the at
   least one object of security concern such that at least one user of the at least one
   document consumer is able to use that information to assess security risk associated
   with the object of security concern, and at least one option for the at least one user to
   provide preference information to the server indicative of whether to provide the object
   of security concern to the at least one document consumer.
7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the at least one data storage device in the
   server has at least one user profile associated with the at least one user and the at least
   one processor is further operable to:
   a) associate the preference information provided by the at least one user to the server
       indicative of whether to provide the at least one object of security concern with the at
       least one user profile; and
   b) store the preference information in the at least one data storage device.
8. The system according to claim 7, wherein the at least one security setting comprises at
   least one centralized list, and the at least one processor is further operable to:
                                                -24  -

     a) modify the at least one centralized list for the at least one user based on the
        preference information provided by the at least one user in response to the
        screening document;
     b) associate the modified centralized list with the at least one user profile; and
    c) store the modified centralized list in the at least one storage device.
9. The system according to claim 6, wherein the information contained in the screening
    document comprises a non-executable rendering of the object of security concern.
10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the non-executable rendering of the object of
    security concern comprises at least one of:
    a) an image representation of the object of security concern;
    b) if the object of security concern comprises instructions executable by the at least
        one document consumer, then text of the instructions; and
    c) information about the at least one document provider that provided the at least one
        user document containing the at least one object of security concern.
11. The system according to claim 6, wherein the screening document further comprises at
    least one other option for the at least one user to indicate a scope of applicability of the
    information provided to the server, the scope of applicability being indicative of when the
    server should apply the information provided by the at least one user to determine
    whether to provide the object of security concern.
12.The system according to claim 10, wherein the scope of applicability includes at least
    one of:
    a) applicability for a current session;
    b) applicability for the at least one document consumer from that point on;
    c) applicability for a particular external domain referenced in the at least one user
        document;
    d) applicability for a particular document provider; and
    e) applicability for a particular type of object of security concern.
                                               - 25 -

13. The system according to claim 10, wherein the data storage device in the server has at
     least one user profile associated with the at least one user, and the at least one
     processor is further operable to:
    a) associate the scope of applicability provided by the at least one user with the at least
        one user profile; and
    b) store the scope of applicability in the at least one data storage device.
14. The system according to claim 2, wherein the server manages information relating to
    the centralized list based on intrinsic information obtained by the at least one processor
    from the at least one user document provided.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the intrinsic information obtained by the at
    least one processor from the at least one user document comprises at least one of:
    a) a source of the at least one user document;
    b) a type of the at least one user document;
    c) a type of the at least one object of security concern contained in the at least one
        user document; and
    d) when the at least one object of security concern contains at least one reference to
        another document, then information about the document that is referenced.
16.The system according to claim 2, wherein the server centrally manages information
    relating to the centralized list based on location information indicative of the location in
    the server to which the at least one user document is provided.
17.The system according to claim 6, wherein the server centrally manages information
    relating to the centralized list based on extrinsic information provided by one or more
    users in response to one or more screening documents.
18.The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one object of security concern
   comprises at least one of:
                                              - 26 -

     a) instructions executable by the at least one document consumer in JavaScript
        language;
     b) instructions executable by the at least one document consumer to obtain
        information from an external domain.
 19. A server for securing documents comprising:
     a) at least data storage device for storing a plurality of user documents, at least one of
        the user documents containing at least one object of security concern;
     b) at least one network device for connecting to at least one document provider and at
        least one document consumer, the at least one document provider operable to
        provide at least one of the user documents to the server, the at least one document
        consumer operable to receive at least one of the plurality of user documents from
        the server;
     c) at least one processor coupled to the at least one data storage device and the at
        least one network device, the at least one processor in the server is operable to:
        i) determine whether to provide the at least one object of security concern in the at
             least one of the user documents concern to the at least one document consumer
             based on at least one security setting;
        ii) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should be
             provided, then provide the at least one user document with the at least one
             object of security concern to the at least one document consumer, and
        iii) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should not be
             provided, then generate at least one replacement document containing the at
             least one user document without the at least one object of security concern and
             an indication that the at least one object of security concern has been excluded,
             and provide the at least one replacement document to the at least one document
             consumer.
20. The server according to claim 19, wherein the at least one security setting includes at
    least one centralized list managed by the server.
                                                - 27 -

 21.The server according to claim 19, wherein the at least one centralized list comprises a
     black list indicative of a list of objects of security concern that should not be provided to
     the at least one document consumer.
22.The server according to claim 19, wherein the at least one centralized list comprises a
     white list indicative of a list of objects of security concern that should be provided to the
     at least one document consumer.
23. The server according to claim 19, wherein the at least one centralized list is applicable
    to all user documents provided by the at least one document provider.
24. The server according to claim 19, wherein the at least one processor in the server is
    further operable to provide a screening document containing information about the at
    least one object of security concern such that at least one user of the at least one
    document consumer is able to use that information to assess security risk associated
    with the object of security concern, and at least one option for the at least one user to
    provide preference information to the server indicative of whether to provide the object
    of security concern to the at least one document consumer.
25. The server according to claim 24, wherein the at least one data storage device in the
    server has at least one user profile associated with the at least one user and the at least
    one processor is further operable to:
    a) associate the preference information provided by the at least one user to the server
         indicative of whether to provide the at least one object of security concern with the at
         least one user profile; and
    b) store the preference information in the at least one data storage device.
26. The server according to claim 25, wherein the at least one security setting comprises at
    least one centralized list, and the at least one processor is further operable to:
                                                 - 28 -

     a) modify the at least one centralized list for the at least one user based on the
        preference information provided by the at least one user in response to the
        screening document;
     b) associate the modified centralized list with the at least one user profile; and
    c) store the modified centralized list in the at least one storage device.
27. The server according to claim 24, wherein the information contained in the screening
    document comprises a non-executable rendering of the object of security concern.
28. The server according to claim 27, wherein the non-executable rendering of the object of
    security concern comprises at least one of:
    a) an image representation of the object of security concern;
    b) if the object of security concern comprises instructions executable by the at least
        one document consumer, then text of the instructions; and
    c) information about the at least one document provider that provided the at least one
        user document containing the at least one object of security concern.
29. The server according to claim 24 wherein the screening document further comprises at
    least one other option for the at least one user to indicate a scope of applicability of the
    information provided to the server, the scope of applicability being indicative of when the
    server should apply the information provided by the at least one user to determine
    whether to provide the object of security concern.
30. The server according to claim 29, wherein the scope of applicability includes at least
    one of:
    a) applicability for a current session;
    b) applicability for the at least one document consumer from that point on;
    c) applicability for a particular external domain referenced in the at least one user
        document;
    d) applicability for a particular document provider; and
    e) applicability for a particular type of object of security concern.
                                               - 29 -

31.The server according to claim 29, wherein the data storage device in the server has at
     least one user profile associated with the at least one user, and the at least one
     processor is further operable to:
    a) associate the scope of applicability provided by the at least one user with the at least
        one user profile; and
    b) store the scope of applicability in the at least one data storage device.
32.The server according to claim 20, wherein the server manages information relating to
    the centralized list based on intrinsic information obtained by the at least one processor
    from the at least one user document provided.
33.The server according to claim 32, wherein the intrinsic information obtained by the at
    least one processor from the at least one user document comprises at least one of:
    a) a source of the at least one user document;
    b) a type of the at least one user document;
    c) a type of the at least one object of security concern contained in the at least one
        user document; and
    d) when the at least one object of security concern contains at least one reference to
        another document, then information about the document that is referenced.
34. The server according to claim 20, wherein the server centrally manages information
    relating to the centralized list based on location information indicative of the location in
    the server to which the at least one user document is provided.
35. The server according to claim 24, wherein the server centrally manages information
    relating to the centralized list based on extrinsic information provided by one or more
    users in response to one or more screening documents.
36. The server according to claim 19, wherein the at least one object of security concern
    comprises at least one of:
                                              - 30 -

     a) instructions executable by the at least one document consumer in JavaScript
          language;
     b) instructions executable by the at least one document consumer to obtain
         information from an external domain.
37. A method for securing documents at a server having at least one server processor and
     at least one data storage device comprising:
     a) receiving at least one document from at least one document containing at least one
         object of security concern;
     b) storing the at least one document in at least one data storage device;
     c) using the at least one server processor to determine whether to provide the at least
         one object of security concern to at least one document consumer based on at least
         one security setting;
     d) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should be provided,
         then using the at least one server processor to provide the at least one document
         with the at least one object of security concern to the at least one document
         consumer; and
     e) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should not be
         provided, then using the at least one server processor to generate at least one
         replacement document containing the at least one document without the at least one
         object of security concern and further containing an indication that the at least one
         object of security concern has been excluded, and providing the at least one
         replacement document to the at least one document consumer.
38.The method according to claim 37, wherein the at least one security setting includes at
    least one centralized list managed by the server.
39. The method according to claim 37, wherein the at least one centralized list comprises a
    black list indicative of a list of objects of security concern that should not be provided to
    the at least one document consumer.
                                                 - 31 -

40. The method according to claim 37, wherein the at least one centralized list comprises a
    white list indicative of a list of objects of security concern that should be provided to the
     at least one document consumer.
41. The method according to claim 37, wherein the at least one centralized list is applicable
    to all user documents received from the at least one document provider.
42. The method according to claim 37 further comprising:
    a) generating at least one screening document containing information about the at least
         one object of security concern;
    b) providing the least one screening document to the at least one document consumer
         such that at least one user of the at least one document consumer is able to use that
         information to assess security risk associated with the object of security concern;
         and
    c) providing at least one option for the at least one user to provide preference
         information to the server, the preference information being indicative of whether to
         provide the object of security concern to the at least one document consumer,
43. The method according to claim 42 further comprising:
    a) associate the preference information provided by the at least one user to the server
         indicative of whether to provide the at least one object of security concern with at
         least one user profile associated with the at least one user; and
    b) store the preference information in the at least one data storage device.
44. The method according to claim 43, wherein the at least one security setting comprises
    at least one centralized list, and the method further comprising:
    a) modifying the at least one centralized list for the at least one user based on the
         preference information provided by the at least one user in response to the
        screening document;
    b) associating the modified centralized list with the at least one user profile; and
    c) storing the modified centralized list in the at least one storage device.
                                                - 32 -

45. The method according to claim 44, wherein the information contained in the screening
    document comprises a non-executable rendering of the object of security concern.
46. The method according to claim 45, wherein the non-executable rendering of the object
    of security concern comprises at least one of:
    a) an image representation of the object of security concern;
    b) if the object of security concern comprises instructions executable by the at least
        one document consumer, then text of the instructions; and
    c) information about the at least one document provider that provided the at least one
        user document containing the at least one object of security concern.
47.The method according to claim 42 wherein the screening document further comprises at
    least one other option for the at least one user to indicate a scope of applicability of the
    information provided to the server, the scope of applicability being indicative of when the
    server should apply the information provided by the at least one user to determine
    whether to provide the object of security concern.
48. The method according to claim 47, wherein the scope of applicability includes at least
    one of:
    a) applicability for a current session;
    b) applicability for the at least one document consumer from that point on;
    c) applicability for a particular external domain referenced in the at least one user
        document;
    d) applicability for a particular document provider; and
    e) applicability for a particular type of object of security concern.
49.The method according to claim 47, wherein the data storage device in the server has at
    least one user profile associated with the at least one user, and the method further
    comprising:
                                               - 33 -

     a) associating the scope of applicability provided by the at least one user with the at
         least one user profile; and
     b) storing the scope of applicability in the at least one data storage device.
50. The method according to claim 38 further comprising managing information relating to
    the centralized list based on intrinsic information obtained by the at least one processor
    from the at least one user document provided.
51.The method according to claim 50, wherein the intrinsic information obtained by the at
    least one processor from the at least one user document comprises at least one of:
    a) a source of the at least one user document;
    b) a type of the at least one user document;
    c) a type of the at least one object of security concern contained in the at least one
        user document; and
    d) when the at least one object of security concern contains at least one reference to
        another document, then information about the document that is referenced.
52. The method according to claim 38 further comprising centrally managing information
    relating to the centralized list based on location information indicative of the location in
    the server to which the at least one user document is provided.
53. The method according to claim 42 further comprising centrally managing information
    relating to the centralized list based on extrinsic information provided by one or more
    users in response to one or more screening documents.
54. The method according to claim 37 wherein the at least one object of security concern
    comprises at least one of:
    a) instructions executable by the at least one document consumer in JavaScript
        language;
    b) instructions executable by the at least one document consumer to obtain
        information from an external domain.
                                               - 34 -

55.A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions executable by a
   processor to cause the processor to:
   a) receive at least one document containing at least one object of security concern
      from at least one document provider;
   b) store the at least one document in at least one storage device;
   c) determine whether to provide the at least one object of security concern to at least
      one document consumer based on at least one security setting;
   d) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should be provided,
      then provide the at least one document with the at least one object of security
      concern to the at least one document consumer; and
   e) if it is determined that the at least one object of security concern should not be
      provided, then generate at least one replacement document containing the at least
      one document without the at least one object of security concern and an indication
      that the at least one object of security concern has been excluded, and provide the
      replacement document to the at least one document consumer.
                                              - 35 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
