                               ABSTRACT
A magnetically polarized photonic device is provided. The magnetically
polarized photonic device (100) includes substrate (102), an annihilation
layer (106) and a graded band gap layer (142). The annihilation layer
(106) is deposed on a surface (104) of substrate (102) with graded band
gap layer (142) disposed on annihilation layer (106). Contacts (116,
128) are disposed on ends (146, 150) of magnetically polarized
photonic device (100). A magnetic field (159) is applied to graded band
gap layer (142) and annihilation layer (106) to drive charges to contacts
(116,128).

           1/8
               GCo
                  o
CNC
  rN
     cL
        oo

            MAGNETICALLY POLARIZED PHOTONIC DEVICE
       FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001] The present invention generally relates to energy production, photonic
       sensing, and magnetically polarized photonic devices; and more
       particularly, to magnetically polarized photonic devices, and methods for
       making same.
[0002] The present application has been divided out of Australian patent
       application 2013359049 (AU 2013359049).
       BACKGROUND
[0003] Over the past few years, there has been an increase in interest in
       renewable and sustainable energy resources which has spurred
       research and development in many energy resources.           In particular,
       substantial     research   and     development   has   centered    around
       photovoltaic     energy  and   its   generation. Generally,  conventional
       photovoltaic cells where first developed in 1958 by Bell Laboratories
       where a diffused silicon p-n junction was used. While the efficiencies of
       these conventional diffused silicon p-n junction devices improved over
       the decades, the best conventional diffused silicon p-n junction devices
       have not exceeded twenty-three percent (23%). While certainly there
       was improvement of the efficiency of these conventional diffused silicon
       p-n junction devices over the years, it has become apparent that there
       are fundamental limitations to the efficiency that can be achieved by
                                        1

       diffused silicon p-n junction devices.     Also, the cost of silicon wafers
       used for making conventional photovoltaic cells has remained high
       making the cost of conventional photovoltaic cells non-competitive when
       compared to alternative technologies.
[0004] The introduction of conventional multi-junction photovoltaic devices
       around 1976, showed significantly better efficiencies which improved
       over the decades and have achieved efficiencies ranging up to and
       about forty-three (43.0 percent). While this is significantly better then the
       conventional diffused silicon p-n junction devices, the multi-junction
       photovoltaic devices are still not efficient enough for some applications.
       More importantly, since the efficiencies of both the conventional diffused
       silicon  p-n junction devices and         the conventional     multi-junction
       photovoltaic devices have reached a plateau for at least the last decade
       and for the foreseeable future. There is very little reason to believe that
       significantly greater efficiency can be wrung out of the conventional
       devices.
[0005] Both the conventional diffused silicon p-n junction devices and the multi
       junction photovoltaic devices share some common problems.            While in
       some cases each type of device has some particular problems of its
       own. One problem or disadvantage is that both types of conventional
       devices are built as discrete devices.       For example, a conventional
       diffused silicon p-n junction device that is built having a band gap of
        1.1eV will efficiently capture light having 1.1eV energy. Any energy of
       light below the 1.1eV energy band gap is not captured.             Also, any
       energy of light above the 1.1eV energy band gap is wasted and not put
                                         2

       to productive use. More specifically, a 1.1eV band gap photovoltaic cell
       that absorbs a 1.2eV photon will efficiently convert 1.1eV of the 1.2eV
       photon energy and will waste the 0.1eV difference. Similarly, the 1.1eV
       band gap photovoltaic cell that absorbs a 2.2eV photon will efficiently
       convert 1.1eV of the 2.2eV photon energy and waste the additional
        1.1eV of photon energy.      This same principle is true of any single
       junction device of a given energy band gap. In addition to this effect,
       silicon is well-known as an Indirect Band Gap material as opposed to
        III/V materials that are generally, but not exclusively, Direct Band Gap
       materials. Photovoltaic devices made with indirect band gap materials
       further waste energy due to their inability to completely absorb photons
       with energy equal to and just above their material band gap.
[0006] Conventional multiple junction devices are also discrete devices;
       however, because conventional multiple junction devices are typically
       built using IIIN materials and germanium substrates, multiple junctions
       devices can be stacked vertically on top of each other, thereby enabling
       a vertical stack of energy band gaps that using a silicon substrate does
       not allow.    However, as stated before, if the band gap of the junction is
       engineered and built to capture 1.1eV energy photons, the junction will
       efficiently capture the 1.1eV energy photons but, will not capture lower
       other energy photons and will waste the photon energy above 1.1eV. In
       order to efficiently capture other energy photons, other band gap
       junctions are built and stacked on the substrate. Typically, these other
       junctions are tuned for a 1.5eV energy band gap, a 1.2eV energy band
       gap, and a 0.8eV energy band gap, thereby giving a triple junction
                                       3

       device that is capable of capturing photons having greater than 1.5eV in
       the 1.5eV device, and capturing photons having energy between 1.2eV
       and 1.5eV in the 1.2eV device, and capturing photons having energy
       between 0.8eV and 1.2eV in the 0.8eV device.          However, photons
       having energy levels of less than 0.8eV are not captured at all and are
       wasted and not used. Also, as described earlier, the additional energy
       of each photon above the energy band gap of the junction in which it is
       absorbed is also wasted.      As an example, a 1.4eV photon that is
       absorbed in the 1.2eV band gap junction loses 0.2eV of its energy
       immediately as waste, and only the remaining 1.2eV of energy is
       converted efficiently. Another weakness specific to the multiple junction
       devices is the requirement that current in the device travel in the
       reverse direction to conventional diode current flow at the transitions
       between adjacent stacked junctions. This is accomplished by doping
       the semiconductor material in these transition regions with extremely
       high concentrations of n-type and p-type elements so that the diode
       structure becomes a Tunnel diode capable of carrying current in the
       reverse direction.   These tunnel diodes are not perfect conductors of
       electricity and introduce a loss mechanism specific to multiple junction
       devices.
[0007] Thus, it can be seen that both the conventional diffused silicon p-n
       junction type of devices and the multi-junction photovoltaic type of
       devices have fundamental problems in design since they have inherent
       problems in their basic design it is not possible to capture and convert
       all the photons that fall on them into free electrons and free holes.
                                      4

       Essentially, there are inherent inefficiency problems which stem from
       the materials that are used to make the devices and the way these
       devices are engineered and designed.
[0008] Both types of photovoltaic devices, the conventional multi-junction
       photovoltaic cells and the conventional diffused silicon p-n junction type
       of devices, are more efficient when a concentrated number of photons
       or an increase in intensity of photons are delivered to the receiving
       surface of either device type. However, this is also a problem because
       concentration of photons requires engineering an infrastructure that
       concentrates photons onto the devices themselves. This infrastructure
       requires engineering, materials, design, and precision. All of which
       increases the complexity and the cost of making and implementing
       photovoltaic devices into the market. Moreover, another problem is that
       when the photons are obscured, such as with cloud cover or shade, the
       efficiency is severely diminished if not stopped all together.
[0009] Another problem with multi-junction devices is that it is not possible to
       put an endless number of junctions in the device so as to increase the
       opportunity to capture and convert photons into useable free electrons
       and free holes. Moreover, it is not possible to make the photovoltaic
       device arbitrarily thick. The thickness of the photovoltaic device outside
       the actual junction has to be approximately one diffusion length,
       wherein the diffusion length is the approximate length of a path that a
       charge carrier can travel in a volume of a crystal lattice without an
       electric field before the charge carrier has a recombination event. The
       diffusion length generally depends upon the semiconductor material
                                       5

       used, the doping of the semiconductor material, and the perfection of
       the semiconductor material.        Generally, there is no totally optimal set
       condition for all the factors. The conditions are selected on a case by
       case basis for the particular application. However, it is fair to say that it
       is a balance of trade-offs, wherein if you reduce the number of free
       electrons via doping, the resistance increases; if you increase the
       number of free electrons via doping, the resistance is lowered but the
       diffusion length is shortened.          Thus, in conventional photovoltaic
       devices no ideal settings of factors can be reached, but rather, a
       compromise of settings and/or factors is reached which yields a device
       that does not give the perfect performance, but the factors are
       compromised      so   that   the     best performance    is given     for the
       semiconductor material and the environment at hand.
[0010] Accordingly, the design and manufacture of conventional photovoltaic
       devices has several inherent problems all of which have limited
       conventional photovoltaic devices from achieving their true potential in
       the market place as well as the expectations of the physics. Because of
       the fundamental design limitations, fundamental materials limitations,
       and manufacturing limitations, the costs of manufacturing conventional
       photovoltaic devices is high. The manufacture, the materials, and the
       inherent fundamental problems severely limit both the performance of
       the conventional photovoltaic cell as well as reducing the flexibility of
       the system     architectural     design.    In order to allow enhanced
       optimization,  design,     efficiencies, and    performance     increases   of
                                          6

       photovoltaic devices as well as flexibility of architectural design, a new
       photovoltaic architecture and design is needed.
[0011] It is an object of at least preferred embodiments of the present invention
       to address some of the aforementioned disadvantages. An additional or
       alternative object is to at least provide the public with a useful choice.
       SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012] Briefly stated and in various representative aspects, the present
       invention provides a magnetically polarized photonic device using a
       graded band gap. The magnetically polarized photonic device having a
       first, second, third, and fourth surfaces. Where the first and the second
       surfaces are substantially parallel and where the third and fourth
       surfaces are substantially parallel with the third and forth surface are
       substantially perpendicular to the first surface. A first contact element
       with a fifth and sixth surface being electrically coupled to the fourth
       surface of the semiconductor device and a second contact element
       having a seventh surface and an eighth surface with the second contact
       electrically coupled to the third surface of the semiconductor device.
[0013] The term 'comprising' as used in this specification means 'consisting at
       least in part of'. When interpreting each statement in this specification
       that includes the term 'comprising', features other than that or those
       prefaced by the term may also be present. Related terms such as
       'comprise' and 'comprises' are to be interpreted in the same manner.
[0014] In accordance with an aspect of the invention, a magnetically polarized
       photonic device comprises: a substrate having a first surface and a
                                          7

second surface opposing the first surface, wherein the first surface and
the second surface are substantially parallel to an x-y plane in a 3
dimensional coordinate system; an annihilation layer having a first
thickness extending in a first direction parallel to a z-axis, a third
surface, a fourth surface opposing the third surface, a fifth surface, a
sixth surface, a seventh surface opposing the fifth surface, and an
eighth surface opposing the sixth surface, wherein the third and fourth
surfaces of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to the x-y
plane, and wherein the fifth and seventh surfaces of the annihilation
layer are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane being
orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the sixth and eighth surfaces
of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the y-z
plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes', and wherein the fifth,
sixth, seventh and eighth surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the
third and fourth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the
fifth and seventh surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the sixth
and eighth surfaces,    and wherein the fourth surface of the annihilation
layer is disposed on the first surface of the substrate; a graded band
gap layer having a second thickness and a grading extending in the first
direction parallel to the z-axis, and having a ninth surface, a tenth
surface opposing the ninth surface, an eleventh surface, a twelfth
surface, a thirteenth surface opposing the eleventh surface, and a
fourteenth surface opposing the twelfth surface, wherein the ninth and
tenth surfaces of the graded band gap layer are substantially parallel to
the x-y plane and wherein the eleventh        and thirteenth surfaces are
                                8

substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the twelfth and
fourteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and
wherein the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth surfaces are
substantially perpendicular to the ninth and tenth surfaces and
positioned therebetween, and wherein the eleventh and thirteenth
surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the twelfth and fourteenth
surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the tenth surface of
the graded band gap layer is disposed on the third surface of the
annihilation layer thereby stacking the graded band gap layer and the
annihilation layer in the first direction parallel to the z-axis; a first contact
having a fifteenth surface and a sixteenth surface, the fifteenth and
sixteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the x-z plane, the
sixteenth surface of the first contact electrically coupled to at least a
portion of the fifth surface of the annihilation layer and the eleventh
surface of the graded band gap layer; a second contact having a
seventeenth surface and an eighteenth surface, the seventeenth and
eighteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the x-z plane, the
seventeenth     surface of the second contact electrically coupled to at
least a portion of the seventh surface of the annihilation layer; wherein
the annihilation layer comprising of a layer of material configured to
collect and recombine free electrons and free holes that are generated
when a plurality of photons strike the graded band gap layer; and
wherein when a magnetic field with field lines extending in a second
direction parallel to an x-axis is applied to the graded band gap layer
                                   9

       and the annihilation layer, current flows in a third direction parallel to a
       y-axis between the first and second contacts.
[0015] In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a magnetically
       polarized photonic device comprises: an annihilation layer having a first
       surface, a second surface opposing the first surface, third surface, a
       fourth surface, a fifth surface opposing the third surface, and a sixth
       surface opposing the fourth surface, wherein the first surface and the
       second surface are substantially parallel to an x-y plane in a 3
       dimensional coordinate system, and wherein the third surface and the
       fifth surface are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane
       being orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the fourth surface and
       the sixth surface are substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the y-z plane
       being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes, and wherein the third, fourth,
       fifth, and sixth surfaces are perpendicular to the first and second
       surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the third and fifth
       surfaces are perpendicular to the fourth and sixth surfaces and
       positioned therebetween, the annihilation layer comprising a layer of
       material having a band gap value grading extending in a first direction
       parallel to a z-axis, wherein the layer of material configured to collect
       and recombine free electrons and free holes that are generated when a
       plurality of photons strike the annihilation layer; a first contact having a
       seventh surface, an eighth surface opposing the seventh surface, a
       ninth surface, a tenth surface, an eleventh surface opposing the ninth
       surface, and a twelfth surface opposing the tenth surface, wherein the
       seventh surface and the eighth surface are substantially parallel to the
                                       10

x-y plane, and wherein the ninth surface and the eleventh surface are
substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the tenth surface and
the twelfth surface are substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and
wherein the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth are substantially
perpendicular to the seventh and eighth surfaces and positioned
therebetween, and wherein the ninth and eleventh are substantially
perpendicular to the tenth and twelfth surfaces and             positioned
therebetween, and wherein the eleventh surface of the first contact is
electrically coupled to the third surface of annihilation layer; and a
second contact having a thirteenth surface, a fourteenth surface
opposing the thirteenth surface, a fifteenth surface, a sixteenth surface,
a seventeenth surface opposing the fifteenth surface, and an eighteenth
surface opposing the sixteenth surface, wherein the thirteenth surface
and the fourteenth surface are substantially parallel to the x-y plane,
and wherein the fifteenth surface and the seventeenth surface are
substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the sixteenth surface
and the eighteenth surface are substantially parallel to the y-z plane,
and wherein the fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth
surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the thirteenth and fourteenth
surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the sixteenth and
eighteenth surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the fifteenth and
seventeenth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the
fifteenth surface of the second contact is electrically coupled to the fifth
surface of the annihilation layer, and wherein the first and second
contacts are locating substantially opposing each other; and wherein
                                 11

       when a magnetic field with field lines orthogonal to the direction of
       grading and extending in a second direction parallel to an x-axis is
       applied to the annihilation layer, current flows in a third direction parallel
       to a y-axis between the first and second contacts,
[0016] In accordance with a further aspect of the invention, a magnetically
       polarized photonic device comprises: a substrate having a first surface
       and a second surface opposing the first surface, wherein the first
       surface and the second surface are substantially parallel to an x-y plane
       in a 3-dimensional coordinate system; an graded band gap layer having
       a first thickness and a grading extending in a first direction parallel to a
       z-axis, a third surface, a fourth surface opposing the third surface, a fifth
       surface, a sixth surface, a seventh surface opposing the fifth surface,
       and an eighth surface opposing the sixth surface, wherein the third and
       fourth surfaces of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to the
       x-y plane, and wherein the fifth and seventh surfaces of the annihilation
       layer are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane being
       orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the sixth and eighth surfaces
       of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the y-z
       plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes, and wherein the fifth,
       sixth, seventh and eighth surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the
       third and fourth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the
       fifth and seventh surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the sixth
       and eighth surfaces, and wherein the fourth surface of the graded band
       gap layer is disposed on the first surface of the substrate; an
       annihilation layer having second thickness, and having a ninth surface,
                                        12

a tenth surface opposing the ninth surface, an eleventh surface, a
twelfth surface, a thirteenth surface opposing the eleventh surface, and
a fourteenth surface opposing the twelfth surface, wherein the ninth and
tenth surfaces of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to the x
y plane and wherein the eleventh and thirteenth surfaces are
substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the twelfth and
fourteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and
wherein the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth surfaces are
substantially perpendicular to the ninth and tenth surfaces and
positioned therebetween, and wherein the eleventh and thirteenth
surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the twelfth and fourteenth
surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the tenth surface of
the annihilation layer is disposed on the third surface of the graded
band gap layer thereby stacking the graded band gap layer and the
annihilation layer in the first direction parallel to the z-axis, wherein the
layer of material configured to collect and recombine free electrons and
free holes that are generated when a plurality of photons strike the
annihilation layer; a first contact having a fifteenth surface and a
sixteenth surface, the fifteenth and sixteenth surfaces are substantially
parallel to the x-z plane, the sixteenth surface of the first contact
electrically coupled to at least a portion of the fifth surface of the graded
band gap layer; a second contact having a seventeenth surface and an
eighteenth surface, the seventeenth and eighteenth surfaces are
substantially parallel to the x-z plane, the seventeenth surface of the
second contact electrically coupled to at least a portion of the seventh
                                 13

       surface of the graded band gap layer; and wherein when a magnetic
       field with field lines extending in a second direction parallel to an x-axis
       is applied to the graded band gap layer and the annihilation layer,
       current flows in a third direction parallel to a y-axis between the first and
       second contacts.
[0017] A further aspect of the invention provides a method for capturing charge
       in a magnetically polarized photonic device. The device comprises: a
       graded band gap layer having a first surface, a second surface
       opposing the first surface, a third surface, a fourth surface, a fifth
       surface opposing the third surface, and a sixth surface opposing the
       fourth surface, and a band gap gradient force in a first direction parallel
       to a z-axis in a 3-dimensional coordinate system, wherein the first
       surface and the second surface are substantially parallel to an x-y
       plane, and wherein the third surface and the fifth surface are
       substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane being orthogonal to
       the x-y plane, and wherein the fourth surface and the sixth surface are
       substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the y-z plane being orthogonal to
       the x-y and x-z planes, and wherein the third, fourth, fifth, and the sixth
       surface are substantially perpendicular to first surface and second
       surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the third and fifth
       surfaces are perpendicular to the fourth and sixth surfaces and
       positioned therebetween, the graded band gap layer having plurality of
       materials with each material having a specific band gap energy (eV)
       and the plurality of materials dynamically arranged from largest to
       smallest located therebetween, wherein the largest band gap value is
                                        14

located about the first surface and the smallest band gap value is
located about the second surface; an annihilation layer having a first
thickness extending in a first direction parallel to a z-axis, a third
surface, a fourth surface opposing the third surface, a fifth surface, a
sixth surface, a seventh surface opposing the fifth surface, and an
eighth surface opposing the sixth surface, wherein the third and fourth
surfaces of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to the x-y
plane, and wherein the fifth and seventh surfaces of the annihilation
layer are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane being
orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the sixth and eighth surfaces
of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the y-z
plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes, and wherein the fifth,
sixth, seventh and eighth surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the
third and fourth surfaces and positioned there between, and wherein the
fifth and seventh surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the sixth
and eighth surfaces, and wherein the fourth surface of the annihilation
layer is disposed on the first surface of the substrate; a first contact
having a seventh surface and an eight surface substantially parallel to
the x-z plane, the eigth surface of the first contact disposed on and
electrically coupled to the third surface of the graded band gap layer; a
second contact having a ninth surface and a tenth surface substantially
parallel to the x-z plane, the ninth surface of the second contact
disposed on and electrically coupled to the fifth surface of the graded
band gap layer; the method comprising: applying to the graded band
gap layer a magnetic field having a plurality of magnetic lines extending
                                15

       in a second direction parallel to an x-axis, wherein at least one magnetic
       field line passes through the fourth surface of the graded band gap
       layer; exposing the first surface of the graded band gap layer to photons
       from a photonic source and converting the photon energy of the
       photons into electric voltage and current, wherein photons are absorbed
       by the graded band gap layer generating free electrons and free holes,
       the free electrons and free holes are pulled by the band gap gradient
       force toward the second surface of the graded band gap layer wherein
       simultaneously the free electrons and free holes are acted on by the
       magnetic field to move the free electrons and their associated charge to
       the first contact and to move the free holes and their associated charge
       to the second contact; collecting and recombining free electrons and
       free holes that reach the annihilation layer and do not reach the first and
       second contacts.
[0018] A further aspect of the invention provides a method for capturing charge
       in a magnetically polarized photonic device. The device comprises: an
       annihilation layer having a first surface, a second surface opposing the
       first surface, third surface, a fourth surface, a fifth surface opposing the
       third surface, and a sixth surface opposing the fourth surface, wherein
       the first surface and the second surface are substantially parallel to an
       x-y plane in a 3-dimensional coordinate system, and wherein the third
       surface and the fifth surface are substantially parallel to an x-z plane,
       the x-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the fourth
       surface and the sixth surface are substantially parallel to a y-z plane,
       the y-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes, and wherein
                                        16

the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth surfaces are perpendicular to the first
and second surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the
third and fifth surfaces are perpendicular to the fourth and sixth surfaces
and positioned therebetween, the annihilation layer comprising a layer
of material having a band gap value grading extending in a first direction
parallel to a z-axiswherein the layer of material configured to collect
and recombine free electrons and free holes that are generated when a
plurality of photons strike the annihilation layer; a first contact having a
seventh surface, an eighth surface opposing the seventh surface, a
ninth surface, a tenth surface, an eleventh surface opposing the ninth
surface, and a twelfth surface opposing the tenth surface, wherein the
seventh surface and the eighth surface are substantially parallel to the
x-y plane, and wherein the ninth surface and the eleventh surface are
substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the tenth surface and
the twelfth surface are substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and
wherein the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth surfaces are substantially
perpendicular to the seventh and eighth surfaces and positioned
therebetween, and wherein the ninth and eleventh are substantially
perpendicular to the tenth and twelfth surfaces and               positioned
therebetween, and wherein the eleventh surface of the first contact is
electrically coupled to the third surface of annihilation layer;      and a
second contact having a thirteenth surface, a fourteenth surface
opposing the thirteenth surface, a fifteenth surface, a sixteenth surface,
a seventeenth surface opposing the fifteenth surface, and an eighteenth
surface opposing the sixteenth surface, wherein the thirteenth surface
                                 17

and the fourteenth surface are substantially parallel to the x-y plane,
and wherein the fifteenth surface and the seventeenth surface are
substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the sixteenth surface
and the eighteenth surface are substantially parallel to the y-z plane,
and wherein the fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth
surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the thirteenth and fourteenth
surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the sixteenth and
eighteenth surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the fifteenth and
seventeenth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the
fifteenth surface of the second contact is electrically coupled to the fifth
surface of the annihilation layer, and wherein the first and second
contacts are locating substantially opposing each other; the method
comprising: applying to the annihilation layer a magnetic field having a
plurality of magnetic lines extending in a second direction parallel to an
x-axis, wherein at least one magnetic field line passes through the
fourth surface of the graded band gap layer; exposing the first surface
of the annihilation layer to photons from a photonic source and
converting the photon energy of the photons into electric voltage and
current, wherein photons are absorbed by the annihilation layer
generating free electrons and free holes, the free electrons and free
holes are pulled by the band gap gradient force toward the second
surface of the annihilation layer wherein simultaneously the free
electrons and free holes are acted on by the magnetic field to move the
free electrons and their associated charge to the first contact and to
move the free holes and their associated charge to the second contact;
                                 18

       and collecting and recombining free electrons and free holes that do not
       reach the first and second contacts.
[0019] Additional advantages of the present invention will be set forth in the
       Detailed Description which follows and may be obvious from the
       Detailed Description or may be learned by practice of exemplary
       embodiments of the invention. Still other advantages of the invention
       may be realized by means of any of the instrumentalities, methods or
       combinations particularly pointed out in the claims.
       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0020] Representative elements, operational features, applications and/or
       advantages of the present invention reside inter alia in the details of
       construction and operation as more fully hereafter depicted, described
       and claimed - reference being made to the accompanying drawings
       forming a part hereof, wherein like numerals refer to like parts
       throughout. Other elements, operational features, applications and/or
       advantages will become apparent to skilled artisans in light of certain
       exemplary embodiments recited in the Detailed Description, wherein:
[0021] FIG. 1 is a greatly enlarged simplified sectional perspective illustration
       of a magnetically polarized photonic device with magnetic field lines
       extending through the magnetically polarized photonic device;
[0022] FIG. 2 is a greatly simplified graph of Energy Band Gap (eV), Lattice
       Parameter (Nanometers), and Wavelength (Nanometers) of a variety of
       semiconductor materials;
                                      19

[0023] FIG. 3 is a greatly simplified graph of Energy Band Gap (eV), Lattice
       Parameter (Nanometers), and Wavelength (Nanometers) of a material
       composition set;
[0024] FIG. 4 is a greatly enlarged simplified perspective illustration of a
       magnetically polarized photonic device as generally depicted in Fig. 1
       further including a photonic source and formation of free electrons and
       free holes;
[0025] FIG. 5 is a greatly enlarged simplified perspective inverted illustration of
       a magnetically polarized photonic device further including photonic
       source; as generally depicted in Fig.s 1 and 4 including formation of
       free electrons and free holes;
[0026] FIG. 6 is a greatly enlarged simplified perspective illustration of a
       magnetically polarized photonic device as generally depicted in FIG.s 1,
       4 and 5, illustrating movement of free electrons and free holes in the
       graded band gap of the magnetically polarized photonic device;
[0027] FIG.     7 is a greatly enlarged simplified perspective illustration of a
       magnetically polarized photonic device as generally depicted in FIG.s 1,
       4, 5,     6 illustrating the capture and charge development of the
       magnetically polarized photonic device; and
[0028] FIG. 8 is a greatly enlarged simplified diagrammatic illustration of a
       band gap diagram with simplified sectional view of the magnetically
       polarized photonic device.
[0029] Those skilled in the art will appreciate that elements in the Figures are
       illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn
       to scale. For example, the dimensions of some of the elements in the
                                        20

       Figures may be exaggerated relative to other elements to help improve
       understanding of various embodiments of the present invention.
       Furthermore, the terms 'first', 'second', and the like herein, if any, are
       used inter alia for distinguishing between similar elements and not
       necessarily   for   describing  a   sequential    or  chronological   order.
       Moreover, the terms front, back, top, bottom, over, under, and the like in
       the Description and/or in the claims, if any, are generally employed for
       descriptive   purposes     and  not   necessarily    for   comprehensively
       describing exclusive relative position.     Skilled artisans will therefore
       understand that any of the preceding terms so used may                    be
       interchanged    under appropriate circumstances such that various
       embodiments of the invention described herein, for example, are
       capable of operation in other orientations than those explicitly illustrated
       or otherwise described.
       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
[0030] The following descriptions are of exemplary embodiments of the
       invention and the inventors' conceptions of the best mode and are not
       intended to limit the scope, applicability or configuration of the invention
       in any way.    Rather, the following Description is intended to provide
       convenient illustrations for implementing various embodiments of the
       invention.  As will become apparent, changes may be made in the
       function and/or arrangement of any of the elements described in the
       disclosed exemplary embodiments without departing from the spirit and
       scope of the invention.
                                      21

[0031] Before addressing details of embodiments of the present invention
       described below, some terms are defined and/or clarified.
[0032] The term "defect" is intended to mean any interruption or change in the
       crystal lattice structure of a material. By way of example only, there are
       several different kinds of defects that can be found in crystalline
       material such as, but not limited to, point defects, line defects,
       inclusions, and planar defects. Typically, these defects can be counted
       and put in terms of defects per cubic centimeter.
[0033] The term "band gap" is intended to mean an energy range in a
       semiconductor material where no electron states can exist. The band
       gap generally refers to the energy difference between the top of the
       valence band and the bottom of the conduction band.         Typically, this
       energy difference is of order ranging from one (1.0) eV to two (2.0) eV,
       but can range from about zero (0.0) eV to about eight (8.0) eV.             It
       should be understood that a material(s) with a large band gap is an
       insulator; a material(s) with a smaller band gaps are semiconductors,
       and a material(s) with very small or no band gap is a conductor or semi
       metal.   Moreover, every material has its own characteristic band gap
       and energy band structure.
[0034] The term "graded band gap" is intended to mean a structure of
       materials wherein the band gaps of the materials are dynamically
       changed while still generally maintaining the structural crystallinity of the
       material. Also, graded band gap refers to a zone in the device where
       the band gap changes from one band gap energy to different band gap
       energy over a distance on the order of microns. Although, the highest
                                       22

       efficiency will likely result from a continuously graded band gap the term
       "graded band gap" is intended to include all band gap transition zones
       that might include sections of constant band gap or band gap
       discontinuities that may reduce efficiency, but still operated overall to
       induce free electrons and free holes to move from the regions with
       larger band gaps toward the regions with smaller band gaps. It should
       be understood that a slope can be detrimined wherein a of a curve can
       be changed graded band gap can change in a gradual manner where
       the band gap energies slowly change of an order of a few percent
       though a distance where photons are largely absorbed.            The graded
       band gap values move
[0035] The term "lattice parameter" is intended to mean the constant distance
       between unit cells in a crystal lattice.      Generally, lattice dimensions
       have three constants (a, b, and             c and typically measured      in
       Nanometers). However, when a set of materials has similar or identical
       crystal structure, a single number is chosen to represent the atomic
       spacing. As shown in FIG. 3, the lattice parameter uses only a single
       number to describe the lattice structure because all of these materials
       have similar crystal structure or unit cell.        However, it should be
       understood that other crystalline configuration and geometric patterns
       could be used as well.
[0036] The term "wavelength" is intended to mean a distance between
       sequential peaks or crests of any photon or light wave. Typically, the
       wavelength is measured in Nanometers as shown in FIG. 2.                The
       wavelengths identified in FIG. 2 are the wavelengths of light that are
                                         23

       emitted from any light emitting source such as, but not limited to, sun
       light, a light emitting device, a light emitting diode (LED), or the like.
       Further, it should be understood that the wavelength of light (photon) is
       related to its energy by the relationship: E=hc/A, where E is energy, h is
       Plank's constant, c is the speed of light, and A is the wavelength of light.
[0037] The term "III-V" is intended to indicate the set of semiconductor
       materials that are formed by combining approximately equal amounts of
       elements from column 3 of the periodic chart (Boron, Aluminum,
       Gallium, Indium, and Thallium) with elements from column 5 of the
       periodic    chart  (Nitrogen,  Phosphorous,     Arsenic,   Antimony,    and
       Bismuth). These combine to form semiconductors including but limited
       to, Gallium Arsenide, Indium Antimonide, Gallium Antimonide, and
       Aluminum Phosphide, and the like.
[0038] The term "II-VI" is intended to indicate the set of semiconductor
       materials that are formed by combining approximately equal amounts of
       elements from column 2 of the periodic chart (Zinc, Cadmium, and
       Mercury) with elements from column 6 of the periodic chart (Oxygen,
       Sulfur,    Selenium,    and   Tellurium).     These     combine   to   form
       semiconductors including but not limited to, Cadmium Telluride, Zinc
       Telluride, Cadmium Selenide, and Mercury Selenide, and the like.
       Although Manganese and Magnesium are not in column II of the
       periodic chart, we include them in the II-VI materials set because of
       their compatibility with Selenium and Tellurium to form semiconductors
       with favorable band gaps and lattice constants.
                                       24

[0039] Fig. 1 is a greatly enlarged simplified perspective schematic illustration
       of a magnetically polarized photonic device 100 having a length 164
       and width 166 and height 168. Magnetically polarized photonic device
       100 includes a substrate 102 having a surfaces 104 and 105, an
       annihilation layer 106 having surfaces 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, and
       114, contacts 116 and 128 having surfaces 118, 119, 120, 121, 122 and
       124 and surfaces 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, and 136, respectively, and a
       graded band gap layer 142 having surfaces 144, 145, 146, 147, 148,
       and 150. A magnetic field indicated by a plurality of magnetic field lines
       159 having individually identified magnetic field lines indicated by
       arrows 157, 158, 160, 161, and 162 are shown with magnetic field line
       157 traversing     through substrate 102, with magnetic field line 160
       traversing through graded band gap layer 142, with magnetic field line
       162 traversing through annihilation layer 106, with magnetic field line
       158 traversing over magnetically polarized photonic device 100, and
       magnetic field line 161 traversing under magnetically polarized photonic
       device 100. A load 176 is coupled to contacts 116 and 128 by electrical
       traces 188, 186, 178, 180, 182, and 184.
[0040] Substrate 102 can be made of any suitable material having surface 104.
       Typically, substrate 102 is made of any suitable semiconductor material
       or insulative material such as, but not limited to, Silicon (Si), Gallium
       Antimonide    (GaSb),    Indium    Arsenide (InAs),  Cadmium     Selenide
       (CdSe), Indium Antimonide (InSb), Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), Mercury
       Cadmium Telluride (HgCdTe), Cadmium Selenide (CdSe), ionic salt,
       metal oxide, ceramic, glass, or the like. Generally, substrate 102 uses
                                       25

       materials that have a band gaps wide enough so that current flow is
       inhibited.
[0041] As shown in FIG. 1, an annihilation layer 106 is disposed on surface
       104 of substrate 102. Generally, annihilation layer 106 can be made of
       any suitable material or combination of materials such as, but not
       limited to, Mercury Cadmium Telluride (HgCdTe), Mercury Cadmium
       Selenide (HgCdSe), Indium Arsenide Antimonide (InAsSb), or the like.
       Further, annihilation layer 106 can be made of the same elemental
       materials that are used for making graded band gap layer 142.
       However, it should be understood that annihilation layer 106 is made
       with   a high   degree of crystal defectivity, disorientation,   and/or
       imperfections, thereby facilitating the collection and recombination of
       free electrons and free holes that are generated from the plurality of
       photons 404, as shown in Fig.s 4, 5, 6 and 7, that strike and
       subsequently generate free electrons and free holes in the graded band
       gap layer 142 as described hereinbelow.
[0042] Typically, annihilation layer 106 is deposited on substrate 102.
       Annihilation layer 106 can be made by any suitable method or
       technique such as, but not limited to, Epitaxy, Molecular Beam Epitaxy
       (MBE), Chemical Beam Epitaxy (CBE), Chemical Vapor Deposition
       (CVD), Physical Chemical Deposition (PCD), Physical Vapor Deposition
       (PVD), or the like.     It should be understood that the equipment
       mentioned above are capable of changing the composition of the
       deposited material minutely so as to change the composition of the
       deposited material from one material to another material in a dynamic
                                      26

       matter.    Making annihilation layer 106 with a high degree of crystal
       defectivity can be achieved by suitable method or technique. Typically,
       defectivity   increases   when     the   process   parameters   such    as,
       temperature, pressure, gas flows ratios of reactant materials, or the like
       are slightly away from to or out of the process window for excellent
       crystal growth.    By way of example, with growth process parameters
       being set for excellent crystal growth, changing the process temperature
       by to fifty percent lower then the optimum process window, generally,
       produces an annihilation layer 106 that has sufficient imperfections and
       defects to act as recombination sites.
[0043] Generally, measurement of defectivity can be achieved by any suitable
       method or technique such as, but not limited to, optically counting of
       defects,    measurement    of x-ray diffraction    measurements,     and/or
       measurement of photon-induced carrier lifetimes.           With regard to
       optically counting of defects, typically, the surface of the material to be
       measured is subjected to an etch solution with decorates the defects
       and generates a pit where a defect is present. When using the optical
       method, the results are presented as a defect density per unit area, but
       this can be related to a defect density number per cubic centimeter.
       The most accurate measure of defectivity for this device is the photon
       induced carrier lifetime. The reason for this preference in methodologies
       is because the photon-induced carrier life time method takes into
       account and includes specific device design and intended operation of
       annihilation layer 106.
                                       27

[0044] Generally, while any suitable defectivity amount can be used, it should
       be understood that defectivity is application specific and is somewhat
       variable depending upon the material set. The crystal defectively and
       disorientation assist in a recombination of free electrons and free holes
       that are produced by the plurality of photons 404 (illustrated in FIG. 4)
       that strike surface 148 and move to annihilation layer 106 are similar to
       materials used in graded band gap layer 142.        Typically, annihilation
       layer 106 can be made of any suitable material such as, but not limited
       to, defect filled HgCdTe, HgCdSe, InAsSb, or the like.       However, the
       material used for the annihilation layer 106 should be a material that
       accepts free electrons and free holes readily from there respective
       bands, i.e., free holes from the valence bands and free electrons from
       the conduction band, and that stimulate recombination of free holes and
       free electrons.
[0045] Thickness 107 of annihilation layer 106 can be made to any suitable
       thickness 107.    It should be understood that thickness of annihilation
       layer 106 is application specific and can have a large amount of
       variability.    However, generally, annihilation layer 106 can have
       thicknesses 107 that can range from a monolayer to 10.0 microns, with
       a modicum range from 0.5 microns to 5.0 microns, and a preferred
       range from 0.8 microns to 1.2 microns.
[0046] Also, depending upon the selection of the materials used to make
       annihilation layer 106, annihilation layer 106 can be graded as
       described hereinbelow such that band gap energy can be tuned or
       configured in such a way to facilitate the recombination of free electrons
                                      28

       and free holes after those free electrons and free holes have passed
       through graded band gap layer 142.
[0047] As shown in FIG. 1, graded band gap layer 142 is disposed on surface
       112 of annihilation layer 106.   Generally, graded band gap layer 142
       can be made of any suitable material or combination of materials that
       have similar lattice parameters and differing band gap energies (eV),
       such as, but not limited to, HgCdTe, HgCdSe, InAsSb, Mercury
       Telluride (HgTe), InSb, Cadmium Telluride (CdTe), Mercury Selenide
       (HgSe), Indium Arsenide (InAs) or, Aluminum Gallium Antimonide
       (AIGaSb), Indium Arsenide Antimonide (InAsSb), HgCdSe, Cadmium
       Zinc Selenide Telluride (CdZnSeTe), Cadmium Manganese Telluride
       (CdMnTe), and the like.
[0048] As shown in FIG.s 1 and 5, a layer 190 can be disposed over
       magnetically polarized photonic device 100 which can have several
       purposes such as, but not limited to, a filter, a protective coating, a lens,
       and the like. More specifically and referring to FIG. 1, layer 190 can be
       disposed on surface 148 of graded band gap layer 142 and in FIG. 5
       layer 190 can be disposed on surface 504 of substrate 501 above
       graded band gap layer 142. It should be understood that selection of
       surfaces 104 and 105 of substrate 102, and surfaces 504 and 505 of
       substrate 501 are dependant on the materials involved and device
       specific design. For instance, as shown in FIG. 5, when it is desired to
       have graded band gap layer 142 to interact with photons having a
       certain wavelength, substrate 501 has to be transparent to that
       wavelength.   Accordingly, layer 190 can be made to selectively pass
                                     29

       certain wavelengths      while excluding     other wavelengths,     thereby
       providing a selective filter. Additionally, it should be understood that
       layer 190 can be made to pass certain wavelengths of photons into
       graded band gap layer 142 and reflect other wavelengths of photons.
       Further, it should be understood that layer 190 could have multiple
       layers that could be utilized for a variety of purposes. Layer 190 can be
       disposed on or over graded band gap layer 142 by any suitable method
       or technology well known in the art such as, but not limited to, those that
       are discussed herein.     Additionally and in some cases, layer can be
       laminated on or over graded band gap layer 142.
[0049] Depending upon specific application, design, and materials selected,
       layer 190 can be any suitable photonic device such as, but not limited to
       an antireflective layer, a selective mirror, a focusing layer, reflector, or
       the like.
[0050] Referring now to both FIG.s 1 and 2, Fig. 2 is a greatly simplified graph
       of Energy Band Gap (eV) 202, Lattice Parameter (Nanometers) 204,
       and     photon   Wavelength      (Nanometers)     205   of a    variety   of
       semiconductor materials, with Energy Band Gap (eV being on the left
       hand Y axis, with photon Wavelength being on the right-hand Y axis,
       and with Lattice Parameter being on the X axis). As shown in FIG. 2, a
       specific semiconductor material (represented as a numerically identified
       dot) can be associated with a specific number which represents the
       lattice parameter. Additionally, that specific semiconductor material can
       be associated with a specific number which represents band gap
       energy (eV).      Also, that specific semiconductor material can be
                                       30

       associated with a specific wavelength of light wherein the photon(s) can
       be absorbed by that specific semiconductor material.
[0051] For the sake of clarity, many of the available semiconductor materials
       have not been identified. However, it should be understood by one of
       ordinary skill in the art, that these materials and future materials are
       contemplated by this invention.
[0052] By way of example, FIG. 2 illustrates a limited number of materials, dot
       numerically represented by 206 is Mercury Telluride (HgTe), dot
       numerically represented by 210 is Indium Antimonide (InSb), dot
       numerically represented by 212 is Cadmium Telluride (CdTe), dot
       numerically represented by 214 is Mercury Selenide (HgSe), dot
       numerically represented      by 216 is Indium Arsenide (InAs),       dot
       numerically represented by 218 is Gallium Antimonide (GaSb), dot
       numerically represented by 220 is Aluminum Antimonide (AISb), dot
       numerically, represented by 222 is Cadmium Selenide (CdSe), dot
       numerically represented by 224 is Zinc Telluride (ZnTe), dot numerically
       represented by 226 is Manganese Telluride (MnTe), dot numerically
       represented by 228 is Manganese Selenide (MnSe), dot numerically
       represented by 230 is Cadmium Sulfide (CdS), dot represented by 232
       is Indium Phosphide (InP), dot represented by 234 is Zinc Selenide
       (ZnSe), dot represented by 236 is Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), dot
       represented by 238 is Germanium (Ge), dot represented by 240 is Zinc
       Sulfide (ZnS), dot represented by 242 is Aluminum Phosphide (AIP), dot
       represented by 244 is Gallium Phosphide (GaP), and dot represented
       by 246 is Silicon (Si).
                                       31

[0053] As shown in FIG. 2, some vertical patterns of materials can be seen
       wherein various materials have similar Lattice Parameters.     By way of
       example only, materials HgSe 214, InAs 216, GaSb 218, AISb 220,
       CdSb 222, and ZnTe 224 have a Lattice Parameter of about or
       approximately 0.61 nm, thereby indicating that these different materials
       have similar crystal lattice structures which enables the potential
       stacking and/or alignment of some of these different materials to be
       deposited on each other and have low number of imperfections or
       defects.
[0054] Referring now to FIG. 3, FIG. 3 is a greatly simplified graph of Energy
       Band gap (eV), Lattice Parameter (Nanometers), and Wavelength
       (Nanometers) of a material composition set illustrating the grading of
       material compositions to adjust the band gap while maintaining Lattice
       parameter characteristics.      By way of example only, using a limited
       number of materials, dot numerically represented by 214 is Mercury
       Selenide (HgSe), dot 222 is Cadmium Selenium (CdSe), dot 224 is Zinc
       Telluride (ZnTe), dot 226 is Manganese Telluride (MnTe), and dot 228
       is Manganese Selenide (MnSe). Additionally, it should be understood
       that the materials found in Fig. 3 are not intended to be an all inclusive
       list.  As shown in Fig. 3, some materials have very similar lattice
       parameters in a vertical direction.
[0055] By way of example only, using the lattice parameter of approximately
       0.645 nanometers (nm), a vertical grouping of materials fall within and
       around 0.647nm. The grouping includes HgTe, InSb, and CdTe. In yet
       another example, using the lattice parameter of approximately 0.610nm
                                       32

       a vertical grouping of fall within and around the 0.610nm. The grouping
       includes HgSe, InAs, GaSb, AISb, CdSe, and ZnTe.               It should be
       understood that other vertical groupings can be used that have not been
       mentioned here.
[0056] By using FIG. 2 or a similar graph and grouping materials into vertical
       groups, a material set is developed for making graded band gap layer
       142.    Also, as shown in FIG. 2, Wavelengths (nm) and corresponding
       Energy Band Gaps to those wavelengths are shown. Thus, by making
       the correct material selection, a correct grouping of materials with the
       correct band gaps can be made so that free electrons and free holes
       (See FIG.s 4 and 5) can be captured and driven to contacts 116 and
       128. Where upon the captured free electrons and free holes can be
       applied to load 176 for useful work.
[0057] Generally, graded band gap layer 142 can be generated by growing a
       layer of continuously modified material composition within a vertical
       grouping. It should be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that
       a certain amount of flexibility exists in the selection of materials used to
       make graded band gap layer 142 and annihilation layer 106.
[0058] Referring now to FIG.s 1, 2 and 3 and by way of example only, graded
       band gap layer 142 can be generated by growing a layer of
       continuously modified material composition within the selenide series of
       materials, indicated by dots 214 and 222. As shown In FIG. 3, HgSe
       214, indicated by dot 214 has a band gap of approximately -0.1eV and
       a lattice parameter of approximately 0.61 nm. Also in FIG. 3, it is shown
       that CdSe (222) has a band gap of approximately 1.7eV and a lattice
                                        33

       parameter of approximately 0.61nm. Intermediate band gap materials
       can be created by intermixing CdSe and HgSe. By way of example, the
       selenide material with half Cadmium and half Mercury (Cdo.5Hgo.5Se)
       has a band gap of approximately 0.8eV and a lattice parameter of
       approximately 0.61nm, and is represented by dot 395 in FIG. 3.
       Similarly, a mixture of 90% CdSe and 10% HgSe (Cdo.gHgo.1Se) has a
       band gap of approximately 1.52eV and is shown by dot 394 in FIG. 3.
       Similarly, dot 396 represents Cdo.3Hgo7Se and has a band gap of
       approximately 0.44eV, dot 397 represents Cdo.25Hgo 75Se and has a
       band     gap   of approximately    0.35eV,  and  dot  398     represents
       Cdo.o5Hgo.95Se and has a band gap of approximately 0.19eV. All of
       these material compositions have a lattice parameter of approximately
       0.61 nm.
[0059] For example, graded band gap layer 142 can be created by growing a
       series of continuously changing composition material that initially has a
       composition of 5% Cadmium Cdo.o5Hgo.95Se and where the Cadmium
       content is continuously increased to 100% (CdSe) by increasing the
       atomic flux of Cadmium while decreasing the atomic flux of Mercury
       during the growth while maintaining ample Selenium with which the
       Cadmium      and Mercury can react to form approximately perfect
       crystalline material with lattice parameter approximately 0.61nm.      By
       way of example only, this continuously changing composition could be
       accomplished by growing the graded band gap layer in a chemical
       vapor deposition machine that uses three precursor gasses; one
       precursor containing Selenium, one containing Cadmium, and one
                                       34

       containing Mercury. By way of example only, by creating a stream of
       gas that is 5% Cadmium precursor and 95% Mercury precursor into the
       growth area with sufficient Selenium precursor to induce approximately
       perfect crystal growth, a layer of Cdo.o5Hgo.s5Se can be grown. By then
       increasing the flow of Cadmium precursor while decreasing the flow of
       Mercury precursor which maintaining ample Selenium precursor for
       approximately perfect crystal growth, the atomic content of Cadmium in
       the growth layer will continually increase while the atomic content of
       Mercury in the growth layer will decrease. At the moment when the
       Cadmium precursor flow was 25% and the mercury precursor content
       was 75% the material growing on the top of the graded band gap layer
       142 would be Cdo.25Hgo.7Se and would be represented by dot 397 in
       FIG. 3. As the growth continued and the precursor content continued to
       change,    the  growth    would   pass   continuously  through  several
       compositions, 396, 395, and 394, and would eventually cease to
       change when Mercury precursor content was zero percent and the
       composition would      be   pure  CdSe    (222) with a    band  gap of
       approximately 1.7eV.
[0060] By way of example only the process of creating the graded band gap
       layer 142 can be continued to higher band gap energies by continuously
       changing the composition to include increasing amounts of ZnTe (224)
       as the content of CdSe (222) decreases. This could be accomplished
       by using two additional precursors that contain Zinc and Tellurium.
       Intermediate composition 393 represents the point when approximately
       equal amounts of ZnTe and CdSe are incorporated into the film and has
                                      35

       the chemical composition Zno 5Cdo.5Teo sSeo.s and has a band gap of
       approximately 2.0eV.        This composition can further be continuously
       changed to the point of 100% ZnTe (dot 224) and 0% CdSe with a band
       gap of approximately 2.2eV.
[0061] This process can be further continued to higher band gap by intermixing
       MnSeo.sTeo.5 (dot 391) with ZnTe (224).      By way of example again, an
       intermediate composition along this path is dot 392 with a composition
       of Zno.sMno.sTeo.7sSe.25.     This composition can be derived from equal
       parts of composition 224 and 391 as, (ZnTe)o.5(MnSeo sTeo.5)o.5.
[0062] Another material system that can be used to make this device is the
       Mercury Cadmium Telluride (HgxCd(1-x)Te).         The Cadmium Telluride
       material system is similar to the previous system, in that the band gap
       can be modified continuously by altering the ratio of Mercury Telluride to
       Cadmium Telluride. It is different in that the lattice parameter is larger,
       and therefore this system must generally be grown on a different
       substrate to prevent excessive defects, but is similar in that fractional
       content of Mercury Telluride to Cadmium Telluride when continuously
       varied, results in a varied band gap. It should be understood by one of
       ordinary skill in the art, that other systems could be identified and used
       as well.
[0063] One version of this structure that is described herein is the growth of
       smaller band gap materials that have lattice parameter that are different
       from the primary substrate lattice parameter, and different from the
       primary lattice parameter of the majority of the graded band gap. It is
       possible to grow nearly perfectly crystalline material on a substrate or
                                        36

partial growth layer that has a different lattice parameter than the new
material to be grown.     As an example only, in the inverted structure
(FIG. 5), the wider band gap portion of the graded band gap layer can
be grown in the III-V system using a set of materials with 0.61nm lattice
parameter by starting from AISb and increasing GaSb in place of AISb
to reduce the band gap.       The band gap can be further reduced in a
graded manner from that of GaSb to that of InAs by including an
increasing content of InAs and a decreasing content of GaSb.          This
transition can continue to 100% InAs. Further band gap decreases at
0.61nm lattice parameter in the III-V system is not possible with a
known material. However, because the band gap of InAs is only slightly
larger than that of an ideal annihilation layer, the final portion of the
graded band gap layer can be made imperfectly by growing a material
with a different lattice parameter on the InAs layer. Because this new
portion   of the graded      band gap layer is imperfect,      it will act
simultaneously as a combination of a graded band gap layer and an
annihilation layer. The modification in performance from building the
structure in this way will be rather small, but building it in this way
enables the use of materials for the bulk of the graded band gap layer
that would not enable a perfect transition to the smaller band gaps and
the annihilation layer. It is also understood that the annihilation layer
can in general be combined with the smaller band gap regions of the
graded band gap layer such that the annihilation of carriers is combined
with a band gap gradient that forces the carriers to the bottom of the
device.
                                37

[0064] It is understood that minor interruptions in the growth composition that
       might result in describing the graded band gap layer as non-continuous
       or interrupted or segmented are understood to have a minor impact on
       the performance of the device, and are also covered by our general
       description of a transition from one band gap to another band gap over
       a distance of order microns.     It is also conceived and claimed herein,
       structures that include different rates of change in band gap as a
       function of thickness. It is important to note that the rate of band gap
       change with thickness is a trade-off between substantially complete
       absorption in the region of the graded band gap where the gap is
       approximately equal to the energy of the light being absorbed
       (accomplished most perfectly with a very thick layer), and minimizing
       the thickness to reduce resistance to flow and the time it takes a carrier
       to transit from where it is created in the structure to the annihilation
       layer. Generally, excessively thick layers such as, but not limited to,
       graded band gap layer 142 annihilation layer 106, and the like absorb
       more perfectly, but have excessive resistance, while thin layers have
       minimal resistance but absorb less perfectly. It may be advantageous
       to create the graded band gap layer in two sections: one section with
       slight grading to absorb more perfectly, and a second section with
       stronger grading to accelerate the carriers toward the annihilation layer.
       This structural variation would improve performance in situations where
       the light source contains a limited range for photon energies that can be
       absorbed in the layer with slight grading, and then accelerated over a
       short distance in the second section with strong grading.
                                       38

[0065] Additionally, it is understood that photons absorb in the annihilation
       layer, and can contribute to a further increase in the power output of the
       magnetically polarized photonic device.
[0066] Referring to FIG. 1, as previously mention with regard to annihilation
       layer 106, it is sometimes useful to consider the materials selected for
       graded band gap layer 142 and utilize those same material selections
       for use in the annihilation later 106. By utilizing this technique to select
       material sets, it is sometimes possible to reduce the stress on the
       crystal structure throughout the entire material layers while still maintain
       a high defect density in annihilation 106.
[0067] Typically, graded band gap layer 142 is an epitaxially deposited
       material.   The epitaxially deposited material allows for a crystal lattice
       structure to form.   The deposited layer can be made by any suitable
       method or technique such as previously discussed with reference to
       annihilation layer 106. Since the deposition instrumentals have been
       discussed previously, they do not need to be repeated herein below
       except in pertinent part.       However, it should be understood that
       deposition of graded band gap layer 142 is different from that of the
       annihilation layer 106 in that the crystalline structure of the material
       deposited for graded band gap layer 142 is important and the number of
       defects, imperfections, and the like should be as few as possible.
[0068] Graded band gap material is epitaxially deposited to a thickness 143 on
       annihilation layer 106.      Typically, a small amount of material is
       epitaxially deposited that is similar or the same as the annihilation layer
       106 such that the same chemical constituents are used. Typically, this
                                       39

       initial material for graded band gap layer can range from 0.1 microns to
       50.0 microns thickness, with a modicum thickness ranging from 5.0
       microns to 30.0 microns, and a preferred thickness being 10.0 microns
       to 20.0 microns. So as to obtain a dynamically graded material that is
       lattice matched, while the previous material is still being deposited.
       New gases used for deposition are slowly allowed to enter the reaction
       chamber so the second new material is slowly deposited on the
       preceding dynamically graded material.         Typically, this second new
       material can range from 0.1 microns to 50.0 microns thickness, with a
       modicum thickness ranging from 5.0 microns to 30.0 microns, and a
       preferred thickness range being 10.0 microns to 20.0 microns.         This
       process can be continued for as many times that are desired or that are
       called for by the specific application. By allowing the deposited material
       to be dynamically deposited and by selecting the correct materials for
       deposition, a dynamically graded band gap layer 142 is capable of
       being deposited.
[0069] Referring now to Fig. 1, contact 116 having surfaces 118, 120, 122, and
       124 and contact 128 having surfaces 130, 132, 134, and 136 are
       located on surfaces 146 and 150, respectively, of graded band gap
       layer 142 and on surface 114 and 110 of annihilation layer 106,
       respectively.     Typically, contacts 116 and 128 can be made in any
       suitable configuration such as, but not limited to, conforming surfaces
       146 and 150 of ends 192 and 194 of graded band gap layer 142,
       annihilation layer 106, either singly, combined, or in part of magnetically
       polarized photonic device 100. Contacts 116 and 128 are made to
                                        40

       thickness 189 and 191, respectively.           It should be know by one of
       ordinary skill in the art as to the typical thicknesses of electrical contacts
       in the art. Typically, contacts 116 and 128 conform to surfaces 146 and
       150 of graded band gap layer 142 and surfaces 114 and 110 of
       annihilation layer 106. However, it should be understood that in some
       cases contacts 116 and 128 can have shapes other then what is shown
       in Fig. 1. By way of example only, in some cases contacts 116 and 128
       can be dissimilar in size, wherein contact 116 has a larger surface area
       then contact 128.        Additionally, doping regions, indicated by doted
       lines196 and 198, of ends 192 and 194 can be used to enhance
       electrical conductivity to annihilation layer 106 and graded band gap
       layer 142. Typically, doping regions 196 and 198 are doped with any
       suitable dopant. With free electrons moving toward contact 116, an N
       type dopant could be used and with free holes moving toward contact
       128 a P-type dopant could be used.            One of ordinary skill in the art
       should be able to determine the doping concentrations for the specific
       material compositions and device type.
[0070] Additionally, it should be understood that the planes of material of
       identical composition that make up the graded band gap layer 142 are
       at approximately ninety degree angles to the plane defined by doping
       region 192, whereas in conventional devices these planes of identical
       composition are either coplanar or parallel to the planes of dopant.
       Contacts 116 and 128 can be made of any suitable conductive or
       semiconductor material such as,            but not     limited to, metals, a
                                         41

       combination of metal layers, alloys, semiconductor materials, and/or
       any combination of the above.
[0071] A plurality of magnetic field lines 159 represented by magnetic field
       lines 157, 158, 160, 161, and 162 are shown passing through and
       around magnetically polarized photonic device 100. More specifically,
       FIG. 1 indicates the direction of magnetic field lines 159 with magnetic
       field line 158 passing over top surface of graded band gap layer 142
       and with magnetic field lines 160 passing through graded band gap
       layer 142, with magnetic field line 162 passing through annihilation layer
       106, with magnetic field line 157 passing through substrate 102, and
       with magnetic file line 161 passing under substrate 102.        It should be
       understood that magnetic field lines 159 is a force that is represented by
       lines 157, 158, 160, 161, and 162. While magnetic field lines 159 is
       shown to be perpendicular to the sectional surface of magnetically
       polarized photonic device 100, orientation of magnetic field lines 159
       can be set at any suitable angle in the horizontal plane and vertical
       plane, illustrate by elements 172 and 174, respectively. As discussed
       later in the description of FIG 4, the magnetic field direction is oriented
       orthogonal to the band gap gradient force direction.             This is the
       orientation for maximum          device efficiency and is shown at the
       intersection line of suitable horizontal angles 172 and vertical angles
       174, but it should be understood that small variations from this ideal
       orientation will result in performance that is only slightly less than the
       ideal orientation would provide.       A unique property of the band gap
       gradient is that it forcibly drives both free electrons and free holes in the
                                         42

       same direction, as opposed to an electric field (either externally applied
       or internally generated in the diode structure of a conventional
       photovoltaic device) that pulls free electrons in one direction and free
       holes in another.
[0072] Magnetic field lines 159 can be generated by any suitable method or
       technology such as, but not limited to, a bar magnet, a rare earth
       magnet, an electromagnet, superconducting electromagnet, or the like.
       Generally, magnetic field 159 can range from 0.1 Tesla to 50.0 Tesla,
       with a nominal range from 0.5 Tesla to 10.0 Tesla.
[0073] FIG. 4 is a greatly enlarged simplified perspective illustration of a
       magnetically polarized photonic device 100 as generally depicted in Fig.
       1 further including a photonic source 402 having a plurality of photons
       404 with exemplary photons having identifying numbers 406, 408, 410,
       and 412. As shown in Fig. 4, photonic source 402 emits the plurality of
       photons 404 that flood surface 148 of magnetically polarized photonic
       device 100. When the plurality of photons 404 strike surface 148 of the
       graded band gap layer 142, at least a portion of the energy of the
       plurality of photons 404 is transferred to free electrons in the crystal
       lattice structure that make up the graded band gap layer 142.      Which,
       depending upon the type of material, the structure of the graded band
       gap layer 142 material and the band gap energy, the plurality of free
       electrons 414 and the plurality of free holes 424 and, individually
       identified as free electrons 416, 418, 420, and 422 and free holes 425,
       428, 430, and 432 are consequently generated in the graded band gap
                                      43

       layer 142 and are capable of movement in the crystal lattice of the
       graded band gap layer 142.
[0074] For example, with graded band gap layer 142 being disposed such that
       band gap material having a large energy band gap is located on or
       about surface     148 and with other band        gap materials   having
       sequentially smaller energy band gaps being graded through energy
       band gap layer 142 with the smallest energy band gap material located
       on or about surface 112 of annihilation layer 106. By way of example,
       graded band gap layer 142 could have energy band gaps ranging from
       2.5eV to 0.8eV and with the 2.5eV band gap material being located at
       or near surface 148 at the top of the graded band gap layer 142, with
       the 0.8 eV material being located close to surface 112 of annihilation
       layer 106, and with other suitable band gap material being graded in
       between the 2.5eV and the 0.8eV material. Additionally, photons 406,
       408, 410, and 412 could have photon energies of 2.5eV, 2.0eV, 1.7eV,
       and 0.8eV, respectively.      As shown in FIG. 4, photon 406 strikes
       surface 148 and are absorbed near the surface 148.        Absorption of
       photon 406 into crystal lattice structure of graded band gap layer 142
       generates free electron 422 and free hole 425 because the crystal
       lattice material band gap and the photon 406 have the same energy, in
       this case 2.5eV, free electron 422 and free hole 425 are now able to
       move in the crystal lattice structure of the graded band gap layer 142
       toward annihilation layer 106.
[0075] However, as shown in FIG. 6, free electron 422 and free hole 425 are
       affected by magnetic field 159, wherein free electron 422 moves toward
                                      44

       contact 116 as it moves toward annihilation layer 106, indicated by
       arrow 602, and free hole 425 moves toward contact 128 as it also
       moves toward annihilation layer 106, indicated by arrow 610.
[0076] As shown in FIG. 4, photon 408 strikes surface 148 and is absorbed by
       the crystal lattice material structure of graded band gap layer 142.
       However, photon 408 travels through graded band gap layer 142 until
       photon 408 is absorbed by material in graded band gap layer 142
       having the same energy band gap as does photon 408.             In this
       particular case, photon 408 has an energy of 2.0eV and the material in
       the graded band gap also has an energy band gap of 2.0eV. Photon
       408 is subsequently captured and generates a free electron 420 and
       free hole 428 which have mobility in the crystal lattice structure of
       graded band gap layer 142.       However, as previously described with
       reference to free electron 422 and free hole 425, magnetic field 159
       moves free electron 420 toward contact 116 and moves free hole 428
       toward contact 128, as indicated by arrows 604 and 612, respectively.
[0077] Photon 410 strikes surface 148 and is absorbed into the material of the
       crystal lattice structure of graded band gap layer 142.       However,
       photon 410 travels farther than photon 408 into graded band gap layer
       142 until photon 410 is absorbed by band gap material in graded band
       gap layer 142 having the same energy band gap as the energy of
       photon 410. In this particular case, photon 410 has an energy of 1.7eV
       and the material in the graded band gap also has an energy band gap
       of 1.7eV.    Photon 410 is subsequently captured and generates a free
       electron 418 and free hole 430 both of which have mobility in the
                                      45

       material of the crystal lattice structure of graded band gap layer 142.
       However, as previously described with reference to free electrons 420,
       and 422 and free holes 425 and 428, magnetic field 159 moves free
       electron 418 toward contact 116 and moves free hole 430 toward
       contact 128, as indicated by arrows 606 and 614, respectively.
[0078] When photon 412 strikes surface 148, photon 412 is not absorbed
       immediately into the crystal lattice structure of graded band gap layer
       142, but travels for some distance and time in graded band gap layer
       142.   However, photon 412 travels through graded band gap layer 142
       until photon 412 is absorbed by material in the graded band gap layer
       142 having the same energy band gap as the energy of photon 412. In
       this particular case, photon 412 has an energy band gap of 0.8eV and
       the material in the graded band gap layer 142 also has an energy of
       0.8eV.    Photon 412 is subsequently captured and generates a free
       electron 416 and free hole 432 which have mobility in the crystal lattice
       structure of the graded band gap layer 142. However, as previously
       described with reference to free electrons 418, 420, and 422 and free
       holes 425, 428, 430, magnetic field 159 moves free electron 416 toward
       contact 116 and moves free hole 432 toward contact 128 as indicated
       by arrows 608 and 616, respectively.
[0079] Because of the interaction of the free electrons 422, 420, 418, and 416
       and free holes 425, 428, 430, and 432 with magnetic field 159, free
       electrons 422, 420, 418, and 416 and free holes 425, 428, 430, and 432
       are moved toward contact 116 and contact 128, respectively. Thus, the
       energy of the plurality of the free electrons and free holes 414 and 424
                                       46

       are capable of being captured. It should be understood that while only
       four photons 406, 408, 410, and 412 represent the plurality of photons,
       the number of photons that strike surface 148 are extremely large.
       Thus, it should be further understood that the number of the plurality of
       free electrons 414 and the plurality of free holes 424 is also extremely
       large.
[0080]  Referring to Fig. 4, several force directions 426, 436, and 440 are
       indicated by double arrows, and several motion directions, 434, 438,
       and 442 are indicated by single arrows. Force direction 426 is the Band
       Gap Gradient Force on free holes and free electrons from the moment
       they are created by absorption of a photon, until they recombine with an
       opposite carrier (free electrons combine with free holes to annihilate
       each other and form either a secondary photon, or an energy loss event
       that produces mostly heat). It is understood that the vast majority of the
       carriers will not recombine with their opposite carrier type until they
       reach the annihilation layer, but it is inevitable that in any real device
       with many carriers of both types, some recombination can occur
       prematurely at any point in the device.            It is understood that
       recombination prior to the carrier reaching the annihilation layer will
       result in a reduction in conversion efficiency. Motion direction indicated
       by arrow 434 is the direction of motion of both free holes and free
       electrons in response to the band gap gradient force 426. It should be
       understood that motion direction 434 of both free holes and free
       electrons also has a component of velocity that is also induced by the
       band gap gradient force. As previously described, the entire device is
                                      47

located in a magnetic field represented by lines 159. The field lines
from this magnetic field are represented individually as arrows 157, 158,
160, 161, and 162, but it is understood that the entire device has
approximately a uniform magnetic field including magnetic field lines
penetrating through it everywhere. At every point in the device, carriers
that move will experience a magnetic polarizing force equal to the cross
product of the magnetic field with the velocity vector times the charge.
The equation for this force is as follow: FMP=qv x B where FMP is the
Magnetic Polarizing Force on a moving charge carrier with velocity "v"
and electric charge "q", with "B" the magnetic field intensity and "x"
indicating the vector cross product operator.      As seen in FIG 4, the
magnetic field direction is oriented orthogonal to the band gap gradient
force direction. This is the orientation for maximum device efficiency,
but it is understood that small variations from this ideal orientation will
result in performance that is only slightly less than the ideal orientation
would provide. A unique property of the band gap gradient is that it
forcibly drives both free electrons and free holes in the same direction,
as opposed to an electric field (either externally applied or internally
generated in the diode structure of a conventional photovoltaic device)
that pulls free electrons in one direction and free holes in another. The
band gap gradient force is non-polarizing in magnetically polarized
photonic device 100. In magnetically polarized photonic device 100, the
free electrons and free holes acquire both motion and velocity, indicated
by arrow 434 in the direction of the band gap gradient force 426. Both
negatively charged free electrons and positively charged free holes
                                48

       having motion       moving    in direction 434, experience a Magnetic
       Polarizing Force 436 for free electrons and Magnetic Polarizing Force
       440 for free holes that move free electrons to the left (direction 438) and
       free holes to the right (direction 442) in FIG. 4, respectively, thereby
       facilitating the transfer of the energy of the free electrons and free holes
       in their respective energy bands into electric energy as electric current
       751 of FIG. 7 flowing against electric field 750 of FIG. 7. This energy
       transfer is accomplished at significantly higher efficiency than by
       conventional photovoltaic cells. Free electrons and free holes coexist
       throughout the band gap gradient layer 142 with free holes moving in
       the direction of electrode 128 and the free electrons moving in the
       direction of electrode 116 in FIG. 4.
[0081] FIG. 5 shows the inverted structure with like items identified with like
       numbers.      As described earlier the substrate 501 is chosen so as to
       allow selected photons to pass though the substrate so that they can be
       absorb in graded band gap layer 142 that is disposed on surface 505 of
       substrate 501.
[0082] Referring to FIG. 6, the motion of the free electron 422 is indicated by
       curved motion arrow 602. The motion of free hole 425 is indicated by
       curved motion arrow 610. Likewise, carriers that are created throughout
       the band gap gradient are shown with their associated motion arrows
       that result from the respective Magnetic Polarizing Forces on each
       charged carrier that result from the motion induced by the band gap
       gradient force on each charged carrier.
                                         49

[0083] Referring now to FIG. 7, the general path traveled by each free electron
       and free hole in FIG.s 4, 5, and 6 are shown. Path 702 indicates the
       path taken by free electron 422 with the final position of free electron
       422 shown in FIG. 7. Path 710 is the path taken by free hole 425 with
       the final position of free hole 425 shown in FIG 7. Similarly, path 704 is
       the path taken by free electron 420, path 712 is the path taken by free
       hole 428, path 706 is the path taken by free electron 418, path 714 is
       the path taken by free hole 430, path 708 is the path taken by free
       electron 416, and path 716 is the path taken by free hole 432. In the
       present invention, one of the unique aspects of this device is that its
       output voltage (the electric potential between electrodes 128 and 116)
       can be significantly larger than the total band gap gradient drop
       experienced by each carrier. This potential establishes a lateral electric
       field 750 between electrodes 128 and 116, and exists throughout the
       graded band gap layer and annihilation layer. The output voltage of this
       device is generally a linear function of its length (the distance between
       electrodes 116 and 128).         This is not the case with conventional
       photovoltaic devices where the output voltage is related directly to the
       band gap of the material in which the diode structure is created, and is
       limited to that value. As an example, the typical output of a silicon solar
       cell is approximately 0.7eV, and is limited to approximately the total
       band gap of 1.1eV. As can be seen in FIG. 7, the majority of carriers
       move from the point they were created by absorption of a photon down
       the graded band gap to the annihilation layer where they meet a carrier
       of opposite type and are annihilated (recombining in pairs and wasting
                                        50

the energy of the band gap of the annihilation layer). As each carrier
moves down the band gap gradient, they lose potential energy by
moving from a large band gap energy to a lower band gap energy. This
energy is transferred into the lateral electric field 750 as charge motion
against the electric field (a current against an electric field is electric
power generation). The aspect ratio of FIG. 7 is not shown to scale and
the distance between contacts 116 and 128 is generally many times
(50-1000 times) the distance from the top of the band gap graded layer
to the bottom of it. As a result of this high aspect ratio, in general, a
plethora of free electrons and free holes move simultaneously down the
band gap gradient and find their opposite charge with which they
annihilate as the reach the bottom of the device (not shown). Because
each carrier pair moves down a band gap energy of order 1eV, each
pair moves against approximately 1 volt of electric potential of the
electric field 750. These carriers act as a series connection of small 1
volt power sources with small current that acts to create a large voltage
at a small current.     It should be understood that this device simply
converts photonic energy into electric voltage and current, and that the
efficiency with which this occurs is less than 100%. As an example, one
coulomb of charge is 6.25x10 1 8 electric charges.             If 6.25x10 18
photons/second of 1eV energy (an incident power of 1 Watt) are
absorbed perfectly into the 1eV band gap portion of the graded band
gap of a magnetically polarized photonic device of this type having a
distance between electrodes 116 and 128 of 1cm, the optimal output
voltage under load would be of order 50 volts with a current of
                                51

       approximately .01 Amps. This would be an output power of 0.5 Watts
       corresponding to 50% power conversion.          This conversion efficiency
       depends on many factors, including, but not limited to the mobility of the
       carriers (related to the resistance of the device), the minimum band gap
       of the annihilation layer, the magnetic field intensity, and the physical
       thickness of the device.      It is possible in a structure of this type to
       exceed 50-75% conversion efficiency under optimum conditions.
[0084] FIG. 8 shows an energy versus depth diagram that identifies the graded
       band gap layer 142, annihilation layer 106, and substrate layer 102. In
       this diagram the annihilation layer 106 is a defect-filled layer of
       Cdo.o5Hgo.95Se with a band gap of approximately 0.19eV that, for
       example only, can be deposited at a temperature that induces anti-site
       defects (Selenium atoms positioned where Mercury or Cadmium would
       be located in a perfect crystal). The graded band gap layer 142 in this
       diagram is grown in such a way that the material has superior quality
       and few defects.      This can be accomplished, for example only, by
       increasing the temperature of growth to the ideal growth temperature for
       approximately perfect crystal growth without anti-site defects. The initial
       composition of the graded band gap is Cdo.o5Hgo.95Se, indicated in FIG.
       8 as dashed line 898 corresponding to dot 398 in FIG. 3. Furthermore,
       the composition of graded band gap layer 142 is continuously modified
       to include increasing amounts of CdSe compared to HgSe so that the
       band gap increases from approximately 0.19eV to approximately
       0.35eV at Cdo.25Hgo.75Se (dashed line 897 on FIG. 8 corresponding to
       dot 397 in FIG. 3). This growth continues with increasing CdSe content
                                        52

       to Cdo.3Hgo.7Se (dashed line 896 on FIG. 8 corresponding to dot 396 in
       FIG. 3) having a band gap of approximately 0.44eV. This growth further
       continues with increasing CdSe content to Cdo.5Hgo.5Se (dashed line
       895 on FIG. 8 corresponding to dot 395 in FIG. 3) having a band gap of
       approximately 0.8eV.     This growth further continues with increasing
       CdSe content to Cdo.9Hgo.1Se (dashed line 894 on FIG. 8 corresponding
       to dot 394 in FIG. 3) having a band gap of approximately 1.52eV. This
       growth further continues with increasing CdSe content to approximately
       pure CdSe (dot 222 in FIG. 3) having a band gap of approximately
       1.7eV.
[0085] The foregoing specification, the invention has been described with
       reference to specific exemplary embodiments;        however, it will be
       appreciated that various modifications and changes may be made
       without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in
       the claims below. The specification and figures are to be regarded in an
       illustrative manner,   rather than   a restrictive one and     all such
       modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the
       present invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention should be
       determined by the claims appended hereto and their legal equivalents
       rather than by merely the examples described above. For example, the
       steps recited in any method or process claims may be executed in any
       order and are not limited to the specific order presented in the claims.
       Additionally, the components and/or elements recited in any apparatus
       claims may be assembled or otherwise operationally configured in a
       variety of permutations to produce substantially the same result as the
                                     53

       present invention and are accordingly not limited to the specific
       configuration recited in the claims.
[0086] Benefits, other advantages and solutions to problems have been
       described above with regard to particular embodiments; however, any
       benefit, advantage, solution to problems or any element that may cause
       any particular benefit, advantage or solution to occur or to become more
       pronounced are not to be construed as critical, required or essential
       features or components of any or all the claims.
[0087] As used herein, the terms "comprises", "comprising", or any variation
       thereof, are intended to reference a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a
       process, method, article, composition or apparatus that comprises a list
       of elements does not include only those elements recited, but may also
       include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process,
       method, article, composition or apparatus. Other combinations and/or
       modifications    of   the   above-described    structures,  arrangements,
       applications, proportions, elements, materials or components used in
       the practice of the present invention, in addition to those not specifically
       recited, may be varied or otherwise particularly adapted by those skilled
       in the art to specific environments, manufacturing specifications, design
       parameters or other operating requirements without departing from the
       general principles of the same.
                                       54

CLAIMS
       We claim:
       1.    A magnetically polarized photonic device comprises:
       a substrate having a first surface and a second surface opposing the
             first surface, wherein the first surface and the second surface are
             substantially parallel to an x-y plane in a 3-dimensional
             coordinate system;
       an annihilation layer having a first thickness extending in a first direction
             parallel to a z-axis, a third surface, a fourth surface opposing the
             third surface, a fifth surface, a sixth surface, a seventh surface
             opposing the fifth surface, and an eighth surface opposing the
             sixth surface, wherein the third and fourth surfaces of the
             annihilation layer are substantially parallel to the x-y plane, and
             wherein the fifth and seventh surfaces of the annihilation layer
             are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane being
             orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the sixth and eighth
             surfaces of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to a y-z
             plane, the y-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes',
             and wherein the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth surfaces are
             substantially perpendicular to the third and fourth surfaces and
             positioned therebetween, and wherein the fifth and seventh
             surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the sixth and eighth
             surfaces, and wherein the fourth surface of the annihilation
             layer is disposed on the first surface of the substrate;
                                        55

a graded band gap layer having a second thickness and a grading
         extending in the first direction parallel to the z-axis, and having a
         ninth surface, a tenth surface opposing the ninth surface, an
         eleventh surface, a twelfth surface, a thirteenth surface opposing
         the eleventh surface, and a fourteenth surface opposing the
         twelfth surface, wherein the ninth and tenth surfaces of the
         graded band gap layer are substantially parallel to the x-y plane
         and wherein the eleventh and thirteenth surfaces are
         substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the twelfth and
         fourteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and
        wherein the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth surfaces
         are substantially perpendicular to the ninth and tenth surfaces
         and positioned therebetween, and wherein the eleventh and
         thirteenth surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the twelfth
         and fourteenth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and
        wherein the tenth surface of the graded band gap layer is
         disposed on the third surface of the annihilation layer thereby
         stacking the graded band gap layer and the annihilation layer in
         the first direction parallel to the z-axis;
a first contact having a fifteenth surface and a sixteenth surface, the
         fifteenth and sixteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the x
         z plane, the sixteenth surface of the first contact electrically
         coupled to at least a portion of the fifth surface of the annihilation
         layer and the eleventh surface of the graded band gap layer;
                                   56

a second contact having a seventeenth surface and an eighteenth
      surface, the seventeenth and eighteenth surfaces are
      substantially parallel to the x-z plane, the seventeenth surface of
      the second contact electrically coupled to at least a portion of the
      seventh surface of the annihilation layer;
wherein the annihilation layer comprises a layer of material configured
      to collect and recombine free electrons and free holes that are
      generated when a plurality of photons strike the graded band gap
      layer; and
wherein when a magnetic field with field lines extending in a second
      direction parallel to an x-axis is applied to the graded band gap
      layer and the annihilation layer, current flows in a third direction
      parallel to a y-axis between the first and second contacts.
2.    The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
      wherein the substrate is made from a semiconductor material.
3.    The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in 1
      wherein the substrate is made of an insulative material
4.    The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
      wherein the annihilation layer is made from a group comprising:
      Mercury Cadmium Telluride (HgCdTe), Mercury Cadmium
      Selenide (HgCdSe), Mercury Telluride (HgTe), Indium
      Antimonide (InSb), Cadmium Telluride (CdTe), Mercury Selenide
      (HgSe), Indium Arsenide (InAs), Aluminum Gallium Antimonide
      (AIGaSb), Indium Arsenide Antimonide (InAsSb), Mercury
      Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Cadmium Zinc Selenide Telluride
                                57

   (CdZnSeTe), and Cadmium Manganese Telluride (CdMnTe),
   Zinc Gallium Antimonide Telluride (ZnGaSbTe), Zinc Aluminum
   Antimonide Telluride (ZnAISbTe), Gallium Antimonide (GaSb),
   Zinc Telluride (ZnTe), Aluminum Antimonide (AISb), Manganese
   Telluride (MnTe), Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), and combinations
   and mixtures thereof.
5. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
   wherein the graded band gap layer is made from a group
   comprising: Mercury Cadmium Telluride (HgCdTe), Mercury
   Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Mercury Telluride (HgTe), Indium
   Antimonide (InSb), Cadmium Telluride (CdTe), Mercury Selenide
   (HgSe), Indium Arsenide (InAs), Aluminum Gallium Antimonide
   (AIGaSb), Indium Arsenide Antimonide (InAsSb), Mercury
   Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Cadmium Zinc Selenide Telluride
   (CdZnSeTe), and Cadmium Manganese Telluride (CdMnTe),
   Zinc Gallium Antimonide Telluride (ZnGaSbTe), Zinc Aluminum
   Antimonide Telluride (ZnAISbTe), Gallium Antimonide (GaSb),
   Zinc Telluride (ZnTe), Aluminum Antimonide (AISb), Manganese
   Telluride (MnTe), Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), and combinations
   and mixtures thereof.
6. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
   wherein the annihilation layer has band gap values ranging from
   8.0eV to 0.0eV.
                           58

7.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
    wherein the graded band gap layer has band gap values ranging
    from 8.0eV to 0.0eV.
8.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
    wherein the annihilation layer is made having a graded band gap.
9.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
    wherein the annihilation layer includes defects.
10  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 8
    further including defects.
11. The magnetically polarize photonic device as claimed in claim 1
    further including a layer disposed over the graded band gap
    layer.
12. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    11 wherein the layer disposed over the graded band gap layer is
    a filter of wavelengths of light.
13. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    11 wherein the layer disposed over the graded band gap layer is
    a protective coating.
14. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    11 wherein the layer disposed over the graded band gap layer is
    a lens.
15. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 7
    wherein the graded band gap layer has a first portion and a
    second portion, the first portion arranged with the largest band
    gap value is disposed about the ninth surface with a decrease of
                             59

     band gap values to the second portion, the second portion
     arranged with the smallest band gap value at the tenth surface of
     the graded band gap layer with a decrease of band gap values
     from the first portion, wherein the percentage decrease in band
     gap values is greater in the second portion than in the first
     portion.
16.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
     wherein the graded band gap layer includes a thickness, the
     thickness ranging from 0.1 microns to 50.0 microns.
17.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      16 wherein the thickness of the graded band gap layer has a
     thickness from 5.0 microns to 30.0 microns.
18.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      16 wherein the thickness of the graded band gap layer has a
     thickness from 10.0 microns to 20.0 microns.
19.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim 1
     further comprising:
a magnetic field having a plurality of magnetic field lines, where at least
     one magnetic field line enters through the twelfth surface of the
     graded band gap layer.
20.  The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      19 wherein at least one magnetic field line exits through the
     fourteenth surface of the graded band gap layer.
                               60

21.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      19 wherein at least one magnetic field line enters through the
      sixth surface of the annihilation layer.
22.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      19 wherein at least one magnetic field line exits through the
      eighth surface of the annihilation layer.
23.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      19 wherein the magnetic field ranges from 0.1 Tesla to 50.0
      Tesla.
24.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      23 wherein the magnetic field ranges from 0.5 Tesla to 10.0
      Tesla.
25.   A magnetically polarized photonic device comprises:
an annihilation layer having a first surface, a second surface opposing
      the first surface, third surface, a fourth surface, a fifth surface
      opposing the third surface, and a sixth surface opposing the
      fourth surface, wherein the first surface and the second surface
      are substantially parallel to an x-y plane in a 3-dimensional
      coordinate system, and wherein the third surface and the fifth
      surface are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane
      being orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the fourth surface
      and the sixth surface are substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the
      y-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes, and
      wherein the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth surfaces are
      perpendicular to the first and second surfaces and positioned
                                61

         therebetween, and wherein the third and fifth surfaces are
         perpendicular to the fourth and sixth surfaces and positioned
         therebetween, the annihilation layer comprising a layer of
         material having a band gap value grading extending in a first
         direction parallel to a z-axis, wherein the layer of material
         configured to collect and recombine free electrons and free holes
         that are generated when a plurality of photons strike the
         annihilation layer;
a first contact having a seventh surface, an eighth surface opposing the
         seventh surface, a ninth surface, a tenth surface, an eleventh
         surface opposing the ninth surface, and a twelfth surface
         opposing the tenth surface, wherein the seventh surface and the
         eighth surface are substantially parallel to the x-y plane, and
        wherein the ninth surface and the eleventh surface are
         substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the tenth
         surface and the twelfth surface are substantially parallel to the y
         z plane, and wherein the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth are
         substantially perpendicular to the seventh and eighth surfaces
         and positioned therebetween, and wherein the ninth and
         eleventh are substantially perpendicular to the tenth and twelfth
         surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the eleventh
         surface of the first contact is electrically coupled to the third
         surface of annihilation layer; and
a second contact having a thirteenth surface, a fourteenth surface
         opposing the thirteenth surface, a fifteenth surface, a sixteenth
                                   62

      surface, a seventeenth surface opposing the fifteenth surface,
      and an eighteenth surface opposing the sixteenth surface,
      wherein the thirteenth surface and the fourteenth surface are
      substantially parallel to the x-y plane, and wherein the fifteenth
      surface and the seventeenth surface are substantially parallel to
      the x-z plane, and wherein the sixteenth surface and the
      eighteenth surface are substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and
      wherein the fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth
      surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the thirteenth and
      fourteenth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein
      the sixteenth and eighteenth surfaces are substantially
      perpendicular to the fifteenth and seventeenth surfaces and
      positioned therebetween, and wherein the fifteenth surface of the
      second contact is electrically coupled to the fifth surface of the
      annihilation layer, and wherein the first and second contacts are
      locating substantially opposing each other; and
wherein when a magnetic field with field lines orthogonal to the direction
      of grading and extending in a second direction parallel to an x
      axis is applied to the annihilation layer, current flows in a third
      direction parallel to a y-axis between the first and second
      contacts,
26.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      25 wherein the annihilation layer is made from a group
      comprising: Mercury Cadmium Telluride (HgCdTe), Mercury
      Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Mercury Telluride (HgTe), Indium
                                63

    Antimonide (InSb), Cadmium Telluride (CdTe), Mercury Selenide
    (HgSe), Indium Arsenide (InAs), Aluminum Gallium Antimonide
    (AIGaSb), Indium Arsenide Antimonide (InAsSb), Mercury
    Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Cadmium Zinc Selenide Telluride
    (CdZnSeTe), and Cadmium Manganese Telluride (CdMnTe),
    Zinc Gallium Antimonide Telluride (ZnGaSbTe), Zinc Aluminum
    Antimonide Telluride (ZnAISbTe), Gallium Antimonide (GaSb),
    Zinc Telluride (ZnTe), Aluminum Antimonide (AISb), Manganese
    Telluride (MnTe), Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), and combinations
    and mixtures thereof.
27. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    25 wherein the annihilation layer has band gap values ranging
    from 8.0eV to 0.0eV.
28. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    25 wherein the annihilation layer has band gap values that are
    graded having the largest band gap value about the first surface
    and having the smallest band gap about the second surface.
29. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    25 further comprising a layer disposed over the annihilation layer.
30. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    27 wherein the annihilation layer is made having a first portion
    and a second portion, the first portion arranged with the largest
    band gap value about the first surface with a grading of the band
    gap values to the second portion, the second portion arranged
    with the smallest band gap values at the second surface with a
                            64

       decrease of band gap values from the first portion, wherein the
       percentage decrease in band gap values is greater in the second
       portion than in the first portion.
31.   A magnetically polarized photonic device comprises:
a substrate having a first surface and a second surface opposing the
       first surface, wherein the first surface and the second surface are
       substantially parallel to an x-y plane in a 3-dimensional
       coordinate system;
a graded band gap layer having a first thickness and a grading
       extending in a first direction parallel to a z-axis, a third surface, a
       fourth surface opposing the third surface, a fifth surface, a sixth
       surface, a seventh surface opposing the fifth surface, and an
       eighth surface opposing the sixth surface, wherein the third and
       fourth surfaces of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel
       to the x-y plane, and wherein the fifth and seventh surfaces of
       the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to an x-z plane,
       the x-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the
       sixth and eighth surfaces of the annihilation layer are
       substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the y-z plane being
       orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes, and wherein the fifth, sixth,
       seventh and eighth surfaces are substantially perpendicular to
       the third and fourth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and
      wherein the fifth and seventh surfaces are substantially
       perpendicular to the sixth and eighth surfaces, and wherein the
                                 65

         fourth surface of the graded band gap layer is disposed on the
         first surface of the substrate;
an annihilation layer having second thickness, and having a ninth
         surface, a tenth surface opposing the ninth surface, an eleventh
         surface, a twelfth surface, a thirteenth surface opposing the
         eleventh surface, and a fourteenth surface opposing the twelfth
         surface, wherein the ninth and tenth surfaces of the annihilation
         layer are substantially parallel to the x-y plane and wherein the
         eleventh and thirteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the
         x-z plane, and wherein the twelfth and fourteenth surfaces are
         substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and wherein the eleventh,
         twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth surfaces are substantially
         perpendicular to the ninth and tenth surfaces and positioned
         therebetween, and wherein the eleventh and thirteenth surfaces
         are substantially perpendicular to the twelfth and fourteenth
         surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the tenth
         surface of the annihilation layer is disposed on the third surface
         of the graded band gap layer thereby stacking the graded band
         gap layer and the annihilation layer in the first direction parallel to
         the z-axis, wherein the layer of material configured to collect and
         recombine free electrons and free holes that are generated when
         a plurality of photons strike the annihilation layer;
a first contact having a fifteenth surface and a sixteenth surface, the
         fifteenth and sixteenth surfaces are substantially parallel to the x
         z plane, the sixteenth surface of the first contact electrically
                                   66

      coupled to at least a portion of the fifth surface of the graded
      band gap layer;
a second contact having a seventeenth surface and an eighteenth
      surface, the seventeenth and eighteenth surfaces are
      substantially parallel to the x-z plane, the seventeenth surface of
      the second contact electrically coupled to at least a portion of the
      seventh surface of the graded band gap layer; and
wherein when a magnetic field with field lines extending in a second
      direction parallel to an x-axis is applied to the graded band gap
      layer and the annihilation layer, current flows in a third direction
      parallel to a y-axis between the first and second contacts.
32.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      31 wherein the substrate is made from a semiconductor material.
33.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in 31
      wherein the substrate is made of an insulative material
34.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      31 wherein the graded band gap layer is made from a group
      comprising: Mercury Cadmium Telluride (HgCdTe), Mercury
      Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Mercury Telluride (HgTe), Indium
      Antimonide (InSb), Cadmium Telluride (CdTe), Mercury Selenide
      (HgSe), Indium Arsenide (InAs), Aluminum Gallium Antimonide
      (AIGaSb), Indium Arsenide Antimonide (InAsSb), Mercury
      Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Cadmium Zinc Selenide Telluride
      (CdZnSeTe), and Cadmium Manganese Telluride (CdMnTe),
      Zinc Gallium Antimonide Telluride (ZnGaSbTe), Zinc Aluminum
                                67

    Antimonide Telluride (ZnAISbTe), Gallium Antimonide (GaSb),
    Zinc Telluride (ZnTe), Aluminum Antimonide (AISb), Manganese
    Telluride (MnTe), Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), and combinations
    and mixtures thereof.
35. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    31 wherein the annihilation layer is made from a group
    comprising: Mercury Cadmium Telluride (HgCdTe), Mercury
    Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Mercury Telluride (HgTe), Indium
    Antimonide (InSb), Cadmium Telluride (CdTe), Mercury Selenide
    (HgSe), Indium Arsenide (InAs), Aluminum Gallium Antimonide
    (AIGaSb), Indium Arsenide Antimonide (InAsSb), Mercury
    Cadmium Selenide (HgCdSe), Cadmium Zinc Selenide Telluride
    (CdZnSeTe), and Cadmium Manganese Telluride (CdMnTe),
    Zinc Gallium Antimonide Telluride (ZnGaSbTe), Zinc Aluminum
    Antimonide Telluride (ZnAISbTe), Gallium Antimonide (GaSb),
    Zinc Telluride (ZnTe), Aluminum Antimonide (AISb), Manganese
    Telluride (MnTe), Gallium Arsenide (GaAs), and combinations
    and mixtures thereof.
36. The magnetically polarize photonic device as claimed in claim 31
    further including a layer disposed over the substrate.
37. The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
    31 wherein the applied magnetic field has a plurality of magnetic
    field lines, where at least one magnetic field line enters through
    the twelfth surface of the annihilation layer.
                             68

38.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      37 wherein at least one magnetic field line exits through the
      fourteenth surface of the annihilation layer.
39.   The magnetically polarized photonic device as claimed in claim
      37 wherein at least one magnetic field line enters through the
      sixth surface of the graded band gap layer.
40.   A method for capturing charge in a magnetically polarized
      photonic device, the device comprises:
a graded band gap layer having a first surface, a second surface
      opposing the first surface, a third surface, a fourth surface, a fifth
      surface opposing the third surface, and a sixth surface opposing
      the fourth surface, and a band gap gradient force in a first
      direction parallel to a z-axis in a 3-dimensional coordinate
      system, wherein the first surface and the second surface are
      substantially parallel to an x-y plane, and wherein the third
      surface and the fifth surface are substantially parallel to an x-z
      plane, the x-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y plane, and
      wherein the fourth surface and the sixth surface are substantially
      parallel to a y-z plane, the y-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y
      and x-z planes, and wherein the third, fourth, fifth, and the sixth
      surface are substantially perpendicular to first surface and
      second surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the
      third and fifth surfaces are perpendicular to the fourth and sixth
      surfaces and positioned therebetween, the graded band gap
      layer having plurality of materials with each material having a
                                69

         specific band gap energy (eV) and the plurality of materials
         dynamically arranged from largest to smallest located
         therebetween, wherein the largest band gap value is located
         about the first surface and the smallest band gap value is located
         about the second surface;
an annihilation layer having a first thickness extending in a first direction
         parallel to a z-axis, a third surface, a fourth surface opposing the
         third surface, a fifth surface, a sixth surface, a seventh surface
         opposing the fifth surface, and an eighth surface opposing the
         sixth surface, wherein the third and fourth surfaces of the
         annihilation layer are substantially parallel to the x-y plane, and
        wherein the fifth and seventh surfaces of the annihilation layer
         are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane being
         orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the sixth and eighth
         surfaces of the annihilation layer are substantially parallel to a y-z
         plane, the y-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes,
         and wherein the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth surfaces are
         substantially perpendicular to the third and fourth surfaces and
         positioned there between, and wherein the fifth and seventh
         surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the sixth and eighth
         surfaces, and wherein the fourth surface of the annihilation layer
         is disposed on the first surface of the substrate;
a first contact having a seventh surface and an eight surface
         substantially parallel to the x-z plane, the eighth surface of the
                                    70

        first contact disposed on and electrically coupled to the third
        surface of the graded band gap layer;
a second contact having a ninth surface and a tenth surface
        substantially parallel to the x-z plane, the ninth surface of the
        second contact disposed on and electrically coupled to the fifth
        surface of the graded band gap layer;
the method comprising:
applying to the graded band gap layer a magnetic field having a plurality
        of magnetic lines extending in a second direction parallel to an x
        axis, wherein at least one magnetic field line passes through the
        fourth surface of the graded band gap layer;
exposing the first surface of the graded band gap layer to photons from
        a photonic source and converting the photon energy of the
        photons into electric voltage and current, wherein photons are
        absorbed by the graded band gap layer generating free electrons
        and free holes, the free electrons and free holes are pulled by the
        band gap gradient force toward the second surface of the graded
        band gap layer wherein simultaneously the free electrons and
        free holes are acted on by the magnetic field to move the free
        electrons and their associated charge to the first contact and to
        move the free holes and their associated charge to the second
        contact;
collecting and recombining free electrons and free holes that reach the
        annihilation layer and do not reach the first and second contacts.
                                  71

41.     A method for capturing charge in a magnetically polarized
         photonic device, the device comprises:
an annihilation layer having a first surface, a second surface opposing
         the first surface, third surface, a fourth surface, a fifth surface
         opposing the third surface, and a sixth surface opposing the
         fourth surface, wherein the first surface and the second surface
         are substantially parallel to an x-y plane in a 3-dimensional
         coordinate system, and wherein the third surface and the fifth
         surface are substantially parallel to an x-z plane, the x-z plane
         being orthogonal to the x-y plane, and wherein the fourth surface
         and the sixth surface are substantially parallel to a y-z plane, the
         y-z plane being orthogonal to the x-y and x-z planes, and
        wherein     the   third,  fourth, fifth, and   sixth   surfaces   are
         perpendicular to the first and second surfaces and positioned
         therebetween, and wherein the third and fifth surfaces are
         perpendicular to the fourth and sixth surfaces and positioned
         therebetween, the annihilation layer comprising a layer of
         material having a band gap value grading extending in a first
         direction parallel to a z-axis, wherein the layer of material
         configured to collect and recombine free electrons and free holes
         that are generated when a plurality of photons strike the
         annihilation layer;
a first contact having a seventh surface, an eighth surface opposing the
         seventh surface, a ninth surface, a tenth surface, an eleventh
         surface opposing the ninth surface, and a twelfth surface
                                  72

      opposing the tenth surface, wherein the seventh surface and the
      eighth surface are substantially parallel to the x-y plane, and
     wherein     the  ninth surface and the         eleventh  surface are
      substantially parallel to the x-z plane, and wherein the tenth
      surface and the twelfth surface are substantially parallel to the y
      z plane, and wherein the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth
      surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the seventh and
      eighth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein the
      ninth and eleventh are substantially perpendicular to the tenth
      and twelfth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein
      the eleventh surface of the first contact is electrically coupled to
      the third surface of annihilation layer; and
a second contact having a thirteenth surface, a fourteenth surface
      opposing the thirteenth surface, a fifteenth surface, a sixteenth
      surface, a seventeenth surface opposing the fifteenth surface,
      and an eighteenth surface opposing the sixteenth surface,
     wherein the thirteenth surface and the fourteenth surface are
      substantially parallel to the x-y plane, and wherein the fifteenth
      surface and the seventeenth surface are substantially parallel to
      the x-z plane, and wherein the sixteenth surface and the
      eighteenth surface are substantially parallel to the y-z plane, and
     wherein the fifteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth
      surfaces are substantially perpendicular to the thirteenth and
      fourteenth surfaces and positioned therebetween, and wherein
      the   sixteenth   and    eighteenth     surfaces   are  substantially
                               73

        perpendicular to the fifteenth and seventeenth surfaces and
        positioned therebetween, and wherein the fifteenth surface of the
        second contact is electrically coupled to the fifth surface of the
        annihilation layer, and wherein the first and second contacts are
        locating substantially opposing each other;
the method comprising:
applying to the annihilation layer a magnetic field having a plurality of
        magnetic lines extending in a second direction parallel to an x
        axis, wherein at least one magnetic field line passes through the
        fourth surface of the graded band gap layer;
exposing the first surface of the annihilation layer to photons from a
        photonic source and converting the photon energy of the photons
        into electric voltage and current, wherein photons are absorbed
        by the annihilation layer generating free electrons and free holes,
        the free electrons and free holes are pulled by the band gap
        gradient force toward the second surface of the annihilation layer
        wherein simultaneously the free electrons and free holes are
        acted on by the magnetic field to move the free electrons and
        their associated charge to the first contact and to move the free
        holes and their associated charge to the second contact; and
collecting and recombining free electrons and free holes that do not
        reach the first and second contacts.
                                 74

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
