                         ABSTRACT
Wheel holder for a bicycle carrier for a vehicle. The holder has
a body with two wheel receiving surfaces having a first plane
aligned with a rotation plane of the wheel, and a fastening
member with released and secured positions to release and
retain the wheel. The fastening member extends diagonally
across the first plane and rim of wheel when secured. A void is
formed between the two wheel receiving surfaces that are
integrally formed in one piece of material. The void receives a
portion of the wheel thereby providing two distinct support
points.

WO 2015/185260                             PCT/EP2015/058634
                  1/6
                              Lo
                         -C
                    \\
                    -. '
                       C\N
                                        ~c
                            A    -Tk-
                                      N
               .11'
                     I\\\
                            7--t

  WO 2015/185260                                                           PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                  1
   A WHEEL HOLDER FOR A BICYCLE CARRIER
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   The present invention relates to a wheel holder for a bicycle carrier and a bicycle carrier
 5 having at least one wheel holder. The wheel holder is configured to provide a rigid and
   stable connection with the wheel.
   BACKGROUND
   Bicycle carriers, sometimes referred to as bicycle racks, are used to transport bicycles on
10 vehicles. When transporting bicycles on vehicles manufacturers have constantly struggled
   with the problem of readily attaching the bicycle to the bicycle carrier to prevent accidents.
   The US patent application no. US 2007/0164065 Al disclose a bicycle holder for a bicycle
   rack. The bicycle holder comprises two engagement members adapted to engage in two
   tracks. The engagement members embrace the bicycle rack and are said to be configured
15 to be slideably engaged with the tracks. A securing portion in the form of a strap is used to
   secure the wheel of the to the bicycle holder.
   The German patent application DE 10 2005 058 861 Al, Volkswagen AG, disclose a
   bicycle wheel holder comprising a plate and a lever. The wheel is pinched between the
20 plate and the lever. It has now been found that wheel holders for bicycle carriers can be
   improved.
   The wheel holder describes above suffers from the drawbacks. None of the above
   mentioned publications provides for a wheel holder which imparts stability to the wheel
25 while being retained to the wheel holder. The wheels may be destabilized by air
   turbulence for example as the vehicle moves, such air turbulence may cause wheel to
   wobble for example. If a wheel wobbles, there will be a disturbing sound and vibrations in
   the vehicle. In the long run it may also increase the risk for fatigue breakdown of the
   material in the wheel holder or in other parts of the bicycle carrier. An attempt to address
30 this problem has been to have wheel holder having cradles which support the wheel
   sides. These attempts have not been very successful.

  WO 2015/185260                                                           PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   2
   SUMMARY
   It is an object of the present disclosure to provide for an improved wheel holder for a
   bicycle carrier which removes or at least reduces the drawbacks described above. The
   objects are at least partly met by
 5
   a wheel holder for a bicycle carrier for a vehicle. The wheel holder is configured to receive
   and retain a wheel having a tread and comprises at least one body providing a first and a
   second wheel receiving surface. The first and the second wheel receiving surfaces are
   separated a distance in a first plane, the first plane is aligned with a rotation plane of the
10 wheel of the bicycle after the wheel has been mounted to the wheel holder. At least one
   fastening member is adapted to retain the wheel of the bicycle to the first and the second
   wheel receiving surfaces of the body.
   A void is formed between the first and second wheel receiving surfaces, the void is
   adapted to receive a portion of the wheel of the bicycle so that the first and second wheel
15 receiving surfaces provide two distinct support points to the tread of the wheel separated
   by the void when the fastening member retains the wheel of the bicycle to the body of the
   wheel holder.
   The wheel holder provides for a compact wheel holder which also provides for stability to
20 the wheel. A compact wheel holder has the benefits of providing low wind resistance
   especially when a bicycle is not mounted thereto. The wheel holder has two distinct
   support points for supporting the outer wheel circumference, i.e. the tread of the wheel.
   The first and the second wheel receiving surfaces provide the wheel with first and a
   second distinct support points which are separated at least with respect to the length of
25 the wheel holder.
   The distinct support points can be separate support points. In such as case, the void can
   be a support point free zone. In some cases however, the tread of the wheel may rest
   gently on the underlying surface. In such cases, the main support to the wheel is imparted
30 at the separated support points. In general terms, the first and second wheel receiving
   surfaces provide two separated main support points to the tread of the wheel when the
   fastening member retains the wheel of the bicycle to the body of the wheel holder. In both
   the above mentioned cases, the support points are distinct as they carry a high majority of
   the weight and force imparted to the wheel holder. The support points substantially carry
35 the weight of the wheel and the bicycle.

  WO 2015/185260                                                            PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   3
   The wheel holder provides stability and reduces wobbling particularly during transport. It
   can also reduce wear on the rim, the frame, the wheel holder itself, and thus also the bike
   carrier as a whole. It reduces risk that something breaks due to material fatigue, which
 5 could be disastrous should a bicycle or wheel accidentally fall off a bicycle carrier.
   The void can be at least partly formed by the at least one body of the wheel holder,
   preferably by an aperture formed in one body or by a void formed between two separate
   bodies. If there are two separate bodies providing the first and the second wheel receiving
10 surfaces, each body has a wheel receiving surface. The enable two distinct support
   points, a combination of raised ridges and an aperture is advantageous as such a wheel
   holder has been found to be easy to manufacture and require less material.
   The wheel can be retained to the wheel holder in different manners. One advantageous
15 configuration is if the at least one fastening member is adapted to extend substantially
   between the first and the second support points. In such case the fastening member can
   extend across the rim of the wheel diagonal with respect to the rotation plane of the wheel
   and the first plane. It is believed that this may assist in retaining the wheel in a preferred
   direction. It may also assist the positioning of the wheel holder with respect to a load
20 carrier foot of a load carrying bar, or roof rack, when a bicycle carrier comprising at least
   one wheel holder is mounted to such load carrying bar. The fastening member can be
   tightened in different manners to the wheel holder using a fastening mechanism or simply
   by hooking it onto a portion of the wheel holder. The fastening member may be formed by
   a strap which can be elastic or substantially non elastic.
25
   At least one of the first and second wheel receiving surfaces can be displaceably
   arranged to the body so that the distance between the first and second wheel receiving
   surfaces can be changed. If the first and/or the second wheel receiving surfaces are
   formed by ridges for example, the first and/or the second ridges can be slideably arranged
30 on the body of the wheel holder to enable the displacement.
   It has been found that a simple and sturdy construction is achieved is the body and the
   first and the second wheel receiving surfaces are integrally formed in one piece of
   material. One way of forming the body and the first and the second wheel receiving

  WO 2015/185260                                                          PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                  4
   surfaces in one piece of material is by moulding the wheel holder using plastic material.
   The first and second wheel receiving surfaces can be formed by a first and a second ridge
   portion. The first and/or the second ridge portion can comprise at least one an arc shaped
 5 ridge extending along the first plane. The wheel holder may thus comprise at least two
   separated arc shaped ridges separated in the first plane. The at least two separated arc
   shaped ridges separated in the first plane are preferably aligned with each other. The
   wheel holder preferably comprises at least two pair of aligned arc shaped ridges. The arc
   shaped ridges can preferably be separated a distance perpendicular to the first plane so
10 that the wheel is not pinched between the two arc shaped ridges, but rather rests upon
   the arc shaped ridges.
   The at least two pair of arc shaped ridges has two opposing sides facing towards each
   other and two opposing sides facing away from each other. The two opposing sides facing
15 towards each other are substantially vertical and/or the two opposing sides facing away
   from each other are substantially angled with respect to a vertical axis. Having angled
   sides facing away from each other provides for rigid arc shaped ridges, or rigid ridges if
   the ridges have any other form. The rigidity of the ridges is advantageous if the wheel of
   the bicycle is being imparted with a force to turn e.g. via the wind resistance during
20 transportation of the bicycle. It may also have the advantage that the raised portions have
   a tendency to cut into the wheel, rather than having the wheel flattened out onto the
   raised ridges.
   The ridge portions may be hollow to save material in the manufacturing process.
25
   The first and/or the second ridge portion can comprise at least two arc shaped ridges
   having different height, preferably different maximum height. Ridges of different heights
   enable wheel of different thickness, or different sizes to be safely secured to the wheel
   holder. The wheel holder can thus be configured to be compatible with wheels having a
30 thickness of up to 30 cm, preferably from 1-10 cm. The height difference between two
   ridges, preferably arc shaped ridges, can be from 0.3-3.0 cm, preferably from 0.5-1.5 cm.
   The wheel holder is preferably configured so that it can slide along the length of the
   bicycle carrier when mounted thereto. If the wheel holder in not positioned underneath the
35 wheel of the bicycle directly, the wheel holder can be configured to be slip along the

  WO 2015/185260                                                           PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   5
   length of the bicycle carrier underneath the wheel. Such manoeuvre is simplified by
   having the wheel receiving surfaces formed by arc shaped ridges. The arc shaped ridges
   thus operates as wedges when slid underneath the wheel.
 5 The distance between the arc shaped ridges in the first plane, is preferably selected to be
   such that when a wheel of the intended size rests on the arc shaped ridges, it is
   substantially only the facing sides of the opposing arc shaped ridges, with respect to the
   first plane, which provide to distinct support points to the wheel.
10 The height of at least one arc shaped ridge can be adjusted. This may enable more
   support points to the wheel. The wheel receiving surface can be formed by ridges for
   example, such ridge can be hinged in vertical tracks and be height adjusted by moving a
   wedge horizontally which pushes the ridge up and down in the track.
15 At least one of the first and the second ridge portions comprises two ridges. The two
   ridges are interspaced in a direction perpendicular to the first plane. Preferably a distance
   from the first plane of the wheel holder, the distance is preferably from 0.5 - 4.0 cm. Each
   of the first and the second ridge portions may comprise comprises two or more ridges,
   such as four ridges as described below. When having four ridges, the outer pair of ridges
20 is preferably twice the distance from the first plane as the inner pair of ridges.
   The wheel has a rim with a hub and a tyre. The hub and a first portion of the tyre,
   preferably the tread of the tyre, are positioned on either side of a line drawn between the
   first and second wheel receiving surfaces. The first and second wheel receiving surfaces
25 can be made more or less prominent as support points by adjusting the height of the first
   and second wheel receiving surfaces. If the tread of the tyre is positioned on 1-40 cm from
   the line drawn between the first and second wheel receiving surfaces, the first and second
   wheel receiving surfaces are providing for good support points to the wheel.
30 The first portion of the tyre comprises a point on the tyre which intersects with a vertical
   axis, the vertical axis extends through the hub of the wheel. The point on the tire is
   preferably the lowest point on the tyre.
   The first and the second wheel receiving surfaces can be arranged to the body so that
35 they have substantially the same height. For example, if the first and the second wheel

  WO 2015/185260                                                            PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   6
   receiving surfaces each has an apex, they can be arranged so that if a line is drawn
   between the apex of the first wheel receiving surface and the apex of the second wheel
   receiving surface, the line is substantially horizontal.
 5 The distance between the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces can be selected
   to be from 5-30 cm, preferably 10-20 cm. This applies of course also if the wheel receiving
   surface is a ridge portion or an arc shaped ridge, or if the first and the second wheel
   receiving surfaces has any other form.
10 If the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces are formed by arc shaped ridges, such
   arc shaped ridges preferably has a radius arc having a radii from 10-50 mm, preferably
   from 15-40 mm. The angle between the two radii defining the arc length of the radius arc
   shaped ridges can be from 40-120 degrees for example.
15 According to a second aspect, the wheel holder is for a bicycle carrier for a vehicle is
   configured to receive and retain a wheel having a rim. The wheel holder comprises at
   least one body. A first plane aligned with a rotation plane of the wheel of the bicycle after
   the wheel has been mounted to the wheel holder. At least one fastening member is
   adapted to retain the wheel of the bicycle to the first and the second wheel receiving
20 surfaces of the body. The fastening member has a released position in which the wheel
   can be positioned in the wheel holder and a secured position in which the wheel holder is
   retaining the wheel.
   The at least one fastening member is adapted to extend in a diagonal direction across the
25 first plane and the rim of the wheel when being positioned in the secured position.
By having the fastening member extending in a diagonal direction across the rim of the wheel
   holder and the first plane of the wheel holder, the wheel can efficiently be secured to the
   wheel holder. The diagonal fastening member, e.g. a diagonal strap, further imparts the
30 wheel with a force acting to turn the wheel. It is believed without being bound by theory
   that the force acting to turn the wheel improves the retaining properties of the wheel
   holder as the wheel will be "pinched" by the wheel holder.
The wheel holder has a first and a second side, each side having a first and a second end.
35 The fastening member may extend substantially from the first end of the first side to

  WO 2015/185260                                                          PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   7
   substantially the second end of the second side. The first and second sides are preferably
   longitudinal sides. In this manner, the full length of the wheel holder can be used. This will
   also provide the fastening member with a low angle with respect to the first plane of the
   wheel holder.
 5
The wheel holder may be formed by a single body. The first and the second sides can thus be
   arranged on the one single body. In cases were the body of the wheel holder is formed by
   two individual and separate bodies, the first side of one body is the opposing to the
   second side of the second body, with respect to the first plane of the wheel.
10
The body of the wheel holder may have at least one, preferably a first and a second
   protruding support portion. The at least one or the first and the second protruding support
   portions are adapted to counteract a force acting to impart a turning motion of the wheel
   due to the fastening member when the wheel is retained to the wheel holder. The wheel
15 holder improves its "pinching" properties.
   The first protruding support portion may be arranged opposite of the first end of the first
   side, and the second protruding support portion may be arranged opposite of the second
   end of the second side.
20
   The fastening member may be provided with a protective cover. The protective cover may
   be adapted to extend across the rim of the wheel when the wheel is retained to the wheel
   holder. The protective cover is arranged to provide a more lenient surface towards the rim
   of the wheel.
25
   The fastening member may be at least partly formed by thermoplastic material such as
   polypropylene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), polyurethane, or combinations
   thereof. Preferably the fastening member and/or the body is at least partly formed by
   thermoplastic polyurethane such as poly(adipate)ester based thermoplastic polyurethane,
30 such as ISOTHANE 1055D. The fastening member can be injection molded, blow molded
   or extruded.
   The present invention also relates to a bicycle carrier comprising at least at least one
   wheel holder, or two or more wheel holders, disclosed herein. The at least one wheel
35 holder can be slideably arranged to the bicycle carrier.

  WO 2015/185260                                                          PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                  8
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Non-limiting embodiments of the present invention will be described in greater detail with
   reference to the accompanying drawings in which;
 5 figure 1 shows a bicycle carrier comprising two wheel holders and a bicycle mounted
   thereto;
   figure 2 shows a wheel holder and a portion of the bar of the bicycle carrier in greater
   detail;
   figure 3 shows the wheel holder of figure 2 in greater detail with a view in perspective;
10 figure 4 shows the wheel holder of figure 3 as seen from above;
   figure 5 shows the wheel holder of figure 3 as seen from the side, corresponding with a
   view along the bar of the bicycle carrier;
   figure 6 shows an illustration of the function of the wheel holder;
   figures 7a-7b show alternative forms of the wheel receiving surfaces.
15
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Figure 1 shows a bicycle carrier 1 for transporting a bicycle 2 on a vehicle (not shown)
   such as a car. The bicycle 2, which is only schematically illustrated, has a first and a
   second wheel 3, 4, which in figure 1 rest on the bicycle carrier 1, so that the bicycle 2 is
20 positioned in a transport position after being retained to the bicycle carrier 1. In the
   transport position, the bicycle 2 can be transported on the bicycle carrier 1 using the
   vehicle. Each wheel comprises a rim 8 with a hub 7 and a tyre 9. The bicycle carrier has a
   wheel holder 10, adapted to hold and retain the wheel. It should be noted that the bicycle
   carrier 1 can have one or more of the wheel holder 10 described herein. The bicycle
25 carrier could also be provided with a support arm adapted to hold the bicycle to the
   bicycle carrier 1. Such support arms can be provided with a clamping jaw adapted be
   attached to the frame of the bicycle for example.
   A wheel holder will be described in greater detail below. Although only one wheel holder is
30 described in greater detail, it should be noted that the bicycle carrier can be provided with
   one or more wheel holders described herein.
   The wheel 3 of the bicycle is retained to the wheel holder 10 using a fastening member
    15, in this case formed by a strap 16 and a strap lock 17. The bicycle carrier comprises a

  WO 2015/185260                                                          PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   9
   bar 18 to which the wheel holder 10 is slideably attached to enable adjustment to bicycle
   of different sizes. In figure 1, the wheel holder 10 can be referred to as a front wheel
   holder, and a second wheel holder 11 can be referred to as a rear wheel holder. This
   enables bicycles of different sizes to be transported. As mentioned one or more additional
 5 support arms (not shown) can be used to further attach the bicycle 2 to the bicycle carrier
   10.
   For the purpose of orientation, the length of the bicycle carrier extends along the X axis,
   the height along the Y axis and a width along the Z axis, as shown in figure 1. Likewise,
10 the length of the wheel holder extends along the X axis, the height along the Y axis and
   the width along the Z axis, as shown in figure 1. Each wheel has a rotation plane RP,
   parallel with the Y-X plane, in which the wheel would rotate about its rotation axis.
   The bar 18 of the bicycle carrier 1 is, in the shown embodiment, manufactured from
15 extruded aluminum having a substantially U-shaped cross section, or V-shaped cross
   section, adapted to receive parts the wheels 3, 4 of the bicycle 2. The substantially U
   shaped cross section is formed by a groove which also is adapted to cooperate with the
   wheel holder 10 to partly retain the wheel holder 10 to the bicycle carrier 1 and to permit
   the wheel holder 10 to slide along the length of the bicycle carrier 1, i.e. along the X axis.
20 The wheel holder 10 can be displaced, in this case slide, along the length of the bicycle
   carrier 1 and more precisely the bar 18 of the bicycle carrier 1, and thus be positioned
   substantially at an infinite number of different positions. In comparison, bicycle carriers
   having predetermined positions for wheel holders only permits a limited number of
   positions for the wheel holders, and thus also a limited number of different sizes of
25 bicycles which can be transported.
   Figure 2 shows the wheel holder 10 and the bar 18 of the bicycle carrier 1 in greater
   detail. The wheel holder 10 comprises a body 20 formed by a thermoplastic material such
   as polypropylene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), polyurethane, or the like. The
30 wheel holder 10 is adapted to be positioned on the bar 18 of the bicycle carrier 10 and
   hence the shape and the form of the bar facing side of the wheel holder corresponds to
   the shape and form of the bar 18 of the bicycle carrier 10 so that the wheel holder 10 can
   mate with the bar 18.

  WO 2015/185260                                                          PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                  10
   The wheel holder 10 comprises a first and a second wheel receiving surface 21, 22. Each
   of the wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22 is formed by a plurality of raised ridges 24
   extending along the length of the wheel holder 10, i.e. the X axis. A void 23 is formed
   between the first and the second wheel receiving surface 21, 22, and is adapted to
 5 receive a portion of the wheel (not shown). The first and the second wheel receiving
   surfaces 21, 22 are formed in one unitary piece of material with the body 20 but could be
   formed by separate components. In figure 2, each wheel receiving surface 21, 22
   comprises two pairs of parallel raised ridges 24', 24". Each pair is intended to cooperate
   with a wheel having a predetermined size and width, enabling the wheel holder 10 to be
10 compatible with wheels of different sizes. The wheel holder 10 is intended to receive the
   wheel along a first plane P1, which is equivalent with the rotation plane of the wheel.
   The void 23 separates the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22, in this
   case the ridges 24 of the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22. The void
15 23 receives a portion of the wheel when the wheel is retained to the wheel holder 10. As a
   portion of the wheel is received in the void 23, the first and the second wheel receiving
   surfaces 21, 22 will form separated support points 25, 25' for the wheel with respect to the
   first plane P1 and the void 23. The purpose and function of this will be described in
   greater detail below. The ridges 34 have an arc shaped form, or a convex form, which run
20 are parallel with respect to each other and with respect to the first plane P1 and thus the
   rotation plane of the wheel after the wheel has been mounted to the wheel holder 10.
   As mentioned, the fastening member 15, shown in figures 1 and 2, is arranged to the
   body 20 and adapted to extend cross the rim of the wheel to retain the wheel to the wheel
25 holder 10. As is noticeable in figures 2, 3, and 6, the at least one an arc shaped ridge 24
   is substantially symmetrically arc shaped but could be partly arc shaped if desirable.
   Figure 3 shows the wheel holder 10 in greater detail. The body 20 comprises a first and a
   second aperture 51, 52. The apertures 51, 52 can be used to attach the fastening
30 member 15 (not shown in figure 3) to the body 20 of the wheel holder 10 in two different
   positions dependent if the present wheel holder 10 is a front or a rear wheel holder. It
   should be noted that the fastening member can be attached to the wheel holder in any
   other suitable manner.

  WO 2015/185260                                                           PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   11
   The shape and form of the first and the second wheel receiving surface 21, 22 may vary.
   The important aspect is however that the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces
   21, 22 provide the wheel with two distinct support points 25, 25' when the wheel has been
   retained to the wheel holder. The distinct support points may be separated as shown in
 5 figure 3, or be main support points, i.e. receiving a high majority of the load imparted by
   the wheel. The two support points should be separated by a void which permits a portion
   of the wheel to be received therein. The force imparted by the fastening member acting on
   the portion of the wheel which has been received in the void of the wheel member, should
   be significantly less than the force imparted by the fastening member acting at the support
10 points, i.e. at the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces. Preferably, the wheel, or
   more precisely the tyre of the wheel, is not imparted with any force component at all at the
   portion which has been received in the void of the wheel holder.
   Figure 4 shows the wheel holder 10 of figure 3 from above. The first plane P1, equivalent
15 with the rotation plane of the wheel when mounted to the wheel holder 10, is indicated in
   figure 4 with dashed lines. The first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22 will
   provide the wheel with first and a second support point 25, 25' onto which the wheel is
   pressed as the fastening member (not shown) is tightened. As the void 23 is arranged
   between the support points 25, 25', and thus separates the support points 25, 25', the
20 wheel will be held towards the wheel holder 10 in a very tight and stable manner. The void
   23 is partly formed, or defined, by the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21,
   22, which are formed by the plurality of raised ridges 24. The plurality of raised ridges 24
   extends along the length of the wheel holder 10, i.e. along the first plane P1. Hence, the
   first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22 provide the wheel with first and a
25 second support point 25, 25' which are separated at least with respect to the length of the
   wheel holder 10. The void 23 is also partly formed by an aperture 30 between the first and
   the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22. The aperture 30 intersects with the first plane
   P1 of the wheel holder 10 and provides additional space for the tyre 9 when the wheel 3
   has been mounted to the wheel holder 10. It should be noted that instead of having an
30 aperture, a recess can provide additional space for the tyre 9 when the wheel 3 has been
   mounted to the wheel holder 10. In general terms, the void 23 can be formed by raised
   portions of the body, such as raised ridges 24 and/or by an aperture or recess in the body
   20. Further shown in figure 4 are the apertures 51, 52 which can be used to attach a
   fastening member to the body 20 of the wheel holder 10.
35

  WO 2015/185260                                                           PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                   12
   The aperture 30 of the body has a length LA and a width WA. The length LA can be from
   4-25 cm, preferably 5-15 cm. The width WA can be from 2-12 cm, preferably 3-8 cm.
   Figure 5 shows the wheel holder 10 from with a view along the first plane P1. Figure 5
 5 shows the body 20. Figure 5 shows the ridges 24 of the second wheel receiving surface
   22. As is noticed, the body 20 of the wheel holder 10 comprises a first and a second side
   27, 28, in this case a left and a right side when view as shown in figure 5. The second
   side 28, i.e. the right side, has a protruding wall section 29 which protrudes past the level
   of the highest ridge 24 along the height of the wheel holder. The protruding wall section
10 can be adapted to provide rigidity to the wheel if desirable but it is not necessary. It further
   provides the fastening member with a strong connection provided material for the
   apertures 51, 52 (shown in figures 3 and 4) which can be used to attach a fastening
   member to the body 20 of the wheel holder 10. The two pairs of parallel raised ridges 24',
   24" has different height and being positioned a distance from the center of the wheel
15 holder 10. Each pair is intended to cooperate with a wheel having a predetermined size
   and width, enabling the wheel holder 10 to be compatible with wheels of different sizes.
   The ridges 24 are separated a distance from the first plane P1 as indicated in figure 5.
   The distance to the first plane P1, and thus between the ridges themselves, may vary
20 dependent on which size of the wheel the wheel holder in intended to be used with. A
   suitable distance to the first plane P1 is from 0.5 - 4.0 cm. When viewed as shown in
   figure 5, the first plane P1 extends in the center of the lowest part of the U-formed wheel
   holder. The inner pair of ridges 24 may be positioned a distance of 0.5 cm from the first
   plane P1 while the outer pair is positioned a distance of 1.0 cm from the first plane P1.
25 The distance is measured as shown in figure 5, i.e. from the apex of the ridge and to the
   center of where the rotation plane RP will be positioned. Each of the first and the second
   ridge portions may comprise comprises two or more ridges, such as four ridges as shown
   in figures 2-5. When having four ridges, the outer pair of ridges is preferably twice the
   distance from the first plane as the inner pair of ridges.
30
   As is further noticeable, the pair of arc shaped ridges 24', 24" has two opposing sides S1
   facing towards each other and two opposing sides S2 facing away from each other. The
   two opposing sides S1 facing towards each other are substantially vertical in figure 5
   substantially parallel with the first plane P1, while the two opposing sides S2 facing away
35 from each other are substantially angled with respect to a vertical axis in figure 5 parallel

  WO 2015/185260                                                            PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                    13
   with the first plane P1. The angle between the two sides S1, S2 of the arc shaped ridges
   24', 24" are when viewed as illustrated in figure 5 from 15-80 degrees.
   Figure 6 illustrates the function of the wheel holder 10. Figure 6 shows the portions of the
 5 wheel holder 10 and the wheel 3. The ridges 24 provide with two separated support points
   25, 25', separated by the void 23. The support points 25, 25' are the points at which the
   wheel holder is imparting the wheel with the main force to retain the wheel to the wheel
   holder along the Y axis. The support points 25, 25' mainly contacts the tyre 9 on the tread
   of the tyre 9 but preferably slightly offset to the center of the tread of the tyre 9. It is
10 possible that a wheel holder may have side portions which are intended to stabilize the
   wheel in direction of the Z axis. One or more support arms (not shown) may be used for
   this purpose additionally or optionally. A dashed line Li is drawn in figure 6 between the
   apexes of the ridges 24. The dashed line Li is referred to as an imaginary line between
   the ridges 24, or between the apexes of the ridges 24, i.e. between the first and the
15 second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22. As is noticeable, a portion of the tyre 9, and
   especially the periphery of the tyre 9 is arranged between the ridges 24 and on opposite
   side of the dashed line Li with respect to the hub 7 of the wheel 3. Further noticeable in
   figure 6 is that the periphery of the tyre 9 is not contacting the bottom in the void 23. The
   bottom of the void 23 can be formed by the bar 18 (not shown) of the bicycle carrier 1 or
20 by a portion of the body 20 itself. The surface beneath the void 23 could be a portion of
   the body 20 and/or the bar 18 of the bicycle carrier 1. When referring to the wheel holder
    10 shown in figure 6, the surface beneath the void 23 is the bar 18, as the wheel holder
    10 has an aperture between the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22.
25 The wheel holder 10 is positioned in figure 6 so a first portion of the tyre 9 has a point Pt
   on the tyre 9 which intersect with a vertical axis, in figure 6 denoted Va, the vertical axis
   Va extends through the hub 7 of said wheel 3. The vertical axis Va is parallel with the Y
   axis. The point Pt is the lowest point on the tyre 9 when positioned as shown in figure 6. In
   a general aspect, the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22 and the void
30 23, is positioned so that the lowest point of the tyre 9 of the wheel is positioned in the void
   23 of the wheel holder 10.
   The first and the second wheel receiving surfaces can be arranged to the body so that
   they have substantially the same height as can be seen in figure 6 for example. In figure
35 6, the first and the second wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22 each has an apex and are

  WO 2015/185260                                                          PCT/EP2015/058634
                                                  14
   arranged so that the line drawn between the apex of the first wheel receiving surface 21
   and the apex of the second wheel receiving surface 22 is substantially horizontal. This
   provides for an even force distribution between the first and the second wheel receiving
   surfaces 21, 22 which is advantageous.
 5
   Figures 7a-7b show alternative shapes and forms of the wheel receiving surfaces 21, 22
   of the wheel holder 10. Only portions of the wheel 3 have been illustrated. As is
   noticeable, the wheel receiving surfaces can have different shapes and forms, as long as
   they provide for a first and a second distinct support point 25, 25'. In figure 7a the wheel
10 receiving surfaces have a circular form and in figure 7b, the wheel receiving surfaces
   have a triangular form. Combinations of the shapes and forms described above, including
   the arc shaped form, are of course possible.

                                               15
CLAIMS
   1. A wheel holder for a bicycle carrier for a vehicle, said wheel holder being
      configured to receive and retain a wheel having a rim, said wheel holder
      comprising at least one body having at least one wheel receiving surface, a first
      plane being aligned with a rotation plane of said wheel of said bicycle after said
      wheel has been mounted to said wheel holder, at least one fastening member
      adapted to retain said wheel of said bicycle to said at least one wheel receiving
      surface of said body, said fastening member having a released position in which
      said wheel can be positioned in said wheel holder and a secured position in which
      said wheel holder is retaining said wheel,
      characterized in that
      said at least one fastening member is adapted to extend in a diagonal direction
      across said first plane and said rim of said wheel when positioned in said secured
      position.
   2. The wheel holder according to claim 1, wherein the wheel holder has a first and a
      second side, each side having a first and a second end, wherein said fastening
      member extends substantially from said first end of said first side to substantially
      said second end of said second side, said first and second sides are preferably
      longitudinal sides.
   3. The wheel holder according to claim 2, wherein said wheel holder is formed by a
      single body, wherein said two sides are arranged on said one single body.
   4. The wheel holder according to claim 2 or 3, wherein said body of said wheel
      holder has at least one, or preferably a first and a second protruding support
      portion, said at least one, or said first and said second protruding support portions,
      are adapted to counteract a force acting to impart a turning motion of said wheel
      due to said fastening member when said wheel is retained to said wheel holder.
   5. The wheel holder according to claim 4, wherein said first protruding support
      portion is arranged opposite of said first end of said first side, and said second
      protruding support portion is arranged opposite of said second end of said second
      side.

                                         16
6. The wheel holder according to claim any one of the preceding claims, wherein said
   fastening member is at least partly formed by thermoplastic material such as
   polypropylene, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), polyurethane, or
   combinations thereof.
7. The wheel holder according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said at least one
   body has a first and a second wheel receiving surface.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
