                                           ABSTRACT
The present invention pertains to novel high avidity antigen recognizing constructs, such as
antibodies or T cell receptors, which specifically bind to the melanoma associated antigen
(MAGE) Al. The constructs of the invention are particularly useful for the diagnosis, preven
tion or therapy of tumorous diseases which are characterized by the specific expression of the
MAGE-Al antigen. Furthermore provided are nucleic acids, vectors and host cells - such as
CD4 or CD8 positive T cells - which encode, comprise or present the antigen recognizing
constructs of the invention. The invention thus provides new means for immune therapy, spe
cifically adoptive T cell therapy, for treating cancer.

          HIGH AVIDITY BINDING MOLECULES RECOGNIZING MAGE-Al
The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application number
2014211454, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by way of this reference.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention pertains to novel high avidity antigen recognizing constructs, such as
antibodies or T cell receptors, which specifically bind to the melanoma associated antigen
(MAGE) Al. The constructs of the invention are particularly useful for the diagnosis, preven
tion or therapy of tumorous diseases which are characterized by the specific expression of the
MAGE-Al antigen. Furthermore provided are nucleic acids, vectors and host cells - such as
CD4 or CD8 positive T cells - which encode, comprise or present the antigen recognizing
constructs of the invention. The invention thus provides new means for immune therapy, spe
cifically adoptive T cell therapy, for treating cancer.
                                          DESCRIPTION
Despite remarkable technological advancements in the diagnosis and treatment options avail
able to patients diagnosed with cancer, the prognosis still often remains poor and many pa
tients cannot be cured. Immunotherapy holds the promise of offering a potent, yet targeted,
treatment to patients diagnosed with various tumors, with the potential to eradicate the malig
nant tumor cells without damaging normal tissues. In theory the T cells of the immune system
are capable of recognizing protein patterns specific for tumor cells and to mediate their de
struction through a variety of effector mechanisms. Adoptive T-cell therapy is an attempt to
harness and amplify the tumor-eradicating capacity of a patient's own T cells and then return
these effectors to the patient in such a state that they effectively eliminate residual tumor,
however without damaging healthy tissue. Although this approach is not new to the field of
tumor immunology, still many drawbacks in the clinical use of adoptive T cell therapy impair
the full use of this approach in cancer treatments.
A TCR is a heterodimeric cell surface protein of the immunoglobulin super-family which is
associated with invariant proteins of the CD3 complex involved in mediating signal transduc
tion. TCRs exist in ap and y6 forms, which are structurally similar but have quite distinct ana
tomical locations and probably functions. The extracellular portion of native heterodimeric

                                              -2
apTCR consists of two polypeptides, each of which has a membrane-proximal constant do
main, and a membrane-distal variable domain. Each of the constant and variable domains in
cludes an intra-chain disulfide bond. The variable domains contain the highly polymorphic
loops analogous to the complementarity determining regions (CDRs) of antibodies. The use
of TCR gene therapy overcomes a number of current hurdles. It allows equipping patients'
own T cells with desired specificities and generation of sufficient numbers of T cells in a
short period of time, avoiding their exhaustion. The TCR will be transduced into central
memory T cells or T cells with stem cell characteristics, which may ensure better persistence
and function upon transfer. TCR-engineered T cells will be infused into cancer patients ren
dered lymphopenic by chemotherapy or irradiation, allowing efficient engraftment but inhibit
ing immune suppression. Transgenic mice expressing human MHC molecules and a diverse
human TCR repertoire serve as a tool to rapidly analyze whether peptide antigens are immu
nogenic, i.e. are they efficiently processed and presented by MHC molecules, do they effi
ciently induce T cell responses following immunization (Li et al. 2010 Nat Med). The concept
of adoptive T cell therapy using the ABabDII mouse published by Li et al is shown in Figure
1.
In brief, CD8+ T cells in ABabDII mice harbor human T cell receptors (TCRs) which recog
nize antigens presented by human MHC class I molecules. As opposed to humans, ABabDII
mice are not tolerant to human tumor associated antigens (TAAs). Therefore, when vaccinat
ed with a human TAA, ABabDII mice generate an efficient adaptive immune response
against those foreign antigens including the expansion of high avidity antigen specific T cells
(Figure 1, right side). After immunization with a suitable human TAA the genetic information
coding for the high avidity TCRs of the ABabDII mice can be extracted (Figure 1, center).
These TCRs can subsequently be re-expressed in T cells from tumor patients through retrovi
ral transduction. Those re-targeted T cells can be transferred back into the patient fighting the
tumor (Figure 1, left side).
Using the human TCR transgenic mouse, any human peptide sequence not encoded by the
mouse genome is thus suitable for immunization and will yield TCRs with optimal affinity.
Optimal affinity means that the T cells are restricted to human self-MHC molecules and rec
ognize the peptide antigen as foreign, e.g. represent the non-tolerant repertoire. By using pep
tide/MHC multimers, specific T cells of the transgenic mice can be sorted, human TCRs iso
lated, e.g. by single cell PCR, the TCRs optimized for efficient expression while avoiding

                                               -3
mispairing with endogenous TCR and used for transduction of patients' T cells with viral vec
tors (Uckert et al. 2008 Cancer Immunol Immunother; Kammertoens T et al. 2009 Eur J Im
munol).
The melanoma antigen genes (MAGE-A) were found to be expressed in a variety of tumors of
different histological origin. Proteins encoded by the MAGE genes are tumor rejection anti
gens, which can induce specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL) having the ability to recog
nize and kill cancerous cells. MAGE genes and proteins are thus a preferential target for the
development of novel drugs to fight cancer by immunotherapy. MAGE-A proteins constitute
a sub-family of Cancer-Testis Antigens which are expressed mainly, but not exclusively, in
the germ line. They are however also expressed in various human cancers where they are as
sociated with, and may drive, malignancy. This specific expression of MAGE antigens in tu
mors and not the normal surrounding healthy tissue makes this family of antigens very inter
esting for targeted adoptive T cell transfer. However, to date no satisfactory immune therapy
is known due to the lack of specific and highly avid antibodies or T cell receptors targeting
the MAGE antigen.
In view of the above described major drawbacks in the background art, it is the objective of
the present invention to provide new antigen recognizing constructs with high avidity and
specificity against the MAGE-A antigen. Furthermore, the present invention intends to pro
vide novel methods that allow for the production of such constructs. In more general terms the
invention seeks to provide novel means for immuno cancer therapy.
The above problem is solved in a first aspect by an antigen recognizing construct comprising
an amino acid sequence having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100%
sequence identity to an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 6. SEQ ID No 1
to 6 corresponds to CDR3 regions shown in figure 4 of this application. It was surprisingly
discovered that the TCRs provided in the examples of the present invention are highly avid
compared to state of the art TCRs directed at MAGE antigens. In one preferred embodiment
of the present invention the antigen recognizing construct comprises a complementary deter
mining region 3 (CDR3) having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or
100% sequence identity to an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 6.

                                              -4
Preferred in the context of the invention is also that the antigen recognizing construct further
comprises a V element selected from TRAV5, TRAV13-1, TRAV12-3, TRBV28, TRBV29
1, TRBV13, TRBV20, TRBV12, and/or a J element selected from TRAJ41, TRAJ29,
TRAJ31, TRAJ49, TRAJ34, TRBJ2-7, TRBJ2-2, TRBJ2-6, TRBJ7, TRBJ1-2; preferably in
the combination as depicted in table 1.
The antigen recognizing construct in accordance with the invention is specific for and/or
binds specifically to an antigen of the melanoma associated antigen MAGE family. Various
proteins are known to be part of the MAGE family which includes also some pseudo genes.
One region of homology shared by all of the members of the MAGE family is a stretch of
about 200 amino acids which has been named the MAGE conserved domain. The MAGE
conserved domain is usually located close to the C-terminal, although it can also be found in a
more central position in some proteins. The MAGE conserved domain is generally present as
a single copy but it is duplicated in some proteins. MAGE genes which are detectable by the
antigen recognizing constructs of the invention are selected from MAGE-B1, MAGE-A1,
MAGE-A10, MAGE-All, MAGE-A12, MAGE-A2B, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A6,
MAGE-A8, MAGE-A9, MAGE-B1, MAGE-B1O, MAGE-B16, MAGE-B18, MAGE-B2,
MAGE-B3,      MAGE-B4, MAGE-B5,          MAGE-B6,       MAGE-B6B,      MAGE-C1,       MAGE-C2,
MAGE-C3,      MAGE-DI,       MAGE-D2,     MAGE-D4,       MAGE-El,       MAGE-E2,      MAGE-F1,
MAGE-HI, MAGE-L2, NDN, NDNL2. Preferred in the context of the present invention are
the 12 homologous MAGE proteins selected from MAGE-Al,                  MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3,
MAGE-A4,      MAGE-A5,      MAGE-A6,     MAGE-A7,       MAGE-A8,      MAGE-A9,      MAGE-A10,
MAGE-A 1l, or MAGE-A12. Most preferred is an antigen recognizing construct having spec
ificity for MAGE-A 1.
The term "specificity" or "antigen specificity" or "specific for" a given antigen, as used herein
means that the antigen recognizing construct can specifically bind to and immunologically
recognize said antigen, preferably MAGE-A1, more preferably with high avidity. For exam
ple, a TCR may be considered to have "antigenic specificity" for MAGE-Al if T cells ex
pressing the TCR secrete at least about 200 pg/ml or more (e.g., 250 pg/ml or more, 300
pg/ml or more, 400 pg/ml or more, 500 pg/ml or more, 600 pg/ml or more, 700 pg/ml or
more, 1000 pg ml or more, 2,000 pg/ml or more, 2,500 pg/ml or more, 5,000 pg/ml or more)
of interferon y (IFN-y) upon co-culture with target cells pulsed with a low concentration of a
MAGE peptide, such as the MAGE-Al HLA-A02 restricted MAGE-A1 2 7 8-2 8 6 peptide (e.g.,

                                                 -5
about 10-" mol/l, 10-    mol/1, 10-I mol/l, 10-8 mol/l, 10-7 mol/l, 10-6 mol/l, 10-5 mol/1). Alterna
tively or additionally, a TCR may be considered to have "antigenic specificity" for MAGE
Al if T cells expressing the TCR secrete at least twice as much IFN-y as the untransduced
background level of IFN-y upon co-culture with target cells pulsed with a low concentration
of HLA-A02 restricted MAGE-Al. Such a "specificity" as described above can - for example
- be analyzed with an ELISA.
Preferred embodiments of the present invention disclose antigen recognizing constructs which
are in the form of an antibody, or derivative or fragment thereof, or a T cell receptor (TCR),
or derivative or fragment thereof. Fragments or derivatives of the herein disclosed antibodies
or TCRs preferably still harbor the antigenic specificity (the binding function with respect to
the antigen) as the original antibody or TCR, respectively.
Native alpha-beta heterodimeric TCRs have an alpha chain and a beta chain. Each chain com
prises variable, joining and constant regions, and the beta chain also usually contains a short
diversity region between the variable and joining regions, but this diversity region is often
considered as part of the joining region. Each variable region comprises three CDRs (Com
plementarity Determining Regions) embedded in a framework sequence, one being the hyper
variable region named CDR3. There are several types of alpha chain variable (Va) regions
and several types of beta chain variable (Vp) regions distinguished by their framework, CDR1
and CDR2 sequences, and by a partly defined CDR3 sequence. The Va types are referred to
in IMGT nomenclature by a unique TRAV number.
Thus, a further embodiment of the present invention pertains to an ARC comprising an alpha
chain variable region, wherein said alpha chain variable region comprises a CDR1, CDR2 and
CDR3 that comprise an amino acid sequence that is at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%,
98%, 99% or preferably 100% identical to the amino acid sequence of the corresponding
CDR1 and CDR2 of the Va-type TRAV5 (according to IMGT nomenclature) and CDR3:
CAESIGSNSGYALNF;           or a CDR1 and CDR2 of the Va-type TRAV13-1 and CDR3:
CAARPNSGNTPLVF;            or   a   CDR1     and    CDR2     of the     Va-type    TRAV12-3       and
CAMSDTGNQFYF.
Another embodiment of the present invention pertains to an ARC comprising a beta chain
variable region, wherein said beta chain variable region comprises a CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3
that comprise an amino acid sequence that is at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%,

                                             -6
99% or preferably 100% identical to the respective amino acid sequence of a CDR1 and
CDR2     of the   Vp-type   TRBV28     (according  to INGT      nomenclature)  and CDR3:
CASRGLAGYEQYF; or a CDR1 and CDR2 of the Vp-type TRBV29-1 and CDR3:
CSVEQDTNTGELFF; or a CDR1 and CDR2 of the Vp-type TRBV13 and the CDR3:
CASSFRGGGANVLTF.
In one preferred embodiment the aforementioned ARC comprises an alpha chain and beta
chain with the above referenced variable regions, preferably in the combination as indicated
in table 1 below.
Preferred are ARCs of the invention which comprise at least one, preferably all three CDR
sequences CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3. ARCs of the invention may comprise:
CDR 1 and CDR2 regions of the respective known Va and VP types are according to the
IMGT database:
TRAV5:          CDR1: DSSSTY (SEQ ID NO: 40), CDR2: IFSNMDM (SEQ ID NO: 41)
TRAV13-1        CDR1: DSASNY (SEQ ID NO: 42), CDR2: IRSNVGE (SEQ ID NO: 43)
TRAV12-3        CDR1: NSAFQY (SEQ ID NO: 44), CDR2: TYSSGN (SEQ ID NO: 45)
TRBV28:         CDR1: MDHEN (SEQ ID NO: 46), CDR2: SYDVKM (SEQ ID NO: 47).
TRBV29-1:       CDR1: SQVTM (SEQ ID NO: 48), CDR2: ANQGSEA (SEQ ID NO: 49)
TRBV13:         CDR1: PRHDT (SEQ ID NO: 50), CDR2: FYEKMQ (SEQ ID NO: 51).
Therefore, an ARC of the invention in a preferred embodiment comprises an alpha chain
comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 40 , 41 and 1; or SEQ ID NO: 42, 43,
and 2; or SEQ ID NO: 44, 45, and 3. Alternatively or additionally the ARC of the invention
comprises a beta chain having the sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 46, 47, and 4; or SEQ OD
NO: 48, 49, and 5; or SEQ ID NO: 50, 51, and 6.
Preferred according to the invention is a TCR or an antibody, or their respective antigenic
binding fragments, with

                                               -7
    a. an alpha chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 40 , 41, and 1;
         and a beta chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 46, 47, and 4;
         or
    b. an alpha chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 42, 43, and 2;
         and a beta chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 48, 49, and 5;
         or
    c.   an alpha chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 44, 45, and 3;
         and a beta chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 50, 51, and 6.
The ARC is in preferred embodiments selected from an antibody or a TCR, but TCRs are pre
ferred.
For the purposes of the present invention, a TCR is a moiety having at least one TCR alpha
and/or TCR beta variable domain. Generally they comprise both a TCR alpha variable domain
and a TCR beta variable domain. They may be up heterodimers or may be single chain for
mat. For use in adoptive therapy, an up heterodimeric TCR may, for example, be transfected
as full length chains having both cytoplasmic and transmembrane domains. If desired, an in
troduced disulfide bond between residues of the respective constant domains may be present.
In one preferred embodiment of the first aspect of the invention, the antigen recognizing con
struct is as described above a TCR. The TCR preferably comprises at least one alpha and/or
beta TCR chain, wherein said TCR chain is encoded by at least one nucleic acid, the nucleic
acid comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from (i) the TCR chain encoding sequences
comprised in SEQ ID No. 13 to 21, or (ii) a sequence having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%,
90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identity to a TCR encoding sequence comprised in SEQ ID
No. 13 to 21, or (iii) a sequence that due to the degeneracy of the genetic code encodes for an
identical TCR as any one of the TCR en-coding sequences comprised in SEQ ID No. 13 to
21, but has a different sequence.
SEQ ID Nos. 13 to 21 depict the nucleotide sequences of the vector maps of figures 8 to 16.
Each of these vectors comprise an alpha and a beta chain of a TCR of the present invention.
In the figures the beta chain is located upstream of the alpha chain sequence. As also de
scribed below, the invention exemplary describes three isolated TCRs, which were to differ
ent degrees optimized by murinization of the original sequence of the constant domain of the

                                              -8
TCR chains. The abbreviation in the vector designation "he" stands for the complete human
variant of the TCR, "me" for a complete murinized constant domain in the TCR chain,
whereas "mmc" depicts minimal murinization in the constant domain of the TCR chain. The
exact location of the alpha and beta chains in the vector maps (and thus in the corresponding
sequences) can be derived from the figure legend.
In one preferred embodiment of alternative (i) as described before, the TCR comprises the
alpha and beta chain sequence as comprised together in any one of SEQ ID No. 13 to 21.
In one additional preferred embodiment of the first aspect of the invention, the antigen recog
nizing construct is as described above a TCR. The TCR preferably comprises at least one al
pha and/or beta TCR chain, wherein said TCR chain comprises an amino acid sequence ac
cording to any one of the TCR chains shown in SEQ ID Nos. 22 - 39, or an amino acid se
quence having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% identity to an
amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID No. 22 to 39.
An scTCR can comprise a polypeptide of a variable region of a first TCR chain (e.g., an alpha
chain) and a polypeptide of an entire (full-length) second TCR chain (e.g., a beta chain), or
vice versa. Furthermore, the scTCR can optionally comprise one or more linkers which join
the two or more polypeptides together. The linker can be, for instance, a peptide which joins
together two single chains, as described herein.
Also provided is such a scTCR of the invention, which is fused to a human cytokine, such as
IL-2, IL-7 or IL-15.
The antigen recognizing construct according to the invention can also be provided in the form
of a multimeric complex, comprising at least two scTCR molecules, wherein said scTCR
molecules are each fused to at least one biotin moiety, and wherein said scTCRs are intercon
nected by biotin-strepavidin interaction to allow the formation of said multimeric complex.
Also provided are multimeric complexes of a higher order, comprising more than two scTCR
of the invention.
In one embodiment the antigen recognizing construct according to the invention is an anti
body, or a fragment thereof. The term "antibody" in its various grammatical forms is used

                                               -9
herein to refer to immunoglobulin molecules and immunologically active portions of immu
noglobulin molecules, i.e., molecules that contain an antibody combining site or a paratope.
Such molecules are also referred to as "antigen binding fragments" of immunoglobulin mole
cules. The invention further provides an antibody, or antigen binding portion thereof, which
specifically binds to the antigens described herein. The antibody can be any type of immuno
globulin that is known in the art. For instance, the antibody can be of any isotype, e.g., IgA,
IgD, IgE, IgG, IgM, etc. The antibody can be monoclonal or polyclonal. The antibody can be
a naturally-occurring antibody, e.g., an antibody isolated and/or purified from a mammal, e.g.,
mouse, rabbit, goat, horse, chicken, hamster, human, etc. Alternatively, the antibody can be a
genetically-engineered antibody, e.g., a humanized antibody or a chimeric antibody. The anti
body can be in monomeric or polymeric form.
The invention also provides antigen binding portions of any of the antibodies described here
in. The antigen binding portion can be any portion that has at least one antigen binding site,
such as Fab, F(ab')2, dsFv, sFv, diabodies, and triabodies. A single-chain variable region
fragment (sFv) antibody fragment, which consists of a truncated Fab fragment comprising the
variable (V) domain of an antibody heavy chain linked to a V domain of a light antibody
chain via a synthetic peptide, can be generated using routine recombinant DNA technology
techniques. Similarly, disulfide-stabilized variable region fragments (dsFv) can be prepared
by recombinant DNA technology, antibody fragments of the invention, however, are not lim
ited to these exemplary types of antibody fragments. Also, the antibody, or antigen binding
portion thereof, can be modified to comprise a detectable label, such as, for instance, a radioi
sotope, a fluorophore (e.g., fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), phycoerythrin (PE)), an en
zyme (e.g., alkaline phosphatase, horseradish peroxidase), and element particles (e.g., gold
particles).
In an embodiment of the invention the antigen recognizing construct binds to a human leuco
cyte antigen (HLA) presented peptide, preferably by HLA-A02, of MAGE. In a preferred
embodiment the antigen recognizing construct specifically binds to the human MAGE-A1 278
286 epitope.
In a preferred embodiment the antigen recognizing construct is a human TCR, or fragment or
derivative thereof. A human TCR or fragment or derivative thereof is a TCR which comprises
over 50% of the corresponding human TCR sequence. Preferably only a small part of the

                                              - 10
TCR sequence is of artificial origin or derived from other species. It is known however, that
chimeric TCRs e.g. from human origin with murine sequences in the constant domains, are
advantageous. Particularly preferred are therefore TCRs in accordance with the present inven
tion, which contain murine sequences in the extracellular part of their constant domains.
Thus, it is also preferred that the inventive antigen recognizing construct is able to recognize
its antigen in a human leucocyte antigen (HLA) dependent manner, preferably in a HLA-A02
dependent manner. The term "HLA dependent manner" in the context of the present invention
means that the antigen recognizing construct binds to the antigen only in the event that the
antigenic peptide is presented by HLA.
The antigen recognizing construct in accordance with the invention in one embodiment pref
erably induces an immune response, preferably wherein the immune response is characterized
by the increase in interferon (IFN) y levels.
A preferred embodiment of the invention pertains to the antigen recognizing construct which
is a T cell receptor, and which comprises in its alpha chain a CDR3 having at least 50%, 60%,
70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to an amino acid sequence se
lected from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 3, and/or comprises in its beta chain an CDR3 having at least
50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to an amino acid
sequence selected from SEQ ID Nos. 4 to 6. Further preferred is a TCR wherein the alpha
chain comprises an CDR3 having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or
100% sequence identity to SEQ ID No. 1, and the beta chain comprises an CDR3 having at
least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to SEQ ID No.
4; or wherein the alpha chain comprises an CDR3 having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to SEQ ID No. 2, and the beta chain comprises an
CDR3 having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identi
ty to SEQ ID No. 5; or wherein the alpha chain comprises an CDR3 having at least 50%,
60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to SEQ ID No. 3, and the
beta chain comprises an CDR3 having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99%
or 100% sequence identity to SEQ ID No. 6. Preferably, the CDR3 regions are combined with
a CDJ element as depicted in any of the figures, in particular in the combination as shown in
figure 4.

                                               - 11
Furthermore preferred is that the antigen recognizing construct of the invention, which is a T
cell receptor, comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%,
95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to an amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID No.
22 to 39. Particularly preferred are TCRs having at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%,
98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to a TCR selected from TCR1367hc, TCR1367mc,
TCR1367mmc, TCR1405hc, TCR1405mc, TCR1405mmc, TCR1705hc, TCR1705mc an
TCR1705mmc. Most preferred is a TCR selected from the group consisting of TCR1367hc,
TCR1367mc,       TCR1367mmc,        TCR1405hc,     TCR1405mc,      TCR1405mmc,      TCR1705hc,
TCR1705mc an TCR1705mmc. The amino acid sequences of the above referenced TCRs of
the invention are depicted in SEQ ID No. 22 to 39.
The antigen recognizing construct in accordance with the invention are high avidity TCRs.
The problem of the invention is solved in another aspect by providing a nucleic acid encoding
for an antigen recognizing construct in accordance with the present invention. The nucleic
acid preferably (a) has a strand encoding for an antigen recognizing construct according to the
invention; (b) has a strand complementary to the strand in (a); or (c) has a strand that hybrid
izes under stringent conditions with a molecule as described in (a) or (b). Stringent conditions
are known to the person of skill in the art, specifically from Sambrook et al, "Molecular Clon
ing". In addition to that, the nucleic acid optionally has further sequences which are necessary
for expressing the nucleic acid sequence corresponding to the protein, specifically for expres
sion in a mammalian/human cell. The nucleic acid used can be contained in a vector suitable
for allowing expression of the nucleic acid sequence corresponding to the peptide in a cell.
However, the nucleic acids can also be used to transform a presenting cell, which shall not be
restricted to classical antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells, in such a way that they
themselves produce the corresponding proteins on their cellular surface.
By "nucleic acid" as used herein includes "polynucleotide," "oligonucleotide," and "nucleic
acid molecule," and generally means a polymer of DNA or RNA, which can be single
stranded or double-stranded, synthesized or obtained (e.g., isolated and/or purified) from nat
ural sources, which can contain natural, non-natural or altered nucleotides, and which can
contain a natural, non-natural or altered internucleotide linkage, such as a phosphoroamidate
linkage or a phosphorothioate linkage, instead of the phosphodiester found between the nu
cleotides of an unmodified oligonucleotide.

                                                - 12
Preferably, the nucleic acids of the invention are recombinant. As used herein, the term "re
combinant" refers to (i) molecules that are constructed outside living cells by joining natural
or synthetic nucleic acid segments to nucleic acid molecules that can replicate in a living cell,
or (ii) molecules that result from the replication of those described in (i) above. For purposes
herein, the replication can be in vitro replication or in vivo replication. The nucleic acid can
comprise any nucleotide sequence which encodes any of the TCRs, polypeptides, or proteins,
or functional portions or functional variants thereof described herein.
Furthermore, the invention provides a vector comprising a nucleic acid in accordance to the
invention as described above. Desirably, the vector is an expression vector or a recombinant
expression vector. The term "recombinant expression vector" refers in context of the present
invention to a nucleic acid construct that allows for the expression of an mRNA, protein or
polypeptide in a suitable host cell. The recombinant expression vector of the invention can be
any suitable recombinant expression vector, and can be used to transform or transfect any
suitable host. Suitable vectors include those designed for propagation and expansion or for
expression or both, such as plasmids and viruses. Examples of animal expression vectors in
clude pEUK-Cl, pMAM and pMAMneo. Preferably, the recombinant expression vector is a
viral vector, e.g., a retroviral vector. The recombinant expression vector comprises regulatory
sequences, such as transcription and translation initiation and termination codons, which are
specific to the type of host cell (e.g., bacterium, fungus, plant, or animal) into which the vec
tor is to be introduced and in which the expression of the nucleic acid of the invention shall be
performed. Furthermore, the vector of the invention may include one or more marker genes,
which allow for selection of transformed or transfected hosts. The recombinant expression
vector can comprise a native or normative promoter operably linked to the nucleotide se
quence encoding the constructs of the invention, or to the nucleotide sequence which is com
plementary to or which hybridizes to the nucleotide sequence encoding the constructs of the
invention. The selection of promoters include, e.g., strong, weak, inducible, tissue-specific
and developmental-specific promoters. The promoter can be a non-viral promoter or a viral
promoter. The inventive recombinant expression vectors can be designed for either transient
expression, for stable expression, or for both. Also, the recombinant expression vectors can be
made for constitutive expression or for inducible expression.

                                                - 13
The invention also pertains to a host cell comprising an antigen recognizing construct in ac
cordance with the invention. Specifically the host cell of the invention comprises a nucleic
acid, or a vector as described herein above. The host cell can be a eukaryotic cell, e.g., plant,
animal, fungi, or algae, or can be a prokaryotic cell, e.g., bacteria or protozoa. The host cell
can be a cultured cell or a primary cell, i.e., isolated directly from an organism, e.g., a human.
The host cell can be an adherent cell or a suspended cell, i.e., a cell that grows in suspension.
For purposes of producing a recombinant TCR, polypeptide, or protein, the host cell is prefer
ably a mammalian cell. Most preferably, the host cell is a human cell. While the host cell can
be of any cell type, can originate from any type of tissue, and can be of any developmental
stage, the host cell preferably is a peripheral blood leukocyte (PBL) or a peripheral blood
mononuclear cell (PBMC). More preferably, the host cell is a T cell. The T cell can be any T
cell, such as a cultured T cell, e.g., a primary T cell, or a T cell from a cultured T cell line,
e.g., Jurkat, SupT1, etc., or a T cell obtained from a mammal, preferably a T cell or T cell pre
curser from a human patient. If obtained from a mammal, the T cell can be obtained from
numerous sources, including but not limited to blood, bone marrow, lymph node, the thymus,
or other tissues or fluids. T cells can also be enriched for or purified. Preferably, the T cell is a
human T cell. More preferably, the T cell is a T cell isolated from a human. The T cell can be
any type of T cell and can be of any developmental stage, including but not limited to,
CD4positive and/or CD8positive, CD4 positive helper T cells, e.g., Th1 and Th2 cells, CD8
positive T cells (e.g., cytotoxic T cells), tumor infiltrating cells (TILs), memory T cells, naive
T cells, and the like. Preferably, the T cell is a CD8 positive T cell or a CD4 positive T cell.
Preferably, the host cell of the invention is a lymphocyte, preferably a T lymphocyte, such as
a CD4 or CD8 positive T-cell. The host cell furthermore preferably is a tumor reactive T cell
specific for MAGE-Al expressing tumor cells.
One further aspect of the present invention relates to the herein disclosed antigen recognizing
constructs, nucleic acids, vectors and/or host cell for use in medicine. The use in medicine in
one preferred embodiment includes the use in the diagnosis, prevention and/or treatment of a
proliferative disease, such as a malignant or benign tumor disease.
Thus also provided by the present invention is a method for treating a subject suffering from a
tumor or tumor disease comprising the administration of the antigen recognizing constructs,
nucleic acids, vectors and/or host cell as disclosed by the present invention. Preferably the

                                             - 14
subject is a subject in need of such a treatment. The subject in preferred embodiments is a
mammalian subject, preferably a human patient, suffering from a tumor or tumor disease.
In one preferred aspect of the invention the tumor or tumor disease is a disease characterized
by the expression of a MAGE antigen as described herein above. Most preferably the tumor
or tumor disease expresses the MAGE-Al antigen, even more preferably wherein the tumor
or tumor disease presents via HLA the MAGE-A1       278 -286 epitope. Further preferred is that the
tumor or tumor disease is characterized by the differential expression of the MAGE-Al anti
gen compared to healthy tissue. The MAGE-Al antigen may be expressed to a low extend in
normal (non-cancerous) cells, whereas the antigen is significantly stronger expressed in the
tumor cells.
Also, in one preferred aspect of the invention the expression of MAGE-Al in the tumor is
induced or enhanced by prior pharmacologic treatment, e.g. with 5-aza-2-deoxycitabine.
The term "tumor" or "tumor disease" in the context of the present invention denotes a disease
selected from melanomas, hepatocellular carcinomas, intra- and extrahepatic cholangiocellu
lar carcinomas, squamous cell carcinomas, adenocarcinomas as well as undifferentiated carci
nomas of the head, neck, lung or esophagus, colorectal carcinomas, chondrosarcomas, osteo
sarcomas, medulloblastomas, neuroblastomas, non-squamous cell carcinomas of the head or
neck, ovarian tumors, lymphomas, acute and chronic lymphocytic leukemias, acute and
chronic myeloid leukemia, bladder carcinomas, prostate carcinomas, pancreatic adenocarci
nomas, mammary carcinomas and gastric carcinomas. Preferred diseases to be treated by the
products and/or methods of the invention include melanoma, non-small-cell lung cancer, pan
creatic adenocarcinoma and cholangiocellular carcinoma.
One preferred medicinal use of the invention relates to immune therapy, preferably adoptive T
cell therapy. The product and methods of the invention are particularly useful in the context of
adoptive T cell therapy. The administration of the compounds of the invention can for exam
ple involve the infusion of T cells of the invention into said patient. Preferably such T cells
are autologous T cells of the patient which were in vitro transduced with a nucleic acid or
antigen recognizing constructs of the present invention.

                                                - 15
The invention in one further aspect discloses a method for the manufacturing of a MAGE-Al
specific antigen recognizing construct (ARC) expressing cell line, comprising
        a.      Providing a suitable host cell,
        b.      Providing a genetic construct encoding for an ARC, wherein said ARC com
                prises a CDR3 having an amino acid sequence with at least 50%, 60%, 70%,
                80%, 90%, 95%, 98%, 99% or 100% sequence identity to an amino acid se
                quence selected from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 6,
        c.      Introducing into said suitable host cell said genetic construct,
        d.      Expressing said genetic construct by said suitable host cell.
The above method may in one preferred embodiment further comprise the step of including a
cell surface presentation of said ARC.
Of course it is also preferred that context of this aspect of the invention said ARC is an ARC
according to the inventive aspects as described herein above. In this respect it is also addition
ally or alternatively preferred that said ARC is of mammalian origin, preferably of human
origin.
The preferred suitable host cell for use in the method of the invention is a mammalian, in par
ticular a human cell, such as a human T-cell. T cells for use in the invention are described in
detail herein above.
The ARC produced according to the method of the invention is in one embodiment a TCR.
For example also included are TCRs with additional (functional) domains or a TCR provided
with alternative domains, e.g. a TCR provided with a foreign transmembrane-domain as
membrane anchor. A TCR produced in accordance with the present invention is for example
an alpha/beta TCR, gamma/delta TCR or a single chain TCR (scTCR). Also, TCR forms
which are included by the present invention are generally any TCR known in the art, specifi
cally those described herein above.
Desirably, the transfection system for use in the method in accordance with the invention is a
retroviral vector system. Such systems are well known to the skilled artisan.

                                               - 16
Also comprised by the present invention is in one embodiment the additional method step of
purification of the ARC from the cell and, optionally, the reconstitution of the translated
ARC-fragments in a T-cell.
In an alternative aspect of the invention a T-cell is provided obtained or obtainable by a meth
od for the production of a T cell receptor (TCR), which is specific for tumorous cells and has
high avidity as described herein above. Such a T cell is depending on the host cell used in the
method of the invention for example a human or non-human T-cell, preferably a human TCR.
Thus also provided is a pharmaceutical composition, comprising any of the herein described
products of the invention, specifically any proteins, nucleic acids or host cells. In a preferred
embodiment the pharmaceutical composition is for immune therapy.
Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents useful in the present invention
include stabilizers such as SPGA, carbohydrates (e.g. sorbitol, mannitol, starch, sucrose, glu
cose, dextran), proteins such as albumin or casein, protein containing agents such as bovine
serum or skimmed milk and buffers (e.g. phosphate buffer).
The present invention will now be further described in the following examples with reference
to the accompanying figures and sequences, nevertheless, without being limited thereto. For
the purposes of the present invention, all references as cited herein are incorporated by refer
ence in their entireties. In the Figures and Sequences:
Figure 1:       shows the concept of adoptive T cell therapy
Figure 2:       shows MAGE-Al and its epitope localization
Figure 3:       shows the immune response against MAGE-Al in ABabDII mice
Figure 4:       shows a schematic representation of the TCR vectors
Figure 5:       shows FACS results of TCR transduced Jurkat 76 cells
Figure 6:       shows the functional avidity of MAGE-Al specific T cells
Figure 7:       shows the tumor cell recognition MAGE-Alby T cells transduced with the
                MAGE-Al specific TCRs of the invention.
Figure 8:       Vector map of pMP71-TCR1367hc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
                between nucleotides 1041 and 2864 of SEQ ID No. 13. The TCR beta chain is

                                        - 17
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 1970, the alpha chain between 2037 and
           2864.
Figure 9:  Vector map of pMP71-TCR1367mc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2834 of SEQ ID No. 14. . The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 1952, the alpha chain between 2019 and
           2834.
Figure 10: Vector map of pMP71-TCR1367mmc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2864 of SEQ ID No. 15. The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 1970, the alpha chain between 2037 and
           2864.
Figure 11: Vector map of pMP71-TCR1405hc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2855 of SEQ ID No. 16. The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 1967, the alpha chain between 2034 and
           2855.
Figure 12: Vector map of pMP71-TCR1405mc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2825 of SEQ ID No. 17. The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 1949, the alpha chain between 2016 and
           2825.
Figure 13: Vector map of pMP71-TCR1405mmc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2854 of SEQ ID No. 18. The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 1967, the alpha chain between 2034 and
           2854.
Figure 14: Vector map of pMP71-TCR1705hc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2894 of SEQ ID No. 19. The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 2006, the alpha chain between 2073 and
           2894.
Figure 15: Vector map of pMP71-TCR1705mc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2864 of SEQ ID No. 20. The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 1988, the alpha chain between 2055 and
           2864.
Figure 16: Vector map of pMP71-TCR1705mmc. The TCR encoding sequence is located
           between nucleotides 1041 and 2894 of SEQ ID No. 21. The TCR beta chain is
           located between nucleotides 1041 and 2006, the alpha chain between 2073 and
           2894.

                                            - 18
Figure 17:  T2 cells were incubated with increasing concentrations of MAGE-A1278 and
            cocultured with human T cells that had been transduced with different TCRs as
            indicated. After 12 hours, functional response was assessed by measuring IFNy
            in the cultures.
Figure 18:  T2 cells were loaded with 10-5 mol/1 MAGE-A1278 or the 2 most similar
            epitopes in the human proteome (MAGE-B16 and MAGE-B5) differing in only
            2 amino acids from MAGE-A1278 and co-cultured with TCR modified T cells.
            Functional response was assessed based on IFNy production.
Figure 19:  T2 cells were loaded with one of 114 different HLA-A2 restricted self-peptides
            at a concentration of 10-5 mol/1 and co-cultured with T cells from 2 different
            donors that were transduced with TCR 1367. The results of donor 1 are shown
            as black dots, the results of donor 2 by white dots.
SEQ ID No 1 to 6:   show alpha and beta CDR3 sequences of the TCRs of the invention.
SEQ ID No 7 to 10: show alpha and beta chain CDR3 sequences of healthy humans.
SEQ ID No 11 to 12: show the epitope sequences of human (11) and mouse (12) MAGE-A1.
SEQ ID No 13 to 21: show the vector nucleotide sequences of figures 8 to 16.
SEQ ID No 22 to 39: show the complete amino acid sequences of the alpha and beta chains of
                    the TCRs of the invention
SEQ ID No 40 to 51: show alpha and beta CDR1 and CDR2 sequences of Va and VP genes.

                                                  - 19
                            EXAMPLES
Example 1:         Generation of T-cells with a MAGE epitope using the ABabDII mouse
Figure 2 shows the location of the HLA-A2 restricted epitope MAGE-A1            27 8 -286 is shown in
relation to the full-length MAGE-Al protein (top). The human MAGE-A1               278 -286 epitope is
sufficiently different from its mouse homologue to prevent tolerance against human MAGE
A1 278-2 86 in ABabDII mice (bottom).
MAGE-Al is expressed in a variety of human tumors, whereas its expression on normal hu
man tissue is believed to be restricted to the testes. Therefore, specific targeting of MAGE-Al
expressing cells should limit toxicity to a minimum.
ABabDII mice were immunized with a 30mer peptide encompassing the nonamer MAGE
A1 278-2 86 plus CpG in incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Boosts were performed with the nonam
er MAGE-A       1278 -286 plus CpG in incomplete Freund's adjuvant. On the day of analysis, blood
was taken and stained with a MAGE-A1/HLA-A2 specific tetramer and with antibodies for
certain TRBV chains (IMGT nomenclature). After several boosts a monoclonal population of
MAGE-Al specific T cells is detectable in the blood of ABabDII mice. Figure 3 shows the
immune response of the immunized animal and the immunization scheme. A significant shift
in FACS analysis of the immunized cells is observed with the tetramer staining indicating that
MAGE specific T cells were generated.
Example 2:         Isolation and characterization of T cell receptors
The cDNA from MAGE-Al specific T cell clones as generated in Example 1 was amplified
by 5'-RACE and sequenced.
The table 1 shows the amino acid sequences of complementary determining region 3 (CDR3)
of the alpha and beta chains for three different TCRs from ABabDII mice and two TCRs ob
tained from healthy humans (Ottaviani, S., Zhang, Y., Boon, T., & van der Bruggen, P.
(2005). A MAGE-] antigenic peptide recognized by human cytolytic T lymphocytes on HLA
A2 tumor cells. CancerImmunology, Immunotherapy: CII, 54(12), 1214-1220.).

                                                -  20
Table 1: Amino acid sequences of the CDR3-regions for three different MAGE-Al specific
TCRs.
 TCR      alpha chain CDR3                              beta chain CDR3
          TRAV5-CAESIGSNSGYALNF-TRAJ41 (SEQ ID          TRBV28-CASRGLAGYEQYF-TRBJ2-7(SEQ ID No.
   1367 No. 1)                                          4)
          TRAV13-1-CAARPNSGNTPLVF-TRAJ29 (SEQ           TRBV29-1-CSVEQDTNTGELFF-TRBJ2-2(SEQ ID
   1405 ID No. 2)                                       No. 5)
          TRAV12-3-CAMSDTGNQFYF-TRAJ49(SEQ ID           TRBV13-CASSFRGGGANVLTF-TRBJ2-6(SEQ ID
   1705 No. 3)                                          No. 6)
          TRAV5-CAESYNARLMF-TRAJ31 (SEQ ID No.          TRBV20-CSAREPGQGPYEQYFG-TRBJ7 (SEQ ID
 CTL27*   7)                                            No.9)
          TRAV5-CAGSGGGTDKLIF-TRAJ34 (SEQ ID
 CTL89*   No. 8)                                        TRBV12-CASLSGVYTFG-TRBJ1-2 (SEQ ID No. 10)
 *human repertoiresee: Ottaviani et al. (2005). CancerImmunology, Immunotherapy, 54(12),
1214-1220
The isolated TCR which comprise the above CDR3 sequences were then cloned. The retrovi
ral vector MP71 is used for transduction of primary human peripheral blood lymphocytes
(hPBLs). The alpha and beta genes of each TCR are linked with a P2A element which is cut
by a cellular protease during translation of the transduced TCR ensuring equimolar expression
of both chains (Figure 4).
All genes are codon optimized for optimal expression. In order to further optimize expression
in hPBLs additional modifications were introduced into the wild-type TCR constant regions.
Complete (A) and minimal (B) murinization of the constant regions of the TCR chains usually
result in higher expression levels in hPBLs than the unmodified human constant region (C).
Then hCD8+ Jurkat 76 cells were transduced with different TCRs derived from ABabDII
mice and human volunteers. Transduced cells stain positive for CD3. All transduced cells
specifically bind the MAGE-A1/HLA-A2 tetramer (Figure 5).
Surprisingly, the TCRs of the present invention provide an unusually high avidity compared
to the TCRs of the state of the art. hPBLs were transduced with different MAGE-Al specific
TCRs. The transduced PBLs were then incubated with T2 cells, which had been pulsed with
different concentrations   of MAGE-A1      278 -2 86  peptide. After overnight incubation  IFNy
production was measured by ELISA.

                                              - 21
In response to stimulation with peptide pulsed T2 cells the TCRs from ABabDII mice (Figure
6, closed circles) show a response at lower peptide concentrations and a higher amount of
IFNy-production than the TCRs derived from the tolerant human system (Figure 6, open cir
cles).
This was further confirmed by testing tumor cell recognition using the TCRs of the invention
(Figure 7). Transduced hBLs were incubated with different tumor cell lines. After overnight
incubation IFNy-production was measured by ELISA. The transduced hPBLs specifically
recognize MAGE-Al in the context of HLA-A2 restricted presentation. PBLs transduced with
TCRs from ABabDII mice (full bars) produce higher amounts of IFNy than those transduced
with TCRs from the human repertoire (shaded bars) when incubated with MAGE-Al express
ing tumor cell lines.
Example 3:     Sensitivity and Specificity of the TCR of the Invention
MAGE-A1 278 antigen was presented on T2 cells. The antigen presenting T2 cells were co
cultured with T-cells expressing the TCR of the invention or a control TCR (CTL27). As
shown in figure 17 T cells modified with inventive TCRs from ABabDII mice (solid lines)
respond to lower amounts of antigen than those modified with a human TCR (dash-dotted
line). (One representative example out of 3 independent experiments is shown). These results
indicate the surprisingly improved (by at least one order of magnitude) sensitivity of the TCR
of the invention compared to state of the art TCR.
In order to test the specificity of the TCR of the invention over closely related MAGE anti
genic epitopes, the TCRs were brought into contact with the MAGE antigens KVLEFVAKV
(MAGE-B 16) and KVLEYLAKV (MAGE-B5). The antigens were presented by T2 cells
which were then co-cultured with T-cells expressing the TCR of the invention and a control.
Interferon-y release was measured. As can be seen from figure 18, the TCR of the invention
significantly recognized the MAGE-A1 278 antigen and not the varients of the epitope. The
specificity was much better compared to the control TCR.
The high specificity of the TCR of the invention was confirmed in an experiment testing 144
human HLA-A2 restricted self-antigens. Figure 19 shows that donor T cells transfected with

                                              - 22
TCR 1367 specifically detected MAGE-Al and not any other tested self-antigen, demonstrat
ing the surprisingly high degree of specificity of the TCR of the invention.
Furthermore 106 murine MAGE-Al expressing fibrosarcoma cells were injected into immu
nodeficient mice and grown to a clinically relevant size of approximately 500 mm 3 tumor
volume. To treat the tumors 106 MAGE-Al specific T cells bearing the either one of 2 TCRs
from ABabDII mice (1367, 1405) or a human TCR (CTL27) were injected. In the control
group, 106 T cells bearing an irrelevant TCR were injected.
Treatment response was assessed 14 days after T-cell injection based on tumor volume. The
results are provided in table 2 below. In the groups treated with ABabDII TCRs 100% and
67% of the animals responded to treatment. On the contrary, none of the animals treated with
T cells transduced with a human TCR or an irrelevant TCR responded.
Table 2:
Treatment group                         Response rate
1367                                    5/5 (100%)
1405                                    4/6 (67%)
CTL27 (human)                           0/6 (0%)
Irrelevant TCR                          0/3 (0%)

                                          - 23
                                       CLAIMS
1. An antigen recognizing construct comprising a complementary determining region 3
   (CDR3) having at least 90% sequence identity to an amino acid sequence selected
   from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 6.
2. The antigen recognizing construct according to claim 1, wherein said construct binds
   specifically to the MAGE-Al antigen, preferably which specifically binds to the hu
   man MAGE-A1 2 7 8 -2 86 epitope.
3. The antigen recognizing construct according to any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the
   antigen recognizing construct is an antibody, or derivative or fragment thereof, or a T
   cell receptor (TCR), or derivative or fragment thereof.
4. The antigen recognizing construct according to any one of claims 1 to 3, which is a
   TCR, the TCR comprising at least one alpha and/or beta TCR chain,
       a. wherein said TCR chain is encoded by at least one nucleic acid, the nucleic ac
           id comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from (i) the TCR chain encoding
           sequences comprised in SEQ ID No. 13 to 21, or (ii) a sequence having at least
            80% identity to a TCR encoding sequence comprised in SEQ ID No. 13 to 21,
           or (iii) a sequence that due to the degeneracy of the genetic code encodes for
           an identical TCR as any one of the TCR encoding sequences comprised in
            SEQ ID No. 13 to 21, but has a different sequence; or
       b. wherein said TCR chain comprises an amino acid sequence according to any
           one of the TCR chains shown in SEQ ID Nos. 22 - 39, or an amino acid se
           quence having at least 80% identity to an amino acid sequence shown in SEQ
           ID No. 22 to 39.
5. The antigen recognizing construct according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said
   antigen recognizing construct induces an immune response, preferably wherein the
   immune response is characterized by the increase in interferon (IFN) y levels.
6.  A T cell receptor (TCR) according to claim 3, or derivative or fragment thereof, with

                                           - 24
        a. an alpha chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 40 , 41,
            and 1; and a beta chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO:
            46, 47, and 4; or
        b. an alpha chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 42, 43,
            and 2; and a beta chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO:
            48, 49, and 5; or
        c.  an alpha chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO: 44, 45,
            and 3; and a beta chain comprising the CDR sequences shown in SEQ ID NO:
            50, 51, and 6.
7. A nucleic acid encoding for an antigen recognizing construct according to any one of
    claims 1 to 6.
8. A vector comprising a nucleic acid according to claim 7.
9. A host cell comprising an antigen recognizing construct according to any one of
    claims 1 to 6, or a nucleic acid according to claim 7, or a vector according to claim 8.
10. The host cell according to claim 9, which is a lymphocyte, preferably a T lymphocyte,
    such as a CD4 or CD8 positive T-cell.
11. The antigen recognizing construct according to any one of claims 1 to 6, or a nucleic
    acid according to claim 7, or a vector according to claim 8, or a host cell according to
    any one of claims 9 or 10, for use in medicine.
12. The antigen recognizing construct, or the nucleic acid according, or the vector, or the
    host cell according claim 11, for use in the diagnosis, prevention and/or treatment of a
    proliferative disease, such as a malignant or benign tumor disease, preferably, wherein
    the tumor disease is a disease characterized by the differential expression of the
    MAGE-Al antigen.
13. The antigen recognizing construct, or the nucleic acid, or the vector, or the host cell
    according to any one of claims 11 or 12, wherein the use in medicine is a use in im
    mune therapy, preferably in adoptive T cell therapy.
14. A method for the manufacturing of a MAGE-Al specific antigen recognizing con
    struct (ARC) expressing cell line, comprising

                                            - 25
        a. Providing a suitable host cell,
        b. Providing a genetic construct encoding for an ARC, wherein said ARC com
             prises a CDR3 having an amino acid sequence with at least 90% sequence
             identity to an amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID Nos. 1 to 6, or
             wherein said ARC is an ARC according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
        c.   Introducing into said suitable host cell said genetic construct,
        d. Expressing said genetic construct by said suitable host cell.
15. The method according claim 14, further comprising the purification of the ARC from
    the cell and, optionally, the reconstitution of the translated ARC-fragments in a T-cell.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                 eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Max-Delbrck Center Berlin-Buch
              <120>   High Avidity Antigen Recognizing Constructs
              <130>   M32249WO
              <150>   EP13153081.8
              <151>   2013-01-29
              <160>   51
<removed-apn>
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   CDR3
              <400>   1
              Cys Ala Glu Ser Ile Gly Ser Asn Ser Gly Tyr Ala Leu Asn Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   2
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   CDR3
              <400>   2
              Cys Ala Ala Arg Pro Asn Ser Gly Asn Thr Pro Leu Val Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   3
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   CDR3
              <400>   3
              Cys Ala Met Ser Asp Thr Gly Asn Gln Phe Tyr Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   4
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   CDR3
              <400>   4
              Cys Ala Ser Arg Gly Leu Ala Gly Tyr Glu Gln Tyr Phe
                                                   Page 1

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              1                5                 10
              <210>   5
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   CDR3
              <400>   5
<removed-apn>
              Cys Ser Val Glu Gln Asp Thr Asn Thr Gly Glu Leu Phe Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   6
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   CDR3
              <400>   6
              Cys Ala Ser Ser Phe Arg Gly Gly Gly Ala Asn Val Leu Thr Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   7
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   7
              Cys Ala Glu Ser Tyr Asn Ala Arg Leu Met Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   8
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   8
              Cys Ala Gly Ser Gly Gly Gly Thr Asp Lys Leu Ile Phe
              1               5                   10
              <210>   9
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   9
              Cys Ser Ala Arg Glu Pro Gly Gln Gly Pro Tyr Glu Gln Tyr Phe Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   10
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
                                                   Page 2

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   10
              Cys Ala Ser Leu Ser Gly Val Tyr Thr Phe Gly
              1               5                   10
              <210>   11
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
<removed-apn>
              <400>   11
              Lys Val Leu Glu Tyr Val Ile Lys Val
              1               5
              <210>   12
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus musculus
              <400>   12
              Lys Val Leu Gln Phe Phe Ala Ser Ile
              1               5
              <210>   13
              <211>   7278
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71-TCR1367hc
              <400> 13
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca    60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga   120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc   180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc   240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc   300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc   360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca   420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc   480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc   540
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt   600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat   660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg   720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac   780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga   840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa   900
                                                    Page 3

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgggaatca gactgctgtg cagagtggcc ttctgcttcc   1080
              tggccgtggg cctggtggac gtgaaagtga cccagagcag cagatacctc gtgaagcgga   1140
              ccggcgagaa ggtgttcctg gaatgcgtgc aggacatgga ccacgagaat atgttctggt   1200
              acagacagga ccccggcctg ggcctgcggc tgatctactt cagctacgac gtgaagatga   1260
<removed-apn>
              aggaaaaggg cgacatcccc gagggctaca gcgtgtccag agagaagaaa gagcggttca   1320
              gcctgatcct ggaaagcgcc agcaccaacc agaccagcat gtacctgtgc gccagcagag   1380
              gcctggccgg ctacgagcag tattttggcc ctggcacccg gctgaccgtg accgaggacc   1440
              tgaagaacgt gttccccccc gaggtggccg tgttcgagcc cagcgaggcc gagatcagcc   1500
              acacccagaa agccaccctg gtgtgcctgg ccaccggctt ctaccccgac cacgtggagc   1560
              tgtcttggtg ggtgaacggc aaagaggtgc acagcggcgt cagcaccgac ccccagcccc   1620
              tgaaagagca gcccgccctg aacgacagcc ggtactgcct gagcagccgg ctgagagtga   1680
              gcgccacctt ctggcagaac ccccggaacc acttccggtg ccaggtgcag ttctacggcc   1740
              tgagcgagaa cgacgagtgg acccaggaca gagccaagcc cgtgacccag atcgtgagcg   1800
              ccgaggcctg gggcagagcc gactgcggct tcaccagcga gagctaccag cagggcgtgc   1860
              tgtccgccac aatcctgtac gagatcctgc tgggcaaggc caccctgtac gccgtgctgg   1920
              tgtccgccct ggtgctgatg gccatggtga agcggaagga cagccggggc ggcagcggcg   1980
              ccaccaactt tagcctgctg aaacaggccg gcgacgtgga agagaaccct ggccccatga   2040
              agaccttcgc cggcttcagc ttcctgttcc tgtggctgca gctggactgc atgagcaggg   2100
              gcgaggacgt ggaacagagc ctgtttctga gcgtgcgcga gggcgacagc agcgtgatca   2160
              attgcaccta caccgacagc tccagcacct acctgtactg gtacaagcag gaacctggcg   2220
              ccggactgca gctgctgacc tacatcttca gcaacatgga catgaagcag gaccagagac   2280
              tgaccgtgct gctgaacaag aaggacaagc acctgagcct gcggatcgcc gatacccaga   2340
              caggcgacag cgccatctac ttttgcgccg agagcatcgg cagcaacagc ggctacgccc   2400
              tgaacttcgg caagggcaca agcctgctcg tgacccctca catccagaac cccgaccccg   2460
              ccgtgtacca gctgcgggac agcaagagca gcgacaagag cgtgtgcctg ttcaccgact   2520
              tcgacagcca gaccaacgtg agccagagca aggactccga cgtgtacatc accgacaaga   2580
              ccgtgctgga catgcggagc atggacttca agagcaactc cgccgtggcc tggtccaaca   2640
              agagcgactt cgcctgcgcc aacgccttca acaacagcat catccccgag gacacctttt   2700
              tccccagccc cgagagcagc tgcgacgtga aactggtgga gaagagcttc gagaccgaca   2760
              ccaacctgaa cttccagaac ctgtccgtga tcggcttccg gatcctgctg ctgaaggtgg   2820
              ccggcttcaa cctgctgatg accctgcggc tgtggagcag ctgaattcga gcatcttacc   2880
              gccatttatt cccatatttg ttctgttttt cttgatttgg gtatacattt aaatgttaat   2940
                                                   Page 4

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              aaaacaaaat ggtggggcaa tcatttacat tttatgggat atgtaattac tagttcaggt   3000
              gtattgccac aagacaaaca tgttaagaaa ctttcccgtt atttacgctc tgttcctgtt   3060
              aatcaacctc tggattacaa aatttgtgaa agattgactg atattcttaa ctatgttgct   3120
              ccttttacgc tgtgtggata tgctgcttta atgcctctgt atcatgctat tgcttcccgt   3180
              acggctttcg ttttctcctc cttgtataaa tcctggttgc tgtctcttta tgaggagttg   3240
              tggcccgttg tccgtcaacg tggcgtggtg tgctctgtgt ttgctgacgc aacccccact   3300
<removed-apn>
              ggctggggca ttgccaccac ctgtcaactc ctttctggga ctttcgcttt ccccctcccg   3360
              atcgccacgg cagaactcat cgccgcctgc cttgcccgct gctggacagg ggctaggttg   3420
              ctgggcactg ataattccgt ggtgttgtcg gggaagctga cgtcctttcc atggctgctc   3480
              gcctgtgttg ccaactggat cctgcgcggg acgtccttct gctacgtccc ttcggctctc   3540
              aatccagcgg acctcccttc ccgaggcctt ctgccggttc tgcggcctct cccgcgtctt   3600
              cgctttcggc ctccgacgag tcggatctcc ctttgggccg cctccccgcc tgtttcgcct   3660
              cggcgtccgg tccgtgttgc ttggtcgtca cctgtgcaga attgcgaacc atggattcca   3720
              ccgtgaactt tgtctcctgg catgcaaatc gtcaacttgg catgccaaga attaattcgg   3780
              atccaagctt aggcctgctc gctttcttgc tgtcccattt ctattaaagg ttcctttgtt   3840
              ccctaagtcc aactactaaa ctgggggata ttatgaaggg ccttgagcat ctggattctg   3900
              cctagcgcta agcttaacac gagccataga tagaataaaa gattttattt agtctccaga   3960
              aaaagggggg aatgaaagac cccacctgta ggtttggcaa gctagcttaa gtaacgccat   4020
              tttgcaaggc atggaaaata cataactgag aatagagaag ttcagatcaa ggttaggaac   4080
              agagagacag cagaatatgg gccaaacagg atatctgtgg taagcagttc ctgccccggc   4140
              tcagggccaa gaacagttgg aacagcagaa tatgggccaa acaggatatc tgtggtaagc   4200
              agttcctgcc ccggctcagg gccaagaaca gatggtcccc agatgcggtc ccgccctcag   4260
              cagtttctag agaaccatca gatgtttcca gggtgcccca aggacctgaa atgaccctgt   4320
              gccttatttg aactaaccaa tcagttcgct tctcgcttct gttcgcgcgc ttctgctccc   4380
              cgagctcaat aaaagagccc acaacccctc actcggcgcg ccagtcctcc gatagactgc   4440
              gtcgcccggg tacccgtgtt ctcaataaac cctcttgcag ttgcatccga ctcgtggtct   4500
              cgctgttcct tgggagggtc tcctctgagt gattgactgc ccacctcggg ggtctttcat   4560
              tctcgagcag cttggcgtaa tcatggtcat agctgtttcc tgtgtgaaat tgttatccgc   4620
              tcacaattcc acacaacata cgagccggaa gcataaagtg taaagcctgg ggtgcctaat   4680
              gagtgagcta actcacatta attgcgttgc gctcactgcc cgctttccag tcgggaaacc   4740
              tgtcgtgcca gctgcattaa tgaatcggcc aacgcgcggg gagaggcggt ttgcgtattg   4800
              ggcgctcttc cgcttcctcg ctcactgact cgctgcgctc ggtcgttcgg ctgcggcgag   4860
              cggtatcagc tcactcaaag gcggtaatac ggttatccac agaatcaggg gataacgcag   4920
              gaaagaacat gtgagcaaaa ggccagcaaa aggccaggaa ccgtaaaaag gccgcgttgc   4980
                                                   Page 5

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tggcgttttt ccataggctc cgcccccctg acgagcatca caaaaatcga cgctcaagtc   5040
              agaggtggcg aaacccgaca ggactataaa gataccaggc gtttccccct ggaagctccc   5100
              tcgtgcgctc tcctgttccg accctgccgc ttaccggata cctgtccgcc tttctccctt   5160
              cgggaagcgt ggcgctttct catagctcac gctgtaggta tctcagttcg gtgtaggtcg   5220
              ttcgctccaa gctgggctgt gtgcacgaac cccccgttca gcccgaccgc tgcgccttat   5280
              ccggtaacta tcgtcttgag tccaacccgg taagacacga cttatcgcca ctggcagcag   5340
<removed-apn>
              ccactggtaa caggattagc agagcgaggt atgtaggcgg tgctacagag ttcttgaagt   5400
              ggtggcctaa ctacggctac actagaagaa cagtatttgg tatctgcgct ctgctgaagc   5460
              cagttacctt cggaaaaaga gttggtagct cttgatccgg caaacaaacc accgctggta   5520
              gcggtggttt ttttgtttgc aagcagcaga ttacgcgcag aaaaaaagga tctcaagaag   5580
              atcctttgat cttttctacg gggtctgacg ctcagtggaa cgaaaactca cgttaaggga   5640
              ttttggtcat gagattatca aaaaggatct tcacctagat ccttttaaat taaaaatgaa   5700
              gttttaaatc aatctaaagt atatatgagt aaacttggtc tgacagttac caatgcttaa   5760
              tcagtgaggc acctatctca gcgatctgtc tatttcgttc atccatagtt gcctgactcc   5820
              ccgtcgtgta gataactacg atacgggagg gcttaccatc tggccccagt gctgcaatga   5880
              taccgcgaga cccacgctca ccggctccag atttatcagc aataaaccag ccagccggaa   5940
              gggccgagcg cagaagtggt cctgcaactt tatccgcctc catccagtct attaattgtt   6000
              gccgggaagc tagagtaagt agttcgccag ttaatagttt gcgcaacgtt gttgccattg   6060
              ctacaggcat cgtggtgtca cgctcgtcgt ttggtatggc ttcattcagc tccggttccc   6120
              aacgatcaag gcgagttaca tgatccccca tgttgtgcaa aaaagcggtt agctccttcg   6180
              gtcctccgat cgttgtcaga agtaagttgg ccgcagtgtt atcactcatg gttatggcag   6240
              cactgcataa ttctcttact gtcatgccat ccgtaagatg cttttctgtg actggtgagt   6300
              actcaaccaa gtcattctga gaatagtgta tgcggcgacc gagttgctct tgcccggcgt   6360
              caatacggga taataccgcg ccacatagca gaactttaaa agtgctcatc attggaaaac   6420
              gttcttcggg gcgaaaactc tcaaggatct taccgctgtt gagatccagt tcgatgtaac   6480
              ccactcgtgc acccaactga tcttcagcat cttttacttt caccagcgtt tctgggtgag   6540
              caaaaacagg aaggcaaaat gccgcaaaaa agggaataag ggcgacacgg aaatgttgaa   6600
              tactcatact cttccttttt caatattatt gaagcattta tcagggttat tgtctcatga   6660
              gcggatacat atttgaatgt atttagaaaa ataaacaaat aggggttccg cgcacatttc   6720
              cccgaaaagt gccacctgac gtctaagaaa ccattattat catgacatta acctataaaa   6780
              ataggcgtat cacgaggccc tttcgtctcg cgcgtttcgg tgatgacggt gaaaacctct   6840
              gacacatgca gctcccggag acggtcacag cttgtctgta agcggatgcc gggagcagac   6900
              aagcccgtca gggcgcgtca gcgggtgttg gcgggtgtcg gggctggctt aactatgcgg   6960
              catcagagca gattgtactg agagtgcacc atatgcggtg tgaaataccg cacagatgcg   7020
                                                   Page 6

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              taaggagaaa ataccgcatc aggcgccatt cgccattcag gctgcgcaac tgttgggaag   7080
              ggcgatcggt gcgggcctct tcgctattac gccagctggc gaaaggggga tgtgctgcaa   7140
              ggcgattaag ttgggtaacg ccagggtttt cccagtcacg acgttgtaaa acgacggcca   7200
              gtgaattagt actctagctt aagtaacgcc attttgcaag gcatggaaaa tacataactg   7260
              agaatagaga agttcaga                                                 7278
              <210>   14
<removed-apn>
              <211>   7248
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71_1367_mc
              <400> 14
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgggaatca gactgctgtg cagagtggcc ttctgcttcc   1080
              tggccgtggg cctggtggac gtgaaagtga cccagagcag cagatacctc gtgaagcgga   1140
              ccggcgagaa ggtgttcctg gaatgcgtgc aggacatgga ccacgagaat atgttctggt   1200
              acagacagga ccccggcctg ggcctgcggc tgatctactt cagctacgac gtgaagatga   1260
              aggaaaaggg cgacatcccc gagggctaca gcgtgtccag agagaagaaa gagcggttca   1320
              gcctgatcct ggaaagcgcc agcaccaacc agaccagcat gtacctgtgc gccagcagag   1380
              gcctggccgg ctacgagcag tattttggcc ctggcacccg gctgaccgtg accgaggatc   1440
                                                   Page 7

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tgagaaacgt gacccccccc aaggtgtccc tgttcgagcc tagcaaggcc gagatcgcca   1500
              acaaacagaa agccaccctc gtgtgcctgg ccagaggctt cttccccgac cacgtggaac   1560
              tgtcttggtg ggtcaacggc aaagaggtgc acagcggcgt gtccaccgat ccccaggcct   1620
              acaaagagag caactacagc tactgcctga gcagcaggct gcgggtgtcc gccaccttct   1680
              ggcacaaccc ccggaaccac ttcagatgcc aggtgcagtt tcacggcctg agcgaagagg   1740
              acaagtggcc cgagggaagc cccaagcccg tgacacagaa tatcagcgcc gaagcctggg   1800
<removed-apn>
              gcagagccga ctgtggaatc accagcgcca gctatcacca gggcgtgctg agcgccacaa   1860
              tcctgtacga gatcctgctg ggcaaggcca ccctgtacgc cgtgctggtg tctggcctgg   1920
              tgctgatggc catggtcaag aagaagaaca gcggcagcgg cgccaccaac tttagcctgc   1980
              tgaaacaggc cggcgacgtg gaagagaacc ctggccccat gaagaccttc gccggcttca   2040
              gcttcctgtt cctgtggctg cagctggact gcatgagcag gggcgaggac gtggaacaga   2100
              gcctgtttct gagcgtgcgc gagggcgaca gcagcgtgat caattgcacc tacaccgaca   2160
              gctccagcac ctacctgtac tggtacaagc aggaacctgg cgccggactg cagctgctga   2220
              cctacatctt cagcaacatg gacatgaagc aggaccagag actgaccgtg ctgctgaaca   2280
              agaaggacaa gcacctgagc ctgcggatcg ccgataccca gacaggcgac agcgccatct   2340
              acttttgcgc cgagagcatc ggcagcaaca gcggctacgc cctgaacttc ggcaagggca   2400
              caagcctgct cgtgacccct cacatccaga accctgagcc agccgtgtac cagctgaagg   2460
              accccagaag ccaggacagc accctgtgcc tgttcaccga cttcgacagc cagatcaacg   2520
              tgcccaagac catggaaagc ggcaccttca tcaccgacaa gacagtgctg gatatgaagg   2580
              ccatggacag caagagcaac ggcgccattg cctggtccaa tcagacaagc ttcacatgcc   2640
              aggacatctt caaagagaca aacgccacct accccagcag cgacgtgccc tgtgatgcca   2700
              ccctgaccga gaagtccttc gagacagaca tgaacctgaa tttccagaac ctgtccgtga   2760
              tgggcctgag aatcctgctg ctgaaggtgg ccggcttcaa cctgctgatg accctgagac   2820
              tgtggtccag ctgaattcga gcatcttacc gccatttatt cccatatttg ttctgttttt   2880
              cttgatttgg gtatacattt aaatgttaat aaaacaaaat ggtggggcaa tcatttacat   2940
              tttatgggat atgtaattac tagttcaggt gtattgccac aagacaaaca tgttaagaaa   3000
              ctttcccgtt atttacgctc tgttcctgtt aatcaacctc tggattacaa aatttgtgaa   3060
              agattgactg atattcttaa ctatgttgct ccttttacgc tgtgtggata tgctgcttta   3120
              atgcctctgt atcatgctat tgcttcccgt acggctttcg ttttctcctc cttgtataaa   3180
              tcctggttgc tgtctcttta tgaggagttg tggcccgttg tccgtcaacg tggcgtggtg   3240
              tgctctgtgt ttgctgacgc aacccccact ggctggggca ttgccaccac ctgtcaactc   3300
              ctttctggga ctttcgcttt ccccctcccg atcgccacgg cagaactcat cgccgcctgc   3360
              cttgcccgct gctggacagg ggctaggttg ctgggcactg ataattccgt ggtgttgtcg   3420
              gggaagctga cgtcctttcc atggctgctc gcctgtgttg ccaactggat cctgcgcggg   3480
                                                   Page 8

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              acgtccttct gctacgtccc ttcggctctc aatccagcgg acctcccttc ccgaggcctt   3540
              ctgccggttc tgcggcctct cccgcgtctt cgctttcggc ctccgacgag tcggatctcc   3600
              ctttgggccg cctccccgcc tgtttcgcct cggcgtccgg tccgtgttgc ttggtcgtca   3660
              cctgtgcaga attgcgaacc atggattcca ccgtgaactt tgtctcctgg catgcaaatc   3720
              gtcaacttgg catgccaaga attaattcgg atccaagctt aggcctgctc gctttcttgc   3780
              tgtcccattt ctattaaagg ttcctttgtt ccctaagtcc aactactaaa ctgggggata   3840
<removed-apn>
              ttatgaaggg ccttgagcat ctggattctg cctagcgcta agcttaacac gagccataga   3900
              tagaataaaa gattttattt agtctccaga aaaagggggg aatgaaagac cccacctgta   3960
              ggtttggcaa gctagcttaa gtaacgccat tttgcaaggc atggaaaata cataactgag   4020
              aatagagaag ttcagatcaa ggttaggaac agagagacag cagaatatgg gccaaacagg   4080
              atatctgtgg taagcagttc ctgccccggc tcagggccaa gaacagttgg aacagcagaa   4140
              tatgggccaa acaggatatc tgtggtaagc agttcctgcc ccggctcagg gccaagaaca   4200
              gatggtcccc agatgcggtc ccgccctcag cagtttctag agaaccatca gatgtttcca   4260
              gggtgcccca aggacctgaa atgaccctgt gccttatttg aactaaccaa tcagttcgct   4320
              tctcgcttct gttcgcgcgc ttctgctccc cgagctcaat aaaagagccc acaacccctc   4380
              actcggcgcg ccagtcctcc gatagactgc gtcgcccggg tacccgtgtt ctcaataaac   4440
              cctcttgcag ttgcatccga ctcgtggtct cgctgttcct tgggagggtc tcctctgagt   4500
              gattgactgc ccacctcggg ggtctttcat tctcgagcag cttggcgtaa tcatggtcat   4560
              agctgtttcc tgtgtgaaat tgttatccgc tcacaattcc acacaacata cgagccggaa   4620
              gcataaagtg taaagcctgg ggtgcctaat gagtgagcta actcacatta attgcgttgc   4680
              gctcactgcc cgctttccag tcgggaaacc tgtcgtgcca gctgcattaa tgaatcggcc   4740
              aacgcgcggg gagaggcggt ttgcgtattg ggcgctcttc cgcttcctcg ctcactgact   4800
              cgctgcgctc ggtcgttcgg ctgcggcgag cggtatcagc tcactcaaag gcggtaatac   4860
              ggttatccac agaatcaggg gataacgcag gaaagaacat gtgagcaaaa ggccagcaaa   4920
              aggccaggaa ccgtaaaaag gccgcgttgc tggcgttttt ccataggctc cgcccccctg   4980
              acgagcatca caaaaatcga cgctcaagtc agaggtggcg aaacccgaca ggactataaa   5040
              gataccaggc gtttccccct ggaagctccc tcgtgcgctc tcctgttccg accctgccgc   5100
              ttaccggata cctgtccgcc tttctccctt cgggaagcgt ggcgctttct catagctcac   5160
              gctgtaggta tctcagttcg gtgtaggtcg ttcgctccaa gctgggctgt gtgcacgaac   5220
              cccccgttca gcccgaccgc tgcgccttat ccggtaacta tcgtcttgag tccaacccgg   5280
              taagacacga cttatcgcca ctggcagcag ccactggtaa caggattagc agagcgaggt   5340
              atgtaggcgg tgctacagag ttcttgaagt ggtggcctaa ctacggctac actagaagaa   5400
              cagtatttgg tatctgcgct ctgctgaagc cagttacctt cggaaaaaga gttggtagct   5460
              cttgatccgg caaacaaacc accgctggta gcggtggttt ttttgtttgc aagcagcaga   5520
                                                   Page 9

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ttacgcgcag aaaaaaagga tctcaagaag atcctttgat cttttctacg gggtctgacg   5580
              ctcagtggaa cgaaaactca cgttaaggga ttttggtcat gagattatca aaaaggatct   5640
              tcacctagat ccttttaaat taaaaatgaa gttttaaatc aatctaaagt atatatgagt   5700
              aaacttggtc tgacagttac caatgcttaa tcagtgaggc acctatctca gcgatctgtc   5760
              tatttcgttc atccatagtt gcctgactcc ccgtcgtgta gataactacg atacgggagg   5820
              gcttaccatc tggccccagt gctgcaatga taccgcgaga cccacgctca ccggctccag   5880
<removed-apn>
              atttatcagc aataaaccag ccagccggaa gggccgagcg cagaagtggt cctgcaactt   5940
              tatccgcctc catccagtct attaattgtt gccgggaagc tagagtaagt agttcgccag   6000
              ttaatagttt gcgcaacgtt gttgccattg ctacaggcat cgtggtgtca cgctcgtcgt   6060
              ttggtatggc ttcattcagc tccggttccc aacgatcaag gcgagttaca tgatccccca   6120
              tgttgtgcaa aaaagcggtt agctccttcg gtcctccgat cgttgtcaga agtaagttgg   6180
              ccgcagtgtt atcactcatg gttatggcag cactgcataa ttctcttact gtcatgccat   6240
              ccgtaagatg cttttctgtg actggtgagt actcaaccaa gtcattctga gaatagtgta   6300
              tgcggcgacc gagttgctct tgcccggcgt caatacggga taataccgcg ccacatagca   6360
              gaactttaaa agtgctcatc attggaaaac gttcttcggg gcgaaaactc tcaaggatct   6420
              taccgctgtt gagatccagt tcgatgtaac ccactcgtgc acccaactga tcttcagcat   6480
              cttttacttt caccagcgtt tctgggtgag caaaaacagg aaggcaaaat gccgcaaaaa   6540
              agggaataag ggcgacacgg aaatgttgaa tactcatact cttccttttt caatattatt   6600
              gaagcattta tcagggttat tgtctcatga gcggatacat atttgaatgt atttagaaaa   6660
              ataaacaaat aggggttccg cgcacatttc cccgaaaagt gccacctgac gtctaagaaa   6720
              ccattattat catgacatta acctataaaa ataggcgtat cacgaggccc tttcgtctcg   6780
              cgcgtttcgg tgatgacggt gaaaacctct gacacatgca gctcccggag acggtcacag   6840
              cttgtctgta agcggatgcc gggagcagac aagcccgtca gggcgcgtca gcgggtgttg   6900
              gcgggtgtcg gggctggctt aactatgcgg catcagagca gattgtactg agagtgcacc   6960
              atatgcggtg tgaaataccg cacagatgcg taaggagaaa ataccgcatc aggcgccatt   7020
              cgccattcag gctgcgcaac tgttgggaag ggcgatcggt gcgggcctct tcgctattac   7080
              gccagctggc gaaaggggga tgtgctgcaa ggcgattaag ttgggtaacg ccagggtttt   7140
              cccagtcacg acgttgtaaa acgacggcca gtgaattagt actctagctt aagtaacgcc   7200
              attttgcaag gcatggaaaa tacataactg agaatagaga agttcaga                7248
              <210>   15
              <211>   7278
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71-TCR1367mmc
              <400>   15
                                                  Page 10

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
<removed-apn>
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgggaatca gactgctgtg cagagtggcc ttctgcttcc   1080
              tggccgtggg cctggtggac gtgaaagtga cccagagcag cagatacctc gtgaagcgga   1140
              ccggcgagaa ggtgttcctg gaatgcgtgc aggacatgga ccacgagaat atgttctggt   1200
              acagacagga ccccggcctg ggcctgcggc tgatctactt cagctacgac gtgaagatga   1260
              aggaaaaggg cgacatcccc gagggctaca gcgtgtccag agagaagaaa gagcggttca   1320
              gcctgatcct ggaaagcgcc agcaccaacc agaccagcat gtacctgtgc gccagcagag   1380
              gcctggccgg ctacgagcag tattttggcc ctggcacccg gctgaccgtg accgaggacc   1440
              tgaagaacgt gttccccccc gaggtggccg tgttcgagcc cagcaaggcc gagatcgccc   1500
              acacccagaa agccaccctg gtgtgcctgg ccaccggctt ctaccccgac cacgtggaac   1560
              tgtcttggtg ggtgaacggc aaagaggtgc acagcggcgt gtgtaccgac ccccagcccc   1620
              tgaaagagca gcctgccctg aacgactccc ggtactgcct gagcagccgg ctgagagtgt   1680
              ccgccacctt ctggcagaac ccccggaacc acttcagatg ccaggtgcag ttctacggcc   1740
              tgagcgagaa cgacgagtgg acccaggacc gggccaagcc cgtgacccag attgtgtctg   1800
              ccgaggcctg gggcagagct gattgtggca tcaccagcgc cagctaccac cagggcgtgc   1860
              tgagcgccac catcctgtac gagatcctgc tgggcaaggc caccctgtac gccgtgctgg   1920
              tgtccgccct ggtgctgatg gccatggtga aacggaagga cagcagaggc ggcagcggcg   1980
              ccaccaactt tagcctgctg aaacaggccg gcgacgtgga agagaaccct ggccccatga   2040
                                                  Page 11

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              agaccttcgc cggcttcagc ttcctgttcc tgtggctgca gctggactgc atgagcaggg   2100
              gcgaggacgt ggaacagagc ctgtttctga gcgtgcgcga gggcgacagc agcgtgatca   2160
              attgcaccta caccgacagc tccagcacct acctgtactg gtacaagcag gaacctggcg   2220
              ccggactgca gctgctgacc tacatcttca gcaacatgga catgaagcag gaccagagac   2280
              tgaccgtgct gctgaacaag aaggacaagc acctgagcct gcggatcgcc gatacccaga   2340
              caggcgacag cgccatctac ttttgcgccg agagcatcgg cagcaacagc ggctacgccc   2400
<removed-apn>
              tgaacttcgg caagggcaca agcctgctcg tgacccctca catccagaac cccgaccccg   2460
              ccgtgtacca gctgcgggac agcaagagca gcgacaagag cgtgtgcctg ttcaccgact   2520
              tcgacagcca gaccaacgtg tcccagagca aggacagcga cgtgtacatc accgacaagt   2580
              gcgtgctgga catgcggagc atggacttca agagcaactc cgccgtggcc tggtccaaca   2640
              agagcgactt cgcctgcgcc aacgccttca acaacagcat catccccgag gacacattct   2700
              tccccagctc cgacgtgccc tgcgacgtga agctggtgga aaagagcttc gagacagaca   2760
              ccaacctgaa cttccagaac ctgagcgtga tcggcttccg gatcctgctg ctgaaggtgg   2820
              ctggcttcaa cctgctgatg accctgcggc tgtggagcag ctgaattcga gcatcttacc   2880
              gccatttatt cccatatttg ttctgttttt cttgatttgg gtatacattt aaatgttaat   2940
              aaaacaaaat ggtggggcaa tcatttacat tttatgggat atgtaattac tagttcaggt   3000
              gtattgccac aagacaaaca tgttaagaaa ctttcccgtt atttacgctc tgttcctgtt   3060
              aatcaacctc tggattacaa aatttgtgaa agattgactg atattcttaa ctatgttgct   3120
              ccttttacgc tgtgtggata tgctgcttta atgcctctgt atcatgctat tgcttcccgt   3180
              acggctttcg ttttctcctc cttgtataaa tcctggttgc tgtctcttta tgaggagttg   3240
              tggcccgttg tccgtcaacg tggcgtggtg tgctctgtgt ttgctgacgc aacccccact   3300
              ggctggggca ttgccaccac ctgtcaactc ctttctggga ctttcgcttt ccccctcccg   3360
              atcgccacgg cagaactcat cgccgcctgc cttgcccgct gctggacagg ggctaggttg   3420
              ctgggcactg ataattccgt ggtgttgtcg gggaagctga cgtcctttcc atggctgctc   3480
              gcctgtgttg ccaactggat cctgcgcggg acgtccttct gctacgtccc ttcggctctc   3540
              aatccagcgg acctcccttc ccgaggcctt ctgccggttc tgcggcctct cccgcgtctt   3600
              cgctttcggc ctccgacgag tcggatctcc ctttgggccg cctccccgcc tgtttcgcct   3660
              cggcgtccgg tccgtgttgc ttggtcgtca cctgtgcaga attgcgaacc atggattcca   3720
              ccgtgaactt tgtctcctgg catgcaaatc gtcaacttgg catgccaaga attaattcgg   3780
              atccaagctt aggcctgctc gctttcttgc tgtcccattt ctattaaagg ttcctttgtt   3840
              ccctaagtcc aactactaaa ctgggggata ttatgaaggg ccttgagcat ctggattctg   3900
              cctagcgcta agcttaacac gagccataga tagaataaaa gattttattt agtctccaga   3960
              aaaagggggg aatgaaagac cccacctgta ggtttggcaa gctagcttaa gtaacgccat   4020
              tttgcaaggc atggaaaata cataactgag aatagagaag ttcagatcaa ggttaggaac   4080
                                                  Page 12

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              agagagacag cagaatatgg gccaaacagg atatctgtgg taagcagttc ctgccccggc   4140
              tcagggccaa gaacagttgg aacagcagaa tatgggccaa acaggatatc tgtggtaagc   4200
              agttcctgcc ccggctcagg gccaagaaca gatggtcccc agatgcggtc ccgccctcag   4260
              cagtttctag agaaccatca gatgtttcca gggtgcccca aggacctgaa atgaccctgt   4320
              gccttatttg aactaaccaa tcagttcgct tctcgcttct gttcgcgcgc ttctgctccc   4380
              cgagctcaat aaaagagccc acaacccctc actcggcgcg ccagtcctcc gatagactgc   4440
<removed-apn>
              gtcgcccggg tacccgtgtt ctcaataaac cctcttgcag ttgcatccga ctcgtggtct   4500
              cgctgttcct tgggagggtc tcctctgagt gattgactgc ccacctcggg ggtctttcat   4560
              tctcgagcag cttggcgtaa tcatggtcat agctgtttcc tgtgtgaaat tgttatccgc   4620
              tcacaattcc acacaacata cgagccggaa gcataaagtg taaagcctgg ggtgcctaat   4680
              gagtgagcta actcacatta attgcgttgc gctcactgcc cgctttccag tcgggaaacc   4740
              tgtcgtgcca gctgcattaa tgaatcggcc aacgcgcggg gagaggcggt ttgcgtattg   4800
              ggcgctcttc cgcttcctcg ctcactgact cgctgcgctc ggtcgttcgg ctgcggcgag   4860
              cggtatcagc tcactcaaag gcggtaatac ggttatccac agaatcaggg gataacgcag   4920
              gaaagaacat gtgagcaaaa ggccagcaaa aggccaggaa ccgtaaaaag gccgcgttgc   4980
              tggcgttttt ccataggctc cgcccccctg acgagcatca caaaaatcga cgctcaagtc   5040
              agaggtggcg aaacccgaca ggactataaa gataccaggc gtttccccct ggaagctccc   5100
              tcgtgcgctc tcctgttccg accctgccgc ttaccggata cctgtccgcc tttctccctt   5160
              cgggaagcgt ggcgctttct catagctcac gctgtaggta tctcagttcg gtgtaggtcg   5220
              ttcgctccaa gctgggctgt gtgcacgaac cccccgttca gcccgaccgc tgcgccttat   5280
              ccggtaacta tcgtcttgag tccaacccgg taagacacga cttatcgcca ctggcagcag   5340
              ccactggtaa caggattagc agagcgaggt atgtaggcgg tgctacagag ttcttgaagt   5400
              ggtggcctaa ctacggctac actagaagaa cagtatttgg tatctgcgct ctgctgaagc   5460
              cagttacctt cggaaaaaga gttggtagct cttgatccgg caaacaaacc accgctggta   5520
              gcggtggttt ttttgtttgc aagcagcaga ttacgcgcag aaaaaaagga tctcaagaag   5580
              atcctttgat cttttctacg gggtctgacg ctcagtggaa cgaaaactca cgttaaggga   5640
              ttttggtcat gagattatca aaaaggatct tcacctagat ccttttaaat taaaaatgaa   5700
              gttttaaatc aatctaaagt atatatgagt aaacttggtc tgacagttac caatgcttaa   5760
              tcagtgaggc acctatctca gcgatctgtc tatttcgttc atccatagtt gcctgactcc   5820
              ccgtcgtgta gataactacg atacgggagg gcttaccatc tggccccagt gctgcaatga   5880
              taccgcgaga cccacgctca ccggctccag atttatcagc aataaaccag ccagccggaa   5940
              gggccgagcg cagaagtggt cctgcaactt tatccgcctc catccagtct attaattgtt   6000
              gccgggaagc tagagtaagt agttcgccag ttaatagttt gcgcaacgtt gttgccattg   6060
              ctacaggcat cgtggtgtca cgctcgtcgt ttggtatggc ttcattcagc tccggttccc   6120
                                                  Page 13

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              aacgatcaag gcgagttaca tgatccccca tgttgtgcaa aaaagcggtt agctccttcg   6180
              gtcctccgat cgttgtcaga agtaagttgg ccgcagtgtt atcactcatg gttatggcag   6240
              cactgcataa ttctcttact gtcatgccat ccgtaagatg cttttctgtg actggtgagt   6300
              actcaaccaa gtcattctga gaatagtgta tgcggcgacc gagttgctct tgcccggcgt   6360
              caatacggga taataccgcg ccacatagca gaactttaaa agtgctcatc attggaaaac   6420
              gttcttcggg gcgaaaactc tcaaggatct taccgctgtt gagatccagt tcgatgtaac   6480
<removed-apn>
              ccactcgtgc acccaactga tcttcagcat cttttacttt caccagcgtt tctgggtgag   6540
              caaaaacagg aaggcaaaat gccgcaaaaa agggaataag ggcgacacgg aaatgttgaa   6600
              tactcatact cttccttttt caatattatt gaagcattta tcagggttat tgtctcatga   6660
              gcggatacat atttgaatgt atttagaaaa ataaacaaat aggggttccg cgcacatttc   6720
              cccgaaaagt gccacctgac gtctaagaaa ccattattat catgacatta acctataaaa   6780
              ataggcgtat cacgaggccc tttcgtctcg cgcgtttcgg tgatgacggt gaaaacctct   6840
              gacacatgca gctcccggag acggtcacag cttgtctgta agcggatgcc gggagcagac   6900
              aagcccgtca gggcgcgtca gcgggtgttg gcgggtgtcg gggctggctt aactatgcgg   6960
              catcagagca gattgtactg agagtgcacc atatgcggtg tgaaataccg cacagatgcg   7020
              taaggagaaa ataccgcatc aggcgccatt cgccattcag gctgcgcaac tgttgggaag   7080
              ggcgatcggt gcgggcctct tcgctattac gccagctggc gaaaggggga tgtgctgcaa   7140
              ggcgattaag ttgggtaacg ccagggtttt cccagtcacg acgttgtaaa acgacggcca   7200
              gtgaattagt actctagctt aagtaacgcc attttgcaag gcatggaaaa tacataactg   7260
              agaatagaga agttcaga                                                 7278
              <210>   16
              <211>   7269
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71-TCR1405hc
              <400> 16
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
                                                  Page 14

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
<removed-apn>
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgctgtctt tgttgctgct gctgctgggc ctgggcagcg   1080
              tgttctctgc cgtgatcagc cagaagccca gccgggacat ctgccagaga ggcaccagcc   1140
              tgaccatcca gtgccaggtg gacagccaag tgaccatgat gttctggtac agacagcagc   1200
              ccggccagag cctgaccctg atcgccacag ccaatcaggg cagcgaggcc acatacgaga   1260
              gcggcttcgt gatcgacaag ttccccatca gccggcccaa cctgaccttc agcaccctga   1320
              ccgtgtccaa catgagcccc gaggacagca gcatctacct gtgcagcgtg gaacaggaca   1380
              ccaacaccgg cgagctgttc ttcggcgagg gcagcagact gaccgtgctg gaagacctga   1440
              agaacgtgtt cccccccgag gtggccgtgt tcgagcccag cgaggccgag atcagccaca   1500
              cccagaaagc caccctggtg tgcctggcca ccggcttcta ccccgaccac gtggagctgt   1560
              cttggtgggt gaacggcaaa gaggtgcaca gcggcgtcag caccgacccc cagcccctga   1620
              aagagcagcc cgccctgaac gacagccggt actgcctgag cagccggctg agagtgagcg   1680
              ccaccttctg gcagaacccc cggaaccact tccggtgcca ggtgcagttc tacggcctga   1740
              gcgagaacga cgagtggacc caggacagag ccaagcccgt gacccagatc gtgagcgccg   1800
              aggcctgggg cagagccgac tgcggcttca ccagcgagag ctaccagcag ggcgtgctgt   1860
              ccgccacaat cctgtacgag atcctgctgg gcaaggccac cctgtacgcc gtgctggtgt   1920
              ccgccctggt gctgatggcc atggtgaagc ggaaggacag ccggggcggc agcggcgcca   1980
              ccaactttag cctgctgaaa caggccggcg acgtggaaga gaaccctggc cctatgacca   2040
              gcatccgggc cgtgttcatc ttcctgtggc tgcagctgga cctcgtgaac ggcgagaatg   2100
              tggaacagca cccctccacc ctgagcgtgc aggaaggcga tagcgccgtg attaagtgca   2160
              cctacagcga cagcgccagc aactacttcc cctggtacaa gcaggaactg ggaaagggcc   2220
              cccagctgat catcgacatc cggtccaacg tgggcgagaa gaaggaccag agaatcgccg   2280
              tgaccctgaa caagaccgcc aagcacttca gcctgcacat caccgagaca cagcccgagg   2340
              actccgccgt gtacttctgt gccgccagac ccaacagcgg caacacccct ctggtgttcg   2400
              gcaagggcac acggctgagc gtgatcgcca atatccagaa ccccgacccc gccgtgtacc   2460
              agctgcggga cagcaagagc agcgacaaga gcgtgtgcct gttcaccgac ttcgacagcc   2520
              agaccaacgt gagccagagc aaggactccg acgtgtacat caccgacaag accgtgctgg   2580
                                                  Page 15

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              acatgcggag catggacttc aagagcaact ccgccgtggc ctggtccaac aagagcgact   2640
              tcgcctgcgc caacgccttc aacaacagca tcatccccga ggacaccttt ttccccagcc   2700
              ccgagagcag ctgcgacgtg aaactggtgg agaagagctt cgagaccgac accaacctga   2760
              acttccagaa cctgtccgtg atcggcttcc ggatcctgct gctgaaggtg gccggcttca   2820
              acctgctgat gaccctgcgg ctgtggagca gctgaattcg agcatcttac cgccatttat   2880
              tcccatattt gttctgtttt tcttgatttg ggtatacatt taaatgttaa taaaacaaaa   2940
<removed-apn>
              tggtggggca atcatttaca ttttatggga tatgtaatta ctagttcagg tgtattgcca   3000
              caagacaaac atgttaagaa actttcccgt tatttacgct ctgttcctgt taatcaacct   3060
              ctggattaca aaatttgtga aagattgact gatattctta actatgttgc tccttttacg   3120
              ctgtgtggat atgctgcttt aatgcctctg tatcatgcta ttgcttcccg tacggctttc   3180
              gttttctcct ccttgtataa atcctggttg ctgtctcttt atgaggagtt gtggcccgtt   3240
              gtccgtcaac gtggcgtggt gtgctctgtg tttgctgacg caacccccac tggctggggc   3300
              attgccacca cctgtcaact cctttctggg actttcgctt tccccctccc gatcgccacg   3360
              gcagaactca tcgccgcctg ccttgcccgc tgctggacag gggctaggtt gctgggcact   3420
              gataattccg tggtgttgtc ggggaagctg acgtcctttc catggctgct cgcctgtgtt   3480
              gccaactgga tcctgcgcgg gacgtccttc tgctacgtcc cttcggctct caatccagcg   3540
              gacctccctt cccgaggcct tctgccggtt ctgcggcctc tcccgcgtct tcgctttcgg   3600
              cctccgacga gtcggatctc cctttgggcc gcctccccgc ctgtttcgcc tcggcgtccg   3660
              gtccgtgttg cttggtcgtc acctgtgcag aattgcgaac catggattcc accgtgaact   3720
              ttgtctcctg gcatgcaaat cgtcaacttg gcatgccaag aattaattcg gatccaagct   3780
              taggcctgct cgctttcttg ctgtcccatt tctattaaag gttcctttgt tccctaagtc   3840
              caactactaa actgggggat attatgaagg gccttgagca tctggattct gcctagcgct   3900
              aagcttaaca cgagccatag atagaataaa agattttatt tagtctccag aaaaaggggg   3960
              gaatgaaaga ccccacctgt aggtttggca agctagctta agtaacgcca ttttgcaagg   4020
              catggaaaat acataactga gaatagagaa gttcagatca aggttaggaa cagagagaca   4080
              gcagaatatg ggccaaacag gatatctgtg gtaagcagtt cctgccccgg ctcagggcca   4140
              agaacagttg gaacagcaga atatgggcca aacaggatat ctgtggtaag cagttcctgc   4200
              cccggctcag ggccaagaac agatggtccc cagatgcggt cccgccctca gcagtttcta   4260
              gagaaccatc agatgtttcc agggtgcccc aaggacctga aatgaccctg tgccttattt   4320
              gaactaacca atcagttcgc ttctcgcttc tgttcgcgcg cttctgctcc ccgagctcaa   4380
              taaaagagcc cacaacccct cactcggcgc gccagtcctc cgatagactg cgtcgcccgg   4440
              gtacccgtgt tctcaataaa ccctcttgca gttgcatccg actcgtggtc tcgctgttcc   4500
              ttgggagggt ctcctctgag tgattgactg cccacctcgg gggtctttca ttctcgagca   4560
              gcttggcgta atcatggtca tagctgtttc ctgtgtgaaa ttgttatccg ctcacaattc   4620
                                                  Page 16

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              cacacaacat acgagccgga agcataaagt gtaaagcctg gggtgcctaa tgagtgagct   4680
              aactcacatt aattgcgttg cgctcactgc ccgctttcca gtcgggaaac ctgtcgtgcc   4740
              agctgcatta atgaatcggc caacgcgcgg ggagaggcgg tttgcgtatt gggcgctctt   4800
              ccgcttcctc gctcactgac tcgctgcgct cggtcgttcg gctgcggcga gcggtatcag   4860
              ctcactcaaa ggcggtaata cggttatcca cagaatcagg ggataacgca ggaaagaaca   4920
              tgtgagcaaa aggccagcaa aaggccagga accgtaaaaa ggccgcgttg ctggcgtttt   4980
<removed-apn>
              tccataggct ccgcccccct gacgagcatc acaaaaatcg acgctcaagt cagaggtggc   5040
              gaaacccgac aggactataa agataccagg cgtttccccc tggaagctcc ctcgtgcgct   5100
              ctcctgttcc gaccctgccg cttaccggat acctgtccgc ctttctccct tcgggaagcg   5160
              tggcgctttc tcatagctca cgctgtaggt atctcagttc ggtgtaggtc gttcgctcca   5220
              agctgggctg tgtgcacgaa ccccccgttc agcccgaccg ctgcgcctta tccggtaact   5280
              atcgtcttga gtccaacccg gtaagacacg acttatcgcc actggcagca gccactggta   5340
              acaggattag cagagcgagg tatgtaggcg gtgctacaga gttcttgaag tggtggccta   5400
              actacggcta cactagaaga acagtatttg gtatctgcgc tctgctgaag ccagttacct   5460
              tcggaaaaag agttggtagc tcttgatccg gcaaacaaac caccgctggt agcggtggtt   5520
              tttttgtttg caagcagcag attacgcgca gaaaaaaagg atctcaagaa gatcctttga   5580
              tcttttctac ggggtctgac gctcagtgga acgaaaactc acgttaaggg attttggtca   5640
              tgagattatc aaaaaggatc ttcacctaga tccttttaaa ttaaaaatga agttttaaat   5700
              caatctaaag tatatatgag taaacttggt ctgacagtta ccaatgctta atcagtgagg   5760
              cacctatctc agcgatctgt ctatttcgtt catccatagt tgcctgactc cccgtcgtgt   5820
              agataactac gatacgggag ggcttaccat ctggccccag tgctgcaatg ataccgcgag   5880
              acccacgctc accggctcca gatttatcag caataaacca gccagccgga agggccgagc   5940
              gcagaagtgg tcctgcaact ttatccgcct ccatccagtc tattaattgt tgccgggaag   6000
              ctagagtaag tagttcgcca gttaatagtt tgcgcaacgt tgttgccatt gctacaggca   6060
              tcgtggtgtc acgctcgtcg tttggtatgg cttcattcag ctccggttcc caacgatcaa   6120
              ggcgagttac atgatccccc atgttgtgca aaaaagcggt tagctccttc ggtcctccga   6180
              tcgttgtcag aagtaagttg gccgcagtgt tatcactcat ggttatggca gcactgcata   6240
              attctcttac tgtcatgcca tccgtaagat gcttttctgt gactggtgag tactcaacca   6300
              agtcattctg agaatagtgt atgcggcgac cgagttgctc ttgcccggcg tcaatacggg   6360
              ataataccgc gccacatagc agaactttaa aagtgctcat cattggaaaa cgttcttcgg   6420
              ggcgaaaact ctcaaggatc ttaccgctgt tgagatccag ttcgatgtaa cccactcgtg   6480
              cacccaactg atcttcagca tcttttactt tcaccagcgt ttctgggtga gcaaaaacag   6540
              gaaggcaaaa tgccgcaaaa aagggaataa gggcgacacg gaaatgttga atactcatac   6600
              tcttcctttt tcaatattat tgaagcattt atcagggtta ttgtctcatg agcggataca   6660
                                                  Page 17

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tatttgaatg tatttagaaa aataaacaaa taggggttcc gcgcacattt ccccgaaaag   6720
              tgccacctga cgtctaagaa accattatta tcatgacatt aacctataaa aataggcgta   6780
              tcacgaggcc ctttcgtctc gcgcgtttcg gtgatgacgg tgaaaacctc tgacacatgc   6840
              agctcccgga gacggtcaca gcttgtctgt aagcggatgc cgggagcaga caagcccgtc   6900
              agggcgcgtc agcgggtgtt ggcgggtgtc ggggctggct taactatgcg gcatcagagc   6960
              agattgtact gagagtgcac catatgcggt gtgaaatacc gcacagatgc gtaaggagaa   7020
<removed-apn>
              aataccgcat caggcgccat tcgccattca ggctgcgcaa ctgttgggaa gggcgatcgg   7080
              tgcgggcctc ttcgctatta cgccagctgg cgaaaggggg atgtgctgca aggcgattaa   7140
              gttgggtaac gccagggttt tcccagtcac gacgttgtaa aacgacggcc agtgaattag   7200
              tactctagct taagtaacgc cattttgcaa ggcatggaaa atacataact gagaatagag   7260
              aagttcaga                                                           7269
              <210>   17
              <211>   7239
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71_1405_mc
              <400> 17
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgctgtctt tgttgctgct gctgctgggc ctgggcagcg   1080
                                                  Page 18

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tgttctctgc cgtgatcagc cagaagccca gccgggacat ctgccagaga ggcaccagcc   1140
              tgaccatcca gtgccaggtg gacagccaag tgaccatgat gttctggtac agacagcagc   1200
              ccggccagag cctgaccctg atcgccacag ccaatcaggg cagcgaggcc acatacgaga   1260
              gcggcttcgt gatcgacaag ttccccatca gccggcccaa cctgaccttc agcaccctga   1320
              ccgtgtccaa catgagcccc gaggacagca gcatctacct gtgcagcgtg gaacaggaca   1380
              ccaacaccgg cgagctgttc ttcggcgagg gcagcagact gaccgtgctg gaagatctgc   1440
<removed-apn>
              ggaacgtgac cccccccaag gtgtccctgt tcgagcctag caaggccgag atcgccaaca   1500
              agcagaaagc caccctcgtg tgcctggcca gaggcttctt ccccgaccac gtggaactgt   1560
              cttggtgggt caacggcaaa gaggtgcaca gcggcgtgtc caccgatccc caggcctaca   1620
              aagagagcaa ctacagctac tgcctgagca gcaggctgcg ggtgtccgcc accttctggc   1680
              acaacccccg gaaccacttc agatgccagg tgcagtttca cggcctgagc gaagaggaca   1740
              agtggcctga gggcagcccc aagcccgtga cccagaatat ttctgccgaa gcctggggca   1800
              gagccgactg cggaatcaca agcgccagct accatcaggg cgtgctgagc gccacaatcc   1860
              tgtacgagat cctgctgggc aaggccaccc tgtacgccgt gctggtgtct ggcctggtgc   1920
              tgatggccat ggtcaagaag aagaactccg gcagcggcgc caccaacttt agcctgctga   1980
              aacaggccgg cgacgtggaa gagaaccctg gccctatgac cagcatccgg gccgtgttca   2040
              tcttcctgtg gctgcagctg gacctcgtga acggcgagaa tgtggaacag cacccctcca   2100
              ccctgagcgt gcaggaaggc gatagcgccg tgattaagtg cacctacagc gacagcgcca   2160
              gcaactactt cccctggtac aagcaggaac tgggaaaggg cccccagctg atcatcgaca   2220
              tccggtccaa cgtgggcgag aagaaggacc agagaatcgc cgtgaccctg aacaagaccg   2280
              ccaagcactt cagcctgcac atcaccgaga cacagcccga ggactccgcc gtgtacttct   2340
              gtgccgccag acccaacagc ggcaacaccc ctctggtgtt cggcaagggc acacggctga   2400
              gcgtgatcgc caatatccag aaccccgagc ctgccgtgta ccagctgaag gaccccagaa   2460
              gccaggatag caccctgtgc ctgttcaccg acttcgacag ccagatcaac gtgcccaaga   2520
              ccatggaaag cggcaccttc atcaccgaca agacagtgct ggacatgaag gccatggaca   2580
              gcaagagcaa cggcgccatt gcctggtcca accagaccag cttcacatgc caggacatct   2640
              tcaaagagac aaacgccacc taccccagca gcgacgtgcc ctgtgatgcc accctgacag   2700
              agaagtcctt cgagacagac atgaacctga acttccagaa cctgtccgtg atgggcctga   2760
              gaatcctgct gctgaaagtg gccggattca acctgctgat gaccctgcgg ctgtggtcca   2820
              gctgaattcg agcatcttac cgccatttat tcccatattt gttctgtttt tcttgatttg   2880
              ggtatacatt taaatgttaa taaaacaaaa tggtggggca atcatttaca ttttatggga   2940
              tatgtaatta ctagttcagg tgtattgcca caagacaaac atgttaagaa actttcccgt   3000
              tatttacgct ctgttcctgt taatcaacct ctggattaca aaatttgtga aagattgact   3060
              gatattctta actatgttgc tccttttacg ctgtgtggat atgctgcttt aatgcctctg   3120
                                                  Page 19

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tatcatgcta ttgcttcccg tacggctttc gttttctcct ccttgtataa atcctggttg   3180
              ctgtctcttt atgaggagtt gtggcccgtt gtccgtcaac gtggcgtggt gtgctctgtg   3240
              tttgctgacg caacccccac tggctggggc attgccacca cctgtcaact cctttctggg   3300
              actttcgctt tccccctccc gatcgccacg gcagaactca tcgccgcctg ccttgcccgc   3360
              tgctggacag gggctaggtt gctgggcact gataattccg tggtgttgtc ggggaagctg   3420
              acgtcctttc catggctgct cgcctgtgtt gccaactgga tcctgcgcgg gacgtccttc   3480
<removed-apn>
              tgctacgtcc cttcggctct caatccagcg gacctccctt cccgaggcct tctgccggtt   3540
              ctgcggcctc tcccgcgtct tcgctttcgg cctccgacga gtcggatctc cctttgggcc   3600
              gcctccccgc ctgtttcgcc tcggcgtccg gtccgtgttg cttggtcgtc acctgtgcag   3660
              aattgcgaac catggattcc accgtgaact ttgtctcctg gcatgcaaat cgtcaacttg   3720
              gcatgccaag aattaattcg gatccaagct taggcctgct cgctttcttg ctgtcccatt   3780
              tctattaaag gttcctttgt tccctaagtc caactactaa actgggggat attatgaagg   3840
              gccttgagca tctggattct gcctagcgct aagcttaaca cgagccatag atagaataaa   3900
              agattttatt tagtctccag aaaaaggggg gaatgaaaga ccccacctgt aggtttggca   3960
              agctagctta agtaacgcca ttttgcaagg catggaaaat acataactga gaatagagaa   4020
              gttcagatca aggttaggaa cagagagaca gcagaatatg ggccaaacag gatatctgtg   4080
              gtaagcagtt cctgccccgg ctcagggcca agaacagttg gaacagcaga atatgggcca   4140
              aacaggatat ctgtggtaag cagttcctgc cccggctcag ggccaagaac agatggtccc   4200
              cagatgcggt cccgccctca gcagtttcta gagaaccatc agatgtttcc agggtgcccc   4260
              aaggacctga aatgaccctg tgccttattt gaactaacca atcagttcgc ttctcgcttc   4320
              tgttcgcgcg cttctgctcc ccgagctcaa taaaagagcc cacaacccct cactcggcgc   4380
              gccagtcctc cgatagactg cgtcgcccgg gtacccgtgt tctcaataaa ccctcttgca   4440
              gttgcatccg actcgtggtc tcgctgttcc ttgggagggt ctcctctgag tgattgactg   4500
              cccacctcgg gggtctttca ttctcgagca gcttggcgta atcatggtca tagctgtttc   4560
              ctgtgtgaaa ttgttatccg ctcacaattc cacacaacat acgagccgga agcataaagt   4620
              gtaaagcctg gggtgcctaa tgagtgagct aactcacatt aattgcgttg cgctcactgc   4680
              ccgctttcca gtcgggaaac ctgtcgtgcc agctgcatta atgaatcggc caacgcgcgg   4740
              ggagaggcgg tttgcgtatt gggcgctctt ccgcttcctc gctcactgac tcgctgcgct   4800
              cggtcgttcg gctgcggcga gcggtatcag ctcactcaaa ggcggtaata cggttatcca   4860
              cagaatcagg ggataacgca ggaaagaaca tgtgagcaaa aggccagcaa aaggccagga   4920
              accgtaaaaa ggccgcgttg ctggcgtttt tccataggct ccgcccccct gacgagcatc   4980
              acaaaaatcg acgctcaagt cagaggtggc gaaacccgac aggactataa agataccagg   5040
              cgtttccccc tggaagctcc ctcgtgcgct ctcctgttcc gaccctgccg cttaccggat   5100
              acctgtccgc ctttctccct tcgggaagcg tggcgctttc tcatagctca cgctgtaggt   5160
                                                  Page 20

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              atctcagttc ggtgtaggtc gttcgctcca agctgggctg tgtgcacgaa ccccccgttc   5220
              agcccgaccg ctgcgcctta tccggtaact atcgtcttga gtccaacccg gtaagacacg   5280
              acttatcgcc actggcagca gccactggta acaggattag cagagcgagg tatgtaggcg   5340
              gtgctacaga gttcttgaag tggtggccta actacggcta cactagaaga acagtatttg   5400
              gtatctgcgc tctgctgaag ccagttacct tcggaaaaag agttggtagc tcttgatccg   5460
              gcaaacaaac caccgctggt agcggtggtt tttttgtttg caagcagcag attacgcgca   5520
<removed-apn>
              gaaaaaaagg atctcaagaa gatcctttga tcttttctac ggggtctgac gctcagtgga   5580
              acgaaaactc acgttaaggg attttggtca tgagattatc aaaaaggatc ttcacctaga   5640
              tccttttaaa ttaaaaatga agttttaaat caatctaaag tatatatgag taaacttggt   5700
              ctgacagtta ccaatgctta atcagtgagg cacctatctc agcgatctgt ctatttcgtt   5760
              catccatagt tgcctgactc cccgtcgtgt agataactac gatacgggag ggcttaccat   5820
              ctggccccag tgctgcaatg ataccgcgag acccacgctc accggctcca gatttatcag   5880
              caataaacca gccagccgga agggccgagc gcagaagtgg tcctgcaact ttatccgcct   5940
              ccatccagtc tattaattgt tgccgggaag ctagagtaag tagttcgcca gttaatagtt   6000
              tgcgcaacgt tgttgccatt gctacaggca tcgtggtgtc acgctcgtcg tttggtatgg   6060
              cttcattcag ctccggttcc caacgatcaa ggcgagttac atgatccccc atgttgtgca   6120
              aaaaagcggt tagctccttc ggtcctccga tcgttgtcag aagtaagttg gccgcagtgt   6180
              tatcactcat ggttatggca gcactgcata attctcttac tgtcatgcca tccgtaagat   6240
              gcttttctgt gactggtgag tactcaacca agtcattctg agaatagtgt atgcggcgac   6300
              cgagttgctc ttgcccggcg tcaatacggg ataataccgc gccacatagc agaactttaa   6360
              aagtgctcat cattggaaaa cgttcttcgg ggcgaaaact ctcaaggatc ttaccgctgt   6420
              tgagatccag ttcgatgtaa cccactcgtg cacccaactg atcttcagca tcttttactt   6480
              tcaccagcgt ttctgggtga gcaaaaacag gaaggcaaaa tgccgcaaaa aagggaataa   6540
              gggcgacacg gaaatgttga atactcatac tcttcctttt tcaatattat tgaagcattt   6600
              atcagggtta ttgtctcatg agcggataca tatttgaatg tatttagaaa aataaacaaa   6660
              taggggttcc gcgcacattt ccccgaaaag tgccacctga cgtctaagaa accattatta   6720
              tcatgacatt aacctataaa aataggcgta tcacgaggcc ctttcgtctc gcgcgtttcg   6780
              gtgatgacgg tgaaaacctc tgacacatgc agctcccgga gacggtcaca gcttgtctgt   6840
              aagcggatgc cgggagcaga caagcccgtc agggcgcgtc agcgggtgtt ggcgggtgtc   6900
              ggggctggct taactatgcg gcatcagagc agattgtact gagagtgcac catatgcggt   6960
              gtgaaatacc gcacagatgc gtaaggagaa aataccgcat caggcgccat tcgccattca   7020
              ggctgcgcaa ctgttgggaa gggcgatcgg tgcgggcctc ttcgctatta cgccagctgg   7080
              cgaaaggggg atgtgctgca aggcgattaa gttgggtaac gccagggttt tcccagtcac   7140
              gacgttgtaa aacgacggcc agtgaattag tactctagct taagtaacgc cattttgcaa   7200
                                                  Page 21

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ggcatggaaa atacataact gagaatagag aagttcaga                          7239
              <210>   18
              <211>   7269
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71-TCR1405mmc
              <400> 18
<removed-apn>
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgctgtctt tgttgctgct gctgctgggc ctgggcagcg   1080
              tgttctctgc cgtgatcagc cagaagccca gccgggacat ctgccagaga ggcaccagcc   1140
              tgaccatcca gtgccaggtg gacagccaag tgaccatgat gttctggtac agacagcagc   1200
              ccggccagag cctgaccctg atcgccacag ccaatcaggg cagcgaggcc acatacgaga   1260
              gcggcttcgt gatcgacaag ttccccatca gccggcccaa cctgaccttc agcaccctga   1320
              ccgtgtccaa catgagcccc gaggacagca gcatctacct gtgcagcgtg gaacaggaca   1380
              ccaacaccgg cgagctgttc ttcggcgagg gcagcagact gaccgtgctg gaagacctga   1440
              agaacgtgtt cccccccgag gtggccgtgt tcgagcccag caaggccgag atcgcccaca   1500
              cccagaaagc caccctggtg tgcctggcca ccggcttcta ccccgaccac gtggaactgt   1560
              cttggtgggt gaacggcaaa gaggtgcaca gcggcgtgtg taccgacccc cagcccctga   1620
              aagagcagcc tgccctgaac gactcccggt actgcctgag cagccggctg agagtgtccg   1680
                                                  Page 22

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ccaccttctg gcagaacccc cggaaccact tcagatgcca ggtgcagttc tacggcctga   1740
              gcgagaacga cgagtggacc caggaccggg ccaagcccgt gacccagatt gtgtctgccg   1800
              aggcctgggg cagagctgat tgtggcatca ccagcgccag ctaccaccag ggcgtgctga   1860
              gcgccaccat cctgtacgag atcctgctgg gcaaggccac cctgtacgcc gtgctggtgt   1920
              ccgccctggt gctgatggcc atggtgaaac ggaaggacag cagaggcggc agcggcgcca   1980
              ccaactttag cctgctgaaa caggccggcg acgtggaaga gaaccctggc cctatgacca   2040
<removed-apn>
              gcatccgggc cgtgttcatc ttcctgtggc tgcagctgga cctcgtgaac ggcgagaatg   2100
              tggaacagca cccctccacc ctgagcgtgc aggaaggcga tagcgccgtg attaagtgca   2160
              cctacagcga cagcgccagc aactacttcc cctggtacaa gcaggaactg ggaaagggcc   2220
              cccagctgat catcgacatc cggtccaacg tgggcgagaa gaaggaccag agaatcgccg   2280
              tgaccctgaa caagaccgcc aagcacttca gcctgcacat caccgagaca cagcccgagg   2340
              actccgccgt gtacttctgt gccgccagac ccaacagcgg caacacccct ctggtgttcg   2400
              gcaagggcac acggctgagc gtgatcgcca atatccagaa ccccgacccc gccgtgtacc   2460
              agctgcggga cagcaagagc agcgacaaga gcgtgtgcct gttcaccgac ttcgacagcc   2520
              agaccaacgt gtcccagagc aaggacagcg acgtgtacat caccgacaag tgcgtgctgg   2580
              acatgcggag catggacttc aagagcaact ccgccgtggc ctggtccaac aagagcgact   2640
              tcgcctgcgc caacgccttc aacaacagca tcatccccga ggacacattc ttccccagct   2700
              ccgacgtgcc ctgcgacgtg aagctggtgg aaaagagctt cgagacagac accaacctga   2760
              acttccagaa cctgagcgtg atcggcttcc ggatcctgct gctgaaggtg gctggcttca   2820
              acctgctgat gaccctgcgg ctgtggagca gctgaattcg agcatcttac cgccatttat   2880
              tcccatattt gttctgtttt tcttgatttg ggtatacatt taaatgttaa taaaacaaaa   2940
              tggtggggca atcatttaca ttttatggga tatgtaatta ctagttcagg tgtattgcca   3000
              caagacaaac atgttaagaa actttcccgt tatttacgct ctgttcctgt taatcaacct   3060
              ctggattaca aaatttgtga aagattgact gatattctta actatgttgc tccttttacg   3120
              ctgtgtggat atgctgcttt aatgcctctg tatcatgcta ttgcttcccg tacggctttc   3180
              gttttctcct ccttgtataa atcctggttg ctgtctcttt atgaggagtt gtggcccgtt   3240
              gtccgtcaac gtggcgtggt gtgctctgtg tttgctgacg caacccccac tggctggggc   3300
              attgccacca cctgtcaact cctttctggg actttcgctt tccccctccc gatcgccacg   3360
              gcagaactca tcgccgcctg ccttgcccgc tgctggacag gggctaggtt gctgggcact   3420
              gataattccg tggtgttgtc ggggaagctg acgtcctttc catggctgct cgcctgtgtt   3480
              gccaactgga tcctgcgcgg gacgtccttc tgctacgtcc cttcggctct caatccagcg   3540
              gacctccctt cccgaggcct tctgccggtt ctgcggcctc tcccgcgtct tcgctttcgg   3600
              cctccgacga gtcggatctc cctttgggcc gcctccccgc ctgtttcgcc tcggcgtccg   3660
              gtccgtgttg cttggtcgtc acctgtgcag aattgcgaac catggattcc accgtgaact   3720
                                                  Page 23

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ttgtctcctg gcatgcaaat cgtcaacttg gcatgccaag aattaattcg gatccaagct   3780
              taggcctgct cgctttcttg ctgtcccatt tctattaaag gttcctttgt tccctaagtc   3840
              caactactaa actgggggat attatgaagg gccttgagca tctggattct gcctagcgct   3900
              aagcttaaca cgagccatag atagaataaa agattttatt tagtctccag aaaaaggggg   3960
              gaatgaaaga ccccacctgt aggtttggca agctagctta agtaacgcca ttttgcaagg   4020
              catggaaaat acataactga gaatagagaa gttcagatca aggttaggaa cagagagaca   4080
<removed-apn>
              gcagaatatg ggccaaacag gatatctgtg gtaagcagtt cctgccccgg ctcagggcca   4140
              agaacagttg gaacagcaga atatgggcca aacaggatat ctgtggtaag cagttcctgc   4200
              cccggctcag ggccaagaac agatggtccc cagatgcggt cccgccctca gcagtttcta   4260
              gagaaccatc agatgtttcc agggtgcccc aaggacctga aatgaccctg tgccttattt   4320
              gaactaacca atcagttcgc ttctcgcttc tgttcgcgcg cttctgctcc ccgagctcaa   4380
              taaaagagcc cacaacccct cactcggcgc gccagtcctc cgatagactg cgtcgcccgg   4440
              gtacccgtgt tctcaataaa ccctcttgca gttgcatccg actcgtggtc tcgctgttcc   4500
              ttgggagggt ctcctctgag tgattgactg cccacctcgg gggtctttca ttctcgagca   4560
              gcttggcgta atcatggtca tagctgtttc ctgtgtgaaa ttgttatccg ctcacaattc   4620
              cacacaacat acgagccgga agcataaagt gtaaagcctg gggtgcctaa tgagtgagct   4680
              aactcacatt aattgcgttg cgctcactgc ccgctttcca gtcgggaaac ctgtcgtgcc   4740
              agctgcatta atgaatcggc caacgcgcgg ggagaggcgg tttgcgtatt gggcgctctt   4800
              ccgcttcctc gctcactgac tcgctgcgct cggtcgttcg gctgcggcga gcggtatcag   4860
              ctcactcaaa ggcggtaata cggttatcca cagaatcagg ggataacgca ggaaagaaca   4920
              tgtgagcaaa aggccagcaa aaggccagga accgtaaaaa ggccgcgttg ctggcgtttt   4980
              tccataggct ccgcccccct gacgagcatc acaaaaatcg acgctcaagt cagaggtggc   5040
              gaaacccgac aggactataa agataccagg cgtttccccc tggaagctcc ctcgtgcgct   5100
              ctcctgttcc gaccctgccg cttaccggat acctgtccgc ctttctccct tcgggaagcg   5160
              tggcgctttc tcatagctca cgctgtaggt atctcagttc ggtgtaggtc gttcgctcca   5220
              agctgggctg tgtgcacgaa ccccccgttc agcccgaccg ctgcgcctta tccggtaact   5280
              atcgtcttga gtccaacccg gtaagacacg acttatcgcc actggcagca gccactggta   5340
              acaggattag cagagcgagg tatgtaggcg gtgctacaga gttcttgaag tggtggccta   5400
              actacggcta cactagaaga acagtatttg gtatctgcgc tctgctgaag ccagttacct   5460
              tcggaaaaag agttggtagc tcttgatccg gcaaacaaac caccgctggt agcggtggtt   5520
              tttttgtttg caagcagcag attacgcgca gaaaaaaagg atctcaagaa gatcctttga   5580
              tcttttctac ggggtctgac gctcagtgga acgaaaactc acgttaaggg attttggtca   5640
              tgagattatc aaaaaggatc ttcacctaga tccttttaaa ttaaaaatga agttttaaat   5700
              caatctaaag tatatatgag taaacttggt ctgacagtta ccaatgctta atcagtgagg   5760
                                                  Page 24

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              cacctatctc agcgatctgt ctatttcgtt catccatagt tgcctgactc cccgtcgtgt   5820
              agataactac gatacgggag ggcttaccat ctggccccag tgctgcaatg ataccgcgag   5880
              acccacgctc accggctcca gatttatcag caataaacca gccagccgga agggccgagc   5940
              gcagaagtgg tcctgcaact ttatccgcct ccatccagtc tattaattgt tgccgggaag   6000
              ctagagtaag tagttcgcca gttaatagtt tgcgcaacgt tgttgccatt gctacaggca   6060
              tcgtggtgtc acgctcgtcg tttggtatgg cttcattcag ctccggttcc caacgatcaa   6120
<removed-apn>
              ggcgagttac atgatccccc atgttgtgca aaaaagcggt tagctccttc ggtcctccga   6180
              tcgttgtcag aagtaagttg gccgcagtgt tatcactcat ggttatggca gcactgcata   6240
              attctcttac tgtcatgcca tccgtaagat gcttttctgt gactggtgag tactcaacca   6300
              agtcattctg agaatagtgt atgcggcgac cgagttgctc ttgcccggcg tcaatacggg   6360
              ataataccgc gccacatagc agaactttaa aagtgctcat cattggaaaa cgttcttcgg   6420
              ggcgaaaact ctcaaggatc ttaccgctgt tgagatccag ttcgatgtaa cccactcgtg   6480
              cacccaactg atcttcagca tcttttactt tcaccagcgt ttctgggtga gcaaaaacag   6540
              gaaggcaaaa tgccgcaaaa aagggaataa gggcgacacg gaaatgttga atactcatac   6600
              tcttcctttt tcaatattat tgaagcattt atcagggtta ttgtctcatg agcggataca   6660
              tatttgaatg tatttagaaa aataaacaaa taggggttcc gcgcacattt ccccgaaaag   6720
              tgccacctga cgtctaagaa accattatta tcatgacatt aacctataaa aataggcgta   6780
              tcacgaggcc ctttcgtctc gcgcgtttcg gtgatgacgg tgaaaacctc tgacacatgc   6840
              agctcccgga gacggtcaca gcttgtctgt aagcggatgc cgggagcaga caagcccgtc   6900
              agggcgcgtc agcgggtgtt ggcgggtgtc ggggctggct taactatgcg gcatcagagc   6960
              agattgtact gagagtgcac catatgcggt gtgaaatacc gcacagatgc gtaaggagaa   7020
              aataccgcat caggcgccat tcgccattca ggctgcgcaa ctgttgggaa gggcgatcgg   7080
              tgcgggcctc ttcgctatta cgccagctgg cgaaaggggg atgtgctgca aggcgattaa   7140
              gttgggtaac gccagggttt tcccagtcac gacgttgtaa aacgacggcc agtgaattag   7200
              tactctagct taagtaacgc cattttgcaa ggcatggaaa atacataact gagaatagag   7260
              aagttcaga                                                           7269
              <210>   19
              <211>   7308
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71-TCR1705hc
              <400> 19
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
                                                  Page 25

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
<removed-apn>
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgctgtctc cagatctgcc tgacagcgcc tggaacacca   1080
              gactgctgtg ccacgtgatg ctgtgcctgc tgggagccgt gtctgtggct gctggcgtga   1140
              tccagagccc cagacacctg atcaaagaga agagagagac agccaccctg aagtgctacc   1200
              ccatccccag gcacgacacc gtgtactggt atcagcaggg cccaggccag gacccccagt   1260
              tcctgatcag cttctacgag aagatgcaga gcgacaaggg cagcatcccc gacagattca   1320
              gcgcccagca gttcagcgac taccacagcg agctgaacat gagcagcctg gaactgggcg   1380
              acagcgccct gtacttctgc gccagctcct ttagaggcgg cggagccaac gtgctgacct   1440
              ttggcgctgg cagcagactg accgtgctgg aagacctgaa gaacgtgttc ccccccgagg   1500
              tggccgtgtt cgagcccagc gaggccgaga tcagccacac ccagaaagcc accctggtgt   1560
              gcctggccac cggcttctac cccgaccacg tggagctgtc ttggtgggtg aacggcaaag   1620
              aggtgcacag cggcgtcagc accgaccccc agcccctgaa agagcagccc gccctgaacg   1680
              acagccggta ctgcctgagc agccggctga gagtgagcgc caccttctgg cagaaccccc   1740
              ggaaccactt ccggtgccag gtgcagttct acggcctgag cgagaacgac gagtggaccc   1800
              aggacagagc caagcccgtg acccagatcg tgagcgccga ggcctggggc agagccgact   1860
              gcggcttcac cagcgagagc taccagcagg gcgtgctgtc cgccacaatc ctgtacgaga   1920
              tcctgctggg caaggccacc ctgtacgccg tgctggtgtc cgccctggtg ctgatggcca   1980
              tggtgaagcg gaaggacagc cggggcggca gcggcgccac caactttagc ctgctgaaac   2040
              aggccggcga cgtggaagag aaccctggcc ccatgatgaa gtccctgcgg gtgctgctcg   2100
              tgatcctgtg gctgcagctg agctgggtgt ggtcccagca gaaagaggtg gaacaggacc   2160
              caggccctct gagcgtgcca gagggcgcta tcgtgtccct gaattgcacc tacagcaaca   2220
                                                  Page 26

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              gcgccttcca gtacttcatg tggtacagac agtacagccg gaagggcccc gagctgctga   2280
              tgtacaccta ctccagcggc aacaaagagg acggccggtt cacagcccag gtggacaaga   2340
              gcagcaagta catctccctg ttcatccggg acagccagcc cagcgactct gccacatacc   2400
              tgtgcgccat gagcgacacc ggcaaccagt tctacttcgg caccggcacc tccctgaccg   2460
              tgatccccaa catccagaac cccgaccccg ccgtgtacca gctgcgggac agcaagagca   2520
              gcgacaagag cgtgtgcctg ttcaccgact tcgacagcca gaccaacgtg agccagagca   2580
<removed-apn>
              aggactccga cgtgtacatc accgacaaga ccgtgctgga catgcggagc atggacttca   2640
              agagcaactc cgccgtggcc tggtccaaca agagcgactt cgcctgcgcc aacgccttca   2700
              acaacagcat catccccgag gacacctttt tccccagccc cgagagcagc tgcgacgtga   2760
              aactggtgga gaagagcttc gagaccgaca ccaacctgaa cttccagaac ctgtccgtga   2820
              tcggcttccg gatcctgctg ctgaaggtgg ccggcttcaa cctgctgatg accctgcggc   2880
              tgtggagcag ctgaattcga gcatcttacc gccatttatt cccatatttg ttctgttttt   2940
              cttgatttgg gtatacattt aaatgttaat aaaacaaaat ggtggggcaa tcatttacat   3000
              tttatgggat atgtaattac tagttcaggt gtattgccac aagacaaaca tgttaagaaa   3060
              ctttcccgtt atttacgctc tgttcctgtt aatcaacctc tggattacaa aatttgtgaa   3120
              agattgactg atattcttaa ctatgttgct ccttttacgc tgtgtggata tgctgcttta   3180
              atgcctctgt atcatgctat tgcttcccgt acggctttcg ttttctcctc cttgtataaa   3240
              tcctggttgc tgtctcttta tgaggagttg tggcccgttg tccgtcaacg tggcgtggtg   3300
              tgctctgtgt ttgctgacgc aacccccact ggctggggca ttgccaccac ctgtcaactc   3360
              ctttctggga ctttcgcttt ccccctcccg atcgccacgg cagaactcat cgccgcctgc   3420
              cttgcccgct gctggacagg ggctaggttg ctgggcactg ataattccgt ggtgttgtcg   3480
              gggaagctga cgtcctttcc atggctgctc gcctgtgttg ccaactggat cctgcgcggg   3540
              acgtccttct gctacgtccc ttcggctctc aatccagcgg acctcccttc ccgaggcctt   3600
              ctgccggttc tgcggcctct cccgcgtctt cgctttcggc ctccgacgag tcggatctcc   3660
              ctttgggccg cctccccgcc tgtttcgcct cggcgtccgg tccgtgttgc ttggtcgtca   3720
              cctgtgcaga attgcgaacc atggattcca ccgtgaactt tgtctcctgg catgcaaatc   3780
              gtcaacttgg catgccaaga attaattcgg atccaagctt aggcctgctc gctttcttgc   3840
              tgtcccattt ctattaaagg ttcctttgtt ccctaagtcc aactactaaa ctgggggata   3900
              ttatgaaggg ccttgagcat ctggattctg cctagcgcta agcttaacac gagccataga   3960
              tagaataaaa gattttattt agtctccaga aaaagggggg aatgaaagac cccacctgta   4020
              ggtttggcaa gctagcttaa gtaacgccat tttgcaaggc atggaaaata cataactgag   4080
              aatagagaag ttcagatcaa ggttaggaac agagagacag cagaatatgg gccaaacagg   4140
              atatctgtgg taagcagttc ctgccccggc tcagggccaa gaacagttgg aacagcagaa   4200
              tatgggccaa acaggatatc tgtggtaagc agttcctgcc ccggctcagg gccaagaaca   4260
                                                  Page 27

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              gatggtcccc agatgcggtc ccgccctcag cagtttctag agaaccatca gatgtttcca   4320
              gggtgcccca aggacctgaa atgaccctgt gccttatttg aactaaccaa tcagttcgct   4380
              tctcgcttct gttcgcgcgc ttctgctccc cgagctcaat aaaagagccc acaacccctc   4440
              actcggcgcg ccagtcctcc gatagactgc gtcgcccggg tacccgtgtt ctcaataaac   4500
              cctcttgcag ttgcatccga ctcgtggtct cgctgttcct tgggagggtc tcctctgagt   4560
              gattgactgc ccacctcggg ggtctttcat tctcgagcag cttggcgtaa tcatggtcat   4620
<removed-apn>
              agctgtttcc tgtgtgaaat tgttatccgc tcacaattcc acacaacata cgagccggaa   4680
              gcataaagtg taaagcctgg ggtgcctaat gagtgagcta actcacatta attgcgttgc   4740
              gctcactgcc cgctttccag tcgggaaacc tgtcgtgcca gctgcattaa tgaatcggcc   4800
              aacgcgcggg gagaggcggt ttgcgtattg ggcgctcttc cgcttcctcg ctcactgact   4860
              cgctgcgctc ggtcgttcgg ctgcggcgag cggtatcagc tcactcaaag gcggtaatac   4920
              ggttatccac agaatcaggg gataacgcag gaaagaacat gtgagcaaaa ggccagcaaa   4980
              aggccaggaa ccgtaaaaag gccgcgttgc tggcgttttt ccataggctc cgcccccctg   5040
              acgagcatca caaaaatcga cgctcaagtc agaggtggcg aaacccgaca ggactataaa   5100
              gataccaggc gtttccccct ggaagctccc tcgtgcgctc tcctgttccg accctgccgc   5160
              ttaccggata cctgtccgcc tttctccctt cgggaagcgt ggcgctttct catagctcac   5220
              gctgtaggta tctcagttcg gtgtaggtcg ttcgctccaa gctgggctgt gtgcacgaac   5280
              cccccgttca gcccgaccgc tgcgccttat ccggtaacta tcgtcttgag tccaacccgg   5340
              taagacacga cttatcgcca ctggcagcag ccactggtaa caggattagc agagcgaggt   5400
              atgtaggcgg tgctacagag ttcttgaagt ggtggcctaa ctacggctac actagaagaa   5460
              cagtatttgg tatctgcgct ctgctgaagc cagttacctt cggaaaaaga gttggtagct   5520
              cttgatccgg caaacaaacc accgctggta gcggtggttt ttttgtttgc aagcagcaga   5580
              ttacgcgcag aaaaaaagga tctcaagaag atcctttgat cttttctacg gggtctgacg   5640
              ctcagtggaa cgaaaactca cgttaaggga ttttggtcat gagattatca aaaaggatct   5700
              tcacctagat ccttttaaat taaaaatgaa gttttaaatc aatctaaagt atatatgagt   5760
              aaacttggtc tgacagttac caatgcttaa tcagtgaggc acctatctca gcgatctgtc   5820
              tatttcgttc atccatagtt gcctgactcc ccgtcgtgta gataactacg atacgggagg   5880
              gcttaccatc tggccccagt gctgcaatga taccgcgaga cccacgctca ccggctccag   5940
              atttatcagc aataaaccag ccagccggaa gggccgagcg cagaagtggt cctgcaactt   6000
              tatccgcctc catccagtct attaattgtt gccgggaagc tagagtaagt agttcgccag   6060
              ttaatagttt gcgcaacgtt gttgccattg ctacaggcat cgtggtgtca cgctcgtcgt   6120
              ttggtatggc ttcattcagc tccggttccc aacgatcaag gcgagttaca tgatccccca   6180
              tgttgtgcaa aaaagcggtt agctccttcg gtcctccgat cgttgtcaga agtaagttgg   6240
              ccgcagtgtt atcactcatg gttatggcag cactgcataa ttctcttact gtcatgccat   6300
                                                  Page 28

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ccgtaagatg cttttctgtg actggtgagt actcaaccaa gtcattctga gaatagtgta   6360
              tgcggcgacc gagttgctct tgcccggcgt caatacggga taataccgcg ccacatagca   6420
              gaactttaaa agtgctcatc attggaaaac gttcttcggg gcgaaaactc tcaaggatct   6480
              taccgctgtt gagatccagt tcgatgtaac ccactcgtgc acccaactga tcttcagcat   6540
              cttttacttt caccagcgtt tctgggtgag caaaaacagg aaggcaaaat gccgcaaaaa   6600
              agggaataag ggcgacacgg aaatgttgaa tactcatact cttccttttt caatattatt   6660
<removed-apn>
              gaagcattta tcagggttat tgtctcatga gcggatacat atttgaatgt atttagaaaa   6720
              ataaacaaat aggggttccg cgcacatttc cccgaaaagt gccacctgac gtctaagaaa   6780
              ccattattat catgacatta acctataaaa ataggcgtat cacgaggccc tttcgtctcg   6840
              cgcgtttcgg tgatgacggt gaaaacctct gacacatgca gctcccggag acggtcacag   6900
              cttgtctgta agcggatgcc gggagcagac aagcccgtca gggcgcgtca gcgggtgttg   6960
              gcgggtgtcg gggctggctt aactatgcgg catcagagca gattgtactg agagtgcacc   7020
              atatgcggtg tgaaataccg cacagatgcg taaggagaaa ataccgcatc aggcgccatt   7080
              cgccattcag gctgcgcaac tgttgggaag ggcgatcggt gcgggcctct tcgctattac   7140
              gccagctggc gaaaggggga tgtgctgcaa ggcgattaag ttgggtaacg ccagggtttt   7200
              cccagtcacg acgttgtaaa acgacggcca gtgaattagt actctagctt aagtaacgcc   7260
              attttgcaag gcatggaaaa tacataactg agaatagaga agttcaga                7308
              <210>   20
              <211>   7278
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71_1705_mc
              <400> 20
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
                                                  Page 29

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgctgtctc cagatctgcc tgacagcgcc tggaacacca   1080
<removed-apn>
              gactgctgtg ccacgtgatg ctgtgcctgc tgggagccgt gtctgtggct gctggcgtga   1140
              tccagagccc cagacacctg atcaaagaga agagagagac agccaccctg aagtgctacc   1200
              ccatccccag gcacgacacc gtgtactggt atcagcaggg cccaggccag gacccccagt   1260
              tcctgatcag cttctacgag aagatgcaga gcgacaaggg cagcatcccc gacagattca   1320
              gcgcccagca gttcagcgac taccacagcg agctgaacat gagcagcctg gaactgggcg   1380
              acagcgccct gtacttctgc gccagctcct ttagaggcgg cggagccaac gtgctgacct   1440
              ttggcgctgg cagcagactg accgtgctgg aagatctgcg gaacgtgacc ccccccaagg   1500
              tgtccctgtt cgagcctagc aaggccgaga tcgccaacaa gcagaaagcc acactcgtgt   1560
              gcctggccag aggcttcttc cccgaccacg tggaactgtc ttggtgggtc aacggcaaag   1620
              aggtgcacag cggcgtgtcc accgatcctc aggcctacaa agagagcaac tacagctact   1680
              gcctgagcag caggctgcgg gtgtccgcca ccttctggca caacccccgg aaccacttca   1740
              gatgccaggt gcagtttcac ggcctgagcg aagaggacaa gtggcccgag ggcagcccta   1800
              agcccgtgac ccagaatatc tctgccgagg cctggggcag agccgactgt ggaattacca   1860
              gcgccagcta ccaccagggc gtgctgtctg ccaccatcct gtacgagatc ctgctgggca   1920
              aggccaccct gtacgccgtg ctggtgtctg gcctggtgct gatggccatg gtcaagaaga   1980
              agaacagcgg cagcggcgcc accaacttta gcctgctgaa acaggccggc gacgtggaag   2040
              agaaccctgg ccccatgatg aagtccctgc gggtgctgct cgtgatcctg tggctgcagc   2100
              tgagctgggt gtggtcccag cagaaagagg tggaacagga cccaggccct ctgagcgtgc   2160
              cagagggcgc tatcgtgtcc ctgaattgca cctacagcaa cagcgccttc cagtacttca   2220
              tgtggtacag acagtacagc cggaagggcc ccgagctgct gatgtacacc tactccagcg   2280
              gcaacaaaga ggacggccgg ttcacagccc aggtggacaa gagcagcaag tacatctccc   2340
              tgttcatccg ggacagccag cccagcgact ctgccacata cctgtgcgcc atgagcgaca   2400
              ccggcaacca gttctacttc ggcaccggca cctccctgac cgtgatcccc aacatccaga   2460
              accccgagcc cgccgtgtac cagctgaagg accctagaag ccaggacagc accctgtgcc   2520
              tgttcaccga cttcgacagc cagatcaacg tgcccaagac catggaaagc ggcaccttca   2580
              tcaccgacaa gacagtgctg gacatgaagg ccatggacag caagagcaac ggcgccattg   2640
              cctggtccaa ccagaccagc ttcacatgcc aggacatctt caaagagaca aacgccacct   2700
              accccagcag cgacgtgccc tgtgatgcca cactgaccga gaagtccttc gagacagaca   2760
                                                  Page 30

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tgaacctgaa cttccagaac ctgagcgtga tgggcctgag aatcctgctg ctgaaggtgg   2820
              ccggcttcaa cctgctgatg accctgagac tgtggtccag ctgaattcga gcatcttacc   2880
              gccatttatt cccatatttg ttctgttttt cttgatttgg gtatacattt aaatgttaat   2940
              aaaacaaaat ggtggggcaa tcatttacat tttatgggat atgtaattac tagttcaggt   3000
              gtattgccac aagacaaaca tgttaagaaa ctttcccgtt atttacgctc tgttcctgtt   3060
              aatcaacctc tggattacaa aatttgtgaa agattgactg atattcttaa ctatgttgct   3120
<removed-apn>
              ccttttacgc tgtgtggata tgctgcttta atgcctctgt atcatgctat tgcttcccgt   3180
              acggctttcg ttttctcctc cttgtataaa tcctggttgc tgtctcttta tgaggagttg   3240
              tggcccgttg tccgtcaacg tggcgtggtg tgctctgtgt ttgctgacgc aacccccact   3300
              ggctggggca ttgccaccac ctgtcaactc ctttctggga ctttcgcttt ccccctcccg   3360
              atcgccacgg cagaactcat cgccgcctgc cttgcccgct gctggacagg ggctaggttg   3420
              ctgggcactg ataattccgt ggtgttgtcg gggaagctga cgtcctttcc atggctgctc   3480
              gcctgtgttg ccaactggat cctgcgcggg acgtccttct gctacgtccc ttcggctctc   3540
              aatccagcgg acctcccttc ccgaggcctt ctgccggttc tgcggcctct cccgcgtctt   3600
              cgctttcggc ctccgacgag tcggatctcc ctttgggccg cctccccgcc tgtttcgcct   3660
              cggcgtccgg tccgtgttgc ttggtcgtca cctgtgcaga attgcgaacc atggattcca   3720
              ccgtgaactt tgtctcctgg catgcaaatc gtcaacttgg catgccaaga attaattcgg   3780
              atccaagctt aggcctgctc gctttcttgc tgtcccattt ctattaaagg ttcctttgtt   3840
              ccctaagtcc aactactaaa ctgggggata ttatgaaggg ccttgagcat ctggattctg   3900
              cctagcgcta agcttaacac gagccataga tagaataaaa gattttattt agtctccaga   3960
              aaaagggggg aatgaaagac cccacctgta ggtttggcaa gctagcttaa gtaacgccat   4020
              tttgcaaggc atggaaaata cataactgag aatagagaag ttcagatcaa ggttaggaac   4080
              agagagacag cagaatatgg gccaaacagg atatctgtgg taagcagttc ctgccccggc   4140
              tcagggccaa gaacagttgg aacagcagaa tatgggccaa acaggatatc tgtggtaagc   4200
              agttcctgcc ccggctcagg gccaagaaca gatggtcccc agatgcggtc ccgccctcag   4260
              cagtttctag agaaccatca gatgtttcca gggtgcccca aggacctgaa atgaccctgt   4320
              gccttatttg aactaaccaa tcagttcgct tctcgcttct gttcgcgcgc ttctgctccc   4380
              cgagctcaat aaaagagccc acaacccctc actcggcgcg ccagtcctcc gatagactgc   4440
              gtcgcccggg tacccgtgtt ctcaataaac cctcttgcag ttgcatccga ctcgtggtct   4500
              cgctgttcct tgggagggtc tcctctgagt gattgactgc ccacctcggg ggtctttcat   4560
              tctcgagcag cttggcgtaa tcatggtcat agctgtttcc tgtgtgaaat tgttatccgc   4620
              tcacaattcc acacaacata cgagccggaa gcataaagtg taaagcctgg ggtgcctaat   4680
              gagtgagcta actcacatta attgcgttgc gctcactgcc cgctttccag tcgggaaacc   4740
              tgtcgtgcca gctgcattaa tgaatcggcc aacgcgcggg gagaggcggt ttgcgtattg   4800
                                                  Page 31

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              ggcgctcttc cgcttcctcg ctcactgact cgctgcgctc ggtcgttcgg ctgcggcgag   4860
              cggtatcagc tcactcaaag gcggtaatac ggttatccac agaatcaggg gataacgcag   4920
              gaaagaacat gtgagcaaaa ggccagcaaa aggccaggaa ccgtaaaaag gccgcgttgc   4980
              tggcgttttt ccataggctc cgcccccctg acgagcatca caaaaatcga cgctcaagtc   5040
              agaggtggcg aaacccgaca ggactataaa gataccaggc gtttccccct ggaagctccc   5100
              tcgtgcgctc tcctgttccg accctgccgc ttaccggata cctgtccgcc tttctccctt   5160
<removed-apn>
              cgggaagcgt ggcgctttct catagctcac gctgtaggta tctcagttcg gtgtaggtcg   5220
              ttcgctccaa gctgggctgt gtgcacgaac cccccgttca gcccgaccgc tgcgccttat   5280
              ccggtaacta tcgtcttgag tccaacccgg taagacacga cttatcgcca ctggcagcag   5340
              ccactggtaa caggattagc agagcgaggt atgtaggcgg tgctacagag ttcttgaagt   5400
              ggtggcctaa ctacggctac actagaagaa cagtatttgg tatctgcgct ctgctgaagc   5460
              cagttacctt cggaaaaaga gttggtagct cttgatccgg caaacaaacc accgctggta   5520
              gcggtggttt ttttgtttgc aagcagcaga ttacgcgcag aaaaaaagga tctcaagaag   5580
              atcctttgat cttttctacg gggtctgacg ctcagtggaa cgaaaactca cgttaaggga   5640
              ttttggtcat gagattatca aaaaggatct tcacctagat ccttttaaat taaaaatgaa   5700
              gttttaaatc aatctaaagt atatatgagt aaacttggtc tgacagttac caatgcttaa   5760
              tcagtgaggc acctatctca gcgatctgtc tatttcgttc atccatagtt gcctgactcc   5820
              ccgtcgtgta gataactacg atacgggagg gcttaccatc tggccccagt gctgcaatga   5880
              taccgcgaga cccacgctca ccggctccag atttatcagc aataaaccag ccagccggaa   5940
              gggccgagcg cagaagtggt cctgcaactt tatccgcctc catccagtct attaattgtt   6000
              gccgggaagc tagagtaagt agttcgccag ttaatagttt gcgcaacgtt gttgccattg   6060
              ctacaggcat cgtggtgtca cgctcgtcgt ttggtatggc ttcattcagc tccggttccc   6120
              aacgatcaag gcgagttaca tgatccccca tgttgtgcaa aaaagcggtt agctccttcg   6180
              gtcctccgat cgttgtcaga agtaagttgg ccgcagtgtt atcactcatg gttatggcag   6240
              cactgcataa ttctcttact gtcatgccat ccgtaagatg cttttctgtg actggtgagt   6300
              actcaaccaa gtcattctga gaatagtgta tgcggcgacc gagttgctct tgcccggcgt   6360
              caatacggga taataccgcg ccacatagca gaactttaaa agtgctcatc attggaaaac   6420
              gttcttcggg gcgaaaactc tcaaggatct taccgctgtt gagatccagt tcgatgtaac   6480
              ccactcgtgc acccaactga tcttcagcat cttttacttt caccagcgtt tctgggtgag   6540
              caaaaacagg aaggcaaaat gccgcaaaaa agggaataag ggcgacacgg aaatgttgaa   6600
              tactcatact cttccttttt caatattatt gaagcattta tcagggttat tgtctcatga   6660
              gcggatacat atttgaatgt atttagaaaa ataaacaaat aggggttccg cgcacatttc   6720
              cccgaaaagt gccacctgac gtctaagaaa ccattattat catgacatta acctataaaa   6780
              ataggcgtat cacgaggccc tttcgtctcg cgcgtttcgg tgatgacggt gaaaacctct   6840
                                                  Page 32

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              gacacatgca gctcccggag acggtcacag cttgtctgta agcggatgcc gggagcagac   6900
              aagcccgtca gggcgcgtca gcgggtgttg gcgggtgtcg gggctggctt aactatgcgg   6960
              catcagagca gattgtactg agagtgcacc atatgcggtg tgaaataccg cacagatgcg   7020
              taaggagaaa ataccgcatc aggcgccatt cgccattcag gctgcgcaac tgttgggaag   7080
              ggcgatcggt gcgggcctct tcgctattac gccagctggc gaaaggggga tgtgctgcaa   7140
              ggcgattaag ttgggtaacg ccagggtttt cccagtcacg acgttgtaaa acgacggcca   7200
<removed-apn>
              gtgaattagt actctagctt aagtaacgcc attttgcaag gcatggaaaa tacataactg   7260
              agaatagaga agttcaga                                                 7278
              <210>   21
              <211>   7308
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   pMP71-TCR1705mmc
              <400> 21
              tcaaggttag gaacagagag acagcagaat atgggccaaa caggatatct gtggtaagca     60
              gttcctgccc cggctcaggg ccaagaacag ttggaacagc agaatatggg ccaaacagga    120
              tatctgtggt aagcagttcc tgccccggct cagggccaag aacagatggt ccccagatgc    180
              ggtcccgccc tcagcagttt ctagagaacc atcagatgtt tccagggtgc cccaaggacc    240
              tgaaatgacc ctgtgcctta tttgaactaa ccaatcagtt cgcttctcgc ttctgttcgc    300
              gcgcttctgc tccccgagct caataaaaga gcccacaacc cctcactcgg cgcgccagtc    360
              ctccgataga ctgcgtcgcc cgggtacccg tattcccaat aaagcctctt gctgtttgca    420
              tccgaatcgt ggactcgctg atccttggga gggtctcctc agattgattg actgcccacc    480
              tcgggggtct ttcatttgga ggttccaccg agatttggag acccctgccc agggaccacc    540
              gacccccccg ccgggaggta agctggccag cggtcgtttc gtgtctgtct ctgtctttgt    600
              gcgtgtttgt gccggcatct aatgtttgcg cctgcgtctg tactagttgg ctaactagat    660
              ctgtatctgg cggtcccgcg gaagaactga cgagttcgta ttcccggccg cagcccctgg    720
              gagacgtccc agcggcctcg ggggcccgtt ttgtggccca ttctgtatca gttaacctac    780
              ccgagtcgga ctttttggag ctccgccact gtccgagggg tacgtggctt tgttggggga    840
              cgagagacag agacacttcc cgcccccgtc tgaatttttg ctttcggttt tacgccgaaa    900
              ccgcgccgcg cgtcttgtct gctgcagcat cgttctgtgt tgtctctgtc tgactgtgtt    960
              tctgtatttg tctgaaaatt agctcgacaa agttaagtaa tagtccctct ctccaagctc   1020
              acttacaggc ggccgccacc atgctgtctc cagatctgcc tgacagcgcc tggaacacca   1080
              gactgctgtg ccacgtgatg ctgtgcctgc tgggagccgt gtctgtggct gctggcgtga   1140
              tccagagccc cagacacctg atcaaagaga agagagagac agccaccctg aagtgctacc   1200
              ccatccccag gcacgacacc gtgtactggt atcagcaggg cccaggccag gacccccagt   1260
                                                  Page 33

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tcctgatcag cttctacgag aagatgcaga gcgacaaggg cagcatcccc gacagattca   1320
              gcgcccagca gttcagcgac taccacagcg agctgaacat gagcagcctg gaactgggcg   1380
              acagcgccct gtacttctgc gccagctcct ttagaggcgg cggagccaac gtgctgacct   1440
              ttggcgctgg cagcagactg accgtgctgg aagacctgaa gaacgtgttc ccccccgagg   1500
              tggccgtgtt cgagcccagc aaggccgaga tcgcccacac ccagaaagcc accctggtgt   1560
              gcctggccac cggcttctac cccgaccacg tggaactgtc ttggtgggtg aacggcaaag   1620
<removed-apn>
              aggtgcacag cggcgtgtgt accgaccccc agcccctgaa agagcagcct gccctgaacg   1680
              actcccggta ctgcctgagc agccggctga gagtgtccgc caccttctgg cagaaccccc   1740
              ggaaccactt cagatgccag gtgcagttct acggcctgag cgagaacgac gagtggaccc   1800
              aggaccgggc caagcccgtg acccagattg tgtctgccga ggcctggggc agagctgatt   1860
              gtggcatcac cagcgccagc taccaccagg gcgtgctgag cgccaccatc ctgtacgaga   1920
              tcctgctggg caaggccacc ctgtacgccg tgctggtgtc cgccctggtg ctgatggcca   1980
              tggtgaaacg gaaggacagc agaggcggca gcggcgccac caactttagc ctgctgaaac   2040
              aggccggcga cgtggaagag aaccctggcc ccatgatgaa gtccctgcgg gtgctgctcg   2100
              tgatcctgtg gctgcagctg agctgggtgt ggtcccagca gaaagaggtg gaacaggacc   2160
              caggccctct gagcgtgcca gagggcgcta tcgtgtccct gaattgcacc tacagcaaca   2220
              gcgccttcca gtacttcatg tggtacagac agtacagccg gaagggcccc gagctgctga   2280
              tgtacaccta ctccagcggc aacaaagagg acggccggtt cacagcccag gtggacaaga   2340
              gcagcaagta catctccctg ttcatccggg acagccagcc cagcgactct gccacatacc   2400
              tgtgcgccat gagcgacacc ggcaaccagt tctacttcgg caccggcacc tccctgaccg   2460
              tgatccccaa catccagaac cccgaccccg ccgtgtacca gctgcgggac agcaagagca   2520
              gcgacaagag cgtgtgcctg ttcaccgact tcgacagcca gaccaacgtg tcccagagca   2580
              aggacagcga cgtgtacatc accgacaagt gcgtgctgga catgcggagc atggacttca   2640
              agagcaactc cgccgtggcc tggtccaaca agagcgactt cgcctgcgcc aacgccttca   2700
              acaacagcat catccccgag gacacattct tccccagctc cgacgtgccc tgcgacgtga   2760
              agctggtgga aaagagcttc gagacagaca ccaacctgaa cttccagaac ctgagcgtga   2820
              tcggcttccg gatcctgctg ctgaaggtgg ctggcttcaa cctgctgatg accctgcggc   2880
              tgtggagcag ctgaattcga gcatcttacc gccatttatt cccatatttg ttctgttttt   2940
              cttgatttgg gtatacattt aaatgttaat aaaacaaaat ggtggggcaa tcatttacat   3000
              tttatgggat atgtaattac tagttcaggt gtattgccac aagacaaaca tgttaagaaa   3060
              ctttcccgtt atttacgctc tgttcctgtt aatcaacctc tggattacaa aatttgtgaa   3120
              agattgactg atattcttaa ctatgttgct ccttttacgc tgtgtggata tgctgcttta   3180
              atgcctctgt atcatgctat tgcttcccgt acggctttcg ttttctcctc cttgtataaa   3240
              tcctggttgc tgtctcttta tgaggagttg tggcccgttg tccgtcaacg tggcgtggtg   3300
                                                  Page 34

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              tgctctgtgt ttgctgacgc aacccccact ggctggggca ttgccaccac ctgtcaactc   3360
              ctttctggga ctttcgcttt ccccctcccg atcgccacgg cagaactcat cgccgcctgc   3420
              cttgcccgct gctggacagg ggctaggttg ctgggcactg ataattccgt ggtgttgtcg   3480
              gggaagctga cgtcctttcc atggctgctc gcctgtgttg ccaactggat cctgcgcggg   3540
              acgtccttct gctacgtccc ttcggctctc aatccagcgg acctcccttc ccgaggcctt   3600
              ctgccggttc tgcggcctct cccgcgtctt cgctttcggc ctccgacgag tcggatctcc   3660
<removed-apn>
              ctttgggccg cctccccgcc tgtttcgcct cggcgtccgg tccgtgttgc ttggtcgtca   3720
              cctgtgcaga attgcgaacc atggattcca ccgtgaactt tgtctcctgg catgcaaatc   3780
              gtcaacttgg catgccaaga attaattcgg atccaagctt aggcctgctc gctttcttgc   3840
              tgtcccattt ctattaaagg ttcctttgtt ccctaagtcc aactactaaa ctgggggata   3900
              ttatgaaggg ccttgagcat ctggattctg cctagcgcta agcttaacac gagccataga   3960
              tagaataaaa gattttattt agtctccaga aaaagggggg aatgaaagac cccacctgta   4020
              ggtttggcaa gctagcttaa gtaacgccat tttgcaaggc atggaaaata cataactgag   4080
              aatagagaag ttcagatcaa ggttaggaac agagagacag cagaatatgg gccaaacagg   4140
              atatctgtgg taagcagttc ctgccccggc tcagggccaa gaacagttgg aacagcagaa   4200
              tatgggccaa acaggatatc tgtggtaagc agttcctgcc ccggctcagg gccaagaaca   4260
              gatggtcccc agatgcggtc ccgccctcag cagtttctag agaaccatca gatgtttcca   4320
              gggtgcccca aggacctgaa atgaccctgt gccttatttg aactaaccaa tcagttcgct   4380
              tctcgcttct gttcgcgcgc ttctgctccc cgagctcaat aaaagagccc acaacccctc   4440
              actcggcgcg ccagtcctcc gatagactgc gtcgcccggg tacccgtgtt ctcaataaac   4500
              cctcttgcag ttgcatccga ctcgtggtct cgctgttcct tgggagggtc tcctctgagt   4560
              gattgactgc ccacctcggg ggtctttcat tctcgagcag cttggcgtaa tcatggtcat   4620
              agctgtttcc tgtgtgaaat tgttatccgc tcacaattcc acacaacata cgagccggaa   4680
              gcataaagtg taaagcctgg ggtgcctaat gagtgagcta actcacatta attgcgttgc   4740
              gctcactgcc cgctttccag tcgggaaacc tgtcgtgcca gctgcattaa tgaatcggcc   4800
              aacgcgcggg gagaggcggt ttgcgtattg ggcgctcttc cgcttcctcg ctcactgact   4860
              cgctgcgctc ggtcgttcgg ctgcggcgag cggtatcagc tcactcaaag gcggtaatac   4920
              ggttatccac agaatcaggg gataacgcag gaaagaacat gtgagcaaaa ggccagcaaa   4980
              aggccaggaa ccgtaaaaag gccgcgttgc tggcgttttt ccataggctc cgcccccctg   5040
              acgagcatca caaaaatcga cgctcaagtc agaggtggcg aaacccgaca ggactataaa   5100
              gataccaggc gtttccccct ggaagctccc tcgtgcgctc tcctgttccg accctgccgc   5160
              ttaccggata cctgtccgcc tttctccctt cgggaagcgt ggcgctttct catagctcac   5220
              gctgtaggta tctcagttcg gtgtaggtcg ttcgctccaa gctgggctgt gtgcacgaac   5280
              cccccgttca gcccgaccgc tgcgccttat ccggtaacta tcgtcttgag tccaacccgg   5340
                                                  Page 35

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              taagacacga cttatcgcca ctggcagcag ccactggtaa caggattagc agagcgaggt   5400
              atgtaggcgg tgctacagag ttcttgaagt ggtggcctaa ctacggctac actagaagaa   5460
              cagtatttgg tatctgcgct ctgctgaagc cagttacctt cggaaaaaga gttggtagct   5520
              cttgatccgg caaacaaacc accgctggta gcggtggttt ttttgtttgc aagcagcaga   5580
              ttacgcgcag aaaaaaagga tctcaagaag atcctttgat cttttctacg gggtctgacg   5640
              ctcagtggaa cgaaaactca cgttaaggga ttttggtcat gagattatca aaaaggatct   5700
<removed-apn>
              tcacctagat ccttttaaat taaaaatgaa gttttaaatc aatctaaagt atatatgagt   5760
              aaacttggtc tgacagttac caatgcttaa tcagtgaggc acctatctca gcgatctgtc   5820
              tatttcgttc atccatagtt gcctgactcc ccgtcgtgta gataactacg atacgggagg   5880
              gcttaccatc tggccccagt gctgcaatga taccgcgaga cccacgctca ccggctccag   5940
              atttatcagc aataaaccag ccagccggaa gggccgagcg cagaagtggt cctgcaactt   6000
              tatccgcctc catccagtct attaattgtt gccgggaagc tagagtaagt agttcgccag   6060
              ttaatagttt gcgcaacgtt gttgccattg ctacaggcat cgtggtgtca cgctcgtcgt   6120
              ttggtatggc ttcattcagc tccggttccc aacgatcaag gcgagttaca tgatccccca   6180
              tgttgtgcaa aaaagcggtt agctccttcg gtcctccgat cgttgtcaga agtaagttgg   6240
              ccgcagtgtt atcactcatg gttatggcag cactgcataa ttctcttact gtcatgccat   6300
              ccgtaagatg cttttctgtg actggtgagt actcaaccaa gtcattctga gaatagtgta   6360
              tgcggcgacc gagttgctct tgcccggcgt caatacggga taataccgcg ccacatagca   6420
              gaactttaaa agtgctcatc attggaaaac gttcttcggg gcgaaaactc tcaaggatct   6480
              taccgctgtt gagatccagt tcgatgtaac ccactcgtgc acccaactga tcttcagcat   6540
              cttttacttt caccagcgtt tctgggtgag caaaaacagg aaggcaaaat gccgcaaaaa   6600
              agggaataag ggcgacacgg aaatgttgaa tactcatact cttccttttt caatattatt   6660
              gaagcattta tcagggttat tgtctcatga gcggatacat atttgaatgt atttagaaaa   6720
              ataaacaaat aggggttccg cgcacatttc cccgaaaagt gccacctgac gtctaagaaa   6780
              ccattattat catgacatta acctataaaa ataggcgtat cacgaggccc tttcgtctcg   6840
              cgcgtttcgg tgatgacggt gaaaacctct gacacatgca gctcccggag acggtcacag   6900
              cttgtctgta agcggatgcc gggagcagac aagcccgtca gggcgcgtca gcgggtgttg   6960
              gcgggtgtcg gggctggctt aactatgcgg catcagagca gattgtactg agagtgcacc   7020
              atatgcggtg tgaaataccg cacagatgcg taaggagaaa ataccgcatc aggcgccatt   7080
              cgccattcag gctgcgcaac tgttgggaag ggcgatcggt gcgggcctct tcgctattac   7140
              gccagctggc gaaaggggga tgtgctgcaa ggcgattaag ttgggtaacg ccagggtttt   7200
              cccagtcacg acgttgtaaa acgacggcca gtgaattagt actctagctt aagtaacgcc   7260
              attttgcaag gcatggaaaa tacataactg agaatagaga agttcaga                7308
              <210>   22
                                                  Page 36

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              <211>   275
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1367hc - TCRa15
              <400>   22
              Met Lys Thr Phe Ala Gly Phe Ser Phe Leu Phe Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Asp Cys Met Ser Arg Gly Glu Asp Val Glu Gln Ser Leu Phe Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Arg Glu Gly Asp Ser Ser Val Ile Asn Cys Thr Tyr Thr Asp Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ser Thr Tyr Leu Tyr Trp Tyr Lys Gln Glu Pro Gly Ala Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Leu Leu Thr Tyr Ile Phe Ser Asn Met Asp Met Lys Gln Asp Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Leu Thr Val Leu Leu Asn Lys Lys Asp Lys His Leu Ser Leu Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Ala Asp Thr Gln Thr Gly Asp Ser Ala Ile Tyr Phe Cys Ala Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Gly Ser Asn Ser Gly Tyr Ala Leu Asn Phe Gly Lys Gly Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Pro His Ile Gln Asn Pro Asp Pro Ala Val Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
              Gln Leu Arg Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Ser Val Cys Leu Phe Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Phe Asp Ser Gln Thr Asn Val Ser Gln Ser Lys Asp Ser Asp Val
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Ile Thr Asp Lys Thr Val Leu Asp Met Arg Ser Met Asp Phe Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Ser Ala Val Ala Trp Ser Asn Lys Ser Asp Phe Ala Cys Ala
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Ala Phe Asn Asn Ser Ile Ile Pro Glu Asp Thr Phe Phe Pro Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Pro Glu Ser Ser Cys Asp Val Lys Leu Val Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
                                                  Page 37

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Asp Thr Asn Leu Asn Phe Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Ile Gly Phe Arg Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Leu Leu Lys Val Ala Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu
                          260                 265                 270
              Trp Ser Ser
                      275
<removed-apn>
              <210>   23
              <211>   310
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1367hc - TCRb3
              <400>   23
              Met Gly Ile Arg Leu Leu Cys Arg Val Ala Phe Cys Phe Leu Ala Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Leu Val Asp Val Lys Val Thr Gln Ser Ser Arg Tyr Leu Val Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Thr Gly Glu Lys Val Phe Leu Glu Cys Val Gln Asp Met Asp His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asn Met Phe Trp Tyr Arg Gln Asp Pro Gly Leu Gly Leu Arg Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Tyr Phe Ser Tyr Asp Val Lys Met Lys Glu Lys Gly Asp Ile Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Gly Tyr Ser Val Ser Arg Glu Lys Lys Glu Arg Phe Ser Leu Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Glu Ser Ala Ser Thr Asn Gln Thr Ser Met Tyr Leu Cys Ala Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Gly Leu Ala Gly Tyr Glu Gln Tyr Phe Gly Pro Gly Thr Arg Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Val Thr Glu Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Phe Pro Pro Glu Val Ala Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Phe Glu Pro Ser Glu Ala Glu Ile Ser His Thr Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Cys Leu Ala Thr Gly Phe Tyr Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp
                              165                 170                 175
              Trp Val Asn Gly Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Ser Thr Asp Pro Gln
                                                   Page 38

                                                 eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                           180                 185               190
              Pro Leu Lys Glu Gln Pro Ala Leu Asn Asp Ser Arg Tyr Cys Leu Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Arg Leu Arg Val Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp Gln Asn Pro Arg Asn His
                  210                 215                 220
              Phe Arg Cys Gln Val Gln Phe Tyr Gly Leu Ser Glu Asn Asp Glu Trp
<removed-apn>
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Gln Asp Arg Ala Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Ile Val Ser Ala Glu Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Trp Gly Arg Ala Asp Cys Gly Phe Thr Ser Glu Ser Tyr Gln Gln Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Val Leu Ser Ala Thr Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Tyr Ala Val Leu Val Ser Ala Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Lys Asp Ser Arg Gly
              305                 310
              <210>   24
              <211>   275
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1367mmc - TCRa15mmc
              <400>   24
              Met Lys Thr Phe Ala Gly Phe Ser Phe Leu Phe Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Cys Met Ser Arg Gly Glu Asp Val Glu Gln Ser Leu Phe Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Arg Glu Gly Asp Ser Ser Val Ile Asn Cys Thr Tyr Thr Asp Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ser Thr Tyr Leu Tyr Trp Tyr Lys Gln Glu Pro Gly Ala Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Leu Leu Thr Tyr Ile Phe Ser Asn Met Asp Met Lys Gln Asp Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Leu Thr Val Leu Leu Asn Lys Lys Asp Lys His Leu Ser Leu Arg
                              85                  90                  95
                                                   Page 39

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Ile Ala Asp Thr Gln Thr Gly Asp Ser Ala Ile Tyr Phe Cys Ala Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Gly Ser Asn Ser Gly Tyr Ala Leu Asn Phe Gly Lys Gly Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Pro His Ile Gln Asn Pro Asp Pro Ala Val Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Gln Leu Arg Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Ser Val Cys Leu Phe Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Phe Asp Ser Gln Thr Asn Val Ser Gln Ser Lys Asp Ser Asp Val
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Ile Thr Asp Lys Cys Val Leu Asp Met Arg Ser Met Asp Phe Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Ser Ala Val Ala Trp Ser Asn Lys Ser Asp Phe Ala Cys Ala
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Ala Phe Asn Asn Ser Ile Ile Pro Glu Asp Thr Phe Phe Pro Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Asp Val Pro Cys Asp Val Lys Leu Val Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asp Thr Asn Leu Asn Phe Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Ile Gly Phe Arg Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Leu Leu Lys Val Ala Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu
                          260                 265                 270
              Trp Ser Ser
                      275
              <210>   25
              <211>   310
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1367mmc - TCRb3mmc
              <400>   25
              Met Gly Ile Arg Leu Leu Cys Arg Val Ala Phe Cys Phe Leu Ala Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Leu Val Asp Val Lys Val Thr Gln Ser Ser Arg Tyr Leu Val Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Thr Gly Glu Lys Val Phe Leu Glu Cys Val Gln Asp Met Asp His
                                                   Page 40

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                      35                  40                   45
              Glu Asn Met Phe Trp Tyr Arg Gln Asp Pro Gly Leu Gly Leu Arg Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Tyr Phe Ser Tyr Asp Val Lys Met Lys Glu Lys Gly Asp Ile Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Gly Tyr Ser Val Ser Arg Glu Lys Lys Glu Arg Phe Ser Leu Ile
<removed-apn>
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Glu Ser Ala Ser Thr Asn Gln Thr Ser Met Tyr Leu Cys Ala Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Gly Leu Ala Gly Tyr Glu Gln Tyr Phe Gly Pro Gly Thr Arg Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Val Thr Glu Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Phe Pro Pro Glu Val Ala Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Phe Glu Pro Ser Lys Ala Glu Ile Ala His Thr Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Cys Leu Ala Thr Gly Phe Tyr Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp
                              165                 170                 175
              Trp Val Asn Gly Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Cys Thr Asp Pro Gln
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Leu Lys Glu Gln Pro Ala Leu Asn Asp Ser Arg Tyr Cys Leu Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Arg Leu Arg Val Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp Gln Asn Pro Arg Asn His
                  210                 215                 220
              Phe Arg Cys Gln Val Gln Phe Tyr Gly Leu Ser Glu Asn Asp Glu Trp
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Gln Asp Arg Ala Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Ile Val Ser Ala Glu Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Trp Gly Arg Ala Asp Cys Gly Ile Thr Ser Ala Ser Tyr His Gln Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Val Leu Ser Ala Thr Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Tyr Ala Val Leu Val Ser Ala Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Lys Asp Ser Arg Gly
                                                  Page 41

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              305                  310
              <210>   26
              <211>   273
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1405hc - TCRa8
              <400>   26
<removed-apn>
              Met Thr Ser Ile Arg Ala Val Phe Ile Phe Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Val Asn Gly Glu Asn Val Glu Gln His Pro Ser Thr Leu Ser Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Glu Gly Asp Ser Ala Val Ile Lys Cys Thr Tyr Ser Asp Ser Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Asn Tyr Phe Pro Trp Tyr Lys Gln Glu Leu Gly Lys Gly Pro Gln
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ile Ile Asp Ile Arg Ser Asn Val Gly Glu Lys Lys Asp Gln Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ile Ala Val Thr Leu Asn Lys Thr Ala Lys His Phe Ser Leu His Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Thr Gln Pro Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr Phe Cys Ala Ala Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Ser Gly Asn Thr Pro Leu Val Phe Gly Lys Gly Thr Arg Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Val Ile Ala Asn Ile Gln Asn Pro Asp Pro Ala Val Tyr Gln Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Ser Val Cys Leu Phe Thr Asp Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ser Gln Thr Asn Val Ser Gln Ser Lys Asp Ser Asp Val Tyr Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asp Lys Thr Val Leu Asp Met Arg Ser Met Asp Phe Lys Ser Asn
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ala Val Ala Trp Ser Asn Lys Ser Asp Phe Ala Cys Ala Asn Ala
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Asn Ser Ile Ile Pro Glu Asp Thr Phe Phe Pro Ser Pro Glu
                  210                 215                 220
                                                  Page 42

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Cys Asp Val Lys Leu Val Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr Asp Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asn Leu Asn Phe Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Ile Gly Phe Arg Ile Leu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Lys Val Ala Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Ser
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Ser
              <210>   27
              <211>   309
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1405hc - TCRb4
              <400>   27
              Met Leu Ser Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val Phe Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Val Ile Ser Gln Lys Pro Ser Arg Asp Ile Cys Gln Arg Gly Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Leu Thr Ile Gln Cys Gln Val Asp Ser Gln Val Thr Met Met Phe
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Tyr Arg Gln Gln Pro Gly Gln Ser Leu Thr Leu Ile Ala Thr Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Gln Gly Ser Glu Ala Thr Tyr Glu Ser Gly Phe Val Ile Asp Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Phe Pro Ile Ser Arg Pro Asn Leu Thr Phe Ser Thr Leu Thr Val Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Met Ser Pro Glu Asp Ser Ser Ile Tyr Leu Cys Ser Val Glu Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Thr Asn Thr Gly Glu Leu Phe Phe Gly Glu Gly Ser Arg Leu Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Leu Glu Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Phe Pro Pro Glu Val Ala Val Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Pro Ser Glu Ala Glu Ile Ser His Thr Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Leu Ala Thr Gly Phe Tyr Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp Trp
                                                   Page 43

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                               165               170                 175
              Val Asn Gly Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Ser Thr Asp Pro Gln Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Lys Glu Gln Pro Ala Leu Asn Asp Ser Arg Tyr Cys Leu Ser Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Leu Arg Val Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp Gln Asn Pro Arg Asn His Phe
<removed-apn>
                  210                 215                 220
              Arg Cys Gln Val Gln Phe Tyr Gly Leu Ser Glu Asn Asp Glu Trp Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Asp Arg Ala Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Ile Val Ser Ala Glu Ala Trp
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Arg Ala Asp Cys Gly Phe Thr Ser Glu Ser Tyr Gln Gln Gly Val
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Ser Ala Thr Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Ala Val Leu Val Ser Ala Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys Arg
                  290                 295                 300
              Lys Asp Ser Arg Gly
              305
              <210>   28
              <211>   273
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1405mmc - TCRa8mmc
              <400>   28
              Met Thr Ser Ile Arg Ala Val Phe Ile Phe Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Val Asn Gly Glu Asn Val Glu Gln His Pro Ser Thr Leu Ser Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Glu Gly Asp Ser Ala Val Ile Lys Cys Thr Tyr Ser Asp Ser Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Asn Tyr Phe Pro Trp Tyr Lys Gln Glu Leu Gly Lys Gly Pro Gln
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ile Ile Asp Ile Arg Ser Asn Val Gly Glu Lys Lys Asp Gln Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
                                                  Page 44

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Ile Ala Val Thr Leu Asn Lys Thr Ala Lys His Phe Ser Leu His Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Thr Gln Pro Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr Phe Cys Ala Ala Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Ser Gly Asn Thr Pro Leu Val Phe Gly Lys Gly Thr Arg Leu
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Ser Val Ile Ala Asn Ile Gln Asn Pro Asp Pro Ala Val Tyr Gln Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Ser Val Cys Leu Phe Thr Asp Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ser Gln Thr Asn Val Ser Gln Ser Lys Asp Ser Asp Val Tyr Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asp Lys Cys Val Leu Asp Met Arg Ser Met Asp Phe Lys Ser Asn
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ala Val Ala Trp Ser Asn Lys Ser Asp Phe Ala Cys Ala Asn Ala
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Asn Ser Ile Ile Pro Glu Asp Thr Phe Phe Pro Ser Ser Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Pro Cys Asp Val Lys Leu Val Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr Asp Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asn Leu Asn Phe Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Ile Gly Phe Arg Ile Leu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Lys Val Ala Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser
              <210>   29
              <211>   309
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1405mmc - TCRb4mmc
              <400>   29
              Met Leu Ser Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val Phe Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Val Ile Ser Gln Lys Pro Ser Arg Asp Ile Cys Gln Arg Gly Thr
                                                   Page 45

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                          20                  25                 30
              Ser Leu Thr Ile Gln Cys Gln Val Asp Ser Gln Val Thr Met Met Phe
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Tyr Arg Gln Gln Pro Gly Gln Ser Leu Thr Leu Ile Ala Thr Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Gln Gly Ser Glu Ala Thr Tyr Glu Ser Gly Phe Val Ile Asp Lys
<removed-apn>
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Phe Pro Ile Ser Arg Pro Asn Leu Thr Phe Ser Thr Leu Thr Val Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Met Ser Pro Glu Asp Ser Ser Ile Tyr Leu Cys Ser Val Glu Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Thr Asn Thr Gly Glu Leu Phe Phe Gly Glu Gly Ser Arg Leu Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Leu Glu Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Phe Pro Pro Glu Val Ala Val Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Pro Ser Lys Ala Glu Ile Ala His Thr Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Leu Ala Thr Gly Phe Tyr Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp Trp
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Asn Gly Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Cys Thr Asp Pro Gln Pro
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Lys Glu Gln Pro Ala Leu Asn Asp Ser Arg Tyr Cys Leu Ser Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Leu Arg Val Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp Gln Asn Pro Arg Asn His Phe
                  210                 215                 220
              Arg Cys Gln Val Gln Phe Tyr Gly Leu Ser Glu Asn Asp Glu Trp Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Asp Arg Ala Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Ile Val Ser Ala Glu Ala Trp
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Arg Ala Asp Cys Gly Ile Thr Ser Ala Ser Tyr His Gln Gly Val
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Ser Ala Thr Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Tyr Ala Val Leu Val Ser Ala Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys Arg
                                                   Page 46

                                                  eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                  290                       295             300
              Lys Asp Ser Arg Gly
              305
              <210>     30
              <211>     273
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>     TCR1705hc - TCRa2
              <400>     30
              Met Met Lys Ser Leu Arg Val Leu Leu Val Ile Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Trp Val Trp Ser Gln Gln Lys Glu Val Glu Gln Asp Pro Gly Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ser Val Pro Glu Gly Ala Ile Val Ser Leu Asn Cys Thr Tyr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Ser Ala Phe Gln Tyr Phe Met Trp Tyr Arg Gln Tyr Ser Arg Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Pro Glu Leu Leu Met Tyr Thr Tyr Ser Ser Gly Asn Lys Glu Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Arg Phe Thr Ala Gln Val Asp Lys Ser Ser Lys Tyr Ile Ser Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Ile Arg Asp Ser Gln Pro Ser Asp Ser Ala Thr Tyr Leu Cys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Met Ser Asp Thr Gly Asn Gln Phe Tyr Phe Gly Thr Gly Thr Ser Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Val Ile Pro Asn Ile Gln Asn Pro Asp Pro Ala Val Tyr Gln Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Ser Val Cys Leu Phe Thr Asp Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ser Gln Thr Asn Val Ser Gln Ser Lys Asp Ser Asp Val Tyr Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asp Lys Thr Val Leu Asp Met Arg Ser Met Asp Phe Lys Ser Asn
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ala Val Ala Trp Ser Asn Lys Ser Asp Phe Ala Cys Ala Asn Ala
                      195                 200                 205
                                                    Page 47

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Phe Asn Asn Ser Ile Ile Pro Glu Asp Thr Phe Phe Pro Ser Pro Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Ser Cys Asp Val Lys Leu Val Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr Asp Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asn Leu Asn Phe Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Ile Gly Phe Arg Ile Leu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Leu Lys Val Ala Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser
              <210>   31
              <211>   322
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1705hc - TCRb13
              <400>   31
              Met Leu Ser Pro Asp Leu Pro Asp Ser Ala Trp Asn Thr Arg Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys His Val Met Leu Cys Leu Leu Gly Ala Val Ser Val Ala Ala Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Ile Gln Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ile Lys Glu Lys Arg Glu Thr Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Leu Lys Cys Tyr Pro Ile Pro Arg His Asp Thr Val Tyr Trp Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gln Gly Pro Gly Gln Asp Pro Gln Phe Leu Ile Ser Phe Tyr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Met Gln Ser Asp Lys Gly Ser Ile Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Ala Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Phe Ser Asp Tyr His Ser Glu Leu Asn Met Ser Ser Leu Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Gly Asp Ser Ala Leu Tyr Phe Cys Ala Ser Ser Phe Arg Gly Gly Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Asn Val Leu Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Ser Arg Leu Thr Val Leu Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Phe Pro Pro Glu Val Ala Val Phe Glu Pro Ser
                                                   Page 48

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              145                    150              155                160
              Glu Ala Glu Ile Ser His Thr Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu Val Cys Leu Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Gly Phe Tyr Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp Trp Val Asn Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Ser Thr Asp Pro Gln Pro Leu Lys Glu
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Pro Ala Leu Asn Asp Ser Arg Tyr Cys Leu Ser Ser Arg Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp Gln Asn Pro Arg Asn His Phe Arg Cys Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Gln Phe Tyr Gly Leu Ser Glu Asn Asp Glu Trp Thr Gln Asp Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Ile Val Ser Ala Glu Ala Trp Gly Arg Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp Cys Gly Phe Thr Ser Glu Ser Tyr Gln Gln Gly Val Leu Ser Ala
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu Tyr Ala Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Val Ser Ala Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys Arg Lys Asp Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Arg Gly
              <210>     32
              <211>     273
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Artificial
              <220>
              <223>     TCR1705mmc - TCRa2mmc
              <400>     32
              Met Met Lys Ser Leu Arg Val Leu Leu Val Ile Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Trp Val Trp Ser Gln Gln Lys Glu Val Glu Gln Asp Pro Gly Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ser Val Pro Glu Gly Ala Ile Val Ser Leu Asn Cys Thr Tyr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 49

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Asn Ser Ala Phe Gln Tyr Phe Met Trp Tyr Arg Gln Tyr Ser Arg Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Pro Glu Leu Leu Met Tyr Thr Tyr Ser Ser Gly Asn Lys Glu Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Arg Phe Thr Ala Gln Val Asp Lys Ser Ser Lys Tyr Ile Ser Leu
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Phe Ile Arg Asp Ser Gln Pro Ser Asp Ser Ala Thr Tyr Leu Cys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Met Ser Asp Thr Gly Asn Gln Phe Tyr Phe Gly Thr Gly Thr Ser Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Val Ile Pro Asn Ile Gln Asn Pro Asp Pro Ala Val Tyr Gln Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Asp Ser Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Ser Val Cys Leu Phe Thr Asp Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ser Gln Thr Asn Val Ser Gln Ser Lys Asp Ser Asp Val Tyr Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asp Lys Cys Val Leu Asp Met Arg Ser Met Asp Phe Lys Ser Asn
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ala Val Ala Trp Ser Asn Lys Ser Asp Phe Ala Cys Ala Asn Ala
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Asn Ser Ile Ile Pro Glu Asp Thr Phe Phe Pro Ser Ser Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Pro Cys Asp Val Lys Leu Val Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr Asp Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asn Leu Asn Phe Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Ile Gly Phe Arg Ile Leu Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Lys Val Ala Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser
              <210>   33
              <211>   322
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   TCR1705mmc - TCRb13mmc
                                                  Page 50

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              <400>   33
              Met Leu Ser Pro Asp Leu Pro Asp Ser Ala Trp Asn Thr Arg Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys His Val Met Leu Cys Leu Leu Gly Ala Val Ser Val Ala Ala Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Ile Gln Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ile Lys Glu Lys Arg Glu Thr Ala
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Leu Lys Cys Tyr Pro Ile Pro Arg His Asp Thr Val Tyr Trp Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gln Gly Pro Gly Gln Asp Pro Gln Phe Leu Ile Ser Phe Tyr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Met Gln Ser Asp Lys Gly Ser Ile Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Ala Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Phe Ser Asp Tyr His Ser Glu Leu Asn Met Ser Ser Leu Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Gly Asp Ser Ala Leu Tyr Phe Cys Ala Ser Ser Phe Arg Gly Gly Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Asn Val Leu Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Ser Arg Leu Thr Val Leu Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Asp Leu Lys Asn Val Phe Pro Pro Glu Val Ala Val Phe Glu Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Lys Ala Glu Ile Ala His Thr Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu Val Cys Leu Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Gly Phe Tyr Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp Trp Val Asn Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Cys Thr Asp Pro Gln Pro Leu Lys Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Gln Pro Ala Leu Asn Asp Ser Arg Tyr Cys Leu Ser Ser Arg Leu Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp Gln Asn Pro Arg Asn His Phe Arg Cys Gln
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Gln Phe Tyr Gly Leu Ser Glu Asn Asp Glu Trp Thr Gln Asp Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Ala Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Ile Val Ser Ala Glu Ala Trp Gly Arg Ala
                                                   Page 51

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                             260              265                270
              Asp Cys Gly Ile Thr Ser Ala Ser Tyr His Gln Gly Val Leu Ser Ala
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu Tyr Ala Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Val Ser Ala Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys Arg Lys Asp Ser
<removed-apn>
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Arg Gly
              <210>     34
              <211>     271
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Artificial
              <220>
              <223>     1367_mc - TCRa15mc
              <400>     34
              Met Lys Thr Phe Ala Gly Phe Ser Phe Leu Phe Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Cys Met Ser Arg Gly Glu Asp Val Glu Gln Ser Leu Phe Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Arg Glu Gly Asp Ser Ser Val Ile Asn Cys Thr Tyr Thr Asp Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Ser Thr Tyr Leu Tyr Trp Tyr Lys Gln Glu Pro Gly Ala Gly Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Leu Leu Thr Tyr Ile Phe Ser Asn Met Asp Met Lys Gln Asp Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Leu Thr Val Leu Leu Asn Lys Lys Asp Lys His Leu Ser Leu Arg
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Ala Asp Thr Gln Thr Gly Asp Ser Ala Ile Tyr Phe Cys Ala Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Gly Ser Asn Ser Gly Tyr Ala Leu Asn Phe Gly Lys Gly Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Leu Leu Val Thr Pro His Ile Gln Asn Pro Glu Pro Ala Val Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
              Gln Leu Lys Asp Pro Arg Ser Gln Asp Ser Thr Leu Cys Leu Phe Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                  Page 52

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Asp Phe Asp Ser Gln Ile Asn Val Pro Lys Thr Met Glu Ser Gly Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Phe Ile Thr Asp Lys Thr Val Leu Asp Met Lys Ala Met Asp Ser Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asn Gly Ala Ile Ala Trp Ser Asn Gln Thr Ser Phe Thr Cys Gln
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Asp Ile Phe Lys Glu Thr Asn Ala Thr Tyr Pro Ser Ser Asp Val Pro
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Asp Ala Thr Leu Thr Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr Asp Met Asn Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asn Phe Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Met Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu Leu Leu Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Ala Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Ser Ser
                          260                 265                 270
              <210>   35
              <211>   304
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   1367_mc - TCRb3mc
              <400>   35
              Met Gly Ile Arg Leu Leu Cys Arg Val Ala Phe Cys Phe Leu Ala Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Leu Val Asp Val Lys Val Thr Gln Ser Ser Arg Tyr Leu Val Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Thr Gly Glu Lys Val Phe Leu Glu Cys Val Gln Asp Met Asp His
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Asn Met Phe Trp Tyr Arg Gln Asp Pro Gly Leu Gly Leu Arg Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Tyr Phe Ser Tyr Asp Val Lys Met Lys Glu Lys Gly Asp Ile Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Gly Tyr Ser Val Ser Arg Glu Lys Lys Glu Arg Phe Ser Leu Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Glu Ser Ala Ser Thr Asn Gln Thr Ser Met Tyr Leu Cys Ala Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Gly Leu Ala Gly Tyr Glu Gln Tyr Phe Gly Pro Gly Thr Arg Leu
                                                   Page 53

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                       115                120                   125
              Thr Val Thr Glu Asp Leu Arg Asn Val Thr Pro Pro Lys Val Ser Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Phe Glu Pro Ser Lys Ala Glu Ile Ala Asn Lys Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Cys Leu Ala Arg Gly Phe Phe Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp
<removed-apn>
                              165                 170                 175
              Trp Val Asn Gly Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Ser Thr Asp Pro Gln
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Tyr Lys Glu Ser Asn Tyr Ser Tyr Cys Leu Ser Ser Arg Leu Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp His Asn Pro Arg Asn His Phe Arg Cys Gln
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Gln Phe His Gly Leu Ser Glu Glu Asp Lys Trp Pro Glu Gly Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Pro Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Asn Ile Ser Ala Glu Ala Trp Gly Arg Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Asp Cys Gly Ile Thr Ser Ala Ser Tyr His Gln Gly Val Leu Ser Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu Tyr Ala Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Val Ser Gly Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys Lys Lys Asn Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              <210>   36
              <211>   269
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   1405_mc - TCRa8mc
              <400>   36
              Met Thr Ser Ile Arg Ala Val Phe Ile Phe Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Val Asn Gly Glu Asn Val Glu Gln His Pro Ser Thr Leu Ser Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Gln Glu Gly Asp Ser Ala Val Ile Lys Cys Thr Tyr Ser Asp Ser Ala
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 54

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Ser Asn Tyr Phe Pro Trp Tyr Lys Gln Glu Leu Gly Lys Gly Pro Gln
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Ile Ile Asp Ile Arg Ser Asn Val Gly Glu Lys Lys Asp Gln Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ile Ala Val Thr Leu Asn Lys Thr Ala Lys His Phe Ser Leu His Ile
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Thr Glu Thr Gln Pro Glu Asp Ser Ala Val Tyr Phe Cys Ala Ala Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Asn Ser Gly Asn Thr Pro Leu Val Phe Gly Lys Gly Thr Arg Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Ser Val Ile Ala Asn Ile Gln Asn Pro Glu Pro Ala Val Tyr Gln Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asp Pro Arg Ser Gln Asp Ser Thr Leu Cys Leu Phe Thr Asp Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ser Gln Ile Asn Val Pro Lys Thr Met Glu Ser Gly Thr Phe Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asp Lys Thr Val Leu Asp Met Lys Ala Met Asp Ser Lys Ser Asn
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Ala Ile Ala Trp Ser Asn Gln Thr Ser Phe Thr Cys Gln Asp Ile
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Lys Glu Thr Asn Ala Thr Tyr Pro Ser Ser Asp Val Pro Cys Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Thr Leu Thr Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr Asp Met Asn Leu Asn Phe
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Met Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu Leu Leu Lys Val Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Ser Ser
                          260                 265
              <210>   37
              <211>   303
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   1405_mc - TCRb4mc
              <400>   37
              Met Leu Ser Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Leu Gly Leu Gly Ser Val Phe Ser
                                                   Page 55

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              1               5                  10                  15
              Ala Val Ile Ser Gln Lys Pro Ser Arg Asp Ile Cys Gln Arg Gly Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Leu Thr Ile Gln Cys Gln Val Asp Ser Gln Val Thr Met Met Phe
                      35                  40                  45
              Trp Tyr Arg Gln Gln Pro Gly Gln Ser Leu Thr Leu Ile Ala Thr Ala
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Gln Gly Ser Glu Ala Thr Tyr Glu Ser Gly Phe Val Ile Asp Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Phe Pro Ile Ser Arg Pro Asn Leu Thr Phe Ser Thr Leu Thr Val Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Met Ser Pro Glu Asp Ser Ser Ile Tyr Leu Cys Ser Val Glu Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Thr Asn Thr Gly Glu Leu Phe Phe Gly Glu Gly Ser Arg Leu Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Leu Glu Asp Leu Arg Asn Val Thr Pro Pro Lys Val Ser Leu Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Pro Ser Lys Ala Glu Ile Ala Asn Lys Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Cys Leu Ala Arg Gly Phe Phe Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp Trp
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Asn Gly Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Ser Thr Asp Pro Gln Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Tyr Lys Glu Ser Asn Tyr Ser Tyr Cys Leu Ser Ser Arg Leu Arg Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Ala Thr Phe Trp His Asn Pro Arg Asn His Phe Arg Cys Gln Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Gln Phe His Gly Leu Ser Glu Glu Asp Lys Trp Pro Glu Gly Ser Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Lys Pro Val Thr Gln Asn Ile Ser Ala Glu Ala Trp Gly Arg Ala Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Cys Gly Ile Thr Ser Ala Ser Tyr His Gln Gly Val Leu Ser Ala Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Ile Leu Tyr Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu Tyr Ala Val Leu
                                                   Page 56

                                                eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                       275                280                   285
              Val Ser Gly Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys Lys Lys Asn Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              <210>   38
              <211>   269
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   1705_mc - TCRa2mc
              <400>   38
              Met Met Lys Ser Leu Arg Val Leu Leu Val Ile Leu Trp Leu Gln Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Trp Val Trp Ser Gln Gln Lys Glu Val Glu Gln Asp Pro Gly Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Ser Val Pro Glu Gly Ala Ile Val Ser Leu Asn Cys Thr Tyr Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Ser Ala Phe Gln Tyr Phe Met Trp Tyr Arg Gln Tyr Ser Arg Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Pro Glu Leu Leu Met Tyr Thr Tyr Ser Ser Gly Asn Lys Glu Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Arg Phe Thr Ala Gln Val Asp Lys Ser Ser Lys Tyr Ile Ser Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Ile Arg Asp Ser Gln Pro Ser Asp Ser Ala Thr Tyr Leu Cys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Met Ser Asp Thr Gly Asn Gln Phe Tyr Phe Gly Thr Gly Thr Ser Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Val Ile Pro Asn Ile Gln Asn Pro Glu Pro Ala Val Tyr Gln Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asp Pro Arg Ser Gln Asp Ser Thr Leu Cys Leu Phe Thr Asp Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ser Gln Ile Asn Val Pro Lys Thr Met Glu Ser Gly Thr Phe Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Asp Lys Thr Val Leu Asp Met Lys Ala Met Asp Ser Lys Ser Asn
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Ala Ile Ala Trp Ser Asn Gln Thr Ser Phe Thr Cys Gln Asp Ile
                      195                 200                 205
                                                  Page 57

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Phe Lys Glu Thr Asn Ala Thr Tyr Pro Ser Ser Asp Val Pro Cys Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Thr Leu Thr Glu Lys Ser Phe Glu Thr Asp Met Asn Leu Asn Phe
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Asn Leu Ser Val Met Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu Leu Leu Lys Val Ala
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Gly Phe Asn Leu Leu Met Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Ser Ser
                          260                 265
              <210>   39
              <211>   316
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   1705_mc - TCRb13mc
              <400>   39
              Met Leu Ser Pro Asp Leu Pro Asp Ser Ala Trp Asn Thr Arg Leu Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys His Val Met Leu Cys Leu Leu Gly Ala Val Ser Val Ala Ala Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Ile Gln Ser Pro Arg His Leu Ile Lys Glu Lys Arg Glu Thr Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Leu Lys Cys Tyr Pro Ile Pro Arg His Asp Thr Val Tyr Trp Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gln Gly Pro Gly Gln Asp Pro Gln Phe Leu Ile Ser Phe Tyr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Met Gln Ser Asp Lys Gly Ser Ile Pro Asp Arg Phe Ser Ala Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Phe Ser Asp Tyr His Ser Glu Leu Asn Met Ser Ser Leu Glu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Gly Asp Ser Ala Leu Tyr Phe Cys Ala Ser Ser Phe Arg Gly Gly Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Asn Val Leu Thr Phe Gly Ala Gly Ser Arg Leu Thr Val Leu Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Asp Leu Arg Asn Val Thr Pro Pro Lys Val Ser Leu Phe Glu Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Lys Ala Glu Ile Ala Asn Lys Gln Lys Ala Thr Leu Val Cys Leu Ala
                                                   Page 58

                                               eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
                               165               170                 175
              Arg Gly Phe Phe Pro Asp His Val Glu Leu Ser Trp Trp Val Asn Gly
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Glu Val His Ser Gly Val Ser Thr Asp Pro Gln Ala Tyr Lys Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Tyr Ser Tyr Cys Leu Ser Ser Arg Leu Arg Val Ser Ala Thr
<removed-apn>
                  210                 215                 220
              Phe Trp His Asn Pro Arg Asn His Phe Arg Cys Gln Val Gln Phe His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gly Leu Ser Glu Glu Asp Lys Trp Pro Glu Gly Ser Pro Lys Pro Val
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Gln Asn Ile Ser Ala Glu Ala Trp Gly Arg Ala Asp Cys Gly Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Ser Ala Ser Tyr His Gln Gly Val Leu Ser Ala Thr Ile Leu Tyr
                      275                 280                 285
              Glu Ile Leu Leu Gly Lys Ala Thr Leu Tyr Ala Val Leu Val Ser Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Val Leu Met Ala Met Val Lys Lys Lys Asn Ser
              305                 310                 315
              <210>   40
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   40
              Asp Ser Ser Ser Thr Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   41
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   41
              Ile Phe Ser Asn Met Asp Met
              1               5
              <210>   42
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   42
                                                  Page 59

                                            eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              Asp Ser Ala Ser Asn Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   43
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   43
              Ile Arg Ser Asn Val Gly Glu
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   44
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   44
              Asn Ser Ala Phe Gln Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   45
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   45
              Thr Tyr Ser Ser Gly Asn
              1               5
              <210>   46
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   46
              Met Asp His Glu Asn
              1               5
              <210>   47
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   47
              Ser Tyr Asp Val Lys Met
              1               5
              <210>   48
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   48
              Ser Gln Val Thr Met
              1               5
                                              Page 60

                                            eolf-seql.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   49
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   49
              Ala Asn Gln Gly Ser Glu Ala
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   50
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   50
              Pro Arg His Asp Thr
              1               5
              <210>   51
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400>   51
              Phe Tyr Glu Lys Met Gln
              1               5
                                              Page 61

