                                       ABSTRACT
  An arrester section comprising, a first arrester extending downwardly towards a
  wellhead; a second arrester extending downwardly towards the wellhead, said
  second arrester positioned above and in-line with the first arrester; and a motor
5 connected to said first arrester, said motor configured to open said first arrester
  when energized.

                            ADVANCED BLOW-OUT PREVENTER
         [0001]      This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 61/717,459 to Bryce Levett, Gerard Ludtka, and Mariana Dionisio filed on
October 23, 2012 and entitled "Advanced Blow-Out Preventer," which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
                           STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
         [0002]      This invention was made with Government support under Work for Others
Agreement No. NFE-12-04104 awarded by the United States Department of Energy.                     The
Government has certain rights in this invention.
                                         BRIEF SUMMARY
         [0003]      The present invention is directed to a system and method for controlling wells
and stopping blowouts once they have begun. One form of the invention is an arrester section
that includes a first arrester that extends downwardly towards a wellhead, a second arrester that
extends downwardly towards the wellhead and is positioned above and in-line with the first
arrester; and a motor connected to the first arrester, the motor configured to open the first arrester
when energized. The invention may further include an attachment point below the first arrester
that is configured to be attached to a wellhead, shear section, existing BOP, or other common
connector.     The first arrester section may include blades configured to act together to close
around a tubular member. The blades may be solid or include vents. For vented blades, at least
some of the vents may be connected by veins.
         [0004]      Another form of the invention is an advanced BOP that includes an arrester
section; a shear section; and a gripping section; wherein the gripping section is poisoned closest
to a well head, followed by the shear section, and then the arrester section. The arrester section
may include a first arrester extending downwardly towards the wellhead. The first arrester may
comprise a number of arrester blades shaped to close around a tubular member.             In another
aspect of the invention at least one of the arrester blades is vented.   Further, all or some of the
vented blades include veins connected to a fluid source. The fluid source in one configuration is

configured to hold coagulant, dispersant, or other material that might beneficially be supplied to
vents.    The arrester section of the advanced BOP may further include a second arrester
positioned in line with said first arrester. The second arrester may include a number of vented
arrester blades.   It is also understood that the vents of the first arrester section define a first
vented area; the vents of the second arrester section define a second vented area wherein the first
vented area may be larger than the second vented area.       The gripping section of the advanced
BOP may include a pipe gripping cone extending upwardly from the wellhead. The advanced
BOP may include a seal section positioned above the shear section that is designed to seal the
well bore once tubular members extending into the well have been sheared. The advanced BOP
may also include a retention section that is able to grip and suspend tubular members once they
have been sheared.
        [0005]      Another form of the invention is an advanced BOP with an arrester section
that includes at least one downwardly extending arrester ring; a shear section positioned below
said arrester section; and a gripping section positioned below the shear section, wherein the
arrester section, shear section, and gripping section define a passage through the BOP large
enough to receive a tubular member.       The shear section may include inductive shearing blades.
The advanced BOP may further include a sealing ring positioned between said arrester section
and said shear section. The arrester ring may be configured with overlapping blades that can be
actuated to constrict inwardly to reduce the passage through the BOP.        The arrester section of
the advanced BOP may also include a second arrester ring positioned above said first arrester
ring.
        [0006]      The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical
advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that
follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be
described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention.           It should be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed
may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the
same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that
such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth
in the appended claims.       The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the
invention, both as to its organization and method of operation, together with further objects and
                                                  2

advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in
connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that each
of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended
as a definition of the limits of the present invention.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0007]       For a more complete understanding of the present invention, reference is now
made to the following descriptions taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawing, in
which:
        [0008]       FIG. 1 is a view of an advanced BOP;
        [0009]       FIG. 2 is a view of an advanced BOP with the outer skin removed;
        [0010]       FIG. 3 is a view of a lower blowout arrester ring with vented blades;
        [0011]       FIG. 4 is a view of a vented arrester blade;
        [0012]       FIG. 5 is a semi-transparent view of coagulant veins in a vented arrester blade;
        [0013]       FIG 6 is a view of a pipe gripping ring;
        [0014]       FIG. 7 is a view of a blade of the pipe gripping ring;
        [0015]       FIG 8 is a cross-sectional view of nested inductive shear rings; and
        [0016]       FIG. 9 is a view of an inductive shear blade.
                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        [0017]       Figure 1 shows the advanced Blowout preventer ("BOP") of applicant's
invention.    The lower portion of advanced BOP 10 is attached to well head 20 in a known
manner. The upper portion is connected to riser 30.
        [0018]       Figure 2 shows a cutaway view of advanced BOP (10). The advanced BOP
10 includes a number of components designed to work cooperatively to provide well
                                                    3

management, well containment, and blowout suppression.           The upper portion is the blowout
arrester section 40. The lower section is the shear section 50.
         [0019]      The blowout arrester section 40 includes a number of separate arrester rings.
Although three arrester rings are shown, it is understood that the arrester section 40 could include
more or less than three.      The arrester rings are shown arranged in sequence, but may also be
nested. The arrester rings are shown as being generally the same size and shape. However, one
skilled in the art appreciates that different combinations of size and shape are within the spirit of
the invention.
         [0020]      The arrester rings are designed to stop a blowout that is in progress. Each
arrester ring is shown as being a series of overlapping blades that close around a tubular conduit
such as a casing or drill pipe. The arrester rings extend downward towards the wellhead 20.
During a blowout, discharge from the well moves rapidly up the BOP.            As the arrester rings
close, the escaping fluid and gas apply pressure to assist in closing the blades around the tubular
conduit. In this manner, the force exerted by the material escaping the well assists in closing the
arrester rings.
         [0021]      The lowest arrester ring, arrester ring 60, is shown in Figure 3 in a closed
position. Arrester ring 60 is made from a number of blades that cooperate to close the well.
Figure 4 shows a single blade from the arrester ring 60. The blades are shown as being rounded.
However, the blades may be straight or other shape.
         [0022]      Blade 70 is shown with a number of vents 80. The vents 80 are designed to
reduce the force on the bade as the arrester ring is closed. Although vents 80 are shown in a
geometric pattern, one skilled in the art appreciates that the vents can vary in size, shape, and
position on blade 70. For example, vents 80 may be larger close to the open end of blade 70 to
reduce the bending moment on blade 80. The arrester ring blades may be similar or different.
For example, the blades may alternate between sold blades and vented blades. Alternatively, the
arrester ring blades may all be solid.
         [0023]      It is also understood that the surface area of blade 70 may be substantially
reduced by adjusting the number, size, and arrangement of vents 80. For example, vents 80 can
be made large relative to the width of blade 70. In some configurations vents 80 can be made so
                                                   4

large that blade 70 functions as a debris screen. Alternatively, vents 80 may be configured to act
as a flow straightener to reduce flow turbulence. Alternatively, vents 80 may be configured to
direct flow over instruments such as a parasitic power unit.
         [0024]     Arrester ring 60 may be configured to close against a tubular conduit.
Alternatively, arrester ring 60 may be configured to be fully closed without contacting the
tubular conduit. In configurations that close against the tubular conduit, blade 70 may include a
shaped end that confirms to the tubular conduit.
         [0025]     Blade 70 may also include veins 90. Figure 5 shows veins 90 within blade 70.
Veins 90 can be used for pumping coagulant into vents 80. Coagulant can be used to fill vents
80 to substantially stop all flow through blade 70. Veins 90 can also be used to introduce other
substances into the annulus between the drill pipe and the wall of the BOP. For example, veins
90 can be used to deliver dispersant to escaping oil.
         [0026]     Arrester ring 100 is positioned above arrester ring 60. Arrester ring 100 may
be the same as arrester ring 60 or different. The arrester rings are designed to work together
cooperatively. For example, arrester ring 60 may slow escaping gas and oil and screen debris
while arrester ring 100 closes in the well. In a preferred embodiment arrester ring 100 has fewer
vents 80 than arrester ring 60. Alternatively, arrester ring 100 may not have any vents 80. With
fewer vents 80, the blades of arrester ring 100 have more surface area.       Arrester ring 110 is
positioned above arrester ring 100 and is designed to work cooperatively with arresters rings 60
and 100. Each arrester ring may include arrester ring blades that are solid, vented, or
combinations thereof.
         [0027]     Energy to move the arresters is supplied by motors 120.         In a preferred
embodiment, motors 120 are electric. However, one skill in the art understands that "motors" is
a general term that applies to any mechanism that can be used to actuate the arresters.        For
example, hydraulic pressure may be used.         The hydraulic pressure may be supplied from a
reservoir or the surface.
         [0028]     The arresters rings are designed to be normally closed and must be held open
with motors 120. In this manner, the arresters will close if motors 120 lose power.
                                                  5

         [0029]     Shear section 50 includes a pipe gripping ring 130, a shear ring 170, and seal
ring 190.    As with arrester section 40, shear section 50 is actuated using motors 120. Although
each ring is in both the arrester section and shear section is shown with its own motor, one
skilled in the art understands that a single motor could be used or one motor for the arrester
section and one motor for the shear section.
         [0030]     Figure 6 shows pipe gripper ring 130. Pipe gripper ring 130 includes blades
140.
         [0031]     Figure 7 shows a single blade of pipe gripper ring 130. Blade 140 includes a
pipe gripping surface 150.      The pipe gripping surface 150 is designed to engage a tubular
member and support the string of tubular members that extend below pipe gripper ring 130.
Gripping surface 150 work in a manner similar to pipe slips.         Pipe gripper ring 130 extends
upwardly from the well.      In this configuration, the weight of the tubular members assist in
closing and securing pipe gripper ring 130 around tubular members suspended in the well.
         [0032]     Figure 8 shows one method for cutting tubular members. Figure 8 shows a
nested arrangement of shear rings 160 configured with inductive coils. Figure 9 shows a detailed
view of a blade from a shear ring 160. The blade is designed to position inductive coil 170 in
close proximity to tubular member 180. The nested arrangement allows for multiple inductive
coils to be positioned in close proximity to tubular member 180.        Although an inductive coil
arrangement is shown, one skilled in the art would appreciate that more typical shear rams can be
used.
         [0033]     Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in
detail, it should be understood that various changes, substitutions and alterations can be made
herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended
claims.    Moreover, the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the
particular embodiments of the process, machine, manufacture, composition of matter, means,
methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily
appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention, processes, machines, manufacture,
compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps, presently existing or later to be developed that
perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the
                                                  6

corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention.
Accordingly, the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes,
machines, manufacture, compositions of matter, means, methods, or steps.
         [0034]     The sections of the BOP are combined as shown in Figure 1. Alternatively,
the arrester section may be used independent of shear ring and gripping ring. In this manner,
arrester section can be positioned above a typical BOP to provide arresting capability. Similarly,
shear rings can be used independently of arrestors rings. In this manner, shear rings can be
positioned above or below a typical BOP.
                                                 7

                                  CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
   1. An arrester section comprising,
       a first arrester extending downwardly towards a wellhead;
       a second arrester extending downwardly towards the wellhead, said second
       arrester positioned above and in-line with the first arrester; and
       a motor connected to said first arrester, said motor configured to open said
       first arrester when energized.
  2. The arrester section of claim 1, further comprising,
       an attachment point below the first arrester that is configured to be attached to
       a wellhead, shear section, existing BOP, or other common connector.
  3. The arrester section of claim 1, wherein said first arrester include blades
       configured to act together to close around a tubular member.
  4. The arrester section of claim 3, wherein at least some of the blades include
       vents.
  5. The arrester section of claim 4, wherein the vented blades include veins
       connected to at least some of the vents.
  6. An advanced BOP that comprises,
       an arrester section;
       a shear section; and
       a gripping section; wherein the gripping section is positioned closest to a well
       head, followed by the shear section, and then the arrester section.
                                      8

7. The advanced BOP of claim 6, wherein the arrester section includes a first
    arrester extending downwardly towards the wellhead.
8.  The advanced BOP of claim 7, wherein the first arrester comprises a number
    of arrester blades shaped to close around a tubular member.
9. The advanced BOP of claim 8, wherein at least one of the arrester blades is
    vented.
10. The advanced BOP of claim 9, wherein the vented arrester blades include
    veins connected to a fluid supply.
11. The advanced BOP of claim 10, wherein the fluid source is sized to hold an
    operable amount of coagulant or dispersant.
12. The advanced BOP of claim 9, wherein the arrester section includes a second
    arrester positioned in line with said first arrester.
13. The advanced BOP of claim 12, wherein the second comprises a number of
    vented arrester blades.
14. The advanced BOP of claim 13, wherein the vents of the first arrester section
    define a first vented area, the vents of the second arrester section define a
    second vented area, and wherein the first vented area is larger than the second
    vented area.
15. The advanced BOP of claim 7, wherein the gripping section includes a pipe
    gripping cone extending upwardly from the wellhead.
16. The advanced BOP of claim 8, further comprising a seal section positioned
    above said shear section, said seal section designed to seal the well bore once
    tubular members extending into the well have been sheared.
17. The advanced BOP of claim 9, further comprising a retention section
    configured to grip and suspend tubular member once they have been sheared.
                                   9

18. An advanced BOP comprising,
    an arrester section that includes at least one downwardly extending arrester
    ring;
    a shear section positioned below said arrester section;
    and a gripping section positioned below the shear section, wherein the
    arrester section, shear section, and gripping section define a passage through
    the BOP large enough to receive a tubular member.
19. The advanced BOP of claim 18, wherein the shear section includes inductive
    shearing blades.
20. The advanced BOP of claim 19, further including a sealing ring positioned
    between said arrester section and said shear section.
21. The advanced BOP of claim 20, wherein said arrester ring is configured with
    overlapping blades that can be actuated to constrict inwardly to reduce the
    passage through the BOP.
22. The advanced BOP of claim 21, wherein said arrester section includes a
    second arrester ring positioned above said first arrester ring.
                                  10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
