ABSTRACT
An LFP electrode material is provided which has improved impedance, power during cold
cranking, rate capacity retention, charge transfer resistance over the current LFP based
cathode materials. The electrode material comprises crystalline primary particles and
secondary particles, where the primary particle is formed from a plate-shaped single
phase spheniscidite precursor and a lithium source. The LFP includes an LFP phase
behavior where the LFP phase behavior includes an extended solid-solution range.

                                                                                          P/00/01 1
                                                                                  Regulation 3.2(2)
                                        AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act 1990
                                         ORIGINAL
                        COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                   STANDARD PATENT
Application No.
Lodged:
Invention Title:    HIGH POWER ELECTRODE MATERIALS
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to:

                                               2
HIGH POWER ELECTRODE MATERIALS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Number 61/949,596, entitled "HIGH POWER ELECTRODE MATERIALS," filed March 7,
2014, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Number 62/103,987, entitled "HIGH
POWER ELECTRODE MATERIALS," filed January 15, 2015, the entire contents of each
of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     This application relates to materials and methods for battery electrodes,
materials used therein, and electrochemical cells using such electrodes and methods of
manufacture, such as lithium secondary batteries.
BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY
[0003]     Lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries are a type of rechargeable battery which produce
energy from electrochemical reactions. In a typical lithium ion battery, the cell may include
a positive electrode, a negative electrode, an ionic electrolyte solution that supports the
movement of ions back and forth between the two electrodes, and a porous separator
which allows ion movement between the electrodes and ensures that the two electrodes
do not touch.
[0004]     Li-ion batteries may comprise metal oxides for the positive electrode (herein also
referred to as a cathode) and carbon/graphite for the negative electrode (herein also
referred to as an anode), and a salt in an organic solvent, typically a lithium salt, as the
ionic electrolyte solution.   During charge the anode intercalates lithium ions from the
cathode and during discharge releases the ions back to the cathode. Recently, lithium
metal phosphates, for example lithium iron phosphates, have found use as a cathode
electroactive material.

                                               3
[0005]      The use of lithium iron phosphate (LFP) provides a next generation replacement
for the more hazardous lithium cobalt oxide that is currently used in commercial lithium ion
batteries. Li-ion batteries using LFP based cathode materials may currently be found in
cordless hand tools and on-board UPS devices.             Battery packs have recently been
demonstrated for transportation including aviation and electric vehicles as well as plug-in
hybrid electric vehicle automobiles and buses.
[0006]      The characteristics for current LFP materials for use in batteries are often
different from or in contradiction with those for other intended purposes. Impurities which
may be present due to the synthesis may be detrimental to Li-ion batteries. Furthermore,
different batches during synthesis of commercially available LFP materials may often have
inconsistent properties. Thus, an LFP material with carefully controlled characteristics is
needed which provides consistent and desirable properties for use in Li-ion batteries.
[0007]      Current LFP materials for use in Li-ion batteries are synthesized from various
starting reagents and have a range of characteristics. For example, in US 8,541, 136
(Beck et al) provides an LFP material which includes excess lithium and a surface area of
45.5 m2/g to improve discharge rate capabilities. In another example, US 201 1/006829
(Beck et al) provides a high purity crystalline phase LFP which is synthesized from a high
purity crystalline ferric phosphate material, hereby incorporated by reference for all
purposes.
[0008]      However, the inventors herein have recognized potential issues with the current
generation of LFP based cathode materials. The current LFP materials may have limited
use in extreme temperature environments, such as exposure to temperature at or below
00C, as the energy of the Li-ion battery may be too low. Thus, the LFP materials for use
in Li-ion batteries need improvements in energy in extreme temperature environments to
be used in a broader range of applications. Further, it was recognized that improvements
with regards to impedance, power during cold cranking, high rate capacity retention, and
charge transfer resistance would improve the current generation of LFP based cathode
materials.
[0009]      One potential approach as found by the inventors to at least address some of
the above issues includes synthesizing a plate-shaped spheniscidite precursor which can

                                                4
be used to produce an improved electrode material, also referred to as the LFP material.
The plate-shaped precursor may be formed as a single-phase material, and, in some
embodiments, may have a surface area in a range of 20 m2/g to 25 m2/g, as disclosed in
U.S.    Provisional Patent Application Number 61/949,596, entitled "HIGH-POWER
ELECTRODE MATERIALS," filed March 7, 2014, the entire contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference for all purposes.
[0010]     The LFP material formed from the plate-shaped spheniscidite precursor, herein
also referred to as an ammonium iron phosphate precursor, may comprise crystalline
primary and secondary particles. The primary particles may have a particle size between
about 20 nm to about 80 nm. The secondary particles may have a d50 particle size in the
range of 5 microns to 13 microns. In some examples, the secondary particles may have
a surface area of in a range of 25 m2/g to 35 m2 /g. Further, the secondary particles may
have a tap density from about 0.8 g/mL to 1.4 g/mL.
[0011]      In some examples, the LFP material may contain less than about 5 weight
percent of any additional phase that does not substantially store ions. Further, the LFP
material, in some embodiments, may have a carbon percentage in the range of 2.1% to
2.5%.
[0012]     As provided in detail in the description below, the disclosed LFP material may
provide improved battery properties in extreme temperature environments. For example,
the LFP material may have improved capacity at low temperature, wherein the low
temperature may be at or below 0*C. Moreover, the LFP material provides for improved
impedance, increased power during cold cranking, increased high rate capacity retention,
and improved charge transfer resistance.
[0013]      It will be understood that the summary above is provided to introduce in
simplified form a selection of concepts that are further described in the detailed description.
It is not meant to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter, the scope
of which is defined uniquely by the claims that follow the detailed description. Furthermore,
the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any disadvantages
noted above or in any part of this disclosure.

                                          5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     FIG. 1 A shows an SEM image of the pure spheniscidite.
     FIG. 1B shows an SEM image of the pure spheniscidite.
     FIG. 2A shows an SEM image of the primary particle of the LFP active material
     produced using a solvent based system.
     FIG. 2B shows an SEM image of the primary particle of the LFP active material
     produced using a water based system.
     FIG. 3A shows an SEM image of the LFP active material using a solvent based
     system.
     FIG. 3B shows an SEM image of the LFP active material using a water based
     system.
     FIG. 4 illustrates an example method for synthesizing spheniscidite.
     FIG. 5 shows a TGA curve of spheniscidite.
     FIG. 6 shows an XRD pattern of pure spheniscidite.
     FIG. 7 illustrates an example method for synthesizing LFP from spheniscidite.
     FIG. 8 shows an XRD pattern of LFP.
     FIG. 9 shows a first charge capacity of the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite
     compared to current LFP materials.
     FIG. 10 shows a first discharge capacity of the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite
     compared to current LFP materials.

                                     6
FIG. 11 shows the percentage of first charge capacity loss of the LFP synthesized
from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
FIG. 12 shows the absolute capacity loss of the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite
as compared to current LFP materials.
FIG. 13 shows an alternating current resistance impedance of the LFP synthesized
from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
FIG. 14 shows a direct current resistance impedance of the LFP synthesized from
spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
FIG. 15 shows the capacity retention after 3 days of aging of the LFP synthesized
from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
FIG. 16 shows the electrode thickness after formation.
FIG. 17 shows the hybrid pulse power characterization (HPPC) data at 230C, at Is
and 20s direct current resistance of the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite
compared to current LFP materials.
FIG. 18 shows the hybrid pulse power characterization (HPPC) data at 230C, at 1Os
direct current resistance of the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite compared to
current LFP materials.
FIG. 19 shows the hybrid pulse power characterization (HPPC) data at -20*C, at 1
s and 20 s pulse power for the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite compared to
current LFP materials.
FIG. 20 shows the impedance in Double Layer Pouch (DLP) Cells at -20    OC for the
LFP synthesized from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
FIG. 21 shows the voltage profile at different IOC rate discharge, for the LFP
synthesized from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.

                                             7
         FIG. 22 shows the normalized rate capability of the LFP synthesized from
         spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
         FIG. 23 shows the direct current resistance for the LFP synthesized from
         spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
         FIG. 24 shows the power resulting from a cold crank test at -30*C for the LFP
         synthesized from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
         FIG. 25 shows the alternating current impedance for the LFP synthesized from
         spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials.
         FIG. 26 shows an example electrode assembly.
         FIG. 27A shows a wound cell example.
         FIG. 27B shows a wound cell example.
         FIG. 28 shows a XRD of the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite compared to
         current LFP materials.
         FIG. 29 is an example schematic phase diagram showing the LFP phase behavior.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014]      The present disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which exemplary embodiments of the
invention are shown. The particular embodiment(s) is merely exemplary in nature and is
in no way intended to limit the scope of the invention, its application, or uses, which may,
of course, vary. The invention is described with relation to the non-limiting definitions and
terminology included herein.     These definitions and terminology are not designed to
function as a limitation on the scope or practice of the invention but are presented for
illustrative and descriptive purposes only.    While the processes or compositions are
described as an order of individual steps or using specific materials, it is appreciated that

                                                8
steps or materials may be interchangeable such that the description of the invention may
include multiple parts or steps arranged in many ways.
[0015]      As used herein, it will be understood that when an element is referred to as being
"on" another element, it can be directly on the other element or intervening elements may
be present there between. In contrast, when an element is referred to as being "directly
on" another element, there are no intervening elements present.
[0016]      As used herein, it will be understood that, although the terms "first," "second,"
"third" etc. may be used herein to describe various elements, components, regions, layers,
and/or sections, these elements, components, regions, layers, and/or sections should not
be limited by these terms.        These terms are only used to distinguish one element,
component, region, layer, or section from another element, component, region, layer, or
section. Thus, "a first element," "component," "region," "layer," or "section" discussed
below could be termed a second (or other) element, component, region, layer, or section
without departing from the teachings herein.
[0017]      The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein, the singular forms
"a," "an," and "the" are intended to include the plural forms, including "at least one," unless
the content clearly indicates otherwise. "Or" means "and/or." As used herein, the term
"and/or" includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.
It will be further understood that the terms "comprises" and/or "comprising," or "includes"
and/or "including" when used in this specification, specify the presence of stated features,
regions, integers, steps, operations, elements, and/or components, but do not preclude
the presence or addition of one or more other features, regions, integers, steps,
operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof. The term "or a combination
thereof or "a mixture of means a combination including at least one of the foregoing
elements.
[0018]      As used herein, the term about includes additional ranges slightly above or
below a value without changing the physical characteristics or resultant properties.

                                                 9
[0019]     As used herein, the single-phase spheniscidite refers to the spheniscidite with
less than about 5 weight percent of any additional phase, such as phosphosiderite or other
ammonium iron phosphate compounds.              The single -phase of spheniscidite may be
determined using XRD as described in relation to FIG. 6.
[0020]     As used herein, the term substantially includes the majority of the sample having
the specified property.
[0021]     Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms)
used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in
the art to which this disclosure belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as
those defined in commonly used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning
that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and the present
disclosure, and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless
expressly so defined herein.
[0022]     Aspects of this disclosure will now be described by example and with reference
to the illustrated embodiments listed above.        Components, process steps, and other
elements that may be substantially the same in one or more embodiments are identified
coordinately and are described with minimal repetition.       It will be noted, however, that
elements identified coordinately may also differ to some degree.
[0023]     The present disclosure provides a high-purity ammonium iron phosphate for use
as the primary and/or sole iron phosphate source in the synthesis of nano-sized lithium
iron phosphate (LFP) active primary particles for use in cathodes and the methods of
making thereof. The ammonium iron phosphate, present as the spheniscidite precursor,
provides plate-like particles, as illustrated in FIGS. 1A and lB. This material may be used
as a precursor for the synthesis of LFP active materials with a primary particle size of about
100 nm and a surface area in a range of 20 m2/g to 25 m2/g. FIG. 4 provides an example
method for producing the spheniscidite precursor to form a single-phase material with a
high level of purity as illustrated in FIGS. 5 and 6. The high purity spheniscidite is then
used as a precursor material to synthesize the LFP active material, an example method
provided in FIG. 7, with a high surface area which demonstrates significantly higher power
than current LFP materials. As illustrated in FIGS. 9 through 21, the LFP active material

                                             10
synthesized from the spheniscidite precursor for use in a battery, examples illustrated in
FIGS. 25 and 26, provides improved properties and improved performance at extreme
temperatures.
[0024]       As provided above, a synthesized spheniscidite, also referred to as the
spheniscidite precursor, is an ammonium iron phosphate compound with the formula of
NH4Fe2(PO4)20H*2H20 as the primary or sole iron phosphate component for the synthesis
of the cathode material for use in lithium ion secondary batteries. Spheniscidite has a
specific structure that possesses two 8-membered channels wherein the ammonium, NH4,
and  1/2 of the water molecules reside. The spheniscidite may include from about 35 wt.%
to about 30 wt. % iron, about 15 wt.% to about 20 wt.% phosphorous, and about 4.6 wt. %
to about 5.0 wt.% ammonium, wherein the use of the term about includes additional ranges
slightly above or below a value without changing the physical characteristics or resultant
properties. The use of a single-phase and pure spheniscidite as the sole iron phosphate
component in the synthesis of LFP provides an LFP active material having a small primary
particle size and a high surface area LFP cathode material which surprisingly results in
electrochemical cells with improved electrochemical properties.
[0025]       One aspect of the present disclosure provides methods for preparing
spheniscidite, which is used as a precursor in the LFP synthesis. In some embodiments,
the high-purity spheniscidite has a plate-like shape, as shown in SEMs in FIGS. 1A and
1B and may have less than about 10% total impurities present. With less than 10% total
impurities, the materials may provide the improved properties disclosed herein.       The
impurities may include structural impurities determined from XRD and TGA, as well as,
composition impurities, such as Na and/or S04 impurities, determined from ICP. For
example, the pure synthesized spheniscidite may be free of K and Al, which appear in
naturally occurring spheniscidite. In other embodiments, the spheniscidite may have less
than about 5% impurities present. In yet other embodiments, the spheniscidite may have
less than about 2.5% impurities present. In even other examples, the XRDs indicate no
impurity peaks over 2%.
[0026]       With regards to Na and/or S04 impurities, in some examples, there may be less
than 2% of such impurities. For example, in an LFP material synthesized as disclosed
herein, the ICP indicates that the Na and S04 impurities are less than .5%.

                                               11
[0027]     With regards to further characterizing the spheniscidite, the SEMs show the
resultant spheniscidite has a plate like morphology with the primary plate particles being
about 100 nm along the longest axis of the plate.
[0028]     Another aspect of the present disclosure provides methods for preparing the
LFP using the synthesized spheniscidite.        One embodiment utilizes a solvent based
system. Another embodiment utilizes a water based system. The solvent based system
may provide particles which include 3D formations. In some examples, the 3D formations
may include, but are not limited to, spherical shapes. In other examples, the 3D formations
may include collapsed spheres or doughnut-like shaped formations. As another example,
in the water based system, the particles may be substantially spherical.
[0029]     An LFP is produced which has a primary particle size of about 100 nm,
regardless of the solvent system chosen, as illustrated in FIGS. 2A and 2B, a surface area
in a range of 25 m2/g to 35 m2/g, and a secondary d50 particle size in the range of 5
microns to 13 microns, as illustrated in SEMs in FIGS. 3A and 3B. As another example
range, the secondary d50 particle size may be in the range of about 8 microns to 13
microns. For example, the secondary particles may have a d50 particle size of about 10
microns.
[0030]     The methods provided herein include the steps of providing the raw materials to
obtain pure spheniscidite, providing a lithium source as well as other reactants to mix with
the obtained pure spheniscidite to produce the final LFP active material with the above
mentioned properties.
[0031]     Further, the methods include at least one of the steps of mixing, filtering,
centrifuging, aging, drying, milling, and heating or a combination thereof.
[0032]     Furthermore, the methods include the steps of mixing the materials in a
predetermined molar ratio and, at specific method steps, controlling the pH to be within a
range of 3-8.5 at one step and controlling the pH to be within a range of about 2 to 4 in a
subsequent step.

                                               12
[0033]      In an example method, an aqueous ferrous sulfate solution may be oxidized to
a ferric ion to produce spheniscidite, as shown in equation 1 below.           By this example
method, an LFP material may be formed by the combination of spheniscidite and a lithium
source material, as shown in equation 2 below. In this example, the lithium source is
Li2CO3. The spheniscidite and the lithium source are combined to form a LFP active
material suitable for use in a cathode of a lithium ion cell. A cathode active material is thus
formed in a two-step reaction, wherein pure spheniscidite is produce during reaction 1 for
subsequent use as a precursor material during reaction 2:
Fe(504) * 7H20 + NH40H+(NH4)2HP04+H3PO4+H202--NH4Fe2(PO4)20H * 2H20 + H2SO4
+ H20                 (1)
NH4Fe2(PO4)20H * 2H20       + Li2CO3-> LiFePO4 + H20     +  C02 + NH3                (2)
[0034]      The spheniscidite may be obtained by reacting an iron source, an ammonium
source, and an oxidant. The spheniscidite obtained has a single-phase and a high purity.
The spheniscidite may have a surface area in a range of 20 m2/g to 25 m2/g. For example,
in some embodiments, the plate-shaped single-phase spheniscidite precursor may have
a surface area of about 23 m2/g.
[0035]      In some embodiments, the iron source compound for making spheniscidite may
be a ferrous salt. The ferrous salt may be hydrated or anhydrous. The ferrous salt, iron
(II) salt, may be selected from iron (II) sulfate, iron (II) chloride, iron (II) nitrate, iron (II)
oxalate, iron (II) oxide, any hydrate thereof, or a mixture thereof. In one example, iron (II)
sulfate heptahydrate, FeSO4*7H20 may be used as the iron source.
[0036]      In some embodiments, the phosphate source for making spheniscidite may be
selected from H3PO4, P205, NH4H2PO4, (NH4)2HP04, (NH4)3PO4, NaH2PO4, Na2HPO4,
Na3PO4, or mixtures thereof. In one example, a mixture of (NH4)2HP04 and H3PO4 may
be used. In another example, (NH4)3PO4 may be used.
[0037]      In some embodiments, the ammonium source may be selected from NH4H2PO4,
(NH4)2HP04, (NH4)3PO4, NH40H or mixtures thereof. In one example, NH40H may be
used.

                                                13
[0038]      In some embodiments, an oxidizing agent may be included. The oxidizing agent
may be selected from H202, Na20, NaCIO3, or mixtures thereof. A non-limiting example
of an oxidizing agent includes hydrogen peroxide, H202.
[0039]     Turning to FIG. 4, an example method 400 for synthesizing spheniscidite with a
high purity is outlined. For example, the method may include the reactants of reaction 1
above, wherein during reaction 1 , the ferrous ion, Fe2 +, is oxidized to the ferric ion, Fe3 +,
to form spheniscidite. In one example, method 400 may include the material processing
for reaction 1 including mixing of starting materials, filtering by-products, heating slurry for
crystallization, final filtration, and washing with hot solvent, such as water.
[0040]     At 402, the method may include mixing the starting materials. For example, the
iron source, phosphate source, ammonium source, and oxidizing agent are mixed. The
starting materials may be mixed at specific molar ratios. For example, the NH4:PO4 molar
ratio may be between about 1.8 to about 3.5, or about 2.0 to about 3.1.         In one example,
the solid starting materials may be dissolved in deionized water prior to mixing the starting
materials. In another example, the starting materials may be mixed together in a specific
ordering. As outlined in reaction 1, one example of mixing the starting materials includes
mixing FeSO4*7H20, (NH4)PO4, H202, P04, and NH40H.                 The mixture comprising the
starting materials may have a pH of about 3 to about 8.5. The mixture may be stirred for
a time before proceeding to step 404.
[0041]     At 404, the method may include filtering the by-products. In one example, the
mixture from 402 may be centrifuged to separate the by-products. In another example,
the mixture from 402 may be filter pressed to separate the by-products. The filtering of
the byproducts may be performed multiple times to separate fully the by-products. For
example, the solution is filtered by centrifuge three times.
[0042]     At 406, the method may include rinsing the solid obtained during filtering at 404.
For example, the solid may be rinsed with hot deionized water. In one example, the solid
may be rinsed with hot water multiple times.          In another example, the solid may be
continuously rinsed for a period of time.

                                               14
[0043]      At 408, the method may include re-dispersing the rinsed solid from 406. For
example, the solid, also referred to as material cakes, may be re-dispersed in deionized
water comprising an acid. The solution of the re-dispersed solid in deionized water may
have a pH controlled to be in the range of about 1.8 to about 3.1.
[0044]      At 410, the method may include heating the re-dispersed solid solution from 408.
In some examples, the solution may be heated in a select temperature range, for example,
and not as a limitation, a temperature at or above 850C to at or below 950C may be used
for a time period. In one example, the entire solution may be heated.
[0045]      At 412, the method may include filtering the hot solution from 410.       In one
example, the solution may be filtered using a filter press. In another example, the solution
may be filtered using flask filtration.
[0046]      At 414, the method may include rinsing the solid recovered at 412 with hot
deionized water. In one example, the rinsing may be done multiple times over a period of
time. In another example, the rinsing may be done continuously over a period to time.
[0047]      At 416, the method may include drying the rinsed solid from 414. The solid may
be dried at a temperature which removes any volatile compounds present and not desired
in the final product.
[0048]      At 418, the method may include obtaining the spheniscidite. As discussed
above, the spheniscidite may have a high purity wherein less than 10% of impurities are
present in the spheniscidite, not including iron phosphate materials. For example, the total
impurities left in the final product may be less than 10%, and such material may be
considered herein as substantially free of impurities.      The level of impurities may be
determined by ICP, in one example.        In other examples, the level of impurities in the
spheniscidite may be less than 5%. In yet another example, the level of impurities may be
less than 2.5%. The method may then end.
[0049]      As provided above, a crystalline spheniscidite material, herein also referred to
as ammonium iron phosphate material, may be formed. In one non-limiting example, the
crystalline spheniscidite material may include from about 25 wt.% to about 30 wt.% iron

                                             15
and from about 15 wt.% to about 20 wt.% phosphorous, and from about 4.6 wt.% to about
5.0 wt.% ammonium; wherein a molar ratio of phosphorus to iron is from about 1 to about
1.25.    Further, the ammonium iron phosphate may be substantially free of impurities,
wherein an XRD may include no impurity peaks over 2%.              In some examples, the
crystalline spheniscidite material may be a single-phase. Further, in some examples, the
crystalline spheniscidite material may have a surface area in the range 20 m2 /g to 25 m2/g.
[0050]     A high purity spheniscidite further may be determined by TGA and/or XRD
illustrated in FIGS. 5 and 6 respectively.    A high purity spheniscidite product may be
determined by the substantial absence of any peaks in the XRD or TGA which correspond
to iron phosphates materials of morphologies other than spheniscidite.
[0051]     Turning to FIG. 5, a TGA curve 500 of spheniscidite is provided. The TGA curve
502 has a specific shape for the decomposition of pure spheniscidite. The derivative TGA
curve shows three peaks 504, 506, and 508, which are obtained at specific temperatures.
Thus, the TGA curve may be used to confirm the purity of spheniscidite synthesized, for
example using method 400.
[0052]     Turning to FIG. 6, an XRD pattern 600 of spheniscidite is provided. The XRD
curve 602 shows characteristic 20 peaks. Thus, the XRD curve may be used to identify
phase and purity of the spheniscidite. A single -phase and high purity spheniscidite is
required to produce the final LFP product as outlined in the present disclosure below.
[0053]     The LFP active material for use as a cathode in a battery may be obtained by
reacting a high purity spheniscidite, for example synthesized as outlined above in method
400, with a lithium source. The spheniscidite may be the primary or sole iron phosphate
source during the synthesis of the LFP active material. The synthesis may further include
a dopant and carbon source.
[0054]      In one embodiment, the high purity spheniscidite may be the primary or sole
source of iron phosphate.
[0055]      In some embodiments, the lithium source may be selected from Li2CO3, Li20,
LiOH, LiF, Lil or mixtures thereof. In one example, the lithium source may be Li2CO3.

                                             16
[0056]    In some embodiments, the dopant, M, may be selected from V, Nb, Ti, Al Mn,
Co, Ni, Mg, Zr, oxides thereof or mixtures thereof. The dopant may be added in amounts
up to 10 mol%. In one example, the dopant may be present at an amount less than 5
mol%.
[0057]    In some embodiments, the carbon source may be selected from PVB, citric Acid,
sugar, PVA, glycerol or mixtures thereof.
[0058]    Turning to FIG. 7, an example method 700 is outlined for the synthesis of LFP
from spheniscidite. The final LFP material may be formed by combining a lithium source
and the spheniscidite by mixing, milling, and chemical reduction with a temperature
programmed reaction (TPR) under N2. The resulting LFP active material may then be
useable in a cathode of an electrochemical cell.
[0059]    At 702, the method may include mixing spheniscidite, a lithium source, a dopant,
a carbon source, and a solvent to form a slurry. In one example, the solvent may include
an alcohol. In another example, the solvent may include water. Thus, the method may
include an alcohol or water slurry. The dopant and carbon source may vary based on the
solvent choice. In some examples, more than one carbon source may be included.
[0060]    In one specific example of reaction (2), the lithium source and spheniscidite may
be mixed with a dopant and a carbon source in an IPA slurry. The slurry may then be
milled.
[0061]    At 704, the method may include milling the mixture of 702. The method may
include milling for a minimum amount of time.
[0062]    At 706, the method may include drying the milled mixture of 704. The mixture
may be dried using a variety of methods known to the industry.
[0063]    At 708, the method may include firing the dried material of 706. The material
may be fired to convert the material to LiFePO4, LFP, by a temperature programmed
reaction (TPR).     The TPR may be run in an inert atmosphere, for example N2.           For
example, the dried powder may be converted to LiFePO4 by TPR in           N2 flow in a tube

                                               17
furnace. The TPR profile may include ramping from room temperature and then heating.
The TPR may further include programmed holds at specific temperatures.
[0064]     At 710, the method may obtain the lithium iron phosphate, LFP. The resulting
LFP active materials have a crystalline structure, as illustrated by the XRD pattern provided
in FIG. 8. In addition, the size of the primary particles, shown in FIGS. 2A and 2B, may be
between 20 nm to 80 nm, leading to a higher surface area in a range of 25 m2 /g to 35 m2/g
final LFP active materials, shown in FIGS. 3A and 3B. The use of an alcohol slurry or
water slurry results in a similar primary particle size in the LFP, as illustrated in FIGS. 2A
and 2B. As used herein, a similar size may be within 5% of one another, for example by
surface area and/or volume.       The secondary particle of the LFP differs based on the
solvent slurry. The alcohol slurry secondary particle shape is shown in FIG. 3A and the
water slurry secondary particle shape is shown in FIG. 3B. The alcohol slurry secondary
particle shape shows a variety of shapes while the water slurry secondary shape shows
spheres that are more exact.
[0065]     Turning to FIG. 8, an XRD pattern 800 of the LFP is shown. The XRD curve
802 may be used to determine the purity of the resultant LFP. The XRD curve 802 shows
characteristic 20 peaks, indicating a pure crystalline LFP. Thus, the XRD curve may be
used to identify phase and purity of the LFP. A high purity spheniscidite is required to
produce the final crystalline LFP product as outlined in the present disclosure wherein the
final crystalline LFP product improves battery performance at low temperatures.              For
example, the LFP product may improve battery performance at 00C or lower. In another
example, the LFP product may improve battery performance at low temperatures of -20*C
down to -30*C.
[0066]     A resulting LFP active material can be tested in a non-aqueous electrochemical
cell. The LFP active material serves as the positive electrode against a source of lithium
having a total lithium content much greater than the lithium storage capacity of the LFP
electrode, such as lithium foil. This electrochemical cell construction is often referred to
as a lithium half-cell by those skilled in the art of lithium-ion batteries. In such a cell, the
LFP active material is formulated into an electrode, optionally using a conductive additive,
such as carbon, and a polymeric binder. The LFP active material electrode is separated
from the lithium metal counter electrode, optionally by a microporous polymer separator.

                                               18
The cell is then infused with a nonaqueous lithium-conducting liquid electrolyte. The
charge and discharge rates of the electrode are sufficiently fast that the electrochemical
behavior of the LFP electrode material can be tested.
[0067]      As such, an LFP active material is optionally used in an electrochemical cell as
a component of either a cathode or an anode, although a cathode is typical.                  An
electrochemical cell includes an LFP active material containing electrode and a counter
electrode. A counter electrode includes an anode base material. In some embodiments,
an anode base material optionally includes silicon, graphitic carbon, silicon carbon
composites, tin, Ge, Sb, Al, Bi, As, Li metal, lithium alloys, metal alloys, transition metal
oxides, nitride materials, sulfide materials, and combinations thereof. An alloy optionally
includes one or more of Mg, Fe, Co, Ni, Ti, Mo, and W.
[0068]      Illustrative examples of a metal alloy for use as an anode base material include
silicon alloys. A silicon alloy is optionally and alloy of silicon and Ge, Be, Ag, Al, Au, Cd,
Ga, In, Sb, Sn, Zn, or combinations thereof. The ratio of the alloying metal(s) to silicon is
optionally 5% to 2000% by weight, optionally 5% to 500% by weight, optionally 20% to
60% by weight, based on silicon.
[0069]      In some embodiments, an anode base material includes a lithium alloy. A lithium
alloy optionally includes any metal or alloy that alloys with lithium, illustratively including
Al, Si, Sn, Ag, Bi, Mg, Zn, In, Ge, Pb, Pd, Pt, Sb, Ti, tin alloys, and silicon alloys.
[0070]      Additional examples of alloys and methods of alloy production can be found in
U.S. Patent No. 6,235,427, herein incorporated by reference for all purposes. In some
embodiments, the anode base material is or includes: silicon; carbon and graphitic carbon
materials such as natural graphite, graphene, artificial graphite, expanded graphite, carbon
fibers, hard carbon, carbon black, carbon nanotubes, fullerenes and activated carbon; a
composite material of a metal or metal compound and a carbon or graphite material
whereby a metal optionally includes lithium and silicon; and a lithium-containing nitride.
As such, the anode base material, also referred to here as the negative electrode, may
include non-graphitizable carbon, artificial graphite, and natural graphite combinations of
carbonaceous materials with silicon or silicon oxide.

                                                19
[0071]       Optionally, an electrode base material is not graphite alone in the absence of
silicon, lithium, or a metal. In some embodiments, an anode base material is a composite
material of silicon and graphitic carbon that may or may not include a carbon coating and
or thermal treatment to stabilize the adhesion of the coating to the surface.        In some
embodiments, an anode base material includes a coating, illustratively a carbon coating.
[0072]       An anode base material or an LFP active material may or may not be associated
with a conductive substrate. When associated with a substrate, the substrate is optionally
formed of any suitable electronically conductive and impermeable or substantially
impermeable material, including, but not limited to, copper, stainless steel, titanium, or
carbon papers/films, a nonperforated metal foil, aluminum foil, cladding material including
nickel and aluminum, cladding material including copper and aluminum, nickel plated steel,
nickel plated copper, nickel plated aluminum, gold, silver, any other suitable electronically
conductive and impermeable material or any suitable combination thereof. In some
embodiments, substrates may be formed of one or more suitable metals or combination of
metals (e.g., alloys, solid solutions, plated metals). Optionally, an anode base material or
LFP active material is not associated with a substrate.
[0073]       In some embodiments, the inventive LFP active material may be used in an
electrode for a secondary battery. An electrode is optionally fabricated by suspending a
LFP active material and a binder (optionally at 1 - 10% by weight of solvent) in a solvent
to prepare a slurry, and applying the resulting slurry to a current collector, followed by
drying and optionally pressing. Exemplary binders include PVDF binder solutions in NMP
or aqueous polyolefin latex suspensions. Examples of the solvent used in preparation of
the electrode may include, but are not limited to carbonate-based, ester-based, ether
based, ketone-based, alcohol-based, or aprotic solvents. Specific organic solvents such
as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), N-methyl pyrrolidone (NMP) and ethylene glycol, and
distilled water may be used. Such solvents are known in the art.
[0074]       An electrochemical cell is also provided that uses an electrode formed of an LFP
active material substantially as provided by the application with embodiments as described
herein.     The electrochemical cells optionally employ a porous electronically insulating
separator between the positive and negative electrode materials, and a liquid, gel or solid
polymer electrolyte. The electrochemical cells optionally have electrode formulations and

                                               20
physical designs and constructions that are developed through methods well-known to
those skilled in the art to provide low cell impedance, so that the high power capability of
the LFP active material may be utilized.
[0075]      Optionally, the LFP active materials described herein typically contain less than
about 5 weight percent, or about 3 weight percent, of any additional phase that does not
substantially store ions, but may provide added electrical conductivity. Such additional
phases include, for example, carbon, a metal, or an intermetallic phase, such as a metal
phosphide, metal carbide, metal nitride, or mixed intermetallic compound, such as metal
carbide-nitride or metal carbide-phosphide.        The electrode materials may include an
amount of carbon in the range of 2.1% to 2.5 %. In some examples, the primary and
secondary particles of the LFP may have a carbon percentage of about 2.3%.
[0076]      In certain embodiments, for use as a storage electrode, the LFP active material
typically is formulated into an electrode by standard methods, including the addition of a
few weight percent of a polymeric binder, and less than about 10 weight percent of a
conductive additive, such as carbon. In at least some such embodiments, the electrodes
are coated onto one or both sides of a metal foil (e.g. substrate), and optionally pressed to
a coating thickness of between about 30 micrometers and about 200 micrometers. Such
electrodes can be used as the positive or negative electrode in a storage battery. Their
performance can be evaluated, for example, using laboratory cells of the coin-cell or so
called Swagelok cell types, in which a single layer of electrode is tested against a counter
electrode (typically lithium metal when the nanoscale material is a lithium storage material)
using galvanostatic (constant current) or potentiostatic (constant voltage) tests or some
combination of the two. Under galvanostatic conditions, the current rate can be described
as "C-rate," in which the rate is C/h, and n is the number of hours required for substantially
complete charge or discharge of the cell between a selected upper and lower voltage limit.
[0077]      An electrochemical cell includes an electrolyte. An electrolyte is optionally a
solid or fluid electrolyte. Illustratively, the electrolyte includes a lithium salt and a
nonaqueous organic solvent. A lithium salt is optionally LiPF6, LiBF4, LiSbF6, LiAsF6,
LiN(S02C2F5)2, Li(CF3SO2)2N, LiFSI, LiTFSI, LiN(S03C2F5)2, L1C4F9SO3, L1CIO4, LiA102,
L1AICl4, LiCI, Lil, or LiB(C204)2 (lithium bis(oxalato)borate; LiBOB).    The lithium salt is
optionally present in a concentration ranging from about 0.1 M to about 2.0 M. When the

                                                21
lithium salt is included at the above concentration range, an electrolyte may have excellent
performance and lithium ion mobility due to optimal electrolyte conductivity and viscosity.
[0078]      Thus, as described above, in some examples, a method, is provided including
introducing an iron (II) salt, a phosphate source, an ammonium source, and an oxidizing
agent into an aqueous solution to form a mixture. The mixture may be filtered to recover
a solid by-product and then the solid by-product may be re-dispersed into an aqueous
solution. The aqueous solution may be heated and then filtered to recover a solid. The
solid may be dried to obtain             a high    purity spheniscidite with      a formula of
NH4Fe2(PO4)20H*2H20. The high purity spheniscidite may be a single-phase.
[0079]      In some examples, the iron (II) salt may be selected from iron (II) sulfate, iron
(II) chloride, iron (II) nitrate, any hydrate thereof, or a mixture thereof. Further, in some
examples, the phosphate source may be selected from H3PO4, P205, NH4H2PO4,
(NH4)2HP04, (NH4)3PO4, NaH2PO4, Na2HPO4, Na3PO4, or mixtures thereof. Moreover, in
some examples, the ammonium source may be selected from NH4H2PO4, (NH4)2HP04,
(NF4)3PO4, NH40H or mixtures thereof. The oxidizing agent also may be selected from
H202,   Na20, NaCIO3, or mixtures thereof.
[0080]      As another example, the method may further include mixing the obtained high
purity spheniscidite, a lithium source, a dopant, and a carbon source, adding a solvent to
produce a slurry, milling the slurry, drying the milled slurry, and firing the dried milled slurry
to obtain the lithium iron phosphate, wherein the lithium iron phosphate comprises a
substantially olivine crystalline phase, a primary particle in the range of 20 nm to 80 nm, a
secondary particle with a d50 in the range of 5 pm to 13 pm, and a surface area of 25 m2 /g
to 35 m2 /g, a carbon percentage of about 2.3%.           The lithium iron phosphate may be
substantially in an olivine crystalline phase where there may be less than 5 weight percent
of any additional phases which do not substantially store ions. The lithium iron phosphate
may improve battery performance at low temperatures in comparison to current lithium
iron phosphate materials. For example, the current lithium iron phosphate materials may
be stoichiometric lithium iron phosphate materials, wherein the elements are present in
the ratios prescribed by the formula LiFePO4.

                                              22
[0081]      In some examples, with milling, primary particles may be obtained of about 20
nm to about 80 nm. It should be appreciated that the method may include a solvent where
the solvent is water and/or a compound including an alcohol functional group.
[0082]      In one example, a lithium iron phosphate (LFP) is provided comprising
crystalline primary particles and secondary particles, wherein the primary particles are
formed from a plate-shaped single-phase ammonium iron phosphate spheniscidite
precursor and a lithium source. The LFP, herein also referred to as a spheniscidite-derived
LFP, may be formed from the spheniscidite precursor and show a specific LFP phase
behavior. The spheniscidite-derived LFP may exhibit different phase behavior than a
conventional LFP, even when the conventional LFP has similar characteristics (for
example primary particle size, specific surface area, or similar XRD peak broadening).
[0083]      For example, as illustrated in FIG. 29, an example phase diagram for the LFP
illustrates the extended solid-solution range of the LFP in comparison to the conventional
LFP of similar physical characteristics, e.g. particle size and/or specific surface area, for
example an LFP of similar physical characteristics but without pure ammonium iron
phosphate spheniscidite precursor. In one example, the similar characteristics may be a
similar size within 5% of one another and/or within 5-10% of surface areas of one another.
The LFP phase behavior may include an extended solid-solution range, which may be due
to the use of the pure ammonium iron phosphate spheniscidite precursor. The LFP phase
behavior, including the extended solid-solution range of the LFP, may translate to
improved battery properties, for example when used in lithium ion cells. For example, the
LFP may show improved temperature performance, such as at low temperature, and
improved capacity. In addition, the two-phase field may occur over a smaller range of Li
concentration for the LFP at the same temperature in comparison to conventional LFP
materials having similar particle sizes. This is contrary to the conventional way of thinking
where the two-phase field shrinks with decreasing particle size, and has the same behavior
for the same particle sizes. The LFP may also show extended solid-solution ranges in
comparison to conventional LFP's of similar size over a range of temperatures.
[0084]      For example, 2900 and 2904 of FIG. 29 show voltage versus discharge capacity
curves at a discharge rate of 10C (current density to discharge the full capacity of the
battery device in 1/10 of an hour) for the LFP 2902, which illustrates the extended solid-

                                               23
solution range of the LFP, in comparison to the conventional LFP 2906. The LFP and the
conventional LFP have similar physical characteristics, e.g. particle size and/or specific
surface area. The similar characteristics may be a similar size within 5% of one another
and/or within 5-10% of surface areas of one another. The shapes of the two discharge
curves illustrate that the LFP material 2902 provides an improved battery material for high
rate applications as compared to the conventional LFP 2906. The shape of the discharge
curves at the last 25% of the discharge show clear differences as the voltage begins to
decrease. The LFP 2902 curve shows a sharper, defined change in slope, occurring just
above 3V. The discharge curve shape of the LFP 2902 may illustrate the change in the
mode of lithium intercalation within the active material particles.          More specifically,
illustrated by the flatter portion of the discharge curve, the LFP material may be lithiated
via a two-phase reaction, where two distinct crystalline phases co-exist (i.e. the LFP phase
behavior). A first phase may be present in a predominately lithiated state and a second
phase may be present in a predominately unlithiated state. However, in some materials,
a one-phase lithiation reaction may occur, which may also enhance faster lithium
intercalation kinetics. The percentage of the total lithiation reaction occurring in a two
phase versus a one-phase lithiation reaction may control the overall rate performance of
the active cathode material.
[0085]      In contrast to the LFP 2902, the conventional LFP 2906 shows a distinctly
different discharge voltage curve.       The overall voltage of the battery employing the
conventional LFP is lower in comparison to the LFP 2902. Further, the discharge curve of
the conventional LFP 2906 is more curved and continuously rounded, especially during
the last 25% of the discharge.         The conventional LFP 2906 does not show a sharp
transition between the two nearly linear sloping regions.          The characteristics of the
conventional LFP 2906 show a material with higher overall net impedance.                     The
impedance may limit a battery from completely discharging all its capacity, as illustrated
by the shorter capacity at the end of discharge at 2V for the conventional LFP 2906. The
smoothly sloping nature of the discharge curve of the conventional LFP 2906 does not
illustrate a clear transition from a two-phase to a single phase lithiation reaction, as is seen
the LFP 2902.         For example, high resolution X-ray diffraction of the LFP and the
conventional LFP at various states of discharge would illustrate the differences in the
phase behavior and the lithiation mechanism.         Figure 29 illustrates that the LFP 2902,
prepared from pure ammonium iron phosphate spheniscidite precursor, has an improved

                                               24
rate performance in comparison to the conventional LFP 2906. Further, the LFP may be
concluded to have a mode of lithiation, more specifically a phase change behavior when
the LFP is sufficiently discharged, which is different from the conventional LFP. Thus, the
LFP may include an LFP phase behavior.
[0086]     The differences in shape of the discharge capacity curves, as described above
and illustrated in 2900 and 2904 for the LFP 2902 and the conventional LFP 2906, may
indicate that the LFP has less polarization than the conventional LFP. The conventional
LFP 2906 discharge curve does not show a clear break in the two slope areas, indicating
that the behavior may be controlled by polarization, whereas the LFP 2902 discharge curve
shows a more clear break in the two slope areas, indicating that the behavior has less
polarization.    For example, polarization in an electrochemical process may lower the
efficiency of the process. The lower polarization and clear breaks in the two-slope areas
may indicate the presence of a wider solid-solution range in the spheniscidite-derived LFP.
[0087]      In one embodiment, the LFP phase behavior may exhibit characteristics such
as an extended solid-solution range. For example, the spheniscidite-derived LFP may
possess different phase behavior from standard materials, including, but not limited to,
extended solid-solution ranges at the same temperature and particle size. The extended
solid-solution range in the LFP may be greater at the same temperature and particle size
in comparison to current LFP materials.          As yet another example, the lithium iron
phosphate may exhibit an LFP phase behavior wherein the LFP phase behavior includes,
as a non-limiting example, an extended solid solution range where x in LixFePO4 exceeds
0.2 at Li-poor compositions, and is less than 0.8 at Li-rich compositions, at 450C for a
primary particle size of 20nm-80nm.       In yet another non-limiting example, an extended
solid solution range where x in LixFePO4 exceeds 0.1 at Li-poor compositions, and is less
than 0.15 at Li-rich compositions, at 00C for a primary particle size of 20nm-80nm may be
seen for the LFP.
[0088]      In a non-limiting example, the LFP phase behavior may provide extended solid
solutions in a wider range of lithium compositions over which a solid-solution occurs. For
example, in some embodiments, the LFP phase behavior may be such that the difference
in the solid-solution ranges is a wider range of Li composition over which a solid solution
occurs at low or at high states of charge (or high and low overall Li concentration).

                                                25
[0089]     The modifications of the LFP phase behavior may provide for improved battery
performance at a variety of temperatures, for example low temperatures, and improved
capacity in comparison to current lithium iron phosphate materials. Thus, the use of the
pure ammonium iron phosphate spheniscidite precursor may be to provide a precursor
material which introduces an LFP phase behavior into the synthesized lithium iron
phosphate      material,  resulting    in  improved  performance   in   battery   applications.
Specifically, for example, the modified LFP phase behavior may result in extended solid
solution ranges in the lithium iron phosphate. This LFP phase behavior is an unexpected
result when compared to other LFP materials having similar specific surface area, particle
size, or exhibiting similar x-ray diffraction peak broadening. This is at least partially due to
the fact that spheniscidite -derived LFP exhibits different phase behavior in comparison to
a conventional LFP material of the same BET specific surface area (or primary particle
size, or exhibiting the same X-ray peak broadening).
[0090]     In a non-limiting example, the markedly superior power at low temperature of
battery cells having the spheniscidite- derived LFP may be obtained despite this material
having a lower BET specific surface area and less X-ray peak broadening. Therefore, in
this example, larger LFP primary crystallite size does not result in an inferior performance,
due to the LFP phase behavior.
[0091]     Further, the LFP phase behavior and improved performance characteristics
appear not to be due to a shorter diffusion distance at the crystallite level.             Also,
unexpectedly, the performance may not be explained by the presence of conductive
impurity phases since the amount of those phases can be widely varied with composition,
heat treatment temperature, and firing atmosphere, and have not previously resulted in
the exceptional low temperature behavior of the disclosed LFP.
[0092]     It is also considered that olivine cathode materials may suppress the two-phase
immiscibility field inherent to LFP and thereby avoid the first order phase transition.
Published scientific literature on olivine cathode materials indicate that suppressing the
two-phase immiscibility field inherent to LFP, and thereby avoiding the first-order phase
transition and its associated high mechanical strain, may be responsible for obtaining high
power. Without being bound by any particular scientific interpretation, the range of Li
concentration over which immiscible solid phases of differing Li concentration appear, at

                                                26
any given temperature, may be decreased by creating defects and atomic disorder.
Further, since the immiscibility field in pure LixFePO4 is relatively symmetric in composition
space between Li concentrations of zero and one, the effects of diminished immiscibility
may generally be seen at low and high Li concentrations, corresponding to high and low
states of charge of the corresponding battery cell.
[0093]     As a comparative example, in undoped nanoparticulate LFP, it has been found
that the extent of solid solution at low overall Li concentrations is lower than 20% at an
equivalent spherical particle size obtained from the BET specific surface area of 34nm, is
lower than 10% at a particle size of 42nm, and is lower than 5% at a particle size of 100nm.
In contrast to the comparative LFP examples, the unexpected LFP phase behavior of the
spheniscidite-derived material has an increased extended solid-solution range at the same
temperature and particle size in contrast to prior LFP materials.
[0094]     As a non limiting example, the LFP phase behavior of the spheniscidite-derived
material may include a lithium amount in solid solution that is greater than or less than
20% of a stoichiometric lithium iron phosphate of the same particle size.           In another
example, the phase behavior includes a lithium amount in solid solution that is greater than
or less than 5% of a stoichiometric lithium iron phosphate of the same particle size. The
lithium iron phosphate may show a lithium nonstoichiometry, i.e. an extended solid
solution range.     The lithium iron phosphate extended solid-solution allows for the
crystalline structure, in which lithium may be delithiated or lithiated, to remain the same.
Thus, the LFP phase behavior of the LFP shows a homogeneous solid that may exist over
a wider range of lithiation and delithiation (i.e. lithium amount) in comparison to
conventional LFP material not synthesized using a pure ammonium iron phosphate
spheniscidite precursor. The LFP phase behavior of the LFP shows an unexpectedly wide
range where the solid-solution exists as compared with the conventional LFP's sharing
similar physical characteristics.
[0095]     As another example, the phase behavior may show a two-phase field wherein x
may be 0.2< x < 0.8 for LixFePO4 at a temperature of about 450C and the extended solid
solution range occurs outside of the two-phase field range.

                                               27
[0096]      In some embodiments, the spheniscidite-derived LFP may include one or more
structural differences from prior LFPs. These structural differences may include subtle
morphology differences or differences in crystal lattice dimensions, which may produce
differences in lattice strain at high and low lithium occupancy. Such structural differences
may enable an unexpected and dramatic difference in lithiation, such as where the overall
crystallite/grain dimensions and resulting lithium diffusion lengths are similar.        The
mechanistic and possibly structural differentiation of the disclosed LFP material may result
in startling and dramatic difference in rate performance.
[0097]      As another example embodiment, the spheniscidite-derived LFP further
provides an improvement in the rate of lithium insertion/extraction.      As a non-limiting
example, the LFP phase behavior of the spheniscidite-derived material may result in the
rate of lithium insertion/extraction being improved, e.g. at a rate of 20C, 90% discharge
capacity is retained compared to C/10. Despite having similar crystalline dimensions of
20-80 nm of the LFP, a comparative material is capable of only 80% discharge capacity at
20C being retained.
[0098]      Further, impurities may be present on the MI site in an olivine lithium iron
phosphate, where the MI site is the lithium site in the olivine structure. Minimizing the
amount of impurities on the MI site may improve battery performance, such as with the
disclosed LFP. For example, the spheniscidite-derived LFP may minimize the amount of
non-lithium atoms, i.e. impurities, on the MI site in comparison to LFPs not synthesized
using spheniscidite. In one example, the impurities on the MI site may be less than about
5%. In another example, the impurities on the MI site may be less than about 1% of the
sites.
[0099]      In order to further support the disclosure, various aspects of the present
application are illustrated by the following non-limiting examples. The examples are for
illustrative purposes and are not a limitation on any practice of the present application.
Reagents illustrated herein are commercially available, and a person of ordinary skill in
the art readily understands where such reagents may be obtained.

                                              28
EXPERIMENTAL
[0100]      A spheniscidite material is formed as per reaction 1 wherein the method may
include the ferrous ion, Fe2 +, oxidized to the ferric ion, Fe3 +, to form spheniscidite. The
resulting spheniscidite has the following properties listed in Table 1:
Table 1:
Morphology               NH4:P     NH40H          pH         pH          P/Fe       Color
                           ratio       (g)         14        2"n
                                                  step      step
Spheniscidite/trace       2.014      15.00       2.96       2.04          1.2      Yellow
Phosposiderite
Spheniscidite             2.137      22.58       3.09       2.20         1.02      Yellow
Morphology              Texture      FCC       C/5     IOC        C%        N%      BET
Spheniscidite/trace         Soft      154      163      149       2.67      0.30     30.8
Phosposiderite
Spheniscidite               Soft      158      169      154       2.48      0.20     29.8
[0101]      The various spheniscidite materials are tested by ICP-AES with the following
results listed in Table 2:

                                                  29
Table 2:
Morphology                            Description                            Synthesis
                                                                    pH 1"Step        pH 2 "dStep
Spheniscidite             0.373 mol NH 4 + in DAP (2.14 ml             3.09             2.20
                          ratio NH 4 :PO 4 ), age 2/3 t=2hr, 10
                                   min filter (yellow)
Spheniscidite+              0.250 mol NH 4 + in DAP (2.01              2.96             2.04
phosphosiderite (trace)      mol ratio NH 4 :PO 4 ), age 2/3
                             t=2hr, 10 min filter (yellow)
Spheniscidite+              0.210 mol NH 4 +in DAP (1.97               2.94             2.04
phosphosiderite (trace)      mol ratio NH 3 :PO 4 ), age 2/3
                             t=2hr, 55 min filter (yellow)
Morphology                                           ICP Results of Product
                            Fe-wt%               P           P/FE         Na-wt%        S-wt%
Spheniscidite                 29.2             16.44          1.02         0.002         0.271
Spheniscidite+               29.03             16.42          1.02         0.002         0.323
phosphosiderite (trace)
Spheniscidite+               27.64             16.36          1.07         0.003         1.113
phosphosiderite (trace)
[0102]     In one example, a conductive additive may be added to the spheniscidite along
with a metal oxide dopant, and a carbon additive. The mixture may be mixed with a
solvent, for example, an alcohol based solvent to form a slurry. The slurry may then be
milled. The milled slurry may then be dried and sieved. The dried powder may be fired to
convert the material into the final LFP product.
[0103]     In another example, a conductive additive may be added to the spheniscidite,
along with a metal salt dopant, at least one carbon additive, followed by mixing in a water
solvent slurry. In some examples, more than one carbon additive may be used. The slurry
may then be milled. The milled slurry may then be dried. The dried slurry may then be
fired to convert the material into the final LFP product.

                                                 30
[0104]       The resulting LFP active material is used to form a Swagelok electrode that
includes 79% active material, 10% carbon, and 1 1% binder mass ratio to make a loading
of 0.45-0.49 mAhr/cm2. The Swagelok half-cells are charged at C/2 to 3.8V CCCV and
discharged with CC to 2 V with different C-rates. The discharge charge storage capacities
at different C-rates were measured, and the rate-capability calculated. In some examples,
the rate-capability at 10C is greater than 130 mAh/g in a Swagelok half-cell.
[0105]       Process 1
  Swagelok              FCC               C/5           10C
  Energy (RT)           488.9             516.0         441.1
  Energy (0*C)          486.8             497.1         318.8
[0106]       Process 2
  Swagelok              FCC               C/5           10C
  Energy (RT)           502.2             510.3         437.2
  Energy (O*C)          506.8             488.8         291.8
[0107]       Turning to FIGS. 9 through 24, the performance of an electrochemical cell
comprising the LFP synthesized from pure spheniscidite is illustrated in comparison to an
electrochemical cell comprising current LFP materials. The electrochemical cell comprises
a cathode, an anode, an electrolyte, and a separator. As used herein, the anode, the
separator, and the electrolyte in the electrochemical cell were the same for a given test.
[0108]       Turning to FIG. 9, the first charge capacity of the LFP material used in a cathode
is illustrated. The first charge capacity of the LFP 902 synthesized from pure spheniscidite
is improved over current LFP materials 904 and 906 used in cathodes in Li-ion cells.
[0109]       Turning to FIG. 10, the first discharge capacity of the LFP material used in a
cathode is illustrated. The first discharge capacity of the LFP 1002 synthesized from pure
spheniscidite is improved over current LFP materials 1004 and 1006 used in cathodes in
Li-ion cells.

                                              31
[0110]      Turning to FIG. 11, a percentage of first charge capacity of the LFP synthesized
from spheniscidite is compared to current LFP materials. The LFP 1102 synthesized from
spheniscidite shows percentage of first charge capacity similar to current LFP 1104 and
slightly lower than current LFP 1106.
[0111]      Turning to FIG. 12, an absolute capacity loss of the LFP synthesized from
spheniscidite is compared to current LFP materials.        The LFP 1202 synthesized from
spheniscidite shows a lower absolute capacity loss compared to the current LFP 1204 and
1206 materials.
[0112]      Turning to FIG. 13, an alternating current resistance (ACR) impedance for cells
with the LFP material used in a cathode is illustrated. Compared to the current LFP
materials 1304 and 1306, the LFP 1302 synthesized from sphenscidite shows improved
ACR impedance.
[0113]      Turning to FIG. 14, a direct current resistance (DCR) impedance for cells with
the LFP material used in a cathode is illustrated. Compared to the current LFP materials
1404 and 1406, the LFP 1402 synthesized from spheniscidite shows improved DCR
impedance.
[0114]      Turning to FIG. 15, the capacity retention after 3 days of aging is shown for the
LFP material used in a cathode is illustrated.           The LFP 1502 synthesized from
spheniscidite shows a similar capacity retention in comparison to the current LFP materials
1504 and 1506.
[0115]      Turning to FIG. 16, the electrode thickness after calendaring and formation is
illustrated. The average cathode 1604 and anode 1608 thickness after calendering and
the average cathode 1602 and anode 1606 thickness after formation show values that
indicate acceptable swelling of the electrode comprising the LFP synthesized from
spheniscidite.
[0116]      Turning to FIG. 17, the hybrid pulse power characterization (HPPC) DCR
impedance at 1s and 20s for the LFP material used in a cathode is illustrated at 230C. The

                                              32
1s DCR results are illustrated for the LFP 1702 synthesized from spheniscidite and the
current LFP 1704 and 1706 materials and the 20s DCR results are illustrated for the LFP
1708 synthesized from spheniscidite and the current LFP 1710 and 1712 materials. The
LFP 1702 and 1708 shows reduced DCR at both the 1s and 20s DCR.
[0117]      Turning to FIG. 18, the hybrid pulse power characterization (HPPC) DCR
impedance at 1Os of the LFP material used in a cathode is illustrated at 230C. The 1Os
DCR shows results similar to the 1 s and 20s results illustrated in FIG. 17 above. The LFP
1802 synthesized from spheniscidite shows reduced DCR compared to the current LFP
1804 and 1806 materials.
[0118]      Turning to FIG. 19, the hybrid pulse power characterization (HPPC) at -20*C at
1s and 20s pulse power for the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite. The 1s DCR results
are illustrated for the LFP 1902 synthesized from spheniscidite and the current LFP 1904
and 1906 materials and the 20s DCR results are illustrated for the LFP 1908 synthesized
from spheniscidite and the current LFP 1910 and 1912 materials. The LFP 1902 and 1908
shows reduced DCR at both the 1s and 20s DCR and shows 40% improvement at 1s and
20% improvement at 20s at a 50% SOC at low temperature.
[0119]      Thus, the disclosed electrode material, the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite,
has at least a 10% improvement in direct current resistance pulse discharge at -20*C as
compared to a control electrode material not formed from the plate-shaped single -phase
spheniscidite precursor wherein the electrochemical cell components are the same. As
discussed previously, the electrochemical cells prepared for testing may include the same
components, such as the anode, separator, electrolyte, in order to provide a comparison
between the cathode electrode materials.
[0120]      Turning to FIG. 20, the double layer pouch cell (DLP) with 0.5x electrode loading
and 5C for 30secat 50% SOC is shown.             In the particular DLP illustrated, the LFP
synthesized from spheniscidite shows a 45% improvement in average DCR as compared
to the current LFP material and provides less than 9 ohms impedance at 50% SOC. The
LFP synthesized from spheniscidite shows improved cold temperature performance.

                                              33
[0121]     Turning to FIG. 21, the voltage profile for a IOC discharge to 100% depth of
discharge (DOD for the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite is shown. The voltage profile
2002 illustrates that the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite and shows an improvement
in energy as compared to the current LFP 2004 material.
[0122]     Turning to FIG. 22, the normalized rate capability at various discharge rates of
the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials is shown. The
LFP 2102 shows increased rate capability compared to current LFP materials 2106 and
2104.
[0123]     Turning to FIG. 23, the direct current resistance pulse discharge at -30*C at 1Os
for the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials is shown.
The LFP 2202 synthesized from spheniscidite shows about a 20% decrease in DCR and
40% increase in power (refer to 2208) as compared to current LFP 2204 and a larger
improvement over current LFP 2206.
[0124]     Turning to FIG. 24, the power resulting from a cold crank test at -30*C over time,
measured in seconds, for the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite compared to current
LFP materials is shown. The LFP 2302 synthesized from spheniscidite shows increased
power as compared to the current LFP 2304 and 2306 materials over time measured in
seconds.
[0125]     Turning to FIG. 25, the alternating current impedance for the LFP synthesized
from spheniscidite compared to current LFP materials is shown.                The LFP 2402
synthesized from spheniscidite shows the lowest charge transfer resistance. The current
LFP 2404 and 2406 materials show higher charge transfer resistance.
[0126]     The embodiments described above may be used in prismatic and cylindrical
electrochemical cells. For purposes of this document, a prismatic cell is defined as a cell
having a rectangular profile within a plane perpendicular to the length of the cell. Prismatic
cells should be distinguished from round (cylindrical) cells that have a circular profile within
this plane.

                                               34
[0127]     Turning to FIG. 26, an electrode assembly is illustrated which may include the
disclosed LFP electro-active material.         The LFP active material synthesized from
spheniscidite may be present as a cathode or anode. In a stackable cell configuration,
multiple cathodes and anodes may be arranged as parallel alternating layers.           In the
example illustrated in FIG. 25, a stackable cell electrode assembly 2500 is shown. The
electrode assembly 2500 is shown to include seven cathodes 2502a-2502g and six
anodes 2504a-2504f. In one example, the cathodes may comprise the LFP synthesized
from spheniscidite as described above. In another example, the anodes may comprise
the LFP synthesized from spheniscidite. Adjacent cathodes and anodes are separated by
separator sheets 2506 to electrically insulate the adjacent electrodes while providing ionic
communication between these electrodes.           Each electrode may include a conductive
substrate (e.g. metal foil) and one or two active material layers supported by the conductive
substrate. Each negative active material layer is paired with one positive active material
layer. In the example presented in FIG. 25, outer cathodes 2502a and 2502g include only
one positive active material facing towards the center of assembly 2500.          One having
ordinary skill in the art would understand that any number of electrodes and pairing of
electrodes may be used.           Conductive tabs may be used to provide electronic
communication between electrodes and conductive elements, for example.               In some
examples, each electrode in electrode assembly 2500 may have its own tab. Specifically,
cathodes 2502a-2502g are shown to have positive tabs, 2510 while anodes 2504a-2504f
are shown to have negative tabs.
[0128]     In FIGS. 27A and 27B, a wound cell example 2600 is illustrated in which two
electrodes are wound into a jelly roll and housed within a container. The container housing
the negative electrode, the positive electrode, the nonaqueous electrolyte and the
separator.
[0129]     The LFP synthesized from pure spheniscidite having primary particles in the
range of 20nm to 80 nm and a surface area in a range of 25 m2/g to 35 m2/g shows
improved properties when used as an electroactive material in a battery. In one example,
the surface area of the LFP synthesized from pure spheniscidite may be about 30 m2/g.
The LFP shows reduced DCR, about 50% as illustrated in the HPPC data above, an
increased power by about 40% during cold cranking, an increased rate capacity retention,
and lowered charge transfer resistance.

                                              35
[0130]     Turning to FIG. 28, a XRD shows diffraction data illustrating that the synthesized
LFP 2802 has a crystallite size within the range of current LFP crystallite sizes 2804 and
2806, as indicated by the full width at half maximum of the peaks. As the synthesized LFP
shows improved battery performance in lithium ion cells, the synthesized LFP may have a
modified LFP phase behavior. For example, the LFP phase behavior of the synthesized
LFP may include the extended solid solution range, wherein the extended solid solution
range has a composition LixFePO4, where x exceeds 0.2 at Li-poor compositions and is
less than 0.8 at Li-rich compositions, at about 450C; and wherein the primary particles
have a particle size in the range of 20 nm to 80 nm. In yet another example, the extended
solid solution range has a composition LixFePO4, where x exceeds 0.1 at Li-poor
compositions, and is less than 0.15 at Li-rich compositions, at 00C for a primary particle
size of 20nm-80nm may be seen for the LFP. Thus, the solid-solution range of the LFP
having a primary particle size of 20-80nm, wherein the particle size is comparable to
current, stoichiometric, LFP materials, is extended. However, current LFP materials do
not show the same improved battery performance, for example at low temperatures, and
therefore do not present a similar phase behavior as the spheniscidite-derived LFP. The
LFP phase behavior may be unique to the synthesized LFP as the LFP is prepared using
a pure ammonium iron phosphate spheniscidite precursor, which is not present in current
LFP materials.
[0131]     Thus, the     current disclosure provides      an    LFP    material with specific
characteristics synthesized from a pure spheniscidite, used as the primary or sole iron
phosphate source, which surprisingly improves battery performance. The LFP material
may be synthesized as described above from a plate-shaped single -phase ammonium
iron phosphate precursor and a lithium source such that it exhibits a different solid phase
behavior, specifically an extended solid-solution range as described above.
[0132]     Various modifications of the present invention, in addition to those shown and
described herein, will be apparent to those skilled in the art of the above description. Such
modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.
[0133]     It is appreciated that all reagents are obtainable by sources known in the art
unless otherwise specified.

                                                36
[0134]      Patents, publications, and applications mentioned in the specification are
indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These
patents, publications, and applications are incorporated herein by reference to the same
extent as if each individual patent, publication, or application was specifically and
individually incorporated herein by reference.
[0135]      The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the
invention, but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof.
[0136]      The foregoing discussion should be understood as illustrative and should not be
considered limiting in any sense. While the inventions have been particularly shown and
described with references to preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those
skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without
departing from the spirit and scope of the inventions as defined by the claims.
[0137]      The corresponding structures, materials, acts and equivalents of all means or
steps plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure,
material or acts for performing the functions in combination with other claimed elements
as specifically claimed.
[0138]      Finally, it will be understood that the articles, systems, and methods described
hereinabove are embodiments of this disclosure-non-limiting examples for which
numerous variations and extensions are contemplated as well.                Accordingly, this
disclosure includes all novel and non-obvious combinations and sub-combinations of the
articles, systems, and methods disclosed herein, as well as any and all equivalents thereof.

                                                  37
CLAIMS:
1.      A method to form an ammonium iron phosphate for use to make an electrode active
material, comprising:
        (a)      introducing an iron (II) salt, a phosphate source, an ammonium source, and
an oxidizing agent into an aqueous solution to form a mixture;
        (b)     filtering the mixture to recover a solid by-product;
        (c)      re-dispersing the solid by-product into an aqueous solution;
        (d)      heating the aqueous solution;
        (e)     filtering the solution to recover a solid; and
        (f)     drying the solid to obtain a high purity spheniscidite with a formula of
NH4Fe2(PO4)20H*2H20.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the high purity spheniscidite is a single-phase.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the high purity spheniscidite has a plate-shape
morphology.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the iron (II) salt is selected from iron (II) sulfate, iron
(II) chloride, iron (II) nitrate, any hydrate thereof, or a mixture thereof.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the phosphate source is selected from H3PO4,
P205, NH4H2PO4, (NH4)2HP04, (NH4)3PO4, NaH2PO4, Na2HPO4, Na3PO4, or mixtures
thereof.
6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the ammonium source is selected from NH4H2PO4,
(NH4)2HP04, (NH4)3PO4, NH40H or mixtures thereof.

                                                  38
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the oxidizing agent is selected from H202, Na20,
NaCIO3, or mixtures thereof.
8.      The method of claim 1, further comprising rinsing the solid by-product and/or solid
following filtering.
9.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        (g)     mixing the obtained high purity spheniscidite, a lithium source, a dopant, and
a carbon source;
        (h)     adding a solvent to produce a slurry;
        (i)     milling the slurry;
        (j)     drying the milled slurry; and
        (k)     firing the dried milled slurry to obtain the lithium iron phosphate, wherein the
lithium iron phosphate comprises a substantially olivine crystalline phase, a primary
particle in the range of 20 nm to 80 nm, a secondary particle with d50 in the range of 5 pm
to 13 pm, and a surface area of 25 m2/g to 35 m2/g, a carbon percentage of about 2.3%;
and
        wherein the lithium iron phosphate improves battery performance at low
temperatures in comparison to current lithium iron phosphate materials.
10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the slurry is milled to obtain primary particles of
about 20 nm to about 80 nm.
11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the solvent is water.
12.     The method of claim 9, wherein the solvent is a compound comprising an alcohol
functional group.

                                               39
13.      The method of claim 9, wherein the low temperatures are at 00C or lower.
14.      An electrode material for use in a battery comprising:
         crystalline primary particles and secondary particles, where the primary particle is
formed from a plate-shaped single-phase ammonium iron phosphate spheniscidite
precursor and a lithium source;
         where the crystalline primary particles and secondary particles exhibit an LFP
phase behavior including an extended solid-solution range; and
         wherein the electrode material improves the capacity of a battery at low
temperatures in comparison to current lithium iron phosphate materials.
15.      The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the extended solid solution range is a
wider range of lithium composition over which a solid solution occurs in comparison to the
solid solution range for an electrode material not derived from the spheniscidite precursor
but having similar particle size or exhibiting similar x-ray peak broadening.
16.      The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the extended solid solution range has
a composition LixFePO4, where x exceeds 0.2 at Li-poor compositions and is less than 0.8
at Li-rich compositions, at about 450C; and
         wherein the primary particles have a particle size in the range of 20 nm to 80 nm.
17.      The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the primary particles have a particle
size in the range of 20 nm to 80 nm.
18.      The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the secondary particles have a surface
area of 25 m2/g to 35 m2/g.
19.      The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the primary particles have a tap density
from about 0.8 g/mL to 1.4 g/mL.

                                             40
20.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the secondary particles have a d50
particle size of about 10 microns.
21.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the electrode material has a carbon
percentage of about 2.1% to 2.5%.
22.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the lithium source comprises Li2CO3.
23.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the plate-shaped single-phase
ammonium iron phosphate precursor has a surface area in a range of 20 m2/g to 25 m2/g.
24.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the secondary particles are formed from
a water-based process and are substantially spherical shaped.
25.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the secondary particles are formed from
a solvent based process.
26.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein the rate-capability at 10C is greater than
130 mAh/g in a Swagelok half-cell.
27.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein a direct current resistance pulse
discharge at -20*C has at least a 10% increase as compared to a control electrode material
not formed from the plate-shaped single-phase spheniscidite precursor wherein
electrochemical cell components are the same.
28.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein first charge capacity and first discharge
capacity are lower than a control electrode material not formed from the plate-shaped
single-phase spheniscidite precursor wherein electrochemical cell components are the
same.
29.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein alternating current resistance
impedance is lower than a control electrode material not formed from the plate-shaped
single-phase spheniscidite precursor wherein electrochemical cell components are the
same.

                                             41
30.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein direct current resistance at 1s and 20s
pulse power at -20*C and at 1Os pulse power at -30*C is lower than a control electrode
material not formed from the plate-shaped single-phase spheniscidite precursor wherein
electrochemical cell components are the same.
31.     The electrode material of claim 14, wherein power during cold cranking at -30*C is
greater than a control electrode material not formed from the plate-shaped single-phase
spheniscidite precursor wherein electrochemical cell components are the same.
32.     An electrochemical cell comprising:
        a negative electrode capable of intercalating and liberating lithium;
        a positive electrode comprising an electrode material comprising crystalline primary
particles and secondary particles, where the primary particle is formed from a plate-shaped
single-phase spheniscidite precursor and a lithium source;
        a nonaqueous electrolyte solution;
        a separator;
        a container housing the said negative electrode, positive electrode, nonaqueous
electrolyte solution, and separator; and
        wherein the positive electrode material improves the capacity of the electrochemical
cell at low temperatures and has a phase behavior wherein the phase behavior includes
an extended solid solution range at each of low and high states of charge where the range
is at least 10% at an average primary particle size of 40 nm in comparison to stoichiometric
lithium iron phosphate materials.
33.     The electrochemical cell of claim 32, wherein the electrolyte further comprises a
lithium salt and at least one organic solvent.

                                              42
34.    The electrochemical cell of claim 32, wherein the lithium salt wherein the lithium salt
is selected from one of LiPF6, LiCIO4, LiBF4, LiCF3SO3, LiN(CF3SO2)2, LiN(CF3CF2SO2)2,
LiN(CFSO2)(C4FqSO2), and LiC(CF3SO2)2.
35.    The electrochemical cell of claim 32, wherein the negative electrode comprises non
graphitizable   carbon,  artificial  graphite,   and  natural   graphite  combinations     of
carbonaceous materials with silicon or silicon oxide.
36.    The electrochemical cell of claim 32, wherein the low temperatures are at 00C or
lower.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
