  ABSTRACT
  The present invention provides methods and compositions for treatment, screening, diagnosis and
  prognosis of cancer, such as lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, breast
  cancer, gastric cancer, esophagus cancer, head and neck cancer and skin cancer, for monitoring the
5 effectiveness of cancer, such as lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, breast
  cancer, gastric cancer, esophagus cancer, head and neck cancer and skin cancer treatment, and for drug
  development.

                                                          1
                      LY75 AS CANCER THERAPEUTIC AND DIAGNOSTIC TARGET
            The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application No.
   2013343277, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 5
   INTRODUCTION
            The present invention relates to the identification of a membrane protein associated with
   cancer, such as lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, breast cancer, gastric
   cancer, esophagus cancer, head and neck cancer and/or skin cancer which has utility as a therapeutic
10 target for the treatment of cancers or as a marker for cancers. In particular, the protein represents a
   biological target against which affinity reagents including therapeutic antibodies, or other
   pharmaceutical agents, can be made. The invention also relates to the use of such affinity reagents for
   the treatment and/or diagnosis of cancers.
15 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            The major challenges in treatment of cancer, such as lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia, thyroid
   cancer, bladder cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer, esophagus cancer, head and neck cancer and skin
   cancer are to improve early detection rates, to find new non-invasive markers that can be used to follow
   disease progression and identify relapse, and to find improved and less toxic therapies, especially for
20 more advanced disease where 5 year survival is still poor. There is a great need to identify targets
   which are more specific to the cancer cells, e.g. ones which are expressed on the surface of the tumour
   cells so that they can be attacked by promising new approaches like immunotherapeutics and targeted
   toxins.
            Lymphocyte antigen 75 acts as an endocytic receptor to direct captured antigens from the
25 extracellular space to a specialized antigen-processing compartment and is thought to cause a reduction
   in proliferation of B-lymphocytes. The presence of Lymphocyte antigen 75 on the aforementioned
   cancer cells, which would be required to demonstrate its utility as a cell-surface target for e.g.
   antibody-based cancer therapies, for example, has not previously been disclosed.
30 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention discloses the detection of Lymphocyte antigen 75, hereinafter referred to
   as LY75, in membrane extracts of various disease tissues, e.g. lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia,
   thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer, esophagus cancer, head and neck cancer
   and skin cancer, hereinafter referred to as 'the diseases of the invention'.
35          The differential expression of LY75 in various cancers permits the protein to be targeted using
   affinity reagent-, e.g. antibody-, based therapies for such cancers. Thus LY75 can be used in the
   generation of affinity reagents, including antibodies, that bind specifically to epitopes within LY75,
   and can be targeted by such affinity reagents as the basis of treatment. Affinity reagents, including
   antibodies, that target a protein on the cell surface of cancer cells may be employed in the treatment of
40 cancer through a variety of mechanisms, including (i) lysis by complement mediated or antibody
   dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), (ii) lysis by drugs or toxin(s) conjugated to such affinity
   reagents or (iii) inhibition of the physiological function of such protein, which may be driving growth
   of cancer cells, e.g. through signaling pathways. An important aspect of such affinity reagent-based
   treatment is that the normal expression profile of the protein target, in terms of tissue distribution and
45 expression level, is such that any targeting of the protein target on normal tissues by the antibody does
   not give rise to adverse side-effects through binding to normal tissues.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       2
            The invention provides a method for the treatment or prophylaxis of cancer wherein LY75 is
   expressed in said cancer, which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a
   therapeutically effective amount of an affinity reagent which binds to LY75.
            The cancer is preferably one of the diseases of the invention.
 5          The invention also provides an affinity reagent which binds to LY75 for use in the treatment
   or prophylaxis of cancer, preferably wherein the cancer is one of the diseases of the invention.
             The invention also provides the use of an affinity reagent which binds to LY75 in the
   manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis of cancer, preferably wherein the
   cancer is one of the diseases of the invention.
10          The affinity reagents for use in the invention preferably bind specifically to LY75.
            The affinity reagent may be an antibody, e.g. a whole antibody, or a functional fragment
   thereof or an antibody mimetic. Preferred affinity reagents included antibodies for example
   monoclonal antibodies.
            The affinity reagent may be a chimeric antibody, a human antibody, a humanized antibody,
15 a single chain antibody, a defucosylated antibody or a bispecific antibody.
            Functional antibody fragments include is a UniBody, a domain antibody or a Nanobody.
            Antibody mimetics include an Affibody, a DARPin, an Anticalin, an Avimer, a Versabody
   or a Duocalin.
            The affinity reagents for use in the invention may contain or be conjugated to a therapeutic
20 moiety, such as a cytotoxic moiety or a radioactive isotope. The affinity reagent may be an antibody
   drug conjugate or immunoconjugate.
            The affinity reagent may elicit antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) or may
   elicit complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC). The affinity reagent may induce apoptosis of
   cancer cells, kill or reduce the number of cancer stem cells and/or kill or reduce the number of
25 circulating cancer cells. Affinity reagents may modulate a physiological function of LY75, inhibit
   ligand binding to LY75 and/or inhibit a signal transduction pathway mediated by LY75.
            In an alternative embodiment, the invention also provides a method for the treatment or
   prophylaxis of cancer wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, which comprises administering to a
   subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a hybridizing agent capable of
30 hybridizing to nucleic acid encoding LY75.
            The invention also provides a hybridizing agent capable of hybridizing to nucleic acid
   encoding LY75 for use in the treatment or prophylaxis of a cancer, preferably wherein the cancer is
   one of the diseases of the invention.
            The invention also provides the use of a hybridizing agent capable of hybridizing to nucleic
35 acid encoding LY75 in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis of a
   cancer, preferably wherein the cancer is one of the diseases of the invention.
            The hybridizing agents for use in the invention preferably bind specifically to nucleic acid
   encoding one or more extracellular domains of LY75.
            Suitable hybridizing agents for use in the invention include inhibitory RNA, short
40 interfering RNA (siRNA), short hairpin RNA (shRNA), microRNA (miRNA), anti-sense nucleic
   acid, complementary DNA (cDNA), oligonucleotides and ribozymes.
            The invention also provides a method of detecting, diagnosing and/or screening for or
   monitoring the progression of a cancer wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, or of monitoring
   the effect of a cancer drug or therapy wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, in a subject which

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       3
   comprises detecting the presence or level of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the
   presence or level of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or which comprises detecting a change in the level
   thereof in said subject.
             Such a method may comprise detecting the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments
 5 thereof, or the presence of nucleic acid encoding LY75, in which either (a) the presence of an
   elevated level of LY75 or said one or more fragments thereof or an elevated level of nucleic acid
   encoding LY75 in the subject as compared with the level in a healthy subject, or (b) the presence of
   a detectable level of LY75 or said one or more fragments thereof or a detectable level of nucleic
   acid encoding LY75 in the subject as compared with a corresponding undetectable level in a healthy
10 subject is indicative of the presence of the cancer wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, in said
   subject.
            The invention also provides a method of detecting, diagnosing and/or screening for or
   monitoring the progression a cancer wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, or of monitoring the
   effect of a cancer drug or therapy wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, in a subject which
15 comprises detecting the presence or level of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75,
   or one or more fragments thereof.
            In the methods according to the invention, the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments
   thereof, or the presence of nucleic acid encoding LY75, or the presence or level of antibodies
   capable of immunospecific binding to LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, may be detected by
20 analysis of a biological sample obtained from the subject.
            The presence of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, may be detected using an affinity
   reagent which binds to LY75. The affinity reagent may be any suitable affinity reagent as
   mentioned herein. The affinity reagent may contain or be conjugated to a detectable label.
            In any of the aspects of the invention referred to herein, the subject may be a human.
25          The invention also provides methods for identifying an agent for the treatment or
   prophylaxis of cancer wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, wherein the method comprises (a)
   contacting LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, with a candidate agent; and (b) determining
   whether the agent binds to LY75, or one or more fragments thereof. The method may also further
   comprise the step of testing the ability of an agent which binds to LY75, or one or more fragments
30 thereof, to inhibit cancer wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer. The agent may, inter alia,
   modulate an activity of LY75, reduce ligand binding to LY75 or reduce LY75 dimerisation.
            In the various embodiments of the invention described herein, particular cancer types which
   may be mentioned are one of the diseases of the invention.
            In one embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented or treated is lymphoma, e.g. Non
35 Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, B-Cell Lymphoma (Not Otherwise
   Specified), Follicular Lymphoma, Mantle Cell Lymphoma, Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated
   Lymphoid Tissue (MALT), T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich B-Cell Lymphoma, Burkitt Lymphoma,
   Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma, Small Lymphoctyic Lymphoma, Marginal Zone Lymphoma, T
   Cell Lymphoma (Not Otherwise Specified), Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Anaplastic Large Cell
40 Lymphoma and/or Angiohmmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma, preferably Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
   In some embodiments of the invention, the lymphoma is not Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented or treated is thyroid cancer.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented or treated is bladder cancer.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented or treated is breast cancer,

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       4
   preferably Triple Negative breast cancer.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented    or treated is gastric cancer.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented    or treated is esophageal cancer.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented    or treated is head and neck
 5 cancer.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented    or treated is skin cancer, e.g.
   melanoma.
            In another embodiment the cancer to be detected, prevented    or treated is multiple myeloma.
            Other aspects of the present invention are set out below and  in the claims herein.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            Figure 1 shows the flow cytometry analysis of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies, indicating
   the specific binding of those antibodies to LY75 expressing cells.
            Figure 2a shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by NAMALWA
15 cells, using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2b shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by RAJI cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2c shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by HCC 143 cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
20          Figure 2d shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by HCC1806 cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2e shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by MDA-MB-468
   cells, using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2f shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by SW780 cells,
25 using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2g shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by Kato III cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2h shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by SCC-9 cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
30          Figure 2i shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by AML-193 cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2j shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by THP-1 cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 2k shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by RPMI 8226
35 cells, using MabZAP assay.
            Figure 21 shows the internalization of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies by OE- 19 cells,
   using MabZAP assay.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
40          The invention described in detail below encompasses the administration of therapeutic
   compositions to a subject, e.g. a mammalian subject, to treat or prevent cancer, e.g. the diseases of
   the invention. The invention also provides methods and compositions for clinical screening,
   diagnosis and prognosis of cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention, in a mammalian subject for
   identifying patients most likely to respond to a particular therapeutic treatment, for monitoring the

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       5
   results of cancer e.g. the diseases of the invention therapy, for drug screening and drug development.
            The invention is based on the finding that LY75 protein is expressed in certain cancers. In
   particular, supporting data is enclosed herein which demonstrates the expression of LY75 protein in
   the plasma membrane of bladder cancer, breast cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, colorectal
 5 cancer, esophageal cancer, thyroid cancer, gastric cancer, head and neck cancer, kidney cancer, non
   small cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, skin cancer, small cell lung cancer and
   lymphoma. Immuno-histochemical analysis also shows specific staining of tumor cells in
   pancreatic, ovarian, breast, colorectal, esophageal, skin, thyroid and lung cancers as well as Multiple
   Myeloma and lymphomas, both Hodgkin and Non-Hodgkin types. Therefore antibodies directed to
10 LY75 may have utility as therapeutics and diagnostics in these cancers and other cancer types
   showing expression of LY75.
            As used herein, the term "subject" refers to animal, preferably a mammal. The mammalian
   subject may be a non-human mammal, but is generally a human, such as a human adult.
            The subject will in general be a living subject. However, whilst the uses, methods and
15 compositions of the present invention are specially suited for screening, diagnosis and prognosis of a
   living subject, they may also be used for postmortem diagnosis in a subject, for example, to identify
   family members at risk of developing the same disease.
            As used herein, the term "patient" refers to a subject who has or is suspected of having one
   or more of the diseases of the invention.
20          As used herein, the term "protein of the invention" refers to Lymphocyte antigen 75
   (GeneID: 4065), which is referred to herein as LY75. This protein has been found to be
   differentially expressed in various cancers thus providing a new target for affinity-based therapies of
   these cancers. A human sequence of the LY75 protein is given in SEQ ID NO: 1. The term LY75
   (in the context of a protein) encompasses proteins whose amino acid sequences consist of or
25 comprise the amino acid sequence given in SEQ ID NO: 1 or derivatives or variants thereof,
   particularly naturally-occurring human derivatives or variants thereof.
            This protein has been identified in membrane protein extracts of cancer tissue samples from
   cancer patients through the methods and apparatus described in Example 1 (e.g. by liquid
   chromatography-mass spectrometry of membrane protein extracts). Peptide sequences were
30 compared to the SWISS PROT and TrEMBL databases (held by the Swiss Institute of
   Bioinformatics (SIB) and the European Bioinformatics Institute (EBI) which are available at
   www.expasy.org), and the entry 060449, Lymphocyte antigen 75 - LY75, was identified. The
   nucleotide sequence encoding this protein is found at accession number NM_002349, as given in
   SEQ ID NO: 2.
35          According to SWISS-PROT, Lymphocyte antigen 75 is expressed in spleen, thymus, colon
   and peripheral blood lymphocytes. It has been detected in myeloid and B lymphoid cell lines.
   Isoforms OGTA076b and OGTA076c are expressed in malignant Hodgkin's lymphoma cells called
   Hodgkin's and Reed-Sternberg (HRS) cells. LY75 acts as an endocytic receptor to direct captured
   antigens from the extracellular space to a specialized antigen-processing compartment. It causes
40 reduced proliferation of B-lymphocytes. The inventor has shown LY75 is expressed in both
   Hodgkin and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma types, suggesting affinity-based therapies directed against
   LY75 in patients including those with these and other cancer types will have a therapeutic effect
            Immunohistochemistry experiments (see Example 2) showed specific staining of tumor cells
   in pancreatic, ovarian, breast, colorectal, esophageal, skin, thyroid and lung (non-small-cell) cancers

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        6
   as well-as Multiple Myeloma and lymphomas including: Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, B-Cell
   Lymphoma (Not Otherwise Specified), Follicular Lymphoma, Mantle Cell Lymphoma, Lymphoma
   of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue (MALT), T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich B-Cell Lymphoma,
   Burkitt Lymphoma, Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma, Small Lymphoctyic Lymphoma, Marginal
 5 Zone Lymphoma, T-Cell Lymphoma (Not Otherwise Specified), Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma,
   Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma and Angiolmmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma. The latter cancers
   are preferred diseases of the invention.
            LY75 is useful as are fragments particularly epitope containing fragments e.g. antigenic or
   immunogenic fragments thereof and derivatives thereof, particularly fragments comprising
10 extracellular domains (e.g. extracellular tails or loops) of the protein. Epitope containing fragments,
   including antigenic or immunogenic fragments, will typically be of length 12 amino acids or more,
   e.g. 20 amino acids or more, e.g. 50 or 100 amino acids or more. Fragments may be 95% or more of
   the length of the full protein, e.g. 90% or more, e.g. 75% or 50% or 25% or 10% or more of the
   length of the full protein.
15          Alternatively, the protein/polypeptide employed or referred to herein may be limited to
   those proteins/polypeptides specifically recited/described in the present specification or to a variant
   or derivative which has at least 80, 85, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98 or 99% amino acid
   sequence identity or similarity thereto. Percentage amino acid sequence identity/similarity may be
   determined by any suitable algorithm, e.g. BLAST, CLUSTAL, using appropriate default
20 parameters.
            Hence the term "LY75" in the context of a protein or polypeptide refers to a protein whose
   amino acid sequence consists of or comprises the amino sequence given in SEQ ID NO: 1 or a
   derivative or variant thereof which has at least 90% or 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 1 and
   which protein has essentially the same tissue distribution as LY75.
25          In the context of a nucleic acid, the term "LY75" refers to a nucleic acid whose nucleotide
   sequence encodes a protein comprising the amino sequence given in SEQ ID NO: 1 or a derivative
   or variant thereof which has at least 90% or 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 1 and which
   protein has essentially the same tissue distribution as LY75 protein.
            The term "LY75" in the context of a nucleic acid also refers to a nucleic acid whose
30 nucleotide sequence comprises the sequence given in SEQ ID NO: 2 or a derivative or variant
   thereof which has at least 90% or 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 2 and which encodes a
   protein which has essentially the same tissue distribution as LY75 protein.
            Epitope-containing fragments of LY75 including antigenic or immunogenic fragments will
   be capable of eliciting a relevant immune response in a patient. DNA encoding LY75 is also useful
35 as are fragments thereof, e.g. DNA encoding fragments of LY75 such as immunogenic fragments
   thereof. Fragments of nucleic acid (e.g. DNA) encoding LY75 may be 95% or more of the length of
   the full coding region, e.g. 90% or more e.g. 75% or 50% or 25% or 10% or more of the length of
   the full coding region. Fragments of nucleic acid (e.g. DNA) may be 36 nucleotides or more, e.g. 60
   nucleotides or more, e.g. 150 or 300 nucleotides or more in length.
40          Derivatives of LY75 include variants on the sequence in which one or more (e.g. 1-20 such
   as 15 amino acids, or up to 20% such as up to 10% or 5% or 1% by number of amino acids based on
   the total length of the protein) deletions, insertions or substitutions have been made. Substitutions
   may typically be conservative substitutions. Derivatives will typically have essentially the same
   biological function as the protein from which they are derived. Derivatives will typically be

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       7
   comparably antigenic or immunogenic to the protein from which they are derived. Derivatives will
   typically have either the ligand-binding activity, or the active receptor-complex forming ability, or
   preferably both, of the protein from which they are derived. Derivatives and variants will generally
   have the same tissue distribution as LY75.
 5          Derivatives of proteins also include chemically treated protein such as carboxymethylated,
   carboxyamidated, acetylated proteins, for example treated during purification.
            In one aspect, the invention provides LY75 or a composition comprising LY75. The protein
   may be in isolated or purified form. The invention further provides a nucleic acid encoding LY75
   and a composition comprising a nucleic acid encoding LY75.
10          In a further aspect, there is provided a composition capable of eliciting an immune response
   in a subject, which composition comprises a LY75 polypeptide and/or one or more antigenic or
   immunogenic fragments thereof, and one or more suitable carriers, excipients, diluents or adjuvants
   (suitable adjuvants are discussed below).
            The composition capable of eliciting an immune response may for example be provided as a
15 vaccine comprising a LY75 polypeptide or derivative or variant thereof, and/or one or more
   antigenic or immunogenic fragments thereof, optionally together with one or more suitable carriers,
   excipients, diluents or adjuvants.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a LY75 polypeptide, or one or more fragments or
   derivatives or variants thereof, for the treatment or prophylaxis of e.g. one or more of the diseases of
20 the invention.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a use of a LY75 polypeptide, or one or more
   fragments or derivatives or variants thereof, for the treatment or prophylaxis of e.g. one or more of
   the diseases of the invention.
            The invention also provides a use of a LY75 polypeptide, one or more fragments or
25 derivatives or variants thereof, in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis
   of e.g. one or more of the diseases of the invention.
            In one aspect there is provided a method of treatment comprising administering a
   therapeutically effective amount of a LY75 polypeptide, one or more fragments or derivatives or
   variants thereof,, for the treatment or prophylaxis of e.g. one or more of the diseases of the
30 invention.
            The invention further provides a method for the treatment or prophylaxis of e.g. the diseases
   of the invention in a subject, or of vaccinating a subject against e.g. one or more of the diseases of
   the invention, which comprises the step of administering to the subject an effective amount of a
   LY75 polypeptide and/or one or more antigenic or immunogenic fragments or derivatives or
35 variants thereof, for example as a vaccine.
            In another aspect, the invention provides methods of treating e.g. the diseases of the
   invention, comprising administering to a patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound
   that modulates (e.g. upregulates or downregulates) or complements the expression or the biological
   activity (or both) of LY75 in patients having e.g. the diseases of the invention, in order to (a) prevent
40 the onset or development of e.g. the diseases of the invention; (b) prevent the progression of e.g. the
   diseases of the invention; or (c) ameliorate the symptoms of e.g. the diseases of the invention.
            In yet a further embodiment, the invention provides a medicament comprising, separately or
   together:

   WO 2014/072700                                                                    PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                          8
             (a)- LY75, and
             (b) an anti-cancer agent,
             for simultaneous, sequential or separate administration in the treatment of cancer, preferably
    in the treatment of one of the diseases of the invention.
 5           LY75 can be used for detection, prognosis, diagnosis, or monitoring of, e.g. the diseases of
   the invention or for drug development.
             According to another aspect of the invention, we provide a method of detecting, diagnosing
   and/or screening for or monitoring the progression of e.g. the diseases of the invention or of
   monitoring the effect of e.g. an anti-cancer drug or therapy directed towards the diseases of the
10 invention in a subject which comprises detecting the presence or level of LY75, or one or more
   fragments thereof, or the presence or level of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or the presence or level of
   the activity of LY75 or which comprises detecting a change in the level thereof in said subject.
             According to another aspect of the invention we provide a method of detecting, diagnosing
   and/or screening for e.g. the diseases of the invention in a candidate subject which comprises
15 detecting the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the presence of nucleic acid
   encoding LY75 or the presence of the activity of LY75 in said candidate subject, in which either (a)
   the presence of an elevated level of LY75 or said one or more fragments thereof or an elevated level
   of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or the presence of an elevated level of LY75 activity in the candidate
   subject as compared with the level in a healthy subject or (b) the presence of a detectable level of
20 LY75 or said one or more fragments thereof or a detectable level of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or
   the presence of a detectable level of LY75 activity in the candidate subject as compared with a
   corresponding undetectable level in a healthy subject indicates the presence of e.g. the diseases of
   the invention in said subject.
             According to another aspect of the invention, we provide a method of monitoring the
25 progression of e.g. the diseases of the invention in a subject or of monitoring the effect of e.g. an
   anti-cancer drug or therapy directed towards the diseases of the invention which comprises
   detecting the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the presence of nucleic acid
   encoding LY75 or the presence of the activity of LY75 in said candidate subject at a first time point
   and at a later time point, the presence of an elevated or lowered level of LY75 or said one or more
30 fragments thereof or an elevated or lowered level of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or the presence of
   an elevated or lowered level of LY75 activity in the subject at the later time point as compared with
   the level in the subject at said first time point, indicating the progression or regression of e.g. the
   diseases of the invention or indicating the effect or non-effect of e.g. an anti-cancer drug or therapy
   directed towards the diseases of the invention in said subject.
35           For LY75, the detected level obtained upon analyzing tissue sample from subjects having
   e.g. the diseases of the invention relative to the detected level obtained upon analyzing tissue from
   subjects free from e.g. the diseases of the invention will depend upon the particular analytical
   protocol and detection technique that is used. Accordingly, the present invention contemplates that
   each laboratory will establish a reference range in subjects free from e.g. the diseases of the
40 invention according to the analytical protocol and detection technique in use, as is conventional in
   the diagnostic art. Preferably, at least one control positive tissue sample from a subject known to
   have e.g. the diseases of the invention or at least one control negative tissue sample from a subject
   known to be free from e.g. the diseases of the invention (and more preferably both positive and
   negative control samples) are included in each batch of test samples analysed.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        9
             In one aspect of the invention, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis or other
    appropriate methods are used to analyze the diseases of the invention tissue samples from a subject,
   preferably a living subject, in order to measure the expression of LY75 for screening or diagnosis of
    e.g. the diseases of the invention, to determine the prognosis of a the diseases of the invention
 5 patient, to monitor the effectiveness of the diseases of the invention therapy, or for drug
   development.
             In any of the above methods, the level that may be detected in the candidate subject who has
   cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention is preferably 2 or more fold higher than the level in the
   healthy subject.
10           In one embodiment of the invention, tissue sample from a subject (e.g. a subject suspected
   of having the diseases of the invention) is analysed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry for
   detection of LY75. An increased abundance of LY75 in the tissue from the subject relative to tissue
   from a subject or subjects free from the diseases of the invention (e.g. a control sample) or a
   previously determined reference range indicates the presence of the diseases of the invention.
15           In relation to fragments, epitope containing fragments, immunogenic fragments or antigenic
   fragments of LY75:
             for the relevant cancer applications, in one aspect of the invention these comprise the
   sequence identified as a tryptic sequence in Example 1.
             As used herein, LY75 is "isolated" when it is present in a preparation that is substantially
20 free of contaminating proteins, i.e. a preparation in which less than 10% (for example less than 5%,
   such as less than 1%) of the total protein present is contaminating protein(s). A contaminating
   protein is a protein having a significantly different amino acid sequence from that of isolated LY75,
   as determined by mass spectral analysis. As used herein, a "significantly different" sequence is one
   that permits the contaminating protein to be resolved from LY75 by mass spectral analysis,
25 performed according to the protocol described herein in Example 1.
             In the diagnostic and prognostic methods of the invention, LY75 can be assayed by any
   method known to those skilled in the art, including but not limited to, the Preferred Technologies
   described herein, kinase assays, enzyme assays, binding assays and other functional assays,
   immunoassays, and western blotting.
30           Alternatively, LY75 can be detected in an immunoassay. In one embodiment, an
   immunoassay is performed by contacting a sample from a subject to be tested with an anti-LY75
   antibody (or other affinity reagent) under conditions such that binding (e.g. immunospecific
   binding) can occur if LY75 is present, and detecting or measuring the amount of any binding (e.g.
   immunospecific binding) by the agent. LY75 binding agents can be produced by the methods and
35 techniques taught herein. In a particular embodiment, LY75 is analysed using
   immunohistochemistry.
             LY75 may be detected by virtue of the detection of a fragment thereof e.g. an epitope
   containing (e.g. an immunogenic or antigenic) fragment thereof. Fragments may have a length of at
   least 10, more typically at least 20 amino acids e.g. at least 50 or 100 amino acids e.g. at least 150 or
40 200 amino acids; e.g. at least 300 or 500 amino acids; e.g. at least 700 or 900 amino acids.
             In one embodiment, binding of an affinity reagent (e.g. an antibody) in tissue sections can
   be used to detect aberrant LY75 localization or an aberrant level of LY75. In a specific
   embodiment, an antibody (or other affinity reagent) to LY75 can be used to assay a patient tissue
   (e.g. a lymphoid, thyroid, bladder, breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck and skin tissue)

   WO 2014/072700                                                                    PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        10
   for the level of LY75 where an aberrant level of LY75 is indicative of the diseases of the invention.
   As used herein, an "aberrant level" means a level that is increased compared with the level in a
   subject free from the diseases of the invention or a reference level.
             Any suitable immunoassay can be used, including, without limitation, competitive and
 5 non-competitive assay systems using techniques such as western blots, radioimmunoassays, ELISA
   (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay), "sandwich" immunoassays, immunoprecipitation assays,
   precipitin reactions, gel diffusion precipitin reactions, immunodiffusion assays, agglutination assays,
   complement-fixation assays, immunoradiometric assays, fluorescent immunoassays and protein A
   immunoassays.
10           For example, LY75 can be detected in a fluid sample (e.g. blood, urine, or saliva) by means
   of a two-step sandwich assay. In the first step, a capture reagent (e.g. an anti-LY75 antibody or
   other affinity reagent) is used to capture LY75. The capture reagent can optionally be immobilized
   on a solid phase. In the second step, a directly or indirectly labelled detection reagent is used to
   detect the captured LY75. In one embodiment, the detection reagent is a lectin. Any lectin can be
15 used for this purpose that preferentially binds to LY75 rather than to other isoforms that have the
   same core protein as LY75 or to other proteins that share the antigenic determinant recognized by
   the antibody. In a preferred embodiment, the chosen lectin binds LY75 with at least 2-fold greater
   affinity, more preferably at least 5-fold greater affinity, still more preferably at least 10-fold greater
   affinity, than to said other isoforms that have the same core protein as LY75 or to said other proteins
20 that share the antigenic determinant recognized by the affinity reagent. Based on the present
   description, a lectin that is suitable for detecting LY75 can readily be identified by methods well
   known in the art, for instance upon testing one or more lectins enumerated in Table I on pages
   158-159 of Sumar et al., Lectins as Indicators of Disease-Associated Glycoforms, In: Gabius H-J &
   Gabius S (eds.), 1993, Lectins and Glycobiology, at pp. 158-174 (which is incorporated herein by
25 reference in its entirety). In an alternative embodiment, the detection reagent is an antibody (or
   other affinity reagent), e.g. an antibody that specifically (e.g. immunospecifically) detects other
   post-translational modifications, such as an antibody that immunospecifically binds to
   phosphorylated amino acids. Examples of such antibodies include those that bind to
   phosphotyrosine (BD Transduction Laboratories, catalog nos.: P1 1230-050/P11230-150; P 1120;
30 P38820; P39020), those that bind to phosphoserine (Zymed Laboratories Inc., South San Francisco,
   CA, catalog no. 61-8100) and those that bind to phosphothreonine (Zymed Laboratories Inc., South
   San Francisco, CA, catalogue nos. 71-8200, 13-9200).
            If desired, a gene encoding LY75, a related gene, or related nucleic acid sequences or
   subsequences, including complementary sequences, can also be used in hybridization assays. A
35 nucleotide encoding LY75, or subsequences thereof comprising at least 8 nucleotides, preferably at
   least 12 nucleotides, and most preferably at least 15 nucleotides can be used as a hybridization
   probe. Hybridization assays can be used for detection, prognosis, diagnosis, or monitoring of
   conditions, disorders, or disease states, associated with aberrant expression of the gene encoding
   LY75, or for differential diagnosis of subjects with signs or symptoms suggestive of e.g. the
40 diseases of the invention. In particular, such a hybridization assay can be carried out by a method
   comprising contacting a subject's sample containing nucleic acid with a nucleic acid probe capable
   of hybridizing to a DNA or RNA that encodes LY75, under conditions such that hybridization can
   occur, and detecting or measuring any resulting hybridization.
            Hence nucleic acid encoding LY75 (e.g. DNA or more suitably RNA) may be detected, for

     WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                          11
     example, using a hybridizing agent (particularly an oligonucleotide probe) capable of hybridizing to
     nucleic acid encoding LY75.
               One such exemplary method comprises:
            contacting one or more oligonucleotide probes comprising 10 or more consecutive nucleotides
 5 complementary to a nucleotide sequence encoding LY75, with an RNA obtained from a biological
   sample from the subject or with cDNA copied from the RNA, wherein said contacting occurs under
   conditions that permit hybridization of the probe to the nucleotide sequence if present;
            detecting hybridization, if any, between the probe and the nucleotide sequence; and
            comparing the hybridization, if any, detected in step (b) with the hybridization detected in a
10 control sample, or with a previously determined reference range.
              The invention also provides diagnostic kits, comprising an anti-LY75 antibody (or other
     affinity reagent). In addition, such a kit may optionally comprise one or more of the following:
              (1) instructions for using the anti-LY75 affinity reagent for diagnosis, prognosis, therapeutic
     monitoring or any combination of these applications;
15            (2) a labelled binding partner to the affinity reagent;
              (3) a solid phase (such as a reagent strip) upon which the anti-LY75 affinity reagent is
     immobilized; and
              (4) a label or insert indicating regulatory approval for diagnostic, prognostic or therapeutic
     use or any combination thereof. If no labelled binding partner to the affinity reagent is provided, the
20   anti-LY75 affinity reagent itself can be labelled with a detectable marker, e.g. a chemiluminescent,
     enzymatic, fluorescent, or radioactive moiety.
              The invention also provides a kit comprising a nucleic acid probe capable of hybridizing to
     nucleic acid, suitably RNA, encoding LY75. In a specific embodiment, a kit comprises one or more
     containers a pair of primers (e.g. each in the size range of 6-30 nucleotides, more preferably 10-30
25   nucleotides and still more preferably 10-20 nucleotides) that under appropriate reaction conditions
     can prime amplification of at least a portion of a nucleic acid encoding LY75, such as by
     polymerase chain reaction (see, e.g. Innis et al., 1990, PCR Protocols, Academic Press, Inc., San
     Diego, CA), ligase chain reaction (see EP 320,308) use of Qp replicase, cyclic probe reaction, or
     other methods known in the art.
30            A kit can optionally further comprise a predetermined amount of LY75 or a nucleic acid
     encoding LY75, e.g. for use as a standard or control.
              As used herein, the term "sample" includes a bodily fluid (e.g. blood, urine or saliva) and
     tissue biopsies taken from a subject at risk of having one or more of the diseases of the invention
     (e.g. a biopsy such as a lymphoid, thyroid, bladder, breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck and
35   skin biopsy) or homogenate thereof.
              For example, the biological sample used can be from any source such as a serum sample or
     a tissue sample e.g. lymphoid, thyroid, bladder, breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck and
     skin tissue. For instance, when looking for evidence of metastatic the diseases of the invention, one
     would look at major sites of the diseases of the invention metastasis, e.g. the lymph nodes, spleen,
40   liver, stomach, bones, brain, lungs, testis and skin for lymphoma; the lungs and bones for thyroid
     cancer; the bones, lungs, skin and the liver for bladder cancer; the bones, liver and lungs for breast
     cancer; the liver, lungs and bones for esophageal cancer; the liver, lungs, brain, bones, kidneys and
     pancreas for gastric cancer; the lungs, bones, liver and skin for head and neck cancer or the lungs,
     brain and bones for skin cancer.

      WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                          12
               Alternatively the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the presence of
      nucleic acid encoding LY75 or the presence of the activity of LY75 may be detected by analysis in
      situ.
               In certain embodiments, methods of diagnosis described herein may be at least partly, or
 5    wholly, performed in vitro or ex vivo.
               Suitably the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the presence of nucleic
      acid encoding LY75 or the presence of the activity of LY75 is detected quantitatively.
               For example, quantitatively detecting may comprise:
            contacting a biological sample with an affinity reagent that is specific for LY75, said affinity
10 reagent optionally being conjugated to a detectable label; and
            detecting whether binding has occurred between the affinity reagent and at least one species in
   the sample, said detection being performed either directly or indirectly.
               Alternatively the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the presence of
      nucleic acid encoding LY75 or the presence of the activity of LY75 may be detected quantitatively
15    by means involving use of an imaging technology.
               In another embodiment, the method of the invention involves use of immunohistochemistry
      on e.g. lymphoid, thyroid, bladder, breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck and skin tissue
      sections in order to determine the presence of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the
      presence of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or the presence of the activity of LY75, and thereby to
20    localise e.g. the diseases of the invention cells.
             - In one embodiment the presence of LY75 or one or more epitope-containing fragments
      thereof is detected, for example using an affinity reagent capable of specific binding to LY75 or one
      or more fragments thereof, such as an antibody.
               In another embodiment the activity of LY75 is detected.
25             Use in Clinical Studies
               The diagnostic methods and compositions of the present invention can assist in monitoring a
      clinical study, e.g. to evaluate drugs for therapy of the diseases of the invention. In one embodiment,
      candidate molecules are tested for their ability to restore LY75 levels in a subject having e.g. the
      diseases of the invention to levels found in subjects free from the diseases of the invention or, in a
30    treated subject, to preserve LY75 levels at or near non-lymphoma, non-thyroid cancer, non-bladder
      cancer, non-gastric cancer, non-esophagus cancer, non-head and neck cancer and non-skin cancer
      values.
               In another embodiment, the methods and compositions of the present invention are used to
      screen candidates for a clinical study to identify individuals having e.g. the diseases of the invention;
35    such individuals can then be excluded from the study or can be placed in a separate cohort for
      treatment or analysis.
               Production of Protein of the Invention and Corresponding Nucleic Acid
               In one aspect the invention provides a method of treating or preventing e.g. the diseases of
      the invention, comprising administering to a subject in need of such treatment or prevention a
40    therapeutically effective amount of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or one or more fragments or
      derivatives thereof, for example in the form of a vaccine.
               In another aspect there is provided a method of treating or preventing e.g. the diseases of the
      invention comprising administering to a subject in need of such treatment or prevention a
      therapeutically effective amount of nucleic acid that inhibits the function or expression of LY75.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        13
            The methods (and/or other DNA aspects disclosed herein) of the invention may, for example
   include wherein the nucleic acid is a LY75 anti-sense nucleic acid or ribozyme.
            Thus the invention includes the use of nucleic acid encoding LY75 or one or more
   fragments or derivatives thereof, in the manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing e.g.
 5 the diseases of the invention.
            There is also provided the use of nucleic acid that inhibits the function or expression of
   LY75 in the manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing e.g. one or more of the diseases
   of the invention.
            A DNA employed in the present invention can be obtained by isolation as a cDNA fragment
10 from cDNA libraries using as starter materials commercial mRNAs and determining and identifying
   the nucleotide sequences thereof. That is, specifically, clones are randomly isolated from cDNA
   libraries, which are prepared according to Ohara et aL's method (DNA Research Vol.4, 53-59
   (1997)). Next, through hybridization, duplicated clones (which appear repeatedly) are removed and
   then in vitro transcription and translation are carried out. Nucleotide sequences of both termini of
15 clones, for which products of 50 kDa or more are confirmed, are determined.
            Furthermore, databases of known genes are searched for homology using the thus obtained
   terminal nucleotide sequences as queries.
            In addition to the above screening method, the 5' and 3' terminal sequences of cDNA are
   related to a human genome sequence. Then an unknown long-chain gene is confirmed in a region
20 between the sequences, and the full-length of the cDNA is analyzed. In this way, an unknown gene
   that is unable to be obtained by a conventional cloning method that depends on known genes can be
   systematically cloned.
            Moreover, all of the regions of a human-derived gene containing a DNA of the present
   invention can also be prepared using a PCR method such as RACE while paying sufficient attention
25 to prevent artificial errors from taking place in short fragments or obtained sequences. As described
   above, clones having DNA of the present invention can be obtained.
            In another means for cloning DNA of the present invention, a synthetic DNA primer having
   an appropriate nucleotide sequence of a portion of a polypeptide of the present invention is
   produced, followed by amplification by the PCR method using an appropriate library. Alternatively,
30 selection can be carried out by hybridization of the DNA of the present invention with a DNA that
   has been incorporated into an appropriate vector and labelled with a DNA fragment or a synthetic
   DNA encoding some or all of the regions of the polypeptide of the present invention. Hybridization
   can be carried out by, for example, the method described in Current Protocols in Molecular Biology
   (edited by Frederick M. Ausubel et al., 1987). DNA of the present invention may be any DNA, as
35 long as they contain nucleotide sequences encoding the polypeptides of the present invention as
   described above. Such a DNA may be a cDNA identified and isolated from cDNA libraries or the
   like that are derived from lymphoid, thyroid, bladder, breast, gastric, esophagus, head and
   neck and skin tissue. Such a DNA may also be a synthetic DNA or the like. Vectors for use in
   library construction may be any of bacteriophages, plasmids, cosmids, phargemids, or the like.
40 Furthermore, by the use of a total RNA fraction or a mRNA fraction prepared from the above cells
   and/or tissues, amplification can be carried out by a direct reverse transcription coupled polymerase
   chain reaction (hereinafter abbreviated as "RT-PCR method").
            DNA encoding the above polypeptide consisting of an amino acid sequence that is
   substantially identical to the amino acid sequence of LY75 or DNA encoding the above polypeptide

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      14
   consisting of an amino- acid sequence derived from the amino acid sequence of LY75 by deletion,
    substitution, or addition of one or more amino acids composing a portion of the amino acid sequence
   can be easily produced by an appropriate combination of, for example, a site-directed mutagenesis
   method, a gene homologous recombination method, a primer elongation method, and the PCR
 5 method known by persons skilled in the art. In addition, at this time, a possible method for causing a
   polypeptide to have substantially equivalent biological activity is substitution of homologous amino
   acids (e.g. polar and nonpolar amino acids, hydrophobic and hydrophilic amino acids, positively
   charged and negatively charged amino acids, and aromatic amino acids) among amino acids
   composing the polypeptide. Furthermore, to maintain substantially equivalent biological activity,
10 amino acids within functional domains contained in the polypeptide of the present invention are
   preferably conserved.
            Furthermore, examples of DNA of the present invention include DNA comprising a
   nucleotide sequence that encodes the amino acid sequence of LY75 and DNA hybridizing under
   stringent conditions to the DNA and encoding a polypeptide (protein) having biological activity
15 (function) equivalent to the function of the polypeptide consisting of the amino acid sequence of
   LY75. Under such conditions, an example of such DNA capable of hybridizing to DNA comprising
   the nucleotide sequence that encodes the amino acid sequence of LY75 is DNA comprising a
   nucleotide sequence that has a degree of overall mean homology with the entire nucleotide sequence
   of the DNA, such as approximately 80% or more, preferably approximately 90% or more, and more
20 preferably approximately 95% or more. Hybridization can be carried out according to a method
   known in the art such as a method described in Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (edited by
   Frederick M. Ausubel et al., 1987) or a method according thereto. Here, "stringent conditions" are,
   for example, conditions of approximately "l*SSC, 0.1% SDS, and 37'C, more stringent conditions
   of approximately "0.5*SSC, 0.1% SDS, and 42'C, or even more stringent conditions of
25 approximately "0.2*SSC, 0.1% SDS, and 65'C. With more stringent hybridization conditions, the
   isolation of a DNA having high homology with a probe sequence can be expected. The above
   combinations of SSC, SDS, and temperature conditions are given for illustrative purposes.
   Stringency similar to the above can be achieved by persons skilled in the art using an appropriate
   combination of the above factors or other factors (for example, probe concentration, probe length,
30 and reaction time for hybridization) for determination of hybridization stringency.
            A cloned DNA of the present invention can be directly used or used, if desired, after
   digestion with a restriction enzyme or addition of a linker, depending on purposes. The DNA may
   have ATG as a translation initiation codon at the 5' terminal side and have TAA, TGA, or TAG as a
   translation termination codon at the 3' terminal side. These translation initiation and translation
35 termination codons can also be added using an appropriate synthetic DNA adapter.
            In the methods/uses of the invention, LY75 may for example be provided in isolated form,
   such as where the LY75 polypeptide has been purified to at least to some extent. LY75 polypeptide
   may be provided in substantially pure form, that is to say free, to a substantial extent, from other
   proteins. LY75 polypeptide can also be produced using recombinant methods, synthetically
40 produced or produced by a combination of these methods. LY75 can be easily prepared by any
   method known by persons skilled in the art, which involves producing an expression vector
   containing appropriate DNA of the present invention or a gene containing a DNA of the present
   invention, culturing a transformant transformed using the expression vector, generating and
   accumulating a relevant polypeptide of the present invention or a recombinant protein containing the

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       15
   polypeptide, and then collecting the resultant.
            Recombinant LY75 polypeptide may be prepared by processes well known in the art from
   genetically engineered host cells comprising expression systems. Accordingly, the present invention
   also relates to expression systems which comprise a LY75 polypeptide or nucleic acid, to host cells
 5 which are genetically engineered with such expression systems and to the production of LY75
   polypeptide by recombinant techniques. For recombinant LY75 polypeptide production, host cells
   can be genetically engineered to incorporate expression systems or portions thereof for nucleic
   acids. Such incorporation can be performed using methods well known in the art, such as, calcium
   phosphate transfection, DEAD-dextran mediated transfection, transvection, microinjection, cationic
10 lipid-mediated transfection, electroporation, transduction, scrape loading, ballistic introduction or
   infection (see e.g. Davis et al., Basic Methods in Molecular Biology, 1986 and Sambrook et al. ,
   Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring Harbour laboratory Press, Cold
   Spring Harbour, NY, 1989).
            As host cells, for example, bacteria of the genus Escherichia,Streptococci,Staphylococci,
15 Streptomyces, bacteria of the genus Bacillus, yeast, Aspergillus cells, insect cells, insects, and
   animal cells are used. Specific examples of bacteria of the genus Escherichia,which are used herein,
   include Escherichiacoli K12 and DH1 (Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., Vol. 60, 160 (1968)), JM103
   (Nucleic Acids Research, Vol. 9, 309 (1981)), JA221 (JournalofMolecular Biology, Vol. 120, 517
   (1978)), and HB101 (JournalofMolecular Biology, Vol. 41, 459 (1969)). As bacteria of the genus
20 Bacillus, for example, Bacillus subtilis M1 14 (Gene, Vol. 24, 255 (1983)) and 207-21 (Journalof
   Biochemistry, Vol. 95, 87 (1984)) are used. As yeast, for example, Saccaromyces cerevisiae AH22,
   AH22R-, NA87-1 1A, DKD-5D, and 20B-12, Schizosaccaromycespombe NCYC1913 and
   NCYC203 6, and Pichiapastoris are used. As insect cells, for example, Drosophila S2 and
   Spodoptera Sf9 cells are used. As animal cells, for example, COS-7 and Vero monkey cells, CHO
25 Chinese hamster cells (hereinafter abbreviated as CHO cells), dhfr-gene-deficient CHO cells, mouse
   L cells, mouse AtT-20 cells, mouse myeloma cells, rat GH3 cells, human FL cells, COS, HeLa,
   C127,3T3, HEK 293, BHK and Bowes melanoma cells are used.
            Cell-free translation systems can also be employed to produce recombinant polypeptides
   (e.g. rabbit reticulocyte lysate, wheat germ lysate, SP6/T7 in vitro T&T and RTS 100 E. Coli HY
30 transcription and translation kits from Roche Diagnostics Ltd., Lewes, UK and the TNT Quick
   coupled Transcription/Translation System from Promega UK, Southampton, UK).
            The expression vector can be produced according to a method known in the art. For
   example, the vector can be produced by (1) excising a DNA fragment containing a DNA of the
   present invention or a gene containing a DNA of the present invention and (2) ligating the DNA
35 fragment downstream of the promoter in an appropriate expression vector. A wide variety of
   expression systems can be used, such as and without limitation, chromosomal, episomal and virus
   derived systems, e.g. plasmids derived from Escherichia coli (e.g. pBR322, pBR325, pUC18, and
   pUC 118), plasmids derived from Bacillus subtilis (e.g. pUB 110, pTP5, and pC194), from
   bacteriophage, from transposons, from yeast episomes (e.g. pSH 19 and pSH 15), from insertion
40 elements, from yeast chromosomal elements, from viruses such as baculoviruses, papova viruses
   such as SV40, vaccinia viruses, adenoviruses, fowl pox viruses, pseudorabies viruses and
   retroviruses, and vectors derived from combinations thereof, such as those derived from plasmid and
   bacteriophage (such as [lambda] phage) genetic elements, such as cosmids and phagemids. The
   expression systems may contain control regions that regulate as well as engender expression.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       16
   Promoters to be used in the present invention may be any promoters as long as they are appropriate
   for hosts to be used for gene expression. For example, when a host is Escherichiacoli, a trp
   promoter, a lac promoter, a recA promoter, a pL promoter, an ipp promoter, and the like are
   preferred. When a host is Bacillussubtilis, an SPO1 promoter, an SPO2 promoter, a penP promoter,
 5 and the like are preferred. When a host is yeast, a PHO5 promoter, a PGK promoter, a GAP
   promoter, an ADH promoter, and the like are preferred. When an animal cell is used as a host,
   examples of promoters for use in this case include an SRa promoter, an SV40 promoter, an LTR
   promoter, a CMV promoter, and an HSV-TK promoter. Generally, any system or vector that is able
   to maintain, propagate or express a nucleic acid to produce a polypeptide in a host may be used.
10          The appropriate nucleic acid sequence may be inserted into an expression system by any
   variety of well known and routine techniques, such as those set forth in Sambrook et al., supra.
   Appropriate secretion signals may be incorporated into the LY75 polypeptide to allow secretion of
   the translated protein into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, the periplasmic space or the
   extracellular environment. These signals may be endogenous to the LY75 polypeptide or they may
15 be heterologous signals. Transformation of the host cells can be carried out according to methods
   known in the art. For example, the following documents can be referred to: Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
   U.S.A., Vol. 69, 2110 (1972); Gene, Vol. 17, 107 (1982); Molecular & GeneralGenetics, Vol. 168,
   111 (1979); Methods in Enzymology, Vol. 194, 182-187 (1991); Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.), Vol.
   75, 1929 (1978); Cell Technology, separate volume 8, New Cell Technology, Experimental
20 Protocol. 263-267 (1995) (issued by Shujunsha); and Virology, Vol. 52, 456 (1973). The thus
   obtained transformant transformed with an expression vector containing a DNA of the present
   invention or a gene containing a DNA of the present invention can be cultured according to a
   method known in the art. For example, when hosts are bacteria of the genus Escherichia,the
   bacteria are generally cultured at approximately 15'C to 43'C for approximately 3 to 24 h. If
25 necessary, aeration or agitation can also be added. When hosts are bacteria of the genus Bacillus, the
   bacteria are generally cultured at approximately 30'C to 40'C for approximately 6 to 24 h. If
   necessary, aeration or agitation can also be added. When transformants whose hosts are yeast are
   cultured, culture is generally carried out at approximately 20'C to 350C for approximately 24 to 72 h
   using media with pH adjusted to be approximately 5 to 8. If necessary, aeration or agitation can also
30 be added. When transformants whose hosts are animal cells are cultured, the cells are generally
   cultured at approximately 30'C to 40'C for approximately 15 to 60 h using media with the pH
   adjusted to be approximately 6 to 8. If necessary, aeration or agitation can also be added.
            If a LY75 polypeptide is to be expressed for use in cell-based screening assays, it is
   preferred that the polypeptide be produced at the cell surface. In this event, the cells may be
35 harvested prior to use in the screening assay. If the LY75 polypeptide is secreted into the medium,
   the medium can be recovered in order to isolate said polypeptide. If produced intracellularly, the
   cells must first be lysed before the LY75 polypeptide is recovered.
            LY75 polypeptide can be recovered and purified from recombinant cell cultures or from
   other biological sources by well known methods including, ammonium sulphate or ethanol
40 precipitation, acid extraction, anion or cation exchange chromatography, phosphocellulose
   chromatography, affinity chromatography, hydrophobic interaction chromatography,
   hydroxylapatite chromatography, molecular sieving chromatography, centrifugation methods,
   electrophoresis methods and lectin chromatography. In one embodiment, a combination of these
   methods is used. In another embodiment, high performance liquid chromatography is used. In a

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       17
   further embodiment, an antibody which specifically binds to a LY75 polypeptide can be used to
   deplete a sample comprising a LY75 polypeptide of said polypeptide or to purify said polypeptide.
            To separate and purify a polypeptide or a protein of the present invention from the culture
   products, for example, after culture, microbial bodies or cells are collected by a known method, they
 5 are suspended in an appropriate buffer, the microbial bodies or the cells are disrupted by, for
   example, ultrasonic waves, lysozymes, and/or freeze-thawing, the resultant is then subjected to
   centrifugation or filtration, and then a crude extract of the protein can be obtained. The buffer may
   also contain a protein denaturation agent such as urea or guanidine hydrochloride or a surfactant
   such as Triton X- 1O0(TM). When the protein is secreted in a culture solution, microbial bodies or
10 cells and a supernatant are separated by a known method after the completion of culture and then the
   supernatant is collected. The protein contained in the thus obtained culture supernatant or the extract
   can be purified by an appropriate combination of known separation and purification methods. The
   thus obtained polypeptide (protein) of the present invention can be converted into a salt by a known
   method or a method according thereto. Conversely, when the polypeptide (protein) of the present
15 invention is obtained in the form of a salt, it can be converted into a free protein or peptide or
   another salt by a known method or a method according thereto. Moreover, an appropriate protein
   modification enzyme such as trypsin or chymotrypsin is caused to act on a protein produced by a
   recombinant before or after purification, so that modification can be arbitrarily added or a
   polypeptide can be partially removed. The presence of a polypeptide (protein) of the present
20 invention or a salt thereof can be measured by various binding assays, enzyme immunoassays using
   specific antibodies, and the like.
            Techniques well known in the art may be used for refolding to regenerate native or active
   conformations of the LY75 polypeptide when the polypeptide has been denatured during isolation
   and or purification. In the context of the present invention, LY75 polypeptide can be obtained from
25 a biological sample from any source, such as and without limitation, a blood sample or tissue
   sample, e.g. a lymphoid, thyroid, bladder, breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck and skin
   tissue sample.
            LY75 polypeptide may be in the form of a "mature protein" or may be part of a larger
   protein such as a fusion protein. It is often advantageous to include an additional amino acid
30  sequence which contains secretory or leader sequences, a pre-, pro- or prepro-protein sequence, or a
    sequence which aids in purification such as an affinity tag, for example, but without limitation,
   multiple histidine residues, a FLAG tag, HA tag or myc tag.
            LY75 may, for example, be fused with a heterologous fusion partner such as the surface
   protein, known as protein D from Haemophilus Influenza B, a non-structural protein from
35  influenzae virus such as NS 1, the S antigen from Hepatitis B or a protein known as LYTA such as
    the C terminal thereof.
            An additional sequence that may provide stability during recombinant production may also
    be used. Such sequences may be optionally removed as required by incorporating a cleavable
    sequence as an additional sequence or part thereof. Thus, a LY75 polypeptide may be fused to other
40  moieties including other polypeptides or proteins (for example, glutathione S-transferase and protein
    A). Such a fusion protein can be cleaved using an appropriate protease, and then separated into each
    protein. Such additional sequences and affinity tags are well known in the art. In addition to the
    above, features known in the art, such as an enhancer, a splicing signal, a polyA addition signal, a
    selection marker, and an SV40 replication origin can be added to an expression vector, if desired.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        18
            In one aspect the invention provides an agent capable of specific binding to LY75, or a
   fragment thereof, or a hybridising agent capable of hybridizing to nucleic acid encoding LY75 or an
   agent capable of detecting the activity of LY75 for use in treating, screening for, detecting and/or
   diagnosing disease, such as cancer, and especially the diseases of the invention.
 5          Production of Affinity Reagents to LY75
            In one aspect, the invention provides an affinity or immunoaffinity reagent which is capable
   of specific binding to LY75 or a fragment thereof, for example an affinity reagent which contains or
   is conjugated to a detectable label or contains or is conjugated to a therapeutic moiety, such as a
   cytotoxic moiety. The affinity agent may, for example, be an antibody.
10          In one embodiment, the affinity reagent for use in the invention may bind to an epitope on
   LY75, e.g. one or more of the portions of SEQ ID NO: 1. In a preferred embodiment, the affinity
   reagent for use in the invention may bind to an epitope on LY75 extracellular domain, e.g. one or
   more of the portions of SEQ ID NO: 53.
            According to those in the art, there are three main types of immunoaffinity reagent
15 monoclonal antibodies, phage display antibodies and smaller antibody-derived molecules such as
   Affibodies, Domain Antibodies (dAbs), Nanobodies, UniBodies, DARPins, Anticalins, Duocalins,
   Avimers or Versabodies. In general in applications according to the present invention where the use
   of antibodies is stated, other affmity reagents (e.g. Affibodies, Domain Antibodies, Nanobodies,
   UniBodies, DARPins, Anticalins, Duocalins, Avimers or Versabodies) may be employed. Such
20 substances may be said to be capable of immunospecific binding to LY75. Where appropriate the
   term "affinity agent" shall be construed to embrace immunoaffinity reagents and other substances
   capable of specific binding to LY75 including but not limited to ligands, lectins, streptavidins,
   antibody mimetics and synthetic binding agents.
            Production of Antibodies to LY75
25          According to the invention LY75, a LY75 analog, a LY75-related protein or a fragment or
   derivative of any of the foregoing may be used as an immunogen to generate antibodies which
   immunospecifically bind such an immunogen. Such immunogens can be isolated by any convenient
   means, including the methods described above. The term "antibody" as used herein refers to a
   peptide or polypeptide derived from, modeled after or substantially encoded by an immunoglobulin
30 gene or immunoglobulin genes, or fragments thereof, capable of specifically binding an antigen or
   epitope. See, e.g. FundamentalImmunology, 3 rd Edition, W.E. Paul, ed., Raven Press, N.Y. (1993);
   Wilson (1994) J. Immunol. Methods 175:267-273; Yarmush (1992) J. Biochem. Biophys. Methods
   25:85-97. The term antibody includes antigen-binding portions, i.e., "antigen binding sites" (e.g.
   fragments, subsequences, complementarity determining regions (CDRs)) that retain capacity to bind
35 antigen, including (i) a Fab fragment, a monovalent fragment consisting of the VL, VH, CL and
   CHl domains; (ii) a F(ab') 2 fragment, a bivalent fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a
   disulfide bridge at the hinge region; (iii) a Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CHI domains; (iv)
   a Fv fragment consisting of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody, (v) a dAb
   fragment (Ward et al., (1989) Nature 341:544-546), which consists of a VH domain; and (vi) an
40 isolated complementarity determining region (CDR). Single chain antibodies are also included by
   reference in the term "antibody". Antibodies of the invention include, but are not limited to
   polyclonal, monoclonal, bispecific, humanized or chimeric antibodies, single chain antibodies, Fab
   fragments and F(ab') 2 fragments, fragments produced by a Fab expression library, anti-idiotypic
   (anti-Id) antibodies, and epitope-binding fragments of any of the above. The immunoglobulin

   WO 2014/072700                                                                     PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                         19
   molecules of the invention can be of any class (e.g. IgG, IgE, IgM, IgD and IgA such as IgG) or
   subclass of immunoglobulin molecule.
             The term "specifically binds" or "binds specifically" (or "immunospecifically binds") is not
   intended to indicate that an antibody binds exclusively to its intended target. Rather, an antibody
 5 "specifically binds" if its affinity for its intended target is typically about 5-fold greater when
   compared to its affinity for a non-target molecule. Suitably there is no significant cross-reaction or
   cross-binding with undesired substances, especially naturally occurring proteins or tissues of a
   healthy person or animal. Preferably the affinity of the antibody will be at least about 5 fold,
   preferably 10 fold, more preferably 25-fold, even more preferably 50-fold, and most preferably 100
10 fold or more, greater for a target molecule than its affinity for a non-target molecule. In some
   embodiments, specific binding between an antibody or other binding agent and an antigen means a
   binding affinity of at least 106 M-1. Antibodies may, for example, bind with affinities of at least
   about 107 M~1, and preferably between about 108 M- to about 10' M-, about 109 M-1 to about 1010 M
    , or about 1010 M- 1 to about 10" M 1.
15          Affinity is calculated as Kd =koff /kon (koff is the dissociation rate constant, kon is the
   association rate constant and Kd is the equilibrium constant. Affinity can be determined at
   equilibrium by measuring the fraction bound (r) of labelled ligand at various concentrations (c). The
   data are graphed using the Scatchard equation: r/c = K(n-r):
            where
20       r = moles of bound ligand/mole of receptor at equilibrium;
         c = free ligand concentration at equilibrium;
         K = equilibrium association constant; and
         n= number of ligand binding sites per receptor molecule
   By graphical analysis, r/c is plotted on the Y-axis versus r on the X-axis thus producing a Scatchard
25 plot. The affinity is the negative slope of the line. koff can be determined by competing bound
   labelled ligand with unlabelled excess ligand (see, e.g. U.S. Pat No. 6,316,409). The affinity of a
   targeting agent for its target molecule is for example at least about 1 x 10~6 moles/liter, such as at
   least about 1 x 10-7 moles/liter, such as at least about 1 x 10-8 moles/liter, especially at least about 1
   x 10-9 moles/liter, and particularly at least about 1 x 10-40 moles/liter. Antibody affinity measurement
30 by Scatchard analysis is well known in the art, see, e.g. van Erp et al., J. Immunoassay 12: 425-43,
   1991; Nelson and Griswold, Comput. Methods ProgramsBiomed. 27: 65-8, 1988.
            In one embodiment, any publicly available antibodies that recognize gene products of genes
   encoding LY75 may be used. In another embodiment, methods known to those skilled in the art are
   used to produce antibodies that recognize LY75, a LY75 analog, a LY75-related polypeptide, or a
35 fragment or derivative of any of the foregoing. One skilled in the art will recognize that many
   procedures are available for the production of antibodies, for example, as described in Antibodies, A
   Laboratory Manual, Ed Harlow and David Lane, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (1988), Cold
   Spring Harbor, N.Y. One skilled in the art will also appreciate that binding fragments or Fab
   fragments which mimic antibodies can also be prepared from genetic information by various
40 procedures (Antibody Engineering: A Practical Approach (Borrebaeck, C., ed.), 1995, Oxford
   University Press, Oxford; J. Immunol. 149, 3914-3920 (1992)).
            In one embodiment of the invention, antibodies to a specific domain of LY75 are produced.
   In a specific embodiment, hydrophilic fragments of LY75 are used as immunogens for antibody
   production.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                     PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        20
            In the production of antibodies, screening for the desired antibody can be accomplished by
   techniques known in the art, e.g. ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). For example, to
   select antibodies which recognize a specific domain of LY75, one may assay generated hybridomas
   for a product which binds to a LY75 fragment containing such domain. For selection of an antibody
 5 that specifically binds a first LY75 homolog but which does not specifically bind to (or binds less
   avidly to) a second LY75 homolog, one can select on the basis of positive binding to the first LY75
   homolog and a lack of binding to (or reduced binding to) the second LY75 homolog. Similarly, for
   selection of an antibody that specifically binds LY75 but which does not specifically bind to (or
   binds less avidly to) a different isoform of the same protein (such as a different glycoform having
10 the same core peptide as LY75), one can select on the basis of positive binding to LY75 and a lack
   of binding to (or reduced binding to) the different isoform (e.g. a different glycoform). Thus, the
   present invention provides an antibody (such as a monoclonal antibody) that binds with greater
   affinity (for example at least 2-fold, such as at least 5-fold, particularly at least 10-fold greater
   affinity) to LY75 than to a different isoform or isoforms (e.g. glycoforms) of LY75.
15          Polyclonal antibodies which may be used in the methods of the invention are heterogeneous
   populations of antibody molecules derived from the sera of immunized animals. Unfractionated
   immune serum can also be used. Various procedures known in the art may be used for the
   production of polyclonal antibodies to LY75, a fragment of LY75, a LY75-related polypeptide, or a
   fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide. For example, one way is to purify polypeptides of interest
20 or to synthesize the polypeptides of interest using, e.g. solid phase peptide synthesis methods well
   known in the art. See, e.g. Guide to Protein Purification,Murray P. Deutcher, ed., Meth. Enzymol.
   Vol 182 (1990); Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis, Greg B. Fields ed., Meth. Enzymol. Vol 289 (1997);
   Kiso et al., Chem. Pharm.Bull. (Tokyo) 38: 1192-99, 1990; Mostafavi et al., Biomed. Pept.Proteins
   Nucleic Acids 1: 255-60, 1995; Fujiwara et al., Chem. Pharm. Bull. (Tokyo) 44: 1326-31, 1996. The
25 selected polypeptides may then be used to immunize by injection various host animals, including but
   not limited to rabbits, mice, rats, etc., to generate polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies. If LY75 is
   purified by gel electrophoresis, LY75 can be used for immunization with or without prior extraction
   from the polyacrylamide gel. Various adjuvants (i.e. immunostimulants) may be used to enhance the
   immunological response, depending on the host species, including, but not limited to, complete or
30 incomplete Freund's adjuvant, a mineral gel such as aluminum hydroxide, surface active substance
   such as lysolecithin, pluronic polyol, a polyanion, a peptide, an oil emulsion, keyhole limpet
   hemocyanin, dinitrophenol, and an adjuvant such as BCG (bacille Calmette-Guerin) or
   corynebacterium parvum. Additional adjuvants are also well known in the art.
            For preparation of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) directed toward LY75, a fragment of
35 LY75, a LY75-related polypeptide, or a fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide, any technique
   which provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture may be
   used. For example, the hybridoma technique originally developed by Kohler and Milstein (1975,
   Nature 256:495-497), as well as the trioma technique, the human B-cell hybridoma technique
   (Kozbor et al., 1983, Immunology Today 4:72), and the EBV-hybridoma technique to produce
40 human monoclonal antibodies (Cole et al., 1985, in Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy,
   Alan R. Liss, Inc., pp. 77-96). Such antibodies may be of any immunoglobulin class including IgG,
   IgM, IgE, IgA, IgD and any subclass thereof. The hybridoma producing the mAbs of the invention
   may be cultivated in vitro or in vivo. In an additional embodiment of the invention, monoclonal
   antibodies can be produced in germ-free animals utilizing known technology (PCT/US90/02545,

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      21
   incorporated herein by reference).
             The monoclonal antibodies include but are not limited to human monoclonal antibodies and
   chimeric monoclonal antibodies (e.g. human-mouse chimeras). A chimeric antibody is a molecule
   in which different portions are derived from different animal species, such as those having a human
 5 immunoglobulin constant region and a variable region derived from a murine mAb, (see, e.g.
   Cabilly et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567; and Boss et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,816,397, which are
   incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.) Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules
   from non-human species having one or more complementarity determining regions (CDRs) from the
   non-human species and a framework region from a human immunoglobulin molecule, (see, e.g.
10 Queen, U.S. Patent No. 5,585,089, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.)
             Chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies can be produced by recombinant DNA
   techniques known in the art, for example using methods described in PCT Publication No. WO
   87/02671; European Patent Application 184,187; European Patent Application 171,496; European
   Patent Application 173,494; PCT Publication No. WO 86/01533; U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567;
15 European Patent Application 125,023; Better et al., 1988, Science 240:1041-1043; Liu et al., 1987,
   Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84:3439-3443; Liu et al., 1987, J. Immunol. 139:3521-3526; Sun et al.,
    1987, Proc.Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 84:214-218; Nishimura et al., 1987, Canc. Res. 47:999-1005;
   Wood et al., 1985, Nature 314:446-449; and Shaw et al., 1988, J. Natl. CancerInst. 80:1553-1559;
   Morrison, 1985, Science 229:1202-1207; Oi et al., 1986, BioTechniques 4:214; U.S. Patent
20 5,225,539; Jones et al., 1986, Nature 321:552-525; Verhoeyan et al. (1988) Science 239:1534; and
   Beidler et al., 1988, J. Immunol. 141:4053-4060.
             Completely human antibodies are particularly desirable for therapeutic treatment of human
   subjects. Such antibodies can be produced using transgenic mice which are incapable of expressing
   endogenous immunoglobulin heavy and light chain genes, but which can express human heavy and
25 light chain genes. The transgenic mice are immunized in the normal fashion with a selected antigen,
   e.g. all or a portion of LY75. Monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen can be obtained
   using conventional hybridoma technology. The human immunoglobulin transgenes harbored by the
   transgenic mice rearrange during B cell differentiation, and subsequently undergo class switching
   and somatic mutation. Thus, using such a technique, it is possible to produce therapeutically useful
30 IgG, IgA, IgM and IgE antibodies. For an overview of this technology for producing human
   antibodies, see Lonberg and Huszar (1995, Int. Rev. Immunol. 13:65-93). For a detailed discussion
   of this technology for producing human antibodies and human monoclonal antibodies and protocols
   for producing such antibodies, see, e.g. U.S. Patent 5,625,126; U.S. Patent 5,633,425; U.S. Patent
   5,569,825; U.S. Patent 5,661,016; and U.S. Patent 5,545,806. In addition, companies such as
35 Abgenix, Inc. (Freemont, CA) and Genpharm (San Jose, CA) can be engaged to provide human
   antibodies directed against a selected antigen using technology similar to that described above.
             Completely human antibodies which recognize a selected epitope can be generated using a
   technique referred to as "guided selection". In this approach a selected non-human monoclonal
   antibody, e.g. a mouse antibody, is used to guide the selection of a completely human antibody
40 recognizing the same epitope. (Jespers et al. (1994) BioTechnology 12:899-903).
             The antibodies of the present invention can also be generated by the use of phage display
   technology to produce and screen libraries of polypeptides for binding to a selected target. See, e.g.
   Cwirla et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87, 6378-82, 1990; Devlin et al., Science 249, 404-6, 1990,
   Scott and Smith, Science 249, 386-88, 1990; and Ladner et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,571,698. A basic

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       22
   concept of phage display methods is the establishment of a physical association between DNA
   encoding a polypeptide to be screened and the polypeptide. This physical association is provided by
   the phage particle, which displays a polypeptide as part of a capsid enclosing the phage genome
   which encodes the polypeptide. The establishment of a physical association between polypeptides
 5 and their genetic material allows simultaneous mass screening of very large numbers of phage
   bearing different polypeptides. Phage displaying a polypeptide with affinity to a target bind to the
   target and these phage are enriched by affinity screening to the target. The identity of polypeptides
   displayed from these phage can be determined from their respective genomes. Using these methods
   a polypeptide identified as having a binding affinity for a desired target can then be synthesized in
10 bulk by conventional means. See, e.g. U.S. Patent No. 6,057,098, which is hereby incorporated in its
   entirety, including all tables, figures, and claims. In particular, such phage can be utilized to display
   antigen binding domains expressed from a repertoire or combinatorial antibody library (e.g. human
   or murine). Phage expressing an antigen binding domain that binds the antigen of interest can be
   selected or identified with antigen, e.g. using labelled antigen or antigen bound or captured to a solid
15 surface or bead. Phage used in these methods are typically filamentous phage including fd and M13
   binding domains expressed from phage with Fab, Fv or disulfide stabilized Fv antibody domains
   recombinantly fused to either the phage gene III or gene VIII protein. Phage display methods that
   can be used to make the antibodies of the present invention include those disclosed in Brinkman et
   al., J. Immunol. Methods 182:41-50 (1995); Ames et al., J. Immunol. Methods 184:177-186 (1995);
20 Kettleborough et al., Eur. J. Immunol. 24:952-958 (1994); Persic et al., Gene 187 9-18 (1997);
   Burton et al., Advances in Immunology 57:191-280 (1994); PCT Application No. PCT/GB91/01134;
   PCT Publications WO 90/02809; WO 91/10737; WO 92/01047; WO 92/18619; WO 93/11236; WO
   95/15982; WO 95/20401; and U.S. Patent Nos. 5,698,426; 5,223,409; 5,403,484; 5,580,717;
   5,427,908; 5,750,753; 5,821,047; 5,571,698; 5,427,908; 5,516,637; 5,780,225; 5,658,727; 5,733,743
25 and 5,969,108; each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
             As described in the above references, after phage selection, the antibody coding regions
   from the phage can be isolated and used to generate whole antibodies, including human antibodies,
   or any other desired antigen binding fragment, and expressed in any desired host, including
   mammalian cells, insect cells, plant cells, yeast, and bacteria, e.g. as described in detail below. For
30 example, techniques to recombinantly produce Fab, Fab' and F(ab') 2 fragments can also be
   employed using methods known in the art such as those disclosed in PCT publication WO 92/22324;
   Mullinax et al., BioTechniques 12(6):864-869 (1992); and Sawai et al., AJRI 34:26-34 (1995); and
   Better et al., Science 240:1041-1043 (1988) (said references incorporated by reference in their
   entireties).
35           Examples of techniques which can be used to produce single-chain Fvs and antibodies
   include those described in U.S. Patents 4,946,778 and 5,258,498; Huston et al., Methods in
   Enzymology 203:46-88 (1991); Shu et al., PNAS 90:7995-7999 (1993); and Skerra et al., Science
   240:1038-1040 (1988).
             The invention further provides for the use of bispecific antibodies, which can be made by
40 methods known in the art. Traditional production of full length bispecific antibodies is based on the
   coexpression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain-light chain pairs, where the two chains have
   different specificities (Milstein et al., 1983, Nature 305:537-539). Because of the random
   assortment of immunoglobulin heavy and light chains, these hybridomas (quadromas) produce a
   potential mixture of 10 different antibody molecules, of which only one has the correct bispecific

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       23
   structure. Purification of the correct molecule, which is usually done by affinity chromatography
   steps, is rather cumbersome, and the product yields are low. Similar procedures are disclosed in WO
   93/08829, published 13 May 1993, and in Traunecker et al., 1991, EMBO J. 10:3655-3659.
            According to a different and more preferred approach, antibody variable domains with the
 5 desired binding specificities (antibody-antigen combining sites) are fused to immunoglobulin
   constant domain sequences. The fusion preferably is with an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant
   domain, comprising at least part of the hinge, CH2, and CH3 regions. It is preferred to have the first
   heavy-chain constant region (CHI) containing the site necessary for light chain binding, present in
   at least one of the fusions. DNAs encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain fusions and, if desired,
10 the immunoglobulin light chain, are inserted into separate expression vectors, and are co-transfected
   into a suitable host organism. This provides for great flexibility in adjusting the mutual proportions
   of the three polypeptide fragments in embodiments when unequal ratios of the three polypeptide
   chains used in the construction provide the optimum yields. It is, however, possible to insert the
   coding sequences for two or all three polypeptide chains in one expression vector when the
15 expression of at least two polypeptide chains in equal ratios results in high yields or when the ratios
   are of no particular significance.
            In a preferred embodiment of this approach, the bispecific antibodies are composed of a
   hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain with a first binding specificity in one arm, and a hybrid
   immunoglobulin heavy chain-light chain pair (providing a second binding specificity) in the other
20 arm. It was found that this asymmetric structure facilitates the separation of the desired bispecific
   compound from unwanted immunoglobulin chain combinations, as the presence of an
   immunoglobulin light chain in only one half of the bispecific molecule provides for a facile way of
   separation. This approach is disclosed in WO 94/04690 published March 3, 1994. For further
   details for generating bispecific antibodies see, for example, Suresh et al., Methods in Enzymology,
25  1986, 121:210.
            In some embodiments of the invention, the affinity reagent (e.g. an antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof or an antibody mimetic) is not bispecific. In some particular embodiments
   of the invention, the affinity reagent (e.g. an antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof or an
   antibody mimetic) is not a bispecific antibody for the treatment of one or more cancers selected
30 from the group consisting of lymphoma, bladder cancer/carcinoma, breast cancer, gastric /colon
   cancer, esophageal cancer and skin cancer/melanoma.
            The invention provides functionally active fragments, antigen-binding portions, derivatives
   or analogs of the anti-LY75 immunoglobulin molecules. Functionally active means that the
   fragment, derivative or analog is able to elicit anti-anti-idiotype antibodies (i.e., tertiary antibodies)
35 that recognize the same antigen that is recognized by the antibody from which the fragment,
   derivative or analog is derived. Specifically, in a preferred embodiment the antigenicity of the
   idiotype of the immunoglobulin molecule may be enhanced by deletion of framework and CDR
   sequences that are C-terminal to the CDR sequence that specifically recognizes the antigen. To
   determine which CDR sequences bind the antigen, synthetic peptides containing the CDR sequences
40 can be used in binding assays with the antigen by any binding assay method known in the art.
            The present invention provides antibody fragments such as, but not limited to, F(ab') 2
   fragments and Fab fragments. Antibody fragments which recognize specific epitopes may be
   generated by known techniques. F(ab') 2 fragments consist of the variable region, the light chain
   constant region and the CHi domain of the heavy chain and are generated by pepsin digestion of the

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      24
   antibody molecule. Fab fragments are generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F(ab') 2
   fragments. The invention also provides heavy chain and light chain dimers of the antibodies of the
   invention, or any minimal fragment thereof such as Fvs or single chain antibodies (SCAs) (e.g. as
   described in U.S. Patent 4,946,778; Bird, 1988, Science 242:423-42; Huston et al., 1988, Proc. Natl.
 5 Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883; and Ward et al., 1989, Nature 334:544-54), or any other molecule
   with the same specificity as the antibody of the invention. Single chain antibodies are formed by
   linking the heavy and light chain fragments of the Fv region via an amino acid bridge, resulting in a
   single chain polypeptide. Techniques for the assembly of functional Fv fragments in E. coli may be
   used (Skerra et al., 1988, Science 242:1038-1041).
10           In other embodiments, the invention provides fusion proteins of the immunoglobulins of the
   invention (or functionally active fragments thereof or antigen-binding portions thereof), for example
   in which the immunoglobulin is fused via a covalent bond (e.g. a peptide bond), at either the
   N-terminus or the C-terminus to an amino acid sequence of another protein (or portion thereof,
   preferably at least 10, 20 or 50 amino acid portion of the protein) that is not the immunoglobulin.
15 Preferably the immunoglobulin, or fragment thereof, is covalently linked to the other protein at the
   N-terminus of the constant domain. As stated above, such fusion proteins may facilitate purification,
   increase half-life in vivo, and enhance the delivery of an antigen across an epithelial barrier to the
   immune system.
             The immunoglobulins of the invention include analogs and derivatives that are modified,
20 i.e., by the covalent attachment of any type of molecule as long as such covalent attachment does
   not impair immunospecific binding. For example, but not by way of limitation, the derivatives and
   analogs of the immunoglobulins include those that have been further modified, e.g. by
   glycosylation, acetylation, pegylation, phosphylation, amidation, derivatization by known
   protecting/blocking groups, proteolytic cleavage, linkage to a cellular ligand or other protein, etc.
25 Any of numerous chemical modifications may be carried out by known techniques, including, but
   not limited to specific chemical cleavage, acetylation, formylation, etc. Additionally, the analog or
   derivative may contain one or more non-classical amino acids.
             The foregoing antibodies can be used in methods known in the art relating to the localization
   and activity of LY75, e.g. for imaging this protein, measuring levels thereof in appropriate
30 physiological samples, in diagnostic methods, etc.
             Production of Affibodies to LY75
             Affibody molecules represent a new class of affinity proteins based on a 58-amino acid
   residue protein domain, derived from one of the IgG-binding domains of staphylococcal protein A.
   This three helix bundle domain has been used as a scaffold for the construction of combinatorial
35 phagemid libraries, from which Affibody variants that target the desired molecules can be selected
   using phage display technology (Nord K, Gunneriusson E, Ringdahl J, Stahl S, Uhlen M, Nygren
   PA, Binding proteins selected from combinatorial libraries of an a-helical bacterial receptor domain,
   Nat Biotechnol 1997;15:772-7. Ronmark J, Gronlund H, Uhlen M, Nygren PA, Human
   immunoglobulin A (IgA)-specific ligands from combinatorial engineering of protein A, Eur J
40 Biochem 2002;269:2647-55.). The simple, robust structure of Affibody molecules in combination
   with their low molecular weight (6 kDa), make them suitable for a wide variety of applications, for
   instance, as detection reagents (Ronmark J, Hansson M, Nguyen T, et al, Construction and
   characterization of Affibody-Fc chimeras produced in Escherichiacoli, JImmunol Methods
   2002;261:199-211) and to inhibit receptor interactions (Sandstorm K, Xu Z, Forsberg G, Nygren

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       25
   PA, Inhibition of the CD28-CD80 co-stimulation signal by a CD28-binding Affibody ligand
   developed by combinatorial protein engineering, ProteinEng 2003; 16:691-7). Further details of
   Affibodies and methods of production thereof may be obtained by reference to US Patent No
   5831012 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
 5          Labelled Affibodies may also be useful in imaging applications for determining abundance
   of Isoforms.
            Production of Domain Antibodies to LY75
            References to antibodies herein embrace references to Domain Antibodies. Domain
   Antibodies (dAbs) are the smallest functional binding units of antibodies, corresponding to the
10 variable regions of either the heavy (VH) or light (VL) chains of human antibodies. Domain
   Antibodies have a molecular weight of approximately 13 kDa. Domantis has developed a series of
   large and highly functional libraries of fully human VH and VL dAbs (more than ten billion
   different sequences in each library), and uses these libraries to select dAbs that are specific to
   therapeutic targets. In contrast to many conventional antibodies, Domain Antibodies are well
15 expressed in bacterial, yeast, and mammalian cell systems. Further details of domain antibodies and
   methods of production thereof may be obtained by reference to US Patent 6,291,158; 6,582,915;
   6,593,081; 6,172,197; 6,696,245; US Serial No. 2004/0110941; European patent application No.
   1433846 and European Patents 0368684 and 0616640; WO05/035572, WO04/101790,
   WO04/081026, WO04/058821, W004/003019 and WO03/002609, each of which is herein
20 incorporated by reference in its entirety.
            Production of Nanobodies to LY75
            Nanobodies are antibody-derived therapeutic proteins that contain the unique structural and
   functional properties of naturally-occurring heavy-chain antibodies. These heavy-chain antibodies
   contain a single variable domain (VHH) and two constant domains (CH2 and CH3). Importantly, the
25 cloned and isolated VHH domain is a perfectly stable polypeptide harbouring the full antigen
   binding capacity of the original heavy-chain antibody. Nanobodies have a high homology with the
   VH domains of human antibodies and can be further humanised without any loss of activity.
   Importantly, Nanobodies have a low immunogenic potential, which has been confirmed in primate
   studies with Nanobody lead compounds.
30          Nanobodies combine the advantages of conventional antibodies with important features of
   small molecule drugs. Like conventional antibodies, Nanobodies show high target specificity, high
   affinity for their target and low inherent toxicity. However, like small molecule drugs they can
   inhibit enzymes and readily access receptor clefts. Furthermore, Nanobodies are extremely stable,
   can be administered by means other than injection (see e.g. WO 04/041867, which is herein
35 incorporated by reference in its entirety) and are easy to manufacture. Other advantages of
   Nanobodies include recognising uncommon or hidden epitopes as a result of their small size,
   binding into cavities or active sites of protein targets with high affinity and selectivity due to their
   unique 3-dimensional, drug format flexibility, tailoring of half-life and ease and speed of drug
   discovery.
40          Nanobodies are encoded by single genes and are efficiently produced in almost all
   prokaryotic and eukaryotic hosts e.g. E coli (see e.g. US 6,765,087, which is herein incorporated by
   reference in its entirety), moulds (for example Aspergillus or Trichoderma) and yeast (for example
   Saccharomyces, Kluyveromyces, Hansenulaor Pichia)(see e.g. US 6,838,254, which is herein
   incorporated by reference in its entirety). The production process is scalable and multi-kilogram

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        26
   quantities of Nanobodies have been produced: Because Nanobodies exhibit a superior stability
   compared with conventional antibodies, they can be formulated as a long shelf-life, ready-to-use
   solution.
             The Nanoclone method (see e.g. WO 06/079372, which is herein incorporated by reference
 5 in its entirety) is a proprietary method for generating Nanobodies against a desired target, based on
   automated high-throughout selection of B-cells.
             Production of UniBodies to LY75
             UniBodies are another antibody fragment technology; however this one is based upon the
   removal of the hinge region of IgG4 antibodies. The deletion of the hinge region results in a
10 molecule that is essentially half the size of traditional IgG4 antibodies and has a univalent binding
   region rather than the bivalent binding region of IgG4 antibodies. It is also well known that IgG4
   antibodies are inert and thus do not interact with the immune system, which may be advantageous
   for the treatment of diseases where an immune response is not desired, and this advantage is passed
   onto UniBodies. For example, UniBodies may function to inhibit or silence, but not kill, the cells to
15 which they are bound. Additionally, UniBody binding to cancer cells do not stimulate them to
   proliferate. Furthermore, because UniBodies are about half the size of traditional IgG4 antibodies,
   they may show better distribution over larger solid tumours with potentially advantageous efficacy.
   UniBodies are cleared from the body at a similar rate to whole IgG4 antibodies and are able to bind
   with a similar affinity for their antigens as whole antibodies. Further details of UniBodies may be
20 obtained by reference to patent W02007/059782, which is herein incorporated by reference in its
   entirety.
             Production of DARPins to LY75
             DARPins (Designed Ankyrin Repeat Proteins) are one example of an antibody mimetic
   DRP (Designed Repeat Protein) technology that has been developed to exploit the binding abilities
25 of non-antibody polypeptides. Repeat proteins such as ankyrin or leucine-rich repeat proteins, are
   ubiquitous binding molecules, which occur, unlike antibodies, intra- and extracellularly. Their
   unique modular architecture features repeating structural units (repeats), which stack together to
   form elongated repeat domains displaying variable and modular target-binding surfaces. Based on
   this modularity, combinatorial libraries of polypeptides with highly diversified binding specificities
30 can be generated. This strategy includes the consensus design of self-compatible repeats displaying
   variable surface residues and their random assembly into repeat domains.
             DARPins can be produced in bacterial expression systems at very high yields and they
   belong to the most stable proteins known. Highly specific, high-affinity DARPins to a broad range
   of target proteins, including human receptors, cytokines, kinases, human proteases, viruses and
35 membrane proteins, have been selected. DARPins having affinities in the single-digit nanomolar to
   picomolar range can be obtained.
             DARPins have been used in a wide range of applications, including ELISA, sandwich
   ELISA, flow cytometric analysis faces) , immunohistochemistry (IHC), chip applications, affinity
   purification or Western blotting. DARPins also proved to be highly active in the intracellular
40 compartment for example as intracellular marker proteins fused to green fluorescent protein (GFP).
   DARPins were further used to inhibit viral entry with IC 5o in the pM range. DARPins are not only
   ideal to block protein-protein interactions, but also to inhibit enzymes. Proteases, kinases and
   transporters have been successfully inhibited, most often an allosteric inhibition mode. Very fast
   and specific enrichments on the tumour and very favorable tumour to blood ratios make DARPins

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      27
   well suited for in vivo diagnostics or therapeutic approaches.
            Additional information regarding DARPins and other DRP technologies can be found in US
   Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0132028, and International Patent Application Publication
   No. WO02/20565, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 5          Production of Anticalins to LY75
            Anticalins are an additional antibody mimetic technology, however in this case the binding
   specificity is derived from lipocalins, a family of low molecular weight proteins that are naturally
   and abundantly expressed in human tissues and body fluids. Lipocalins have evolved to perform a
   range of functions in vivo associated with the physiological transport and storage of chemically
10 sensitive or insoluble compounds. Lipocalins have a robust intrinsic structure comprising a highly
   conserved B-barrel which supports four loops at one terminus of the protein. These loops form the
   entrance to a binding pocket and conformational differences in this part of the molecule account for
   the variation in binding specificity between individual lipocalins.
            While the overall structure of hypervariable loops supported by a conserved B-sheet
15 framework is reminiscent of immunoglobulins, lipocalins differ considerably from antibodies in
   terms of size, being composed of a single polypeptide chain of 160-180 amino acids which is
   marginally larger than a single immunoglobulin domain.
            Lipocalins are cloned and their loops are subjected to engineering in order to create
   Anticalins. Libraries of structurally diverse Anticalins have been generated and Anticalin display
20 allows the selection and screening of binding function, followed by the expression and production of
   soluble protein for further analysis in prokaryotic or eukaryotic systems. Studies have successfully
   demonstrated that Anticalins can be developed that are specific for virtually any human target
   protein; they can be isolated and binding affinities in the nanomolar or higher range can be obtained.
            Anticalins can also be formatted as dual targeting proteins, so-called Duocalins. A Duocalin
25 binds two separate therapeutic targets in one easily produced monomeric protein using standard
   manufacturing processes while retaining target specificity and affinity regardless of the structural
   orientation of its two binding domains.
            Modulation of multiple targets through a single molecule is particularly advantageous in
   diseases known to involve more than a single causative factor. Moreover, bi- or multivalent binding
30 formats such as Duocalins have significant potential in targeting cell surface molecules in disease,
   mediating agonistic effects on signal transduction pathways or inducing enhanced internalization
   effects via binding and clustering of cell surface receptors. Furthermore, the high intrinsic stability
   of Duocalins is comparable to monomeric Anticalins, offering flexible formulation and delivery
   potential for Duocalins.
35          Additional information regarding Anticalins can be found in US Patent No. 7,250,297 and
   International Patent Application Publication No. WO 99/16873, both of which are hereby
   incorporated by reference in their entirety.
            Production of Avimers to LY75
            Avimers are evolved from a large family of human extracellular receptor domains by in
40 vitro exon shuffling and phage display, generating multidomain proteins with binding and inhibitory
   properties. Linking multiple independent binding domains has been shown to create avidity and
   results in improved affinity and specificity compared with conventional single-epitope binding
   proteins. Other potential advantages include simple and efficient production of multitarget-specific
   molecules in Escherichia coli, improved thermostability and resistance to proteases. Avimers with

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       28
   sub-nanomolar affinities have been obtained against a variety of targets.
            Additional information regarding Avimers can be found in US Patent Application
   Publication Nos. 2006/0286603, 2006/0234299, 2006/0223114, 2006/0177831, 2006/0008844,
   2005/0221384, 2005/0164301, 2005/0089932, 2005/0053973, 2005/0048512, 2004/0175756, all of
 5 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
            Production of Versabodies to LY75
            Versabodies are small proteins of 3-5 kDa with >15% cysteines, which form a high disulfide
   density scaffold, replacing the hydrophobic core that typical proteins have. The replacement of a
   large number of hydrophobic amino acids, comprising the hydrophobic core, with a small number of
10 disulfides results in a protein that is smaller, more hydrophilic (less aggregation and non-specific
   binding), more resistant to proteases and heat, and has a lower density of T-cell epitopes, because
   the residues that contribute most to MHC presentation are hydrophobic. All four of these properties
   are well-known to affect immunogenicity, and together they are expected to cause a large decrease
   in immunogenicity.
15          The inspiration for Versabodies comes from the natural injectable biopharmaceuticals
   produced by leeches, snakes, spiders, scorpions, snails, and anemones, which are known to exhibit
   unexpectedly low immunogenicity. Starting with selected natural protein families, by design and by
   screening the size, hydrophobicity, proteolytic antigen processing, and epitope density are
   minimized to levels far below the average for natural injectable proteins.
20          Given the structure of Versabodies, these antibody mimetics offer a versatile format that
   includes multi-valency, multi-specificity, a diversity of half-life mechanisms, tissue targeting
   modules and the absence of the antibody Fc region. Furthermore, Versabodies are manufactured in
   E. coli at high yields, and because of their hydrophilicity and small size, Versabodies are highly
   soluble and can be formulated to high concentrations. Versabodies are exceptionally heat stable
25 (they can be boiled) and offer extended shelf-life.
            Additional information regarding Versabodies can be found in US Patent Application
   Publication No. 2007/0191272 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
            Expression of Affinity Reagents
            Expression of Antibodies
30          The antibodies of the invention can be produced by any method known in the art for the
   synthesis of antibodies, in particular, by chemical synthesis or by recombinant expression, and are
   preferably produced by recombinant expression techniques.
            Recombinant expression of antibodies, or fragments, derivatives or analogs thereof, requires
   construction of a nucleic acid that encodes the antibody. If the nucleotide sequence of the antibody
35 is known, a nucleic acid encoding the antibody may be assembled from chemically synthesized
   oligonucleotides (e.g. as described in Kutmeier et al., 1994, Bio Techniques 17:242), which, briefly,
   involves the synthesis of overlapping oligonucleotides containing portions of the sequence encoding
   antibody, annealing and ligation of those oligonucleotides, and then amplification of the ligated
   oligonucleotides by PCR.
40          Alternatively, the nucleic acid encoding the antibody may be obtained by cloning the
   antibody. If a clone containing the nucleic acid encoding the particular antibody is not available, but
   the sequence of the antibody molecule is known, a nucleic acid encoding the antibody may be
   obtained from a suitable source (e.g. an antibody cDNA library, or cDNA library generated from
   any tissue or cells expressing the antibody) by PCR amplification using synthetic primers

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      29
   hybridizable to the 3' and 5' ends of the sequence or by cloning using an oligonucleotide probe
   specific for the particular gene sequence.
            If an antibody molecule that specifically recognizes a particular antigen is not available (or a
   source for a cDNA library for cloning a nucleic acid encoding such an antibody), antibodies specific
 5 for a particular antigen may be generated by any method known in the art, for example, by
   immunizing an animal, such as a rabbit, to generate polyclonal antibodies or, for example, by
   generating monoclonal antibodies. Alternatively, a clone encoding at least the Fab portion of the
   antibody may be obtained by screening Fab expression libraries (e.g. as described in Huse et al.,
   1989, Science 246:1275-1281) for clones of Fab fragments that bind the specific antigen or by
10 screening antibody libraries (see, e.g. Clackson et al., 1991, Nature 352:624; Hane et al., 1997 Proc.
   Natl.Acad. Sci. USA 94:4937).
            Once a nucleic acid encoding at least the variable domain of the antibody molecule is
   obtained, it may be introduced into a vector containing the nucleotide sequence encoding the
   constant region of the antibody molecule (see, e.g. PCT Publication WO 86/05807; PCT Publication
15 WO 89/01036; and U.S. Patent No. 5,122,464). Vectors containing the complete light or heavy
   chain for co-expression with the nucleic acid to allow the expression of a complete antibody
   molecule are also available. Then, the nucleic acid encoding the antibody can be used to introduce
   the nucleotide substitution(s) or deletion(s) necessary to substitute (or delete) the one or more
   variable region cysteine residues participating in an intrachain disulfide bond with an amino acid
20 residue that does not contain a sulfhydyl group. Such modifications can be carried out by any
   method known in the art for the introduction of specific mutations or deletions in a nucleotide
   sequence, for example, but not limited to, chemical mutagenesis, in vitro site directed mutagenesis
   (Hutchinson et al., 1978, J. Biol. Chem. 253:6551), PCT based methods, etc.
            In addition, techniques developed for the production of "chimeric antibodies" (Morrison et
25 al., 1984, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81:851-855; Neuberger et al., 1984, Nature 312:604-608;
   Takeda et al., 1985, Nature 314:452-454) by splicing genes from a mouse antibody molecule of
   appropriate antigen specificity together with genes from a human antibody molecule of appropriate
   biological activity can be used. As described supra, a chimeric antibody is a molecule in which
   different portions are derived from different animal species, such as those having a variable region
30 derived from a murine mAb and a human antibody constant region, e.g. humanized antibodies.
            Once a nucleic acid encoding an antibody molecule of the invention has been obtained, the
   vector for the production of the antibody molecule may be produced by recombinant DNA
   technology using techniques well known in the art. Thus, methods for preparing LY75 by
   expressing nucleic acid containing the antibody molecule sequences are described herein. Methods
35 which are well known to those skilled in the art can be used to construct expression vectors
   containing an antibody molecule coding sequences and appropriate transcriptional and translational
   control signals. These methods include, for example, in vitro recombinant DNA techniques,
   synthetic techniques, and in vivo genetic recombination. See, for example, the techniques described
   in Sambrook et al. (1990, Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, 2 nd Ed., Cold Spring Harbor
40 Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY) and Ausubel et al. (eds., 1998, Current Protocols in Molecular
   Biology, John Wiley & Sons, NY).
            The expression vector is transferred to a host cell by conventional techniques and the
   transfected cells are then cultured by conventional techniques to produce an antibody of the
   invention.

    WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        30
               The host cells used to express a recombinant antibody of the invention may be either
     bacterial cells such as Escherichiacoli, or, preferably, eukaryotic cells, especially for the expression
     of whole recombinant antibody molecule. In particular, mammalian cells such as Chinese hamster
     ovary cells (CHO), in conjunction with a vector such as the major intermediate early gene promoter
  5  element from human cytomegalovirus are an effective expression system for antibodies (Foecking et
     al., 1986, Gene 45:101; Cockett et al., 1990, BioTechnology 8:2).
              A variety of host-expression vector systems may be utilized to express an antibody molecule
     of the invention. Such host-expression systems represent vehicles by which the coding sequences of
     interest may be produced and subsequently purified, but also represent cells which may, when
10  transformed or transfected with the appropriate nucleotide coding sequences, express the antibody
    molecule of the invention in situ. These include but are not limited to microorganisms such as
    bacteria (e.g. E. coli, B. subtilis) transformed with recombinant bacteriophage DNA, plasmid DNA
    or cosmid DNA expression vectors containing antibody coding sequences; yeast (e.g.
    Saccharomyces,Pichia)transformed with recombinant yeast expression vectors containing antibody
15  coding sequences; insect cell systems infected with recombinant virus expression vectors (e.g.
    baculovirus) containing the antibody coding sequences; plant cell systems infected with recombinant
    virus expression vectors (e.g. cauliflower mosaic virus, CaMV; tobacco mosaic virus, TMV) or
    transformed with recombinant plasmid expression vectors (e.g. Ti plasmid) containing antibody
    coding sequences; or mammalian cell systems (e.g. COS, CHO, BHK, 293, 3T3 cells) harboring
20  recombinant expression constructs containing promoters derived from the genome of mammalian
    cells (e.g. metallothionein promoter) or from mammalian viruses (e.g. the adenovirus late promoter;
    the vaccinia virus 7.5K promoter).
              In bacterial systems, a number of expression vectors may be advantageously selected
    depending upon the use intended for the antibody molecule being expressed. For example, when a
25  large quantity of such a protein is to be produced, for the generation of pharmaceutical compositions
    comprising an antibody molecule, vectors which direct the expression of high levels of fusion
    protein products that are readily purified may be desirable. Such vectors include, but are not limited,
    to the E. coli expression vector pUR278 (Ruther et al., 1983, EMBO J. 2:1791), in which the
    antibody coding sequence may be ligated individually into the vector in frame with the lac Z coding
30  region so that a fusion protein is produced; pIN vectors (Inouye & Inouye, 1985, Nucleic Acids Res.
     13:3101-3109; Van Heeke & Schuster, 1989, J. Biol. Chem. 24:5503-5509); and the like. The pGEX
    vectors may also be used to express foreign polypeptides as fusion proteins with glutathione
    S-transferase (GST). In general, such fusion proteins are soluble and can easily be purified from
    lysed cells by adsorption and binding to a matrix glutathione-agarose beads followed by elution in
35  the presence of free glutathione. The pGEX vectors are designed to include thrombin or factor Xa
    protease cleavage sites so that the cloned target gene product can be released from the GST moiety.
              In an insect system, Autographa californicanuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcNPV) is used as
    a vector to express foreign genes. The virus grows in Spodopterafrugiperdacells. The antibody
    coding sequence may be cloned individually into non-essential regions (for example the polyhedrin
40  gene) of the virus and placed under control of an AcNPV promoter (for example the polyhedrin
    promoter). In mammalian host cells, a number of viral-based expression systems (e.g. an adenovirus
    expression system) may be utilized.
              As discussed above, a host cell strain may be chosen which modulates the expression of the
    inserted sequences, or modifies and processes the gene product in the specific fashion desired. Such

    WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                         31
     modifications (e.g. glycosylation) and processing (e.g. cleavage) of protein products may be
     important for the function of the protein.
              For long-term, high-yield production of recombinant antibodies, stable expression is
     preferred. For example, cell lines that stably express an antibody of interest can be produced by
  5  transfecting the cells with an expression vector comprising the nucleotide sequence of the antibody
     and the nucleotide sequence of a selectable (e.g. neomycin or hygromycin), and selecting for
     expression of the selectable marker. Such engineered cell lines may be particularly useful in
     screening and evaluation of compounds that interact directly or indirectly with the antibody
     molecule.
10            The expression levels of the antibody molecule can be increased by vector amplification (for
     a review, see Bebbington and Hentschel, The use of vectors based on gene amplification for the
     expression of cloned genes in mammalian cells in DNA cloning, Vol.3. (Academic Press, New
     York, 1987). When a marker in the vector system expressing antibody is amplifiable, increase in the
     level of inhibitor present in culture of host cell will increase the number of copies of the marker
15   gene. Since the amplified region is associated with the antibody gene, production of the antibody
    will also increase (Crouse et al., 1983, Mol. Cell. Biol. 3:257).
              The host cell may be co-transfected with two expression vectors of the invention, the first
    vector encoding a heavy chain derived polypeptide and the second vector encoding a light chain
    derived polypeptide. The two vectors may contain identical selectable markers which enable equal
20   expression of heavy and light chain polypeptides. Alternatively, a single vector may be used which
    encodes both heavy and light chain polypeptides. In such situations, the light chain should be placed
    before the heavy chain to avoid an excess of toxic free heavy chain (Proudfoot, 1986, Nature
    322:52; Kohler, 1980, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:2197). The coding sequences for the heavy
    and light chains may comprise cDNA or genomic DNA.
25            Once the antibody molecule of the invention has been recombinantly expressed, it may be
    purified by any method known in the art for purification of an antibody molecule, for example, by
    chromatography (e.g. ion exchange chromatography, affinity chromatography such as with protein
    A or specific antigen, and sizing column chromatography), centrifugation, differential solubility, or
    by any other standard technique for the purification of proteins.
30           Alternatively, any fusion protein may be readily purified by utilizing an antibody specific
    for the fusion protein being expressed. For example, a system described by Janknecht et al. allows
    for the ready purification of non-denatured fusion proteins expressed in human cell lines (Janknecht
    et al., 1991, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88:8972-897). In this system, the gene of interest is
    subcloned into a vaccinia recombination plasmid such that the open reading frame of the gene is
35  translationally fused to an amino-terminal tag consisting of six histidine residues. The tag serves as a
    matrix binding domain for the fusion protein. Extracts from cells infected with recombinant vaccinia
    virus are loaded onto Ni2' nitriloacetic acid-agarose columns and histidine-tagged proteins are
    selectively eluted with imidazole-containing buffers.
             The antibodies that are generated by these methods may then be selected by first screening
40  for affinity and specificity with the purified polypeptide of interest and, if required, comparing the
    results to the affinity and specificity of the antibodies with polypeptides that are desired to be
    excluded from binding. The screening procedure can involve immobilization of the purified
    polypeptides in separate wells of microtiter plates. The solution containing a potential antibody or
    groups of antibodies is then placed into the respective microtiter wells and incubated for about 30

    WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                          32
     min to 2 h. The microtiter wells are then washed and a labelled secondary antibody (for example, an
     anti-mouse antibody conjugated to alkaline phosphatase if the raised antibodies are mouse
     antibodies) is added to the wells and incubated for about 30 min and then washed. Substrate is added
     to the wells and a color reaction will appear where antibody to the immobilized polypeptide(s) is
  5  present.
               The antibodies so identified may then be further analyzed for affinity and specificity in the
     assay design selected. In the development of immunoassays for a target protein, the purified target
     protein acts as a standard with which to judge the sensitivity and specificity of the immunoassay
     using the antibodies that have been selected. Because the binding affinity of various antibodies may
 10  differ; certain antibody pairs (e.g. in sandwich assays) may interfere with one another sterically, etc.,
     assay performance of an antibody may be a more important measure than absolute affinity and
     specificity of an antibody.
               Those skilled in the art will recognize that many approaches can be taken in producing
     antibodies or binding fragments and screening and selecting for affinity and specificity for the
 15 various polypeptides, but these approaches do not change the scope of the invention.
               For therapeutic applications, antibodies (particularly monoclonal antibodies) may suitably
    be human or humanized animal (e.g. mouse) antibodies. Animal antibodies may be raised in animals
    using the human protein (e.g. LY75) as immunogen. Humanisation typically involves grafting CDRs
    identified thereby into human framework regions. Normally some subsequent retromutation to
20  optimize the conformation of chains is required. Such processes are known to persons skilled in the
    art.
              Expression of Affibodies
              The construction of affibodies has been described elsewhere (Ronnmark J, Gronlund H,
    Uhlen, M., Nygren P.A, Human immunoglobulin A (IgA)-specific ligands from combinatorial
25  engineering of protein A, 2002, Eur.J. Biochem. 269, 2647-2655.), including the construction of
    Affibody phage display libraries (Nord, K., Nilsson, J., Nilsson, B., Uhlen, M. & Nygren, P.A, A
    combinatorial library of an a-helical bacterial receptor domain, 1995, Protein Eng. 8, 601-608.
    Nord, K., Gunneriusson, E., Ringdahl, J., Stahl, S., Uhlen, M. & Nygren, P.A, Binding proteins
    selected from combinatorial libraries of an a-helical bacterial receptor domain, 1997, Nat.
30  Biotechnol.15, 772-777.)
              The biosensor analyses to investigate the optimal Affibody variants using biosensor binding
    studies has also been described elsewhere (Ronnmark J, Gronlund H, Uhlen, M., Nygren P.A,
    Human immunoglobulin A (IgA)-specific ligands from combinatorial engineering of protein A,
    2002, Eur. J. Biochem. 269, 2647-2655.).
35            Affinity Reagent Modifications
              In a preferred embodiment, anti-LY75 affinity reagents such as antibodies or fragments
    thereof are conjugated to a diagnostic moiety (such as a detectable label) or a therapeutic moiety.
    The antibodies can be used for diagnosis or to determine the efficacy of a given treatment regimen.
    Detection can be facilitated by coupling the antibody to a detectable substance (label). Examples of
40  detectable substances include various enzymes, prosthetic groups, fluorescent materials, luminescent
    materials, bioluminescent materials, radioactive nuclides, positron emitting metals (for use in
    positron emission tomography), and nonradioactive paramagnetic metal ions. See generally U.S.
    Patent No. 4,741,900 for metal ions which can be conjugated to antibodies for use as diagnostics
    according to the present invention. Suitable enzymes include horseradish peroxidase, alkaline

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       33
   phosphatase, beta-galactosidase, or acetyicholinesterase; suitable prosthetic groups include
    streptavidin, avidin and biotin; suitable fluorescent materials include umbelliferone, fluorescein,
    fluorescein isothiocyanate, rhodamine, dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein, dansyl chloride and
   phycoerythrin; suitable luminescent materials include luminol; suitable bioluminescent materials
 5  include luciferase, luciferin, and aequorin; and suitable radioactive nuclides include "'I, m'I, "'In
              68
    and 99Tc.   Ga may also be employed.
            As indicated above affinity reagents, such as antibodies for use in the invention, may be
   conjugated to a therapeutic moiety, such as a cytotoxin, a drug (e.g. an immunosuppressant) or a
   radiotoxin. Such conjugates are referred to herein as "immunoconjugates". Immunoconjugates that
10 include one or more cytotoxins are referred to as "immunotoxins". A cytotoxin or cytotoxic agent
   includes any agent that is detrimental to (e.g. kills) cells. Examples include taxol, cytochalasin B,
   gramicidin D, ethidium bromide, emetine, mitomycin, etoposide, tenoposide, vincristine,
   vinblastine, colchicin, doxorubicin, daunorubicin, dihydroxy anthracin dione, mitoxantrone,
   mithramycin, actinomycin D, 1-dehydrotestosterone, glucocorticoids, procaine, tetracaine, lidocaine,
15 propranolol, and puromycin and analogs or homologs thereof. Therapeutic agents also include, for
   example, antimetabolites (e.g. methotrexate, 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine, cytarabine, 5
   fluorouracil decarbazine), alkylating agents (e.g. mechlorethamine, thioepa chlorambucil,
   melphalan, carmustine (BSNU) and lomustine (CCNU), cyclothosphamide, busulfan,
   dibromomannitol, streptozotocin, mitomycin C, and cis-dichlorodiamine platinum (II) (DDP)
20 cisplatin), anthracyclines (e.g. daunorubicin (formerly daunomycin) and doxorubicin), antibiotics
   (e.g. dactinomycin (formerly actinomycin), bleomycin, mithramycin, and anthramycin (AMC)), and
   anti-mitotic agents (e.g. vincristine and vinblastine).
            Other preferred examples of therapeutic cytotoxins that can be conjugated to an antibody of
   the invention include duocarmycins, calicheamicins, maytansines and auristatins, and derivatives
25 thereof. An example of a calicheamicin antibody conjugate is commercially available (Mylotarg@;
   American Home Products).
            Cytotoxins can be conjugated to antibodies of the invention using linker technology
   available in the art. Examples of linker types that have been used to conjugate a cytotoxin to an
   antibody include, but are not limited to, hydrazones, thioethers, esters, disulfides and peptide
30 containing linkers. A linker can be chosen that is, for example, susceptible to cleavage by low pH
   within the lysosomal compartment or susceptible to cleavage by proteases, such as proteases
   preferentially expressed in tumour tissue such as cathepsins (e.g. cathepsins B, C, D).
            Examples of cytotoxins are described, for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,989,452,
   7,087,600, and 7,129,261, and in PCT Application Nos. PCT/US2002/17210, PCT/US2005/017804,
35 PCT/US2006/37793, PCT/US2006/060050, PCT/US2006/06071 1, W02006/110476, and in U.S.
   Patent Application No. 60/891,028, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
   entirety. For further discussion of types of cytotoxins, linkers and methods for conjugating
   therapeutic agents to antibodies, see also Saito, G. et al. (2003) Adv. DrugDeliv. Rev. 55:199-215;
   Trail, P.A. et al. (2003) CancerImmunol. Immunother. 52:328-337; Payne, G. (2003) Cancer Cell
40 3:207-212; Allen, T.M. (2002) Nat. Rev. Cancer2:750-763; Pastan, I. and Kreitman, R. J. (2002)
   Curr. Opin. Investig. Drugs 3:1089-1091; Senter, P.D. and Springer, C.J. (2001) Adv. Drug Deliv.
   Rev. 53:247-264.
            Affinity reagents can also be conjugated to a radioactive isotope to generate cytotoxic
   radiopharmaceuticals, also referred to as radioimmunoconjugates. Examples of radioactive isotopes

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      34
   that can be conjugated to antibodies for use diagnostically or therapeutically include, but are not
   limited to, iodine 131, indiuml11, yttrium90 and lutetium177. Methods for preparing
   radioimmunoconjugates are established in the art. Examples of radioimmunoconjugates are
   commercially available, including Zevalin@ (IDEC Pharmaceuticals) and Bexxar@ (Corixa
 5 Pharmaceuticals), and similar methods can be used to prepare radioimmunoconjugates using the
   antibodies of the invention.
             Affinity reagents can also be conjugated to a phthalocyanine dye referred to hereafter as
   phthalocyanineconjugates. Examples of phthalocyanine dyes that can be conjugated to antibodies
   for use diagnostically or therapeutically include, but are not limited to, IR700. Methods for
10 preparing phthalocyanineconjugates are described, for example, in Mitsunaga M, Ogawa M, Kosaka
   N, Rosenblum LT, Choyke PL and Kobayashi H (2011) Nat Med. 2011 Nov 6. doi:
    10.1038/nm.2554.
             The conjugates can be used to modify a given biological response, and the drug moiety is
   not to be construed as limited to classical chemical therapeutic agents. For example, the drug moiety
15 may be a protein or polypeptide possessing a desired biological activity. Such proteins may include,
   for example, an enzymatically active toxin, or active fragment thereof, such as abrin, ricin A,
   pseudomonas exotoxin, or diphtheria toxin; a protein such as tumor necrosis factor or interferon-y;
   or, biological response modifiers such as, for example, lymphokines, interleukin-1 ("IL-1 "),
   interleukin-2 ("IL-2"), interleukin-6 ("IL-6"), granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor
20 ("GM-CSF"), granulocyte colony stimulating factor ("G-CSF"), or other growth factors. Senter P.D.
   (2009) Curr. Opin. Chem. Biol. 13(3):235-244; Kovtun et al. (2010) CancerRes. 70(6):2528-2537.
            Techniques for conjugating such therapeutic moieties to antibodies are well known, see, e.g.
   Amon et al., "Monoclonal Antibodies For Immunotargeting Of Drugs In Cancer Therapy" in
   Monoclonal Antibodies And Cancer Therapy, Reisfeld et al. (eds.), pp. 243-56 (Alan R. Liss, Inc.
25 1985); Hellstrom et al., "Antibodies For Drug Delivery," in ControlledDrugDelivery (2nd Ed.),
   Robinson et al. (eds.), pp. 623-53 (Marcel Dekker, Inc. 1987); Thorpe, "Antibody Carriers Of
   Cytotoxic Agents In Cancer Therapy: A Review" in MonoclonalAntibodies '84: BiologicalAnd
   ClinicalApplications, Pinchera et al. (eds.), pp. 475-506 (1985); "Analysis, Results, And Future
   Prospective Of The Therapeutic Use Of Radiolabelled Antibody In Cancer Therapy" in Monoclonal
30 Antibodies For CancerDetection And Therapy, Baldwin et al. (eds.), pp. 303-16 (Academic Press
   1985), and Thorpe et al., Immunol. Rev., 62:119-58 (1982).
            Alternatively, an antibody can be conjugated to a second antibody to form an antibody
   heteroconjugate as described by Segal in U.S. Patent No. 4,676,980.
            An antibody with or without a therapeutic moiety conjugated to it can be used as a
35 therapeutic that is administered alone or in combination with cytotoxic factor(s) and/or cytokine(s).
            In some embodiments of the invention, the affinity reagent (e.g. an antibody, or antigen
   binding portion thereof or an antibody mimetic) does not contain or comprise or is not conjugated to
   a tumour antigen, an allergen, auto-antigen or viral antigen. In some particular embodiments, the
   affinity reagent (e.g. an antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof or an antibody mimetic) does
40 not contain or comprise or is not conjugated to a tumour antigen.
            The invention also provides for fully human, or humanised antibodies that induce antibody
   directed cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC). A fully human antibody is one in which the protein
   sequences are encoded by naturally occurring human immunoglobulin sequences, either from
   isolated antibody-producing human B-lymphocytes, or from transgenic murine B-lymphocytes of

   WO 2014/072700                                                                    PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        35
   mice in which the murine immunoglobulin coding chromosomal regions have been replaced by
   orthologous human sequences. Transgenic antibodies of the latter type include, but are not restricted
   to, HuMab (Medarex, Inc, CA) and XenoMouse (Abgenix Inc., CA). A humanised antibody is one
   in which the constant region of a non-human antibody molecule of appropriate antigen specificity, is
 5 replaced by the constant region of a human antibody, preferably of the IgG subtype, with
   appropriate effector functions (Morrison et al., 1984, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. 81:851-855; Neuberger
   et al., 1984, Nature 312:604-608; Takeda et al., 1985, Nature 314:452-454). Appropriate effector
   functions include ADCC, which is a natural process by which fully-human antibodies or humanized
   antibodies, when bound to targets on the surface of cancer cells, switch on the cell killing properties
10 of lymphocytes that are part of the normal immune system. These active lymphocytes, called
   Natural Killer (NK) cells, use a cytotoxic process to destroy living cells to which the antibodies are
   bound. ADCC activity may be detected and quantified by measuring release of Europium (Eu 3 )
   from Eu3" labelled, living cells in the presence of an antigen-specific antibody and peripheral blood
   mononuclear cells extracted from an immunocompetent, living human subject. The ADCC process
15 is described in detail in Janeway Jr. C.A. et al., Immunobiology, 5th ed., 2001, Garland Publishing,
   ISBN 0-8153-3642-X; Pier G.B. et al., Immunology, Infection, andImmunity, 2004, p246-5;
   Albanell J. et al., Advances in ExperimentalMedicine and Biology, 2003, 532:p2l53-68 and Weng,
   W.-K. et al., Journalof ClinicalOncology, 2003, 21:p 3940-3947. Suitable methods for the
   detection and quantification of ADCC can be found in Blomberg et al., JournalofImmunological
20 Methods. 1986, 86:p225-9; Blomberg et al., JournalofImmunological Methods. 1986, 21;92:pl17
   23 and Patel & Boyd, JournalofImmunologicalMethods. 1995, 184:p29-38.
            ADCC typically involves activation of NK cells and is dependent on the recognition of
   antibody-coated cells by Fc receptors on the surface of the NK cell. The Fc receptors recognize the
   Fc (crystalline) portion of antibodies such as IgG, bound specifically to the surface of a target cell.
25 The Fe receptor that triggers activation of the NK cell is called CD 16 or FcyRIIIa. Once the
   Fc-yRIIa receptor is bound to the IgG Fc, the NK cell releases cytokines such as IFN-y, and
   cytotoxic granules containing perforin and granzymes that enter the target cell and promote cell
   death by triggering apoptosis.
            The induction of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) by an antibody can be
30 enhanced by modifications that alter interactions between the antibody constant region (Fc) and
   various receptors that are present on the surface of cells of the immune system. Such modifications
   include the reduction or absence of alphal,6-linked fucose moieties in the complex oligosaccharide
   chains that are normally added to the Fc of antibodies during natural or recombinant synthesis in
   mammalian cells. In a preferred embodiment, non-fucosylated anti-LY75 affinity reagents such as
35 antibodies or fragments thereof are produced for the purpose of enhancing their ability to induce the
   ADCC response.
             Techniques for reducing or ablating alpha 1,6-linked fucose moieties in the oligosaccharide
   chains of the Fc are well established. In one example, the recombinant antibody is synthesized in a
   cell line that is impaired in its ability to add fucose in an alpha 1,6 linkage to the innermost N
40 acetylglucosamine of the N-linked biantennary complex-type Fc oligosaccharides. Such cell lines
   include, but are not limited to, the rat hybridoma YB2/0, which expresses a reduced level of the
   alpha 1,6-fucosyltransferase gene, FUT8. Preferably, the antibody is synthesized in a cell line that is
   incapable of adding alpha 1,6-linked fucosyl moieties to complex oligosaccharide chains, due to the
   deletion of both copies of the FUT8 gene. Such cell lines include, but are not limited to, FUT8-/-

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      36
   CHO/DG44 cell lines. Techniques for synthesizing partially fucosylated, or non-fucosylated
   antibodies and affinity reagents are described in Shinkawa et al., J. Biol. Chem. 278:3466-34735
   (2003); Yamane-Ohnuki et al., Biotechnology and Bioengineering87: 614-22 (2004) and in
   W00/61739 Al, W002/31140 Al and W003/085107 Al. In a second example, the fucosylation
 5 of a recombinant antibody is reduced or abolished by synthesis in a cell line that has been
   genetically engineered to overexpress a glycoprotein-modifying glycosyl transferase at a level that
   maximizes the production of complex N-linked oligosaccharides carrying bisecting N
   acetylglucosamine. For example, the antibody is synthesized in a Chinese Hamster Ovary cell line
   expressing the enzyme N-acetyl glucosamine transferase III (GnT III). Cell lines stably transfected
10 with suitable glycoprotein-modifying glycosyl transferases, and methods of synthesizing antibodies
   using these cells are described in W099/54342.
            A non-fucosylated antibody or affinity reagent can be used as a therapeutic that is
   administered alone or in combination with cytotoxic factor(s) and/or cytokine(s).
            In a further modification, the amino acid sequences of the antibody Fc are altered in a way
15 that enhances ADCC activation, without affecting ligand affinity. Examples of such modifications
   are described in Lazar et al., Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 2006, 103: p4005
   4010; W003/074679 and W02007/039818. In these examples, substitution of amino acids in the
   antibody Fc, such as aspartate for serine at position 239, and isoleucine for glutamate at position
   332, altered the binding affinity of an antibody for Fc receptors, leading to an increase in ADCC
20 activation.
            An antibody reagent with enhanced ADCC activation due to amino acid substitutions can be
   used as a therapeutic that is administered alone or in combination with cytotoxic factor(s) and/or
   cytokine(s).
            In some embodiments of the invention, the affinity reagent (e.g. an antibody, or antigen
25 binding portion thereof or an antibody mimetic) is not a scFV. In some particular embodiments of
   the invention, the affinity reagent (e.g. an antibody, or antigen-binding portion thereof or an
   antibody mimetic) is not a scFV for the treatment of skin cancer or melanoma.
            Diagnosis of Cancer Including the diseases of the invention
            According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of detecting,
30 diagnosing and/or screening for or monitoring the progression of cancer e.g. the diseases of the
   invention or of monitoring the effect of e.g. an anti-cancer drug or therapy directed towards the
   diseases of the invention in a subject which comprises detecting the presence or level of antibodies
   capable of immunospecific binding to LY75, or one or more epitope-containing fragments thereof or
   which comprises detecting a change in the level thereof in said subject.
35          According to another aspect of the invention there is also provided a method of detecting,
   diagnosing and/or screening for cancer e.g. the diseases of the invention in a subject which
   comprises detecting the presence of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75, or one
   or more epitope-containing fragments thereof in said subject, in which (a) the presence of an
   elevated level of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75 or said one or more
40 epitope-containing fragments thereof in said subject as compared with the level in a healthy subject
   or (b) the presence of a detectable level of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75 or
   said one or more epitope-containing fragments thereof in said subject as compared with a
   corresponding undetectable level in a healthy subject indicates the presence of said cancer in said
   subject.

    WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        37
              One particular method of detecting, diagnosing and/or screening for cancer, e.g. the diseases
     of the invention comprises:
              bringing into contact with a biological sample to be tested LY75, or one or more epitope
     containing fragments thereof; and
  5           detecting the presence of antibodies in the subject capable of immunospecific binding to
    LY75, or one or more epitope-containing fragments thereof.
              According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method of monitoring the
    progression of cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention or of monitoring the effect of e.g. an anti
    cancer drug or therapy directed towards the diseases of the invention in a subject which comprises
 10 detecting the presence of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75, or one or more
    epitope-containing fragments thereof in said subject at a first time point and at a later time point, the
    presence of an elevated or lowered level of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75,
    or one or more epitope-containing fragments thereof in said subject at the later time point as
    compared with the level in said subject at said first time point, indicating the progression or
 15 regression of said cancer, or the effect or non-effect of said anti-cancer drug or therapy in said
    subject.
              The presence of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75, or one or more
    epitope-containing fragments thereof is typically detected by analysis of a biological sample
    obtained from said subject (exemplary biological samples are mentioned above, e.g. the sample is a
20  sample of lymphoid, thyroid, bladder, breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck and skin
    tissue, or else a sample of blood or saliva). The method typically includes the step of obtaining said
    biological sample for analysis from said subject. The antibodies that may be detected include IgA,
    IgM and IgG antibodies.
              In accordance with the present invention, test samples of e.g. lymphoid, thyroid, bladder,
25  breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck and skin tissue, serum, plasma or urine obtained from
    a subject suspected of having or known to have the diseases of the invention can be used for
    diagnosis or monitoring. In one embodiment, a change in the abundance of LY75 in a test sample
    relative to a control sample (from a subject or subjects free from the diseases of the invention) or a
    previously determined reference range indicates the presence of the diseases of the invention. In
30  another embodiment, the relative abundance of LY75 in a test sample compared to a control sample
    or a previously determined reference range indicates a subtype of the diseases of the invention (e.g.
    Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, B-Cell Lymphoma (Not Otherwise Specified), Follicular
    Lymphoma, Mantle Cell Lymphoma, Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue (MALT),
    T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich B-Cell Lymphoma, Burkitt Lymphoma, Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma,
35  Small Lymphoctyic Lymphoma, Marginal Zone Lymphoma, T-Cell Lymphoma (Not Otherwise
    Specified), Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma and
    Angiolmmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma; anaplastic thyroid carcinoma; transitional cell carcinoma;
    inflammatory breast cancer; squamous cell esophagus carcinoma; gastric adenocarcinoma;
    squamous cell head and neck carcinoma or squamous cell skin carcinoma, melanoma). In yet
40  another embodiment, the relative abundance of LY75 in a test sample relative to a control sample or
    a previously determined reference range indicates the degree or severity of the diseases of the
    invention (e.g. the likelihood for metastasis). In any of the aforesaid methods, detection of LY75
    may optionally be combined with detection of one or more of additional biomarkers for the diseases
    of the invention. Any suitable method in the art can be employed to measure the level of LY75,

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       38
   including but not limited to the Preferred Technologies described herein, kinase assays,
   immunoassays to detect and/or visualize the LY75 (e.g. Western blot, immunoprecipitation followed
   by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, immunocytochemistry, etc.). In a
   further embodiment, a change in the abundance of mRNA encoding LY75 in a test sample relative
 5 to a control sample or a previously determined reference range indicates the presence of the diseases
   of the invention. Any suitable hybridization assay can be used to detect LY75 expression by
   detecting and/or visualizing mRNA encoding the LY75 (e.g. Northern assays, dot blots, in situ
   hybridization, etc.).
            In another embodiment of the invention, labelled antibodies (or other affinity reagents),
10 derivatives and analogs thereof, which specifically bind to LY75 can be used for diagnostic
   purposes to detect, diagnose, or monitor the diseases of the invention. Preferably, the diseases of the
   invention are detected in an animal, more preferably in a mammal and most preferably in a human.
             Screening Assays
            The invention provides methods for identifying agents (e.g. candidate compounds or test
15 compounds) that bind to LY75 or have a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on the expression or
   activity of LY75. The invention also provides methods of identifying agents, candidate compounds
   or test compounds that bind to a LY75-related polypeptide or a LY75 fusion protein or have a
   stimulatory or inhibitory effect on the expression or activity of a LY75-related polypeptide or a
   LY75 fusion protein. Examples of agents, candidate compounds or test compounds include, but are
20 not limited to, nucleic acids (e.g. DNA and RNA), carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, peptides,
   peptidomimetics, small molecules and other drugs. Agents can be obtained using any of the
   numerous approaches in combinatorial library methods known in the art, including: biological
   libraries; spatially addressable parallel solid phase or solution phase libraries; synthetic library
   methods requiring deconvolution; the "one-bead one-compound" library method; and synthetic
25 library methods using affinity chromatography selection. The biological library approach is limited
   to peptide libraries, while the other four approaches are applicable to peptide, non-peptide oligomer
   or small molecule libraries of compounds (Lam, 1997, Anticancer Drug Des. 12:145; U.S. Patent
   No. 5,738,996; and U.S. Patent No. 5,807,683, each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by
   reference).
30          Examples of methods for the synthesis of molecular libraries can be found in the art, for
   example in: DeWitt et al., 1993, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6909; Erb et al., 1994, Proc.Natl.
   Acad. Sci. USA 91:11422; Zuckermann et al., 1994, J. Med. Chem. 37:2678; Cho et al., 1993,
   Science 261:1303; Carrell et al., 1994, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33:2059; Carell et al., 1994,
   Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33:2061; and Gallop et al., 1994, J. Med. Chem. 37:1233, each of
35 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
            Libraries of compounds may be presented, e.g. presented in solution (e.g. Houghten, 1992,
   BioTechniques 13:412-421), or on beads (Lam, 1991, Nature 354:82-84), chips (Fodor, 1993,
   Nature 364:555-556), bacteria (U.S. Patent No. 5,223,409), spores (Patent Nos. 5,571,698;
   5,403,484; and 5,223,409), plasmids (Cull et al., 1992, Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89:1865-1869) or
40 phage (Scott and Smith, 1990, Science 249:386-390; Devlin, 1990, Science 249:404-406; Cwirla et
   al., 1990, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87:6378-6382; and Felici, 1991, J Mol. Biol. 222:301-3 10),
   each of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
            In one embodiment, agents that interact with (i.e. bind to) LY75, a LY75 fragment (e.g. a
   functionally active fragment or antigen-binding portion), a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of

   WO 2014/072700                                                                     PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        39
   a LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein are identified in a cell-based assay system. In
   accordance with this embodiment, cells expressing LY75, a fragment of a LY75, a LY75-related
   polypeptide, a fragment of the LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein are contacted
   with a candidate compound or a control compound and the ability of the candidate compound to
 5 interact with the LY75 is determined. If desired, this assay may be used to screen a plurality (e.g. a
   library) of candidate compounds. The cell, for example, can be of prokaryotic origin (e.g. E coli) or
   eukaryotic origin (e.g. yeast or mammalian). Further, the cells can express LY75, a fragment of
   LY75, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of the LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion
   protein endogenously or be genetically engineered to express LY75, a fragment of LY75, a
10 LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of the LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein. In
   certain instances, LY75, a fragment of LY75, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of the
   LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein or the candidate compound is labelled, for
   example with a radioactive label (such as 3 2 P, 3 5S, and 1251) or a fluorescent label (such as fluorescein
   isothiocyanate, rhodamine, phycoerythrin, phycocyanin, allophycocyanin, o-phthaldehyde or
15 fluorescamine) to enable detection of an interaction between LY75 and a candidate compound. The
   ability of the candidate compound to interact directly or indirectly with LY75, a fragment of a
   LY75, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion
   protein can be determined by methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, the
   interaction between a candidate compound and LY75, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a
20 LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein can be determined by flow cytometry, a
   scintillation assay, immunoprecipitation or western blot analysis.
            In another embodiment, agents that interact with (i.e. bind to) LY75, a LY75 fragment (e.g.
   a functionally active fragment or antigen-binding portion), a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment
   of a LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein are identified in a cell-free assay system.
25 In accordance with this embodiment, native or recombinant LY75 or a fragment thereof, or a native
   or recombinant LY75-related polypeptide or fragment thereof, or a LY75-fusion protein or fragment
   thereof, is contacted with a candidate compound or a control compound and the ability of the
   candidate compound to interact with LY75 or LY75-related polypeptide, or LY75 fusion protein is
   determined. If desired, this assay may be used to screen a plurality (e.g. a library) of candidate
30 compounds. Preferably, LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a
   LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75-fusion protein is first immobilized, by, for example,
   contacting LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related
   polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein with an immobilized antibody (or other affinity reagent)
   which specifically recognizes and binds it, or by contacting a purified preparation of LY75, a LY75
35 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion
   protein with a surface designed to bind proteins. LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related
   polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein may be partially or
   completely purified (e.g. partially or completely free of other polypeptides) or part of a cell lysate.
   Further, LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, or a fragment of a LY75-related
40 polypeptide may be a fusion protein comprising LY75 or a biologically active portion thereof, or
   LY75-related polypeptide and a domain such as glutathionine-S-transferase. Alternatively, LY75, a
   LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide or a LY75
   fusion protein can be biotinylated using techniques well known to those of skill in the art (e.g.
   biotinylation kit, Pierce Chemicals; Rockford, IL). The ability of the candidate compound to interact

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       40
   with LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related
   polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein can be determined by methods known to those of skill in the
   art.
             In another embodiment, a cell-based assay system is used to identify agents that bind to or
 5 modulate the activity of a protein, such as an enzyme, or a biologically active portion thereof, which
   is responsible for the production or degradation of LY75 or is responsible for the post-translational
   modification of LY75. In a primary screen, a plurality (e.g. a library) of compounds are contacted
   with cells that naturally or recombinantly express: (i) LY75, an isoform of LY75, a LY75 homolog,
   a LY75-related polypeptide, a LY75 fusion protein, or a biologically active fragment of any of the
10 foregoing; and (ii) a protein that is responsible for processing of LY75, a LY75 isoform, a LY75
   homolog, a LY75-related polypeptide, a LY75 fusion protein, or a fragment in order to identify
   compounds that modulate the production, degradation, or post-translational modification of LY75, a
   LY75 isoform, a LY75 homolog, a LY75-related polypeptide, a LY75 fusion protein or fragment. If
   desired, compounds identified in the primary screen can then be assayed in a secondary screen
15 against cells naturally or recombinantly expressing LY75. The ability of the candidate compound to
   modulate the production, degradation or post-translational modification of LY75, isoform, homolog,
   LY75-related polypeptide, or LY75 fusion protein can be determined by methods known to those of
   skill in the art, including without limitation, flow cytometry, a scintillation assay,
   immunoprecipitation and western blot analysis.
20           In another embodiment, agents that competitively interact with (i.e. bind to) LY75, a LY75
   fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion
   protein are identified in a competitive binding assay. In accordance with this embodiment, cells
   expressing LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related
   polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein are contacted with a candidate compound and a compound
25 known to interact with LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a
   LY75-related polypeptide or a LY75 fusion protein; the ability of the candidate compound to
   preferentially interact with LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a
   LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein is then determined. Alternatively, agents that
   preferentially interact with (i.e. bind to) LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide or
30 fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide are identified in a cell-free assay system by contacting
   LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a LY75-related polypeptide, or
   a LY75 fusion protein with a candidate compound and a compound known to interact with LY75, a
   LY75-related polypeptide or a LY75 fusion protein. As stated above, the ability of the candidate
   compound to interact with LY75, a LY75 fragment, a LY75-related polypeptide, a fragment of a
35 LY75-related polypeptide, or a LY75 fusion protein can be determined by methods known to those
   of skill in the art. These assays, whether cell-based or cell-free, can be used to screen a plurality (e.g.
   a library) of candidate compounds.
             In another embodiment, agents that modulate (i.e. upregulate or downregulate) the
   expression or activity of LY75 or a LY75-related polypeptide are identified by contacting cells (e.g.
40 cells of prokaryotic origin or eukaryotic origin) expressing LY75 or a LY75-related polypeptide
   with a candidate compound or a control compound (e.g. phosphate buffered saline (PBS)) and
   determining the expression of LY75, LY75-related polypeptide, or LY75 fusion protein, mRNA
   encoding LY75, or mRNA encoding the LY75-related polypeptide. The level of expression of
   LY75, LY75-related polypeptide, mRNA encoding LY75, or mRNA encoding the LY75-related

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      41
   polypeptide in the presence of the candidate compound is compared to the level of expression of
   LY75, LY75-related polypeptide, mRNA encoding LY75, or mRNA encoding the LY75-related
   polypeptide in the absence of the candidate compound (e.g. in the presence of a control compound).
   The candidate compound can then be identified as a modulator of the expression of LY75, or the
 5 LY75-related polypeptide based on this comparison. For example, when expression of LY75 or
   mRNA is significantly greater in the presence of the candidate compound than in its absence, the
   candidate compound is identified as a stimulator of expression of LY75 or mRNA. Alternatively,
   when expression of LY75 or mRNA is significantly less in the presence of the candidate compound
   than in its absence, the candidate compound is identified as an inhibitor of the expression of LY75
10 or mRNA. The level of expression of LY75 or the mRNA that encodes it can be determined by
   methods known to those of skill in the art. For example, mRNA expression can be assessed by
   Northern blot analysis or RT-PCR, and protein levels can be assessed by western blot analysis.
            In another embodiment, agents that modulate the activity of LY75 or a LY75-related
   polypeptide are identified by contacting a preparation containing LY75 or LY75-related polypeptide
15 or cells (e.g. prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells) expressing LY75 or LY75-related polypeptide with a
   test compound or a control compound and determining the ability of the test compound to modulate
   (e.g. stimulate or inhibit) the activity of LY75 or LY75-related polypeptide. The activity of LY75 or
   a LY75-related polypeptide can be assessed by detecting induction of a cellular signal transduction
   pathway of LY75 or LY75-related polypeptide (e.g. intracellular Ca2 , diacylglycerol, IP3, etc.),
20 detecting catalytic or enzymatic activity of the target on a suitable substrate, detecting the induction
   of a reporter gene (e.g. a regulatory element that is responsive to LY75 or a LY75-related
   polypeptide and is operably linked to a nucleic acid encoding a detectable marker, e.g. luciferase), or
   detecting a cellular response, for example, cellular differentiation, or cell proliferation. Based on the
   present description, techniques known to those of skill in the art can be used for measuring these
25 activities (see, e.g. U.S. Patent No. 5,401,639, which is incorporated herein by reference). The
   candidate compound can then be identified as a modulator of the activity of LY75 or a LY75-related
   polypeptide by comparing the effects of the candidate compound to the control compound. Suitable
   control compounds include phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and normal saline (NS).
            In another embodiment, agents that modulate (i.e. upregulate or downregulate) the
30 expression, activity or both the expression and activity of LY75 or a LY75-related polypeptide are
   identified in an animal model. Examples of suitable animals include, but are not limited to, mice,
   rats, rabbits, monkeys, guinea pigs, dogs and cats. Preferably, the animal used represent a model of
   the diseases of the invention (e.g. xenografts of lymphoma cell lines DoHH2 or WSU-FSCCL in
   SCID mice, Smith MR, Joshi I, Jin F, Obasaju C., BMC Cancer. 2005 Aug 18;5:103; xenografts of
35 thyroid cancer cell lines such as ARO, Viaggi et al., Thyroid 2003 Jun;13(6):529-36; xenografts of
   bladder cancer cell lines such as UCRU-BL-12, UCRU-BL-13 and UCRU-BL-14, Russell et al.
   Cancer Res. 1986 Apr;46(4 Pt 2):2035-40; xenografts of breast cancer cell lines such as MCF-7
   (Ozzello L, Sordat M., Eur J Cancer. 1980;16:553-559) and MCF10AT (Miller et al., J Natl Cancer
   Inst. 1993;85:1725-1732) in nude or SCID mice; xenografts of esophageal cancer cell lines such as
40 OE19, Kelly et al., Br J Cancer. 2010 Jul 13;103(2):232-8; xenografts of gastric cancer cell lines
   such as NCI-N87 in nude mice; xenografts of head and neck cancer cell lines such as FaDu and
   HNX-OE or xenografts of skin cancer cell lines such as MV3 in nude mice, van Muijen et al., Int J
   Cancer 1991 Apr 22;48(1):85-91). These can be utilized to test compounds that modulate LY75
   levels, since the pathology exhibited in these models is similar to that of e.g. the diseases of the

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       42
   invention. In accordance with this embodiment, the test compound or a control compound is
   administered (e.g. orally, rectally or parenterally such as intraperitoneally or intravenously) to a
   suitable animal and the effect on the expression, activity or both expression and activity of LY75 or
   LY75-related polypeptide is determined. Changes in the expression of LY75 or a LY75-related
 5 polypeptide can be assessed by the methods outlined above.
             In yet another embodiment, LY75 or a LY75-related polypeptide is used as a "bait protein"
   in a two-hybrid assay or three hybrid assay to identify other proteins that bind to or interact with
   LY75 or a LY75-related polypeptide (see, e.g. U.S. Patent No. 5,283,317; Zervos et al. (1993) Cell
   72:223-232; Madura et al. (1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268:12046-12054; Bartel et al. (1993)
10 BioTechniques 14:920-924; Iwabuchi et al. (1993) Oncogene 8:1693-1696; and PCT Publication
   No. WO 94/10300). As those skilled in the art will appreciate, such binding proteins are also likely
   to be involved in the propagation of signals by LY75 as, for example, upstream or downstream
   elements of a signaling pathway involving LY75.
             This invention further provides novel agents identified by the above-described screening
15 assays and uses thereof for treatments as described herein. In addition, the invention also provides
   the use of an agent which interacts with, or modulates the activity of, LY75 in the manufacture of a
   medicament for the treatment of the diseases of the invention.
             Therapeutic Use of LY75
             The invention provides for treatment or prevention of various diseases and disorders by
20 administration of a therapeutic compound. Such compounds include but are not limited to: LY75,
   LY75 analogs, LY75-related polypeptides and derivatives and variants (including fragments)
   thereof; antibodies (or other affinity reagents) to the foregoing; nucleic acids encoding LY75, LY75
   analogs, LY75-related polypeptides and fragments thereof; antisense nucleic acids to a gene
   encoding LY75 or a LY75-related polypeptide; and modulator (e.g. agonists and antagonists) of a
25 gene encoding LY75 or a LY75-related polypeptide. An important feature of the present invention
   is the identification of genes encoding LY75 involved in cancers such as the diseases of the
   invention. The diseases of the invention, for example, can be treated (e.g. to ameliorate symptoms or
   to retard onset or progression) or prevented by administration of a therapeutic compound that
   reduces function or expression of LY75 in the serum or tissue of subjects having the diseases of the
30 invention.
             In one embodiment, one or more antibodies (or other affinity reagents) each specifically
   binding to LY75 are administered alone or in combination with one or more additional therapeutic
   compounds or treatments.
             A biological product such as an antibody (or other affinity reagent) is allogeneic to the
35 subject to which it is administered. In one embodiment, a human LY75 or a human LY75-related
   polypeptide, a nucleotide sequence encoding a human LY75 or a human LY75-related polypeptide,
   or an antibody (or other affinity reagent) to a human LY75 or a human LY75-related polypeptide, is
   administered to a human subject for therapy (e.g. to ameliorate symptoms or to retard onset or
   progression) or prophylaxis.
40           Without being limited by theory, it is conceived that the therapeutic activity of antibodies
   (or other affinity reagents) which specifically bind to LY75 may be achieved through the
   phenomenon of Antibody Dependent Cell-mediated Cytotoxicity (ADCC) (see e.g. Janeway Jr. C.A.
   et al., Immunobiology, 5th ed., 2001, Garland Publishing, ISBN 0-8153-3642-X; Pier G.B. et al.,
   Immunology, Infection, andImmunity, 2004, p246-5; Albanell J. et al., Advances in Experimental

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        43
   Medicine andBiology, 2003, 532:p2l53-68 and Weng, W-K. et al., Journalof Clinical Oncology,
   2003, 2 1 :p 3940-3947).
             Treatment And Prevention Of The diseases of the invention
             The diseases of the invention, for example, are treated or prevented by administration to a
 5 subject suspected of having or known to have one or more of the diseases of the invention or to be at
   risk of developing one or more of the diseases of the invention of a compound that modulates (i.e.
   increases or decreases) the level or activity (i.e. function) of LY75 that is differentially present in the
   serum or tissue of subjects having one or more of the diseases of the invention compared with serum
   or tissue of subjects free from the diseases of the invention. In one embodiment, the diseases of the
10 invention are treated or prevented by administering to a subject suspected of having or known to
   have one or more of the diseases of the invention or to be at risk of developing the diseases of the
   invention a compound that upregulates (i.e. decreases) the level or activity (i.e. function) of LY75
   that is increased in the serum or tissue of subjects having one or more of the diseases of the
   invention. Examples of such a compound include, but are not limited to, LY75 antisense
15 oligonucleotides, ribozymes, antibodies (or other affinity reagents) directed against LY75, and
   compounds that inhibit the enzymatic activity of LY75. Other useful compounds e.g. LY75
   antagonists and small molecule LY75 antagonists, can be identified using in vitro assays.
             Cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention, may also be treated or prevented by
   administration to a subject suspected of having or known to have such cancer, or to be at risk of
20 developing such cancer, of a compound that downregulates the level or activity (i.e. function) of
   LY75 that are increased in the serum or tissue of subjects having such cancer. Examples of such a
   compound include but are not limited to: LY75, LY75 fragments and LY75-related polypeptides;
   nucleic acids encoding LY75, a LY75 fragment and a LY75-related polypeptide (e.g. for use in gene
   therapy); and, for those LY75 or LY75-related polypeptides with enzymatic activity, compounds or
25 molecules known to modulate that enzymatic activity. Other compounds that can be used, e.g.
   LY75 agonists, can be identified using in in vitro assays.
             In another embodiment, therapy or prophylaxis is tailored to the needs of an individual
   subject. Thus, in specific embodiments, compounds that promote the level or function of LY75 are
   therapeutically or prophylactically administered to a subject suspected of having or known to have
30 cancer e.g. the diseases of the invention, in whom the levels or functions of LY75 are absent or are
   decreased relative to a control or normal reference range. In further embodiments, compounds that
   promote the level or function of LY75 are therapeutically or prophylactically administered to a
   subject suspected of having or known to have cancer e.g. the diseases of the invention in whom the
   levels or functions of LY75 are increased relative to a control or to a reference range. In further
35 embodiments, compounds that decrease the level or function of LY75 are therapeutically or
   prophylactically administered to a subject suspected of having or known to have cancer e.g. the
   diseases of the invention in whom the levels or functions of LY75 are increased relative to a control
   or to a reference range. In further embodiments, compounds that decrease the level or function of
   LY75 are therapeutically or prophylactically administered to a subject suspected of having or known
40 to have cancer e.g. the diseases of the invention in whom the levels or functions of LY75 are
   decreased relative to a control or to a reference range. The change in LY75 function or level due to
   the administration of such compounds can be readily detected, e.g. by obtaining a sample (e.g. blood
   or urine) and assaying in vitro the levels or activities of LY75, or the levels of mRNAs encoding
   LY75, or any combination of the foregoing. Such assays can be performed before and after the

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       44
   administration of the compound as described herein.
             The compounds of the invention include but are not limited to any compound, e.g. a small
   organic molecule, protein, peptide, antibody (or other affinity reagent), nucleic acid, etc. that
   restores the LY75 profile towards normal. The compounds of the invention may be given in
 5 combination with any other chemotherapy drugs.
             Vaccine Therapy
             Another aspect of the invention is an immunogenic composition, suitably a vaccine
   composition, comprising LY75 or an epitope containing fragment thereof, or nucleic acid encoding
   LY75 or a fragment thereof optionally together with an immunostimulant.
10           There is also provided a method of raising an immune response which comprises
   administering to a subject such compositions and a method for treating or preventing cancer e.g. the
   diseases of the invention which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a
   therapeutically effective amount of such compositions and such compositions for use in preventing
   or treating the diseases of the invention.
15           Thus, LY75 may be useful as antigenic material, and may be used in the production of
   vaccines for treatment or prophylaxis of cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention. Such material can
   be "antigenic" and/or "immunogenic". Generally, "antigenic" is taken to mean that the protein is
   capable of being used to raise antibodies (or other affinity reagents) or indeed is capable of inducing
   an antibody response in a subject or experimental animal. "Immunogenic" is taken to mean that the
20 protein is capable of eliciting an immune response such as a protective immune response in a subject
   or experimental animal. Thus, in the latter case, the protein may be capable of not only generating
   an antibody response but, in addition, non-antibody based immune responses. "Immunogenic" also
   embraces whether the protein may elicit an immune-like response in an in-vitro setting e.g. a T-cell
   proliferation assay. The generation of an appropriate immune response may require the presence of
25 one or more adjuvants and/or appropriate presentation of an antigen.
             The skilled person will appreciate that homologues or derivatives of LY75 will also find use
   as antigenic/immunogenic material. Thus, for instance proteins which include one or more additions,
   deletions, substitutions or the like are encompassed by the present invention. In addition, it may be
   possible to replace one amino acid with another of similar "type", for instance, replacing one
30 hydrophobic amino acid with another. One can use a program such as the CLUSTAL program to
   compare amino acid sequences. This program compares amino acid sequences and finds the optimal
   alignment by inserting spaces in either sequence as appropriate. It is possible to calculate amino
   acid identity or similarity (identity plus conservation of amino acid type) for an optimal alignment.
   A program like BLASTx will align the longest stretch of similar sequences and assign a value to the
35 fit. It is thus possible to obtain a comparison where several regions of similarity are found, each
   having a different score. Both types of analysis are contemplated in the present invention.
             In the case of homologues and derivatives, the degree of identity with a protein as described
   herein is less important than that the homologue or derivative should retain its antigenicity and/or
   immunogenicity. However, suitably, homologues or derivatives having at least 60% similarity (as
40 discussed above) with the proteins or polypeptides described herein are provided, for example,
   homologues or derivatives having at least 70% similarity, such as at least 80% similarity are
   provided. Particularly, homologues or derivatives having at least 90% or even 95% similarity are
   provided. Suitably, homologues or derivatives have at least 60% sequence identity with the proteins
   or polypeptides described herein. Preferably, homologues or derivatives have at least 70% identity,

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        45
   more preferably at least 80% identity. Most preferably, homologues or derivatives have at least
   90% or even 95% identity.
            In an alternative approach, the homologues or derivatives could be fusion proteins,
   incorporating moieties which render purification easier, for example by effectively tagging the
 5 desired protein or polypeptide. It may be necessary to remove the "tag" or it may be the case that
   the fusion protein itself retains sufficient antigenicity to be useful.
            It is well known that it is possible to screen an antigenic protein or polypeptide to identify
   epitopic regions, i.e. those regions which are responsible for the protein or polypeptide's
   antigenicity or immunogenicity. Methods well known to the skilled person can be used to test
10 fragments and/or homologues and/or derivatives for antigenicity. Thus, the fragments of the present
   invention should include one or more such epitopic regions or be sufficiently similar to such regions
   to retain their antigenic/immunogenic properties. Thus, for fragments according to the present
   invention the degree of identity is perhaps irrelevant, since they may be 100% identical to a
   particular part of a protein or polypeptide, homologue or derivative as described herein. The key
15 issue, once again, is that the fragment retains the antigenic/immunogenic properties of the protein
   from which it is derived.
            What is important for homologues, derivatives and fragments is that they possess at least a
   degree of the antigenicity/immunogenicity of the protein or polypeptide from which they are
   derived. Thus, in an additional aspect of the invention, there is provided antigenic/or immunogenic
20 fragments of LY75, or of homologues or derivatives thereof.
            LY75, or antigenic fragments thereof, can be provided alone, as a purified or isolated
   preparation. They may be provided as part of a mixture with one or more other proteins of the
   invention, or antigenic fragments thereof. In a further aspect, therefore, the invention provides an
   antigen composition comprising LY75 and/or one or more antigenic fragments thereof. Such a
25 composition can be used for the detection and/or diagnosis of cancer, e.g. the diseases of the
   invention.
            Vaccine compositions according to the invention may be either a prophylactic or therapeutic
   vaccine composition.
            The vaccine compositions of the invention can include one or more adjuvants
30 (immunostimulants). Examples well-known in the art include inorganic gels, such as aluminium
   hydroxide, and water-in-oil emulsions, such as incomplete Freund's adjuvant. Other useful
   adjuvants will be well known to the skilled person.
            Suitable adjuvants for use in vaccine compositions for the treatment of cancer include: 3De
   O-acylated monophosphoryl lipid A (known as 3D-MPL or simply MPL see W092/116556), a
35 saponin, for example QS21 or QS7, and TLR4 agonists such as a CpG containing molecule, for
   example as disclosed in W095/26204. The adjuvants employed may be a combination of
   components, for example MPL and QS21 or MPL, QS21 and a CpG containing moiety. Adjuvants
   may be formulated as oil-in-water emulsions or liposomal formulations. Such preparations may
   include other vehicles.
40          In another embodiment, a preparation of oligonucleotides comprising 10 or more
   consecutive nucleotides complementary to a nucleotide sequence encoding LY75 or a LY75 peptide
   fragments is used as vaccines for the treatment of cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention. Such
   preparations may include adjuvants or other vehicles.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      46
            Inhibition Of LY75 To Treat The diseases of the invention
            In one embodiment of the invention, cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention is treated or
   prevented by administration of a compound that antagonizes (inhibits) the level and/or function of
   LY75 which is elevated in the serum or tissue of subjects having such cancer as compared with
 5 serum or tissue of subjects free from such cancer.
            Compounds useful for this purpose include but are not limited to anti-LY75 antibodies (or
   other affinity reagents, and fragments and derivatives containing the binding region thereof), LY75
   antisense or ribozyme nucleic acids, and nucleic acids encoding dysfunctional LY75 that may be
   used to "knockout" endogenous LY75 function by homologous recombination (see, e.g. Capecchi,
10  1989, Science 244:1288-1292). Other compounds that inhibit LY75 function can be identified by
   use of known in vitro assays, e.g. assays for the ability of a test compound to inhibit binding of
   LY75 to another protein or a binding partner, or to inhibit a known LY75 function.
            Such inhibition may, for example, be assayed in vitro or in cell culture, but genetic assays
   may also be employed. The Preferred Technologies can also be used to detect levels of LY75
15 before and after the administration of the compound. Suitable in vitro or in vivo assays are utilized
   to determine the effect of a specific compound and whether its administration is indicated for
   treatment of the affected tissue, as described in more detail below.
            In a specific embodiment, a compound that inhibits LY75 function (activity) is administered
   therapeutically or prophylactically to a subject in whom an increased serum or tissue level or
20 functional activity of LY75 (e.g. greater than the normal level or desired level) is detected as
   compared with serum or tissue of subjects with e.g. the diseases of the invention who do not receive
   treatment according to the invention or to bring the level or activity to that found in subjects free
   from such cancer, or a predetermined reference range. Methods standard in the art can be employed
   to measure the increase in LY75 level or function, as outlined above. Suitable LY75 inhibitor
25 compositions may, for example, include small molecules, i.e. molecules of 1000 daltons or less.
   Such small molecules can be identified by the screening methods described herein.
            Assays for Therapeutic or Prophylactic Compounds
            The present invention also provides assays for use in drug discovery in order to identify or
   verify the efficacy of compounds for treatment or prevention of cancers expressing LY75, e.g. the
30 diseases of the invention.
            Thus there is provided a method of screening for compounds that modulate the activity of
   LY75, the method comprising: (a) contacting LY75 or a biologically active portion thereof with a
   candidate compound; and (b) determining whether activity of LY75 is thereby modulated. Such a
   process may comprise (a) contacting LY75 or a biologically active portion thereof with a candidate
35 compound in a sample; and (b) comparing the activity of LY75 or a biologically active portion
   thereof in said sample after contact with said candidate compound with the activity of LY75 or a
   biologically active portion thereof in said sample before contact with said candidate compound, or
   with a reference level of activity.
            The method of screening may be a method of screening for compounds that inhibit activity
40 of LY75.
            LY75 or a biologically active portion thereof may, for example be expressed on or by a cell.
   LY75 or a biologically active portion thereof may, for example, be isolated from cells which express
   it. LY75 or a biologically active portion thereof may, for example, be immobilised onto a solid
   phase.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      47
            There is also provided a method of screening for compounds that modulate the expression of
   LY75 or nucleic acid encoding LY75, the method comprising: (a) contacting cells expressing LY75
   or nucleic acid encoding LY75 with a candidate compound; and (b) determining whether expression
   of LY75 or nucleic acid encoding LY75 is thereby modulated. Such a process may comprises (a)
 5 contacting cells expressing LY75 or nucleic acid encoding LY75 with a candidate compound in a
   sample; and (b) comparing the expression of LY75 or nucleic acid encoding LY75 by cells in said
   sample after contact with said candidate compound with the expression of LY75 or nucleic acid
   encoding LY75 of cells in said sample before contact with said candidate compound, or with a
   reference level of expression.
10          The method may be a method of screening for compounds that inhibit expression of LY75
   or nucleic acid encoding LY75.
            Other aspects of the invention include: a compound obtainable by an aforementioned
   screening method, a compound which modulates the activity or expression of LY75 or nucleic acid
   encoding LY75, for example a compound which inhibits the activity or expression of LY75 or
15 nucleic acid encoding LY75.
            Such a compound is provided for use in treating or preventing cancer, e.g. the diseases of
   the invention. There is also provided a method for treating or preventing cancer, e.g. the diseases of
   the invention which comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective
   amount of such a compound.
20          Test compounds can be assayed for their ability to restore LY75 levels in a subject having
   e.g. the diseases of the invention towards levels found in subjects free from such cancers or to
   produce similar changes in experimental animal models of such cancers. Compounds able to restore
   LY75 levels in a subject having e.g. the diseases of the invention towards levels found in subjects
   free from such cancers or to produce similar changes in experimental animal models of such cancers
25 can be used as lead compounds for further drug discovery, or used therapeutically. LY75 expression
   can be assayed by the Preferred Technologies, immunoassays, gel electrophoresis followed by
   visualization, detection of LY75 activity, or any other method taught herein or known to those
   skilled in the art. Such assays can be used to screen candidate drugs, in clinical monitoring or in
   drug development, where abundance of LY75 can serve as a surrogate marker for clinical disease.
30          In various specific embodiments, in vitro assays can be carried out with cells representative
   of cell types involved in a subject's disorder, to determine if a compound has a desired effect upon
   such cell types.
            Compounds for use in therapy can be tested in suitable animal model systems prior to
   testing in humans, including but not limited to rats, mice, chicken, cows, monkeys, rabbits, etc. For
35 in vivo testing, prior to administration to humans, any animal model system known in the art may be
   used. Examples of animal models of the diseases of the invention include, but are not limited to
   xenografts of lymphoma cell lines DoHH2 or WSU-FSCCL in SCID mice, Smith MR, Joshi I, Jin F,
   Obasaju C., BMC Cancer. 2005 Aug 18;5:103; xenografts of thyroid cancer cell lines such as ARO,
   Viaggi et al., Thyroid 2003 Jun;13(6):529-36; xenografts of bladder cancer cell lines such as
40 UCRU-BL-12, UCRU-BL-13 and UCRU-BL-14, Russell et al. Cancer Res. 1986 Apr;46(4 Pt
   2):2035-40; xenografts of breast cancer cell lines such as MCF-7 (Ozzello L, Sordat M., Eur J
   Cancer. 1980;16:553-559) and MCF1OAT (Miller et al., J Natl Cancer Inst. 1993;85:1725-1732) in
   nude or SCID mice; xenografts of esophageal cancer cell lines such as OE19, Kelly et al., Br J
   Cancer. 2010 Jul 13;103(2):232-8; xenografts of gastric cancer cell lines such as NCI-N87 in nude

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                       48
   mice; xenografts of head and neck cancer cell lines such as FaDu and HNX-OE or xenografts of
   skin cancer cell lines such as MV3 in nude mice, van Muijen et al., Int J Cancer 1991 Apr
   22;48(1):85-91. These can be utilized to test compounds that modulate LY75 levels, since the
   pathology exhibited in these models is similar to that of e.g. the diseases of the invention. It is also
 5 apparent to the skilled artisan that based upon the present disclosure, transgenic animals can be
   produced with "knock-out" mutations of the gene or genes encoding LY75. A "knock-out"
   mutation of a gene is a mutation that causes the mutated gene to not be expressed, or expressed in an
   aberrant form or at a low level, such that the activity associated with the gene product is nearly or
   entirely absent. Preferably, the transgenic animal is a mammal; more preferably, the transgenic
10 animal is a mouse.
            In one embodiment, test compounds that modulate the expression of LY75 are identified in
   non-human animals (e.g. mice, rats, monkeys, rabbits, and guinea pigs), preferably non-human
   animal models for the diseases of the invention expressing LY75. In accordance with this
   embodiment, a test compound or a control compound is administered to the animals, and the effect
15 of the test compound on expression of LY75 is determined. A test compound that alters the
   expression of LY75 can be identified by comparing the level of LY75 (or mRNA encoding the
   same) in an animal or group of animals treated with a test compound with the level of LY75 or
   mRNA in an animal or group of animals treated with a control compound. Techniques known to
   those of skill in the art can be used to determine the mRNA and protein levels, for example, in situ
20 hybridization. The animals may or may not be sacrificed to assay the effects of a test compound.
            In another embodiment, test compounds that modulate the activity of LY75 or a biologically
   active portion thereof are identified in non-human animals (e.g. mice, rats, monkeys, rabbits, and
   guinea pigs), preferably non-human animal models for the diseases of the invention expressing
   LY75. In accordance with this embodiment, a test compound or a control compound is administered
25 to the animals, and the effect of a test compound on the activity of LY75 is determined. A test
   compound that alters the activity of LY75 can be identified by assaying animals treated with a
   control compound and animals treated with the test compound. The activity of LY75 can be
   assessed by detecting induction of a cellular second messenger of LY75 (e.g. intracellular Ca,
   diacylglycerol, IP3, etc.), detecting catalytic or enzymatic activity of LY75 or binding partner
30 thereof, detecting the induction of a reporter gene (e.g. a regulatory element that is responsive to
   LY75 operably linked to a nucleic acid encoding a detectable marker, such as luciferase or green
   fluorescent protein), or detecting a cellular response (e.g. cellular differentiation or cell
   proliferation). Techniques known to those of skill in the art can be utilized to detect changes in the
   activity of LY75 (see, e.g. U.S. Patent No. 5,401,639, which is incorporated herein by reference).
35          In yet another embodiment, test compounds that modulate the level or expression of LY75
   are identified in human subjects having e.g. the diseases of the invention, preferably those having
   e.g. severe the diseases of the invention. In accordance with this embodiment, a test compound or a
   control compound is administered to the human subject, and the effect of a test compound on LY75
   expression is determined by analyzing the expression of LY75 or the mRNA encoding the same in a
40 biological sample (e.g. serum, plasma, or urine). A test compound that alters the expression of
   LY75 can be identified by comparing the level of LY75 or mRNA encoding the same in a subject or
   group of subjects treated with a control compound to that in a subject or group of subjects treated
   with a test compound. Alternatively, alterations in the expression of LY75 can be identified by
   comparing the level of LY75 or mRNA encoding the same in a subject or group of subjects before

   WO 2014/072700                                                                    PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                         49
   and after the administration of a test compound. Techniques known to those of skill in the art can be
   used to obtain the biological sample and analyze the mRNA or protein expression. For example, the
   Preferred Technologies described herein can be used to assess changes in the level of LY75.
             In another embodiment, test compounds that modulate the activity of LY75 are identified in
 5 human subjects having e.g. the diseases of the invention (preferably those with e.g. severe the
   diseases of the invention). In this embodiment, a test compound or a control compound is
   administered to the human subject, and the effect of a test compound on the activity of LY75 is
   determined. A test compound that alters the activity of LY75 can be identified by comparing
   biological samples from subjects treated with a control compound to samples from subjects treated
10 with the test compound. Alternatively, alterations in the activity of LY75 can be identified by
   comparing the activity of LY75 in a subject or group of subjects before and after the administration
   of a test compound. The activity of LY75 can be assessed by detecting in a biological sample (e.g.
   serum, plasma, or urine) induction of a cellular signal transduction pathway of LY75 (e.g.
   intracellular Ca 2', diacylglycerol, IP3, etc.), catalytic or enzymatic activity of LY75 or a binding
15 partner thereof, or a cellular response, for example, cellular differentiation, or cell proliferation.
   Techniques known to those of skill in the art can be used to detect changes in the induction of a
   second messenger of LY75 or changes in a cellular response. For example, RT-PCR can be used to
   detect changes in the induction of a cellular second messenger.
             In another embodiment, a test compound that changes the level or expression of LY75
20 towards levels detected in control subjects (e.g. humans free from e.g. the diseases of the invention)
   is selected for further testing or therapeutic use. In another embodiment, a test compound that
   changes the activity of LY75 towards the activity found in control subjects (e.g. humans free from
   e.g. the diseases of the invention) is selected for further testing or therapeutic use.
             In another embodiment, test compounds that reduce the severity of one or more symptoms
25 associated with e.g. the diseases of the invention are identified in human subjects having e.g. the
   diseases of the invention, preferably subjects with e.g. severe the diseases of the invention. In
   accordance with this embodiment, a test compound or a control compound is administered to the
   subjects, and the effect of a test compound on one or more symptoms of e.g. the diseases of the
   invention is determined. A test compound that reduces one or more symptoms can be identified by
30 comparing the subjects treated with a control compound to the subjects treated with the test
   compound. Techniques known to physicians familiar with e.g. the diseases of the invention can be
   used to determine whether a test compound reduces one or more symptoms associated with e.g. the
   diseases of the invention. For example, a test compound that reduces tumour burden in a subject
   having e.g. the diseases of the invention will be beneficial for such subject.
35           In another embodiment, a test compound that reduces the severity of one or more symptoms
   associated with cancer, e.g. the diseases of the invention is selected for further testing or therapeutic
   use.
             Therapeutic and Prophylactic Compositions and their Use
             The invention provides methods of treatment (and prophylaxis) comprising administering to
40 a subject an effective amount of a compound of the invention (e.g. LY75 protein, an affinity reagent
   capable of specific binding to LY75 or a fragment thereof. or a nucleic acid encoding LY75). In a
   particular aspect, the compound is substantially purified (e.g. substantially free from substances that
   limit its effect or produce undesired side-effects).
             Formulations and methods of administration that can be employed when the compound

     WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                         50
      comprises a nucleic acid are described above; additional appropriate formulations and routes of
      administration are described below.
               Various delivery systems are known and can be used to administer a compound of the
      invention, e.g. encapsulation in liposomes, microparticles, microcapsules, recombinant cells capable
  5   of expressing the compound, receptor-mediated endocytosis (see, e.g. Wu and Wu, 1987, J. Biol.
      Chem. 262:4429-4432), construction of a nucleic acid as part of a retroviral or other vector, etc.
     Methods of introduction can be enteral or parenteral and include but are not limited to intradermal,
     intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intravenous, subcutaneous, intranasal, epidural, and oral routes. The
     compounds may be administered by any convenient route, for example by infusion or bolus
 10  injection, by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings (e.g. oral mucosa, rectal and
     intestinal mucosa, etc.) and may be administered together with other biologically active agents.
     Administration can be systemic or local. In addition, it may be desirable to introduce the
     pharmaceutical compositions of the invention into the central nervous system by any suitable route,
     including intraventricular and intrathecal injection; intraventricular injection may be facilitated by
 15  an intraventricular catheter, for example, attached to a reservoir, such as an Ommaya reservoir.
     Pulmonary administration can also be employed, e.g. by use of an inhaler or nebulizer, and
     formulation with an aerosolizing agent.
              In one aspect of the invention a nucleic acid employed in the invention may be delivered to
     the dermis, for example employing particle mediated epidermal delivery.
20            In a specific embodiment, it may be desirable to administer the pharmaceutical compositions
     of the invention locally to the area in need of treatment; this may be achieved, for example, and not
     by way of limitation, by local infusion during surgery, topical application, e.g. by injection, by
     means of a catheter, or by means of an implant, said implant being of a porous, non-porous, or
     gelatinous material, including membranes, such as sialastic membranes, or fibers. In one
25   embodiment, administration can be by direct injection into e.g. lymphoid, thyroid, bladder,
    breast, gastric, esophagus, head and neck or skin tissue or at the site (or former site) of a
    malignant tumour or neoplastic or pre-neoplastic tissue.
              In another embodiment, the compound can be delivered in a vesicle, in particular a liposome
     (see Langer, 1990, Science 249:1527-1533; Treat et al., in Liposomes in the Therapy of Infectious
30  Disease and Cancer, Lopez-Berestein and Fidler (eds.), Liss, New York, pp. 353-365 (1989);
    Lopez-Berestein, ibid., pp. 317-327; see generally ibid.)
              In yet another embodiment, the compound can be delivered in a controlled release system.
    In one embodiment, a pump may be used (see Langer, supra; Sefton, 1987, CRC Crit.Ref Biomed.
    Eng. 14:201; Buchwald et al., 1980, Surgery 88:507; Saudek et al., 1989, N. Engl. J. Med. 321:574).
35  In another embodiment, polymeric materials can be used (see Medical Applications of Controlled
    Release, Langer and Wise (eds.), CRC Pres., Boca Raton, Florida (1974); Controlled Drug
    Bioavailability, Drug Product Design and Performance, Smolen and Ball (eds.), Wiley, New York
    (1984); Ranger and Peppas, J., 1983, Macromol.Sci. Rev. Macromol. Chem. 23:61; see also Levy et
    al., 1985, Science 228:190; During et al., 1989, Ann. Neurol. 25:351; Howard et al., 1989, J.
40  Neurosurg. 71:105). In yet another embodiment, a controlled release system can be placed in
    proximity of the therapeutic target, e.g. the diseases of the invention thus requiring only a fraction of
    the systemic dose (see, e.g. Goodson, in Medical Applications of Controlled Release, supra, vol. 2,
    pp. 115-138 (1984)). Other controlled release systems are discussed in the review by Langer (1990,
    Science 249:1527-1533).

   WO 2014/072700                                                                   PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                        51
             In a specific embodiment where the compound of the invention is a nucleic acid encoding a
   protein, the nucleic acid can be administered in vivo to promote expression of its encoded protein,
   by constructing it as part of an appropriate nucleic acid expression vector and administering it so
   that it becomes intracellular, e.g. by use of a retroviral vector (see U.S. Patent No. 4,980,286), or by
 5 direct injection, or by use of microparticle bombardment (e.g. a gene gun; Biolistic, Dupont), or
   coating with lipids or cell-surface receptors or transfecting agents, or by administering it in linkage
   to a homeobox-like peptide which is known to enter the nucleus (see e.g. Joliot et al., 1991, Proc.
   Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 88:1864-1868), etc. Alternatively, a nucleic acid can be introduced
   intracellularly and incorporated within host cell DNA for expression, by homologous recombination.
10           The present invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions. Such compositions
   comprise a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention, and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier. In a specific embodiment, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable" means
   suitable for approval by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the
   U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals, and more
15 particularly in humans. The term "carrier" refers to a diluent, adjuvant, excipient, or vehicle with
   which the therapeutic is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids, such as
   water and oils, including those of petroleum, animal, vegetable or synthetic origin, such as peanut
   oil, soybean oil, mineral oil, sesame oil and the like. Water is a preferred carrier when the
   pharmaceutical composition is administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose
20 and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers, particularly for injectable solutions.
   Suitable pharmaceutical excipients include starch, glucose, lactose, sucrose, gelatine, malt, rice,
   flour, chalk, silica gel, sodium stearate, glycerol monostearate, talc, sodium chloride, dried skim
   milk, glycerol, propylene, glycol, water, ethanol and the like. The composition, if desired, can also
   contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents, or pH buffering agents. These
25 compositions can take the form of solutions, suspensions, emulsion, tablets, pills, capsules, powders,
   sustained-release formulations and the like. The composition can be formulated as a suppository,
   with traditional binders and carriers such as triglycerides. Oral formulation can include standard
   carriers such as pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium
   saccharine, cellulose, magnesium carbonate, etc. Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are
30 described in "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences" by E.W. Martin. Such compositions will
   contain a therapeutically effective amount of the compound, for example in purified form, together
   with a suitable amount of carrier so as to provide the form for proper administration to the subject.
   The formulation should suit the mode of administration.
             In one embodiment, for example where one or more antibodies are employed, the
35 composition is formulated in accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition
   adapted for intravenous administration to human beings. Typically, compositions for intravenous
   administration are solutions in sterile isotonic aqueous buffer. Where necessary, the composition
   may also include a solubilizing agent and a local anesthetic such as lidocaine to ease pain at the site
   of the injection. Generally, the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit
40 dosage form, for example, as a dry lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically
   sealed container such as an ampoule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where the
   composition is to be administered by infusion, it can be dispensed with an infusion bottle containing
   sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the composition is administered by injection, an
   ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients may be mixed

   WO 2014/072700                                                                PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      52
   prior to administration.
            The compounds of the invention can be formulated as neutral or salt forms.
   Pharmaceutically acceptable salts, where appropriate, include those formed with free amino groups
   such as those derived from hydrochloric, phosphoric, acetic, oxalic, tartaric acids, etc., and those
 5 formed with free carboxyl groups such as those derived from sodium, potassium, ammonium,
   calcium, ferric hydroxides, isopropylamine, triethylamine, 2-ethylamino ethanol, histidine, procaine,
   etc.
            The amount of the compound of the invention which will be effective in the treatment of
   cancer, for example, the diseases of the invention can be determined by standard clinical techniques.
10 In addition, in vitro assays may optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The
   precise dose to be employed in the formulation will also depend on the route of administration, and
   the seriousness of the disease or disorder, and should be decided according to the judgment of the
   practitioner and each subject's circumstances. However, suitable dosage ranges for intravenous
   administration are generally about 20-500 micrograms of active compound per kilogram body
15 weight. Suitable dosage ranges for intranasal administration are generally about 0.01 pg/kg body
   weight to 1 mg/kg body weight. Effective doses may be extrapolated from dose-response curves
   derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.
            Suppositories generally contain active ingredient in the range of 0.5% to 10% by weight;
   oral formulations preferably contain 10% to 95% active ingredient.
20          The invention also provides a pharmaceutical pack or kit comprising one or more containers
   filled with one or more of the ingredients of the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention.
   Optionally associated with such container(s) can be a notice in the form prescribed by a
   governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use or sale of pharmaceuticals or biological
   products, which notice reflects (a) approval by the agency of manufacture, use or sale for human
25 administration, (b) directions for use, or both.
            Thus in one aspect the kit comprises antibodies employed in the invention, for example the
   antibodies may be lyophilized for reconstitution before administration or use. Where the kit is for
   use in therapy/treatment such as cancer the antibody or antibodies may be reconstituted with an
   isotonic aqueous solution, which may optionally be provided with the kit. In one aspect the kit may
30 comprise a polypeptide such as an immunogenic polypeptide employed in the invention, which may
   for example be lyophilized. The latter kit may further comprise an adjuvant for reconstiting the
   immunogenic polypeptide.
            The invention also extends to a composition as described herein for example a
   pharmaceutical composition and/or vaccine composition for use in inducing an immune response in
35 a subject.
            In yet a further embodiment, the invention provides a medicament comprising, separately or
   together:
            (a) an affinity reagents which binds to LY75, and
            (b) an anti-cancer agent or other active agent,
40 for simultaneous, sequential or separate administration in the treatment of cancer, preferably in the
   treatment of one of the diseases of the invention.
            Determining Abundance of LY75 by Imaging Technology
            An advantage of determining abundance of LY75 by imaging technology may be that such a
   method is non-invasive (save that reagents may need to be administered) and there is no need to

   WO 2014/072700                                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      53
   extract a sample from the subject.
            Suitable imaging technologies include positron emission tomography (PET) and single
   photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Visualisation of LY75 using such techniques
                                                                                     8   1
   requires incorporation or binding of a suitable label e.g. a radiotracer such as ' F, C or 1231 (see e.g.
 5 NeuroRx - The Journal of the American Society for Experimental NeuroTherapeutics (2005) 2(2),
   348-360 and idem pages 361-371 for further details of the techniques). Radiotracers or other labels
   may be incorporated into LY75 by administration to the subject (e.g. by injection) of a suitably
   labelled specific ligand. Alternatively they may be incorporated into a binding affinity reagent (e.g.
   antibody) specific for LY75 which may be administered to the subject (e.g. by injection). For
10 discussion of use of Affibodies for imaging see e.g. Orlova A, Magnusson M, Eriksson TL, Nilsson
   M, Larsson B, Hoiden-Guthenberg I, Widstrom C, Carlsson J, Tolmachev V, Stahl S, Nilsson FY,
   Tumor imaging using a picomolar affinity HER2 binding Affibody molecule, Cancer Res. 2006 Apr
   15;66(8):4339-48).
            Diagnosis And Treatment Of Cancer Including The diseases of the invention Using
15 Immunohistochemistry
            Immunohistochemistry is an excellent detection technique and may therefore be very useful
   in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer, including the diseases of the invention.
   Immunohistochemistry may be used to detect, diagnose, or monitor cancers such as those mentioned
   above, through the localization of LY75 antigens in tissue sections by the use of labelled antibodies
20 (or other affinity reagents), derivatives and analogs thereof, which specifically bind to LY75, as
   specific reagents through antigen-antibody interactions that are visualized by a marker such as
   fluorescent dye, enzyme, radioactive element or colloidal gold.
            The advancement of monoclonal antibody technology has been of great significance in
   assuring the place of immunohistochemistry in the modern accurate microscopic diagnosis of human
25 neoplasms. The identification of disseminated neoplastically transformed cells by
   immunohistochemistry allows for a clearer picture of cancer invasion and metastasis, as well as the
   evolution of the tumour cell associated immunophenotype towards increased malignancy. Future
   antineoplastic therapeutical approaches may include a variety of individualized immunotherapies,
   specific for the particular immunophenotypical pattern associated with each individual patient's
30 neoplastic disease. For further discussion see e.g. Bodey B, The significance of
   immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis and therapy of neoplasms, Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2002 Apr;
   2(4):371-93.
            Preferred features of each aspect of the invention are as for each of the other aspects mutatis
   mutandis. The prior art documents mentioned herein are incorporated to the fullest extent permitted
35 by law.
            The invention is illustrated by the following non-limiting examples.
   EXAMPLE 1: IDENTIFICATION OF LY75 EXPRESSED IN BLADDER CANCER, BREAST
   CANCER, CHRONIC LYMPHOCYTIC LEUKAEMIA, COLORECTAL CANCER,
40 ESOPHAGEAL CANCER, GASTRIC CANCER, HEAD AND NECK CANCER, KIDNEY
   CANCER, NON-SMALL CELL LUNG CANCER, OVARIAN CANCER, PANCREATIC
   CANCER, SKIN CANCER, SMALL CELL LUNG CANCER, LYMPHOMA, ACUTE
   MONOCYTIC LEUKEMIA TISSUE SAMPLES AND MULTIPLE MYELOMA CELLS
   TISSUE SAMPLES USING LIQUID CHROMATOGRAPHY-MASS SPECTROMETRY (LC/MS)

   WO 2014/072700                                                                 PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      54
            Using the following protocol, membrane proteins extracted from bladder cancer, breast
   cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, gastric cancer, head
   and neck cancer, kidney cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, skin
 5 cancer, small cell lung cancer, lymphoma, acute monocytic leukaemia tissue samples and multiple
   myeloma cells and corresponding normal or normal adjacent tissue (NAT) samples were digested
   and resulting peptides sequenced by tandem mass spectrometry.
   1.1      MATERIALS AND METHODS
10 1.1.1    PlasmaMembrane Fractionation
            The cells recovered from a bladder cancer, breast cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia,
   colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, gastric cancer, head and neck cancer, kidney cancer, non-small
   cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, skin cancer, small cell lung cancer, lymphoma,
   acute monocytic leukaemia tissue samples and multiple myeloma cells or a normal or normal
15 adjacent tissue were homogenised and submitted to centrifugation at 1000 x g. The supernatant was
   taken and ultra-centrifuged at 49500 x g. The resulting pellet was re-homogenized and separated by
   discontinuous sucrose density centrifugation. After ultra-centrifugation at 107000 x g, the fractions
   at the phase boundary were recovered and pelleted.
   1.1.2 Plasmamembrane solubilisation
20          Plasma membrane fractions were resuspended in SDS (Sodium dodecyl sulfate) to give a
   final SDS concentration of 0.5%, centrifuged and the solubilized protein extracted.
   1.1.3 Trypsinolysis
            For in-solution digestion, the volume of a 50pig protein solution was made up to 100 pl using
   200m1M4 ammonium bicarbonate. 10pl of the reducing agent DL-Dithiothreitol (75mM) was added
25 to the sample and incubated at 80*C for 15 minutes. This was followed by a cysteine blocking step
   using 10gl of 150mM iodoacetamide and incubation in the dark for 30 minutes at room temperature.
   The SDS concentration was then diluted to 0.05% with the addition of ultra-pure water. A sufficient
   volume of trypsin (Promega V51 11) was added to the mixture allowing for 1pjg of trypsin to 2.75pg
   of protein and incubated overnight at 37*C.
30          Alternatively, 105pgg of protein solutions were reduced using 3p.l of 50mM TCEP and
   incubating at 60'C for 1 hr. The sample was then processed on the FASP filtration devices of the
   Protein Digestion Kit (Protein Discovery) according to the manufacturer's instructions, but using
   triethylammonium bicarbonate instead of ammonium bicarbonate. Trypsinolysis was performed in a
   final volume of 75p.l, using 1ptg of trypsin to 50 g of protein.
35  1.1.4   Peptidefractionation
            The digested protein samples were dried under a vacuum, re-suspended in 0.1% aqueous
   formic acid and trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) was added to reduce the pH of the solution to <3.
   Peptides were separated by ion exchange using an Agilent Zorbax Bio-Strong Cation Exchange
   series II column on an Agilent LC1200 Series liquid chromatography system. Alternatively, the
40 Agilent 3100 OFFGEL Fractionator and the OFFGEL Kit pH 3 - 10 was used for p1-based
   separation, according to the protocol of the supplier. Following re-hydration of the IPG strips, equal
   volumes of a membrane digest were loaded into each well. Following separation, the resulting
    fractions were acidified.

   WO 2014/072700                                                                PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      55
   1.1.5    Mass spectrometry
            Fractionated samples were analysed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry using a
   Waters nanoACQUITY UPLC System fitted with a nanoACQUITY UPLC BEH 130 C18 column,
   75 pm x 250mm (186003545) and a LTQ Orbitrap Velos (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Peptides were
 5 eluted with a 300nl/min gradient increasing from 3% to 35% acetonitrile over 120 min. Full-scan
   mass spectra were acquired at 60000 resolving power between 400-2000 m/z mass range in the
   Orbitrap. In each cycle, the twenty most intense peptides were selected for CID MS/MS scans in the
   linear ion trap with nanospray ion source fitted on the instrument.
   1.1.6 Amino acid sequence analysis ofpeptide
10          The raw data generated from the LTQ Orbitrap Velos was processed through the Mascot
   software (Matrix Science) which uses the Mowse algorithm (Curr Biol. 1993 Jun 1;3(6):327-3) to
   infer amino acids sequences from the peak lists by searching against a sequence database consisting
   of Ensembl (http://www.ensembl.org/index.html), IPI (www.ebi.ac.uk/IPI/IPIhuman.html) and
   SwissProt (http://www.uniprot.org) along with contaminant protein sequences. Criteria for peptide
15 identification included trypsin digestion, up to 2 missed cleavage sites and various biological and
   chemical modifications (oxidized methionine, cysteine modification by MMTS or iodoacetamide
   and phosphorylation of serine, threonine and tyrosine). Peptides ranked 1 with an expectation value
   of 0.05% or less, an ion score of 28 or higher were loaded into our OGAP database where they were
   processed into protein groups.
20 1.1.7 Discriminationof bladder cancer,breast cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, colorectal
   cancer, esophagealcancer,gastriccancer, head and neck cancer,kidney cancer, non-small cell
   lung cancer,ovarian cancer,pancreaticcancer,skin cancer,small cell lung cancer,lymphoma,
   acute monocytic leukaemia tissue samples and multiple myeloma cell associatedproteins
            The process to identify LY75 used the peptide sequences obtained experimentally by mass
25 spectrometry, as described above, of naturally occurring human proteins to identify and organize
   coding exons in the published human genome sequence. These experimentally determined
   sequences indicated in Table 1, were compared with the OGAP@ database which was compiled by
   processing and integration of peptide masses, peptide signatures, ESTs and Public Domain Genomic
   Sequence Data as described in International Patent Application W02009/087462.
30
   Table 1. LY75 Specific Peptides Identified By LC/MS in the plasma membranes of bladder cancer,
   breast cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, gastric cancer,
   head and neck cancer, kidney cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer,
   skin cancer, small cell lung cancer, lymphoma, acute monocytic leukaemia tissue samples and
35 multiple myeloma cells.
                SEQ ID No          Peptide Identified
                        3          AANDPFTIVHGNTGK
                        4          CLGLDITK
                        5          CEHHSLYGAAR
                        6          KGGSEESLCDQPYHEIYTR
                        7          GGSEESLCDQPYHEIYTR
                        8          WGICLKPENGCEDNWEK
                        9          MDAESGLWQSFSCEAQLPYVCR

WO 2014/072700                                    PCT/GB2013/052899
                               56
               10  LHNEDIK
               11  EEVWIGLK
               12  TPNCVSYLGELGQWK
               13  VQSCEEK
               14  LNDASSDK
               15  MCPPDEGWK
               16  HGETCYK
               17  FEQEYLNDLMK
               18  YFWTGLR
               19  DVDSCGEYNWATVGGR
               20  MSGPLGPEEASPKPDDPCPEGWQSFPASLSCYK
               21  SPDLQGSWQWSDR
               22  TPVSTIIMPNEFQQDYDIR
               23  EFIYLRPFACDTK
               24  LEWVCQIPK
               25  TPDWYNPDR
               26  ISEWPIDDHFTYSR
               27  FPVTFGEECLYMSAK
               28  TWLIDLGKPTDCSTK
               29  VQCSEQWIPFQNK
               30  ELTYSNFHPLLVSGR
               31  IPENFFEEESR
               32  YHCALILNLQK
               33  HFVSLCQK
               34  YLNNLYK
               35  TLTWHSAK
               36  EVKPVDSVK
               37  HMATTQDEVHTK
               38  SHILSIR
               39  SHILSIRDEK
               40  SLMWFDK
               41  TPLSYTHWR
               42  FLAGLSTDGFWDIQTFK
               43  GQTSPGNCVLLDPK
               44  DGAICYKPTK
               45   SDQALHSFSEAK
               46  HDHSATIVSIK
               47  HDHSATIVSIKDEDENK
               48  HDHSATIVSIKDEDENKFVSR
               49  KVECEHGFGR
               50  VECEHGFGR
                51  VPLGPDYTAIAIIVATLSILVLMGGLIWFLFQRHR

   WO 2014/072700                                                               PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                    57
                       52          YAQGVNEDEIMLPSFHD
   1.1.8    Protein Index
            The protein index is a measure of both protein prevalence and peptide abundance. The
   algorithm takes into account both the number of samples in which the protein has been observed and
 5 the number of peptides observed vs observable peptides from each sample. The resulting value is
   then graded by pairwise comparison of corresponding normal samples vs cancer samples.
   1.2      RESULTS
            These experiments identified LY75 as further described herein. The full-length LY75 was
10 detected in the plasma membrane of bladder cancer, breast cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukaemia
   (CLL), colorectal cancer, esophageal cancer, gastric cancer, head and neck cancer, kidney cancer,
   non-small cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, skin cancer, small cell lung cancer and
   lymphoma (NHL), acute monocytic leukaemia (AML) tissue samples and multiple myeloma cells
   (MM). Table 2 shows the expression distribution of LY75 measured by the protein index.
15 Expression of LY75 in these cancer tissues indicates LY75 is a valuable therapeutic and diagnostic
   target in these cancers.
   Table 2. LY75 Protein Index (+++++= Very High; ++++ = High; ++           = Medium; ++= Low; +=
   Very low; -  = Not Observed)
20
                             Tissue                      Cancer       Normal
                             Bladder                       +++            +
                             Breast                        ++.
                              Colorectal                 +++++           ++
                              Gastric                        ++          ++
                             Esophagus                    ++++
                             Head & Neck                    ++
                             Kidney                          +
                             Non-small cell lung           ++
                              Ovarian                     ++
                             Pancreas                       ++
                             Skin                           ++
                             Small cell lung                 +
                             AML                             +
                              CLL                           ++
                             NHL                         +
                             MM                            +++
   EXAMPLE 2: IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY USING ANTIBODY TO LY75
25          Using the following Reference Protocol, immunohistochemistry was performed on FFPE
   tumor and normal tissues using a mouse monoclonal antibody to LY75 (Leica).

   WO 2014/072700                                                               PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      58
   2.1 MATERIALS AND METHODS
   2.1.1   Materials
           Citroclear (HC5005) from TCS Biosciences, UK.
 5         Reagent alcohol (R8382) from Sigma-Aldrich, UK.
           Target Retrieval Solution, pH6 (S2369) from Dako, UK.
           REAL Peroxidase Blocking Solution (S2023) from Dako, UK
           Antibody Diluent (S0809) from Dako, UK
           EnVision+ HRP-conjugated polymer, Mouse (K4000) from Dako, UK.
10         Liquid DAB+ substrate (K3468) from Dako, UK.
           Mayer's Hematoxylin (X0909) from Dako, UK
           Aquatex (1.08562.0050) from VWR, UK
           Tissue sections and arrays were from US Biomax Inc., MD, USA.
15 2.1.2 Deparaffinisationand Rehydration
           Slides were deparaffinised in Citroclear (2 x 5 minutes) then rehydrated through
   100% alcohol (2 x 5 minutes), 50% alcohol (1 x 5 minutes) and tap water (1 x 5 minutes).
   2.1.3   Antigen Retrieval (PressureCooker)
20         The LY75 antigen was retrieved under pressure for 20 minutes in 50ml Target
   Retrieval Solution in a Coplin jar. Slides were then left to cool to room temperature for a
   further 20 min. Circles were drawn around each tissue section/TMA with a hydrophobic
   barrier pen and slides were then washed twice in PBS, 3 minutes each wash.
25 2.1.4   Tissue staining
           Endogenous peroxidase activity was blocked by incubating tissues with Peroxidase
   Blocking Solution for 10 minutes at RT in a humidified chamber. Slides were then washed
   once in PBS and once in PBS-T (PBS containing Tween-20, 0.125%v/v), 3 minutes each
   wash. Primary antibody (diluted 1/160 in Antibody Diluent) was applied to each tissue
30 section and/or microarray, and the slides were incubated for 45 min at room temperature in
   a humidified chamber. Slides were then washed once in PBS and once in PBS-T, 3 minutes
   each wash. The EnVision+ HRP-conjugated polymer was then applied to the tissues and the
   slides were incubated for 30 min at room temperature in a humidified chamber. Slides were
   then washed once in PBS and once in PBS-T, 3 minutes each wash. Tissues were incubated
35 in Liquid DAB+ substrate at room temperature for 10 min in a humidified chamber. Slides
   were then washed once in PBS and once in PBS-T, counterstained with Hematoxylin for 1
   min at room temperature in a humidified chamber, and washed again, once in PBS and once
   in PBS-T, 3 minutes each wash. Coverslips were then mounted onto the slides using
   Aquatex.
40
   2.2     RESULTS
            Immunohistochemical analysis revealed specific staining of tumor cells in pancreatic,
   ovarian, breast, colorectal, esophageal, skin, thyroid and lung (non-small-cell) cancers as well as

   WO 2014/072700                                                                PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                      59
   Multiple Myeloma and lymphomas, both Hodgkin and Non-Hodgkin types. Hodgkin Lymphoma
   subtypes that were stained with the LY75 antibody were: Nodular-Sclerosing, Lymphocyte
   Predominant, Lymphocyte-Depleted, Mixed-Cellularity, and Hodgkin Lymphoma (Not Otherwise
   Specified). Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma subtypes that were stained with the LY75 antibody were:
 5 Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, B-Cell Lymphoma (Not Otherwise Specified), Follicular
   Lymphoma, Mantle Cell Lymphoma, Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue (MALT),
   T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich B-Cell Lymphoma, Burkitt Lymphoma, Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma,
   Small Lymphoctyic Lymphoma, Marginal Zone Lymphoma, T-Cell Lymphoma (Not Otherwise
   Specified), Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma and
10 Angiolmmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma. Thus antibodies directed to LY75 may have utility as
   therapeutics and diagnostics in these cancers and other cancer types showing expression of LY75.
   EXAMPLE 3: SPECIFICITY OF MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES TO LY75 DETERMINED BY
   FLOW CYTOMETRY ANALYSIS
15          The specificity of monoclonal antibodies to LY75 were tested by flow cytometry analysis,
   carried out in LY75-expressing cell lines.
   Materialsand Methods
            Anti-LY75 antibodies were incubated with the LY75-expressing cells. Cells were washed in
   FACS buffer (DPBS, 2% FBS), centrifuged and resuspended in 100l of the diluted primary LY75
20 antibody (also diluted in FACS buffer). The antibody-cell complex were incubated on ice for 60 min
   and then washed twice with FACS buffer as described above. The cell-antibody pellet was
   resuspended in 100g1 of the diluted secondary antibody (also diluted in FACS buffer) and incubated
   on ice for 60 min on ice. The pellet was washed as before and resuspended in 200pl FACS buffer.
   The samples were loaded onto the BD FACScanto II flow cytometer and the data analyzed using the
25 BD FACSdiva software.
   Results
   The results of the flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies
   bound effectively to the cell-surface human LY75. The binding specificities of anti-LY75
   antibodies on LY75-expressing cells cells are shown in Figure 1. The results indicate strong binding
30 of those antibodies against LY75 on LY75-expressing cells.
   EXAMPLE 4: INTERNALIZATION OF ANTI-LY75 MONOCLONAL ANTIBODY BY LY75
   EXPRESSING CELLS.
          The anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies were shown to be internalized by upon binding to the
35 LY75-expressing cells cells. The MabZAP antibodies were bound to the primary antibodies. Next,
   the MabZAP complex was internalized by the cells. The entrance of Saporin into the cells resulted
   in protein synthesis inhibition and eventual cell death
          The MabZAP assay was conducted as follows. Each of the cells was seeded at a density of
   5x103 cells per well. The anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies or an isotype control human IgG were
40 serially diluted then added to the cells. The MabZAP were then added at a concentration of 50 pg/ml
   and the plates allowed to incubate for 48 and 72 hours. Cell viability in the plates was detected by
   CellTiter-Glo@ Luminescent Cell Viability Assay kit (Promega, G7571) and the plates were read at
   490nM by a Luminomitor (Tuner BioSystems, Sunnyvale, CA). The data was analyzed by Prism
   (Graphpad).

   WO 2014/072700                                                                         PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                          60
          Cell death was proportional to the concentration of anti-LY75 monoclonal antibodies.
   The results show that anti-LY75 were efficiently internalized by Namalwa (Figure2a), RAJI
   (Figure2b), HCC 1143 (breast ductal carcinoma - ER negative, PR negative and Her2
   negative)(Figure2c), HCC 1806 (breast acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma - ER negative, PR
 5 negative and Her2 negative) (Figure2d), MDA-MB-468 (Figure2e), SW780 (Bladder transitional
   Carcinoma) (Figure2f), Kato III (Gastric adenocarcinoma) (Figure2g), SCC-9 (tongue carcinoma)
   (Figure2h), AML-193 (Figure 2i), THP-1 (Figure 2j), RPMI 8226 (multiple myeloma) (Figure 2k)
   and OE-19 (Figure 21) cells, as compared to the anti-human IgG isotype control antibody, and was
   propotional to the concentration of MabZAP complex.
10
   SEQUENCES
    SEQ      Description       Sequence
    ID No
                               MRTGWATPRRPAGLLMLLFWFFDLAEPSGRAANDPFTIVHGNTGKCKPVYGWIVAD
                               DCDETEDKLWKWVSQHRLFHLHSQKCLGLDITKSVNELRMFSCDSSAMLWWKCEH
                               HSLYGAARYRLALKDGHGTAISNASDVWKKGGSEESLCDQPYHEIYTRDGNSYGRP
                               CEFPFLIDGTWHHDCILDEDHSGPWCATTLNYEYDRKWGICLKPENGCEDNWEKNE
                               QFGSCYQFNTQTALSWKEAYVSCQNQGADLLSINSAAELTYLKEKEGIAKIFWIGLNQ
                               LYSARGWEWSDHKPLNFLNWDPDRPSAPTIGGSSCARMDAESGLWQSFSCEAQLP
                               YVCRKPLNNTVELTDVWTYSDTRCDAGWLPNNGFCYLLVNESNSWDKAHAKCKAFS
                               SDLISIHSLADVEVVVTKLHNEDIKEEVWIGLKNINIPTLFQWSDGTEVTLTYWDENEPN
                               VPYNKTPNCVSYLGELGQWKVQSCEEKLKYVCKRKGEKLNDASSDKMCPPDEGWK
                               RHGETCYKIYEDEVPFGTNCNLTITSRFEQEYLNDLMKKYDKSLRKYFWTGLRDVDS
                               CGEYNWATVGGRRRAVTFSNWNFLEPASPGGCVAMSTGKSVGKWEVKDCRSFKAL
                               SICKKMSGPLGPEEASPKPDDPCPEGWQSFPASLSCYKVFHAERIVRKRNWEEAER
                               FCQALGAHLSSFSHVDEIKEFLHFLTDQFSGQHWLWIGLNKRSPDLQGSWQWSDRT
                               PVSTIlMPNEFQQDYDIRDCAAVKVFHRPWRRGWHFYDDREFYLRPFACDTKLEWV
                               CQIPKGRTPKTPDWYNPDRAGIHGPPLIIEGSEYWFVADLHLNYEEAVLYCASNHSFL
               tLymphocyte     ATITSFVGLKAIKNKIANISGDGQKWWIRISEWPIDDHFTYSRYPWHRFPVTFGEECLY
             antigen75(LY75)   MSAKTWLIDLGKPTDCSTKLPFICEKYNVSSLEKYSPDSAAKVQCSEQWIPFQNKCFL
                               KIKPVSLTFSQASDTCHSYGGTLPSVLSQIEQDFITSLLPDMEATLWIGLRWTAYEKIN
                               KWTDNRELTYSNFHPLLVSGRLRIPENFFEEESRYHCALILNLQKSPFTGTWNFTSCS
                               ERHFVSLCQKYSEVKSRQTLQNASETVKYLNNLYKIIPKTLTWHSAKRECLKSNMQLV
                               SITDPYQQAFLSVQALLHNSSLWIGLFSQDDELNFGWSDGKRLHFSRWAETNGQLED
                               CVVLDTDGFWKTVDCNDNQPGAICYYSGNETEKEVKPVDSVKCPSPVLNTPWIPFQN
                               CCYNFIITKNRHMATTQDEVHTKCQKLNPKSHILSIRDEKENNFVLEQLLYFNYMASW
                               VMLGITYRNKSLMWFDKTPLSYTHWRAGRPTIKNEKFLAGLSTDGFWDIQTFKVIEEA
                               VYFHQHSILACKIEMVDYKEEYNTTLPQFMPYEDGIYSVIQKKVTWYEALNMCSQSGG
                               HLASVHNQNGQLFLEDIVKRDGFPLWVGLSSHDGSESSFEWSDGSTFDYIPWKGQT
                               SPGNCVLLDPKGTWKHEKCNSVKDGAICYKPTKSKKLSRLTYSSRCPAAKENGSRWI
                               QYKGHCYKSDQALHSFSEAKKLCSKHDHSATIVSIKDEDENKFVSRLMRENNNITMRV
                               WLGLSQHSVDQSWSWLDGSEVTFVKWENKSKSGVGRCSMLIASNETWKKVECEHG
                               FGRVVCKVPLGPDYTAIAIIVATLSILVLMGGLIWFLFQRHRLHLAGFSSVRYAQGVNE
                               DEIMLPSFHD
                               aggccgcgctcagcaggcggggcgggagccgcgtgcgcccgaggacccggccggaaggcttgcgccagctcagg
                               atgaggacaggctgggcgacccctcgccgcccggcggggctcctcatgctgtcttctggtcttcgatctcgcggagcc
                               ctctggccgcgcagctaatgaccccttcaccatcgtccatggaaatacgggcaagtgcatcaagccagtgtatggctgg
                               atagtagcagacgactgtgatgaaactgaggacaagttatggaagtgggtgtcccagatcggctctttcatttgcactcc
                               caaaagtgcctggcctcgatattaccaaatcggtaaatgagctgagaatgttcagctgtgactccagtgccatgctgtggt
                               ggaaatgtgagcaccactctctgtacggagctgcccggtaccggctggctctgaaggatggaatggcacagcaatctc
                               aaatgcatctgatgtctggaagaaaggaggctcagaggaaagcctttgtgaccagccttatcatgagatctataccaga
                               gatgggaactcttatgggagaccttgtgaatttccattcttaattgatgggacctggcatatgatgcattcttgatgaagatc
                               atagtgggccatggtgtgccaccaccttaaattatgaatatgaccgaaagtggggcatctgcttaaagcctgaaaaggtt
             Lymphocyte        gtgaagataattgggaaaagaacgagcagtttggaagttgctaccaatttaatactcagacggctctttcttggaaagaag
    2        antigen 75        cttatgtttcatgtcagaatcaaggagctgatttactgagcatcaacagtgctgctgaattaacttaccttaaagaaaaaga
             (NM_002349)       aggcattgctaagattttctggattggtttaaatcagctatactctgctagaggtgggaatggtcagaccacaaaccatta
                               aactttctcaactgggatccagacaggcccagtgcacctactataggtggctccagctgtgcaagaatggatgctgagtct
                               ggtctgtggcagagcttttcctgtgaagctcaactgccctatgtctgcaggaaaccattaaataatacagtggagttaacag
                               atgtctggacatactcagatacccgctgtgatgcaggctggctgccaaataatggattttgctatctgctggtaaatgaaagt
                               aattcctgggataaggcacatgcgaaatgcaaagcctcagtagtgacctaatcagcattcattctctagcagatgtggag
                               gtggttgtcacaaaactccataatgaggatatcaaagaagaagtgtggataggccttaagaacataaacataccaacttt
                               atttcagtggtcagatggtactgaagttacttaacatattgggatgagaatgagccaaatgttccctacaataagacgccc
                               aactgtgtttcctacttaggagagctaggtcagtggaaagtccaatcatgtgaggagaaactaaaatatgtatgcaagag
                               aaagggagaaaaactgaatgacgcaagttctgataagatgtgtcctccagatgagggctggaagagacatggagaa
                             I acctgttacaagatttatgaggatgaggtcccttttggaacaaactgcaatctgactatcactagcagatttgagcaagaat

WO 2014/072700                                                                           PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                     61
                       acctaaatgatttgatgaaaaagtatgataaatctctaagaaaatacttctggactggcctgagagatgtagattcttgtgg
                       agagtataactgggcaactgttggtggaagaaggcgggctgtaaccttttccaaCtggaattttCttgagcagcftccccg
                       ggcggctgcgtggctatgtctactggaaagtctgtggaaagtgggaggtgaaggactgcagaagctcaaagcactttC
                       aatttgcaagaaaatgagtggaccccttgggcctgaagaagcatcccctaagcctgatgaccctgtcctgaaggCtgg
                       cagagtttccccgcaagtctttcttgttataaggtattccatgcagaaagaatgtaagaaagaggaactgggaagaagCt
                       gaacgattctgccaagcccttggagcacacctttctagctcagccatgtggatgaaataaaggaatttctcactttttaac
                       ggaccagttcagtggccagcatggctgtggatggtttgaataaaaggagcccagatttacaaggatcctggcaatgga
                       gtgatcgtacaccagtgtctactatatcatgccaaatgagtttcagcaggattatgacatcagagactgtgctgCtgtcaag
                       gtatttcataggccatggcgaagaggctggcatttctatgatgatagagaatttatttatttgaggccttttgctgtgatacaaa
                       acttgaatgggtgtgccaaattccaaaaggccgtactccaaaaacaccagactggtacaatccagaccgtgctggaat
                       catggacctccacttataattgaaggaagtgaatatggtttgtgctgatcttcacctaaactatgaagaagccgtCCtgtac
                       tgtgccagcaatcacagctttctgcaactataacatcttttgtgggactaaaagccatcaaaaacaaaatagcaaatatat
                       ctggtgatggacagaagtggtggataagaatagcgagtggccaatagatgatcattttacatactcacgatatCCatggc
                       accgctttcctgtgacatttggagaggaatgcttgtacatgtctgccaagacttggCttatCgacttaggtaaaccaacaga
                       ctgtagtaccaagtgcccttcatctgtgaaaaatataatgtttcttcgtagagaaatacagcccagattCtgcagetaaagt
                       gcaatgttctgagcaatggatccttttcagaataagtgttttctaaagatcaaacccgtgtCtCtcacattttctcaagcaagc
                       gatacctgtcactcctatggtggcaccttccttcagtgtgagccagattgaacaagactttatacatccttgctCCggata
                       tggaagctactttatggattggtttgcgctggactgcctatgaaaagataaacaaatggacagataacagagagctgacg
                       tacagtaactttcacccattattggttagtgggaggctgagaataccagaaaatttttttgaggaagagtctcgctaccactg
                       tgccctaatactcaacctccaaaaatcaccgtttactgggacgtggaattttacatCCtgcagtgaacgccactttgtgtCtct
                       ctgtcagaaatattcagaagttaaaagcagacagacgtgcagaatgctcagaaactgtaaagtatctaaataatctgta
                       caaaataatcccaaagatctgacttggacagtgctaaaagggagtgtctgaaaagtaacatgcagCtggtgagcatC
                       acggacccttaccagcaggcattcctcagtgtgcaggcgctcctcacaactctccttatggatCggactctcagtcaag
                       atgatgaactcaactttggtggtcagatgggaaacgtctcattttagtcgctgggctgaaactaatgggcaactCgaaga
                       ctgtgtagtattagacactgatggatctggaaaacagtgattgcaatgacaatcaaccaggtgCtatttgctactattcag
                       gaaatgagatgaaaaagaggtcaaaccagttgacagtgftaaatgtccatctCCtgttCtaaatactccgtggataccat
                       tcagaactgttgctacaattcataataacaaagaataggcatatggcaacaacacaggatgaagttcatactaaatgcc
                       agaaactgaatccaaaatcacatattctgagtattcgagatgaaaaggagaataactttgttctgagcaactgctgtactt
                       caattatatggcttcatgggtcatgttaggaataactatagaaataagtctcttatgtggtttgataagaccccactgtCatat
                       acacattggagagcaggaagaccaactataaaaaatgagaagtttttggctggtttaagtactgacggctctgggatat
                       caaacctttaaagtatgaagaagcagttattttcaccagcacagcattcttgctgtaaaatgaaatggtgactacaaa
                       gaagaatataatactacactgccacagttatgccatatgaagatggtatttacagtgttatcaaaaaaaggtaacatggt
                       atgaagcataaacatgtgtctcaaagtggaggtcacttggcaagcgttcacaaccaaaatggccagctctttCtggaag
                       atattgtaaaacgtgatggattccactatgggtgggctctcaagtcatgatggaagtgaatcaagtttgaatggtCtgatg
                       gtagtacatttgactatatcccatggaaaggccaaacatctcctggaaatgtgttctcttggatCCaaaaggaaCttggaa
                       acatgaaaaatgcaactctgtaaggatggtgctatttgftataaacctacaaaatotaaaaagctgtcccgtcttacatatc
                       atcaagatgtccagcagcaaaagagaatgggtcacggtggatccagtacaagggtcactgttacaagtctgatcaggc
                       attgcacagtttttcagaggccaaaaaattgtgttcaaaacatgatcactctgcaactatcgtttccataaaagatgaagat
                       gagaataaatttgtgagcagactgatgagggaaaataataacattaccatgagagttggcttggattatctcaacatCtg
                       ttgaccagtcttggagttggttagatggatcagaagtgacatttgtcaaatgggaaaataaaagtaagagtggtgttggaa
                       gatgtagcatgttgatagcttcaaatgaaacttggaaaaaagtgaatgtgaacatggttttggaagagttgtctgcaaagt
                       gcctctgggccctgaftacacagcaatagctatcatagttgccacactaagtatctagttctcatgggcggactgatttggtt
                       cctcttccaaaggcaccgtttgcacctggcgggtttctcatcagttcgatatgcacaaggagtgaatgaagatgagattatg
                       cttccttctttccatgactaaattcttctaaaagtttctaatttgcactaatgtgtatgagaaatagtcacttaaaatgtcccagt
                       gtcagtatttactctgctccaaagtagaactctaaatacttttcagtgtttagatcttaggcatgtgctggtatCCacagttaat
                       tccctgctaaatgccatgtttatcaccctaattaatagaatggaggggactccaaagctggaactgaagtccaaatgtttgt
                       acagtaatatgtttaatgttcattttctctgtatgaatgtgattggtaactaggatatgtatattttaatagaatttttaacaaaactt
                       cttagaaaattaaaataggcatatactaggtgacatgtctactttttaatttttaagagcatccggccaaatgcaaaattagt
                       acctcaaagtaaaaattgaactgtaaactctatcagcatgttcaaaatagtcatttttagcactggggaaaaataaacaa
                       taagacatgcttacttttaafttttatttttttgagactgagtctcttctgtgccaggctggagtacaatggcgtgatCtcggct
                       cactgcaaatctccgcctcccaggttcaagcgatctcctgcctcagcctcctgagtagctgggatacaggcaaCtgcca
                       ccatgcccggctaatttttgtatttttagtagagatggggtttcaccatgttggccaggtggtctCgaactcgtgaccgcagg
                       tgatcctcccgcctcggcctcccaaagtgctgggattacaggcatgagccaccgcgcctggcctctgCttactttttatatag
                       caaaatgatcctcttggcaagatgtttcttatatattccaaagttatttcataccatattatgtaaatatgaagagtttttttctgt
                       tataattgtttataaaacaatgactttaaagatttagtgcttaacattttcccaagtgtgggaacattatttttagatgagtaggt
                       accttgtagcagtgtgctttgcattttctgatgtattacatgactgtttcttttgtaaagagaatcaactaggtattaagactgata
                       attttacaatttatatgcttcacatagcatgtcaacttttgactaagaatttgttttacttttttaacatgtgtaaacagagaaagg
                       gtccatgaaggaaagtgtatgagttgcatttgtaaaaatgagactttttcagtggaactctaaaccttgtgatgactactaac
                       aaatgtaaaaftatgagtgataagaaaacattgctttgtggttatcactttaagttttgacacctagaftatagtcftagtaata
                       gcatccactggaaaaggtgaaaatgttttattcggcatttaactacatttgtactttatttttgtataaaatccatagatttatttta
                       catttagagtatttacactatgataaagtgtaaataattttctaagacagtttttatatagtctacagtgtcctgatttettatga
                       atttgttagactagttctcttgtcctgtgatctgtgtacaattttagtcactaagactttcctccaagaactaagccaacttgatgt
                       gaaaagcacagctgtatataatggtgatgtcataataaagftgttttatcttttaagtaaaagtaaaaaaaa
 3      LY75 Peptide 1 AANDPFTIVHGNTGK
 4      LY75 Peptide 2 CLGLDITK
 5      LY75 Peptide 3 CEHHSLYGAAR
 6      LY75 Peptide 4 KGGSEESLCDQPYHEIYTR
 7      LY75 Peptide 5 GGSEESLCDQPYHEIYTR
 8      LY75 Peptide 6 WGICLKPENGCEDNWEK
 9      LY75 Peptide 7 MDAESGLWQSFSCEAQLPYVCR
 10     LY75 Peptide 8 LHNEDIK
 11     LY75 Peptide 9 EEVWIGLK

WO 2014/072700                                                                       PCT/GB2013/052899
                                                     62
 12     LY75 Peptide 10     TPNCVSYLGELGQWK
 13     LY75 Peptide 11     VQSCEEK
 14     LY75 Peptide 12     LNDASSDK
 15     LY75 Peptide 13     MCPPDEGWK
 16     LY75 Peptide 14     HGETCYK
 17     LY75 Peptide 15     FEQEYLNDLMK
 18     LY75 Peptide 16     YFWTGLR
 19     LY75 Peptide 17     DVDSCGEYNWATVGGR
 20     LY75 Peptide 18     MSGPLGPEEASPKPDDPCPEGWQSFPASLSCYK
 21     LY75 Peptide 19     SPDLQGSWQWSDR
 22     LY75 Peptide 20     TPVSTIIMPNEFQQDYDIR
 23     LY75 Peptide 21     EFIYLRPFACDTK
 24     LY75 Peptide 22     LEWVCQIPK
 25     LY75 Peptide 23     TPDWYNPDR
 26     LY75 Peptide 24     ISEWPIDDHFTYSR
 27     LY75 Peptide 25     FPVTFGEECLYMSAK
 28     LY75 Peptide 26     TWLIDLGKPTDCSTK
 29     LY75 Peptide 27     VQCSEQWIPFQNK
 30     LY75 Peptide 28     ELTYSNFHPLLVSGR
 31     LY75 Peptide 29     IPENFFEEESR
 32     LY75 Peptide 30     YHCALILNLQK
 33     LY75 Peptide 31     HFVSLCQI(
 34     LY75 Peptide 32     YLNNLYK
 35     LY75 Peptide 33     TLTWHSAK
 36     LY75 Peptide 34     EVKPVDSVK
 37     LY75 Peptide 35     HMATTQDEVHTK
 38     LY75 Peptide 36     SHILSIR
 39     LY75 Peptide 37     SHILSIRDEK
 40     LY75 Peptide 38     SLMWFDK
 41     LY75 Peptide 39     TPLSYTHWR
 42     LY75  Peptide 40    FLAGLSTDGFWDIQTFK
 43     LY75  Peptide 41    GQTSPGNCVLLDPK
 44     LY75  Peptide 42    DGAICYKPTK
 45     LY75  Peptide 43    SDQALHSFSEAK
 46     LY75  Peptide 44    HDHSATIVSIK
 47     LY75  Peptide 45    HDHSATIVSIKDEDENK
 48     LY75  Peptide  46    HDHSATIVSIKDEDENKFVSR
 49     LY75  Peptide 47    KVECEHGFGR
  50    LY75  Peptide 48    VECEHGFGR
  51    LY75  Peptide 49    VPLGPDYTAIAIIVATLSILVLMGGLIWFLFQRHR
  52    LY75  Peptide 50    YAQGVNEDEIMLPSFHD
                            SGRAANDPFTIVHGNTGKCIKPVYGWIVADDCDETEDKLWKWVSQHRLFHLHSQKCLGLD
                             ITKSVNELRMFSCDSSAMLWWKCEHHSLYGAARYRLALKDGHGTAISNASDVWKKGGSEE
                            SLCDQPYH E YTRDG NSYG RPCE FPFL IDGTWH HDCILDEDHSG PWCATTLNYEYDRK WG
                             ICLKPENGCEDNWEKNEQFGSCYQFNTQTALSWKEAYVSCQNQGADLLSINSAAELTYLK
                             EKEGIAKIFWIGLNQLYSARGWEWSDHKPLNFLNWDPDRPSAPTIGGSSCARMDAESGLW
                             QSFSCEAQLPYVCRKPLNNTVELTDVWTYSDTRCDAGWLPNNGFCYLLVNESNSWDKAHA
                             KCKAFSSDLISIHSLADVEVVVTKLHNEDIKEEVWIGLKNINIPTLFQWSDGTEVTLTYW
                             DENEPNVPYNKTPNCVSYLGELGQWKVQSCEEKLKYVCKRKGEKLNDASSDKMCPPDEGW
                             KRHGETCYKIYEDEVPFGTNCNLTITSRFEQEYLNDLMKKYDKSLRKYFWTGLRDVDSCG
                             EYNWATVGGRRRAVTFSNWNFLEPASPGGCVAMSTGKSVGKWEVKDCRSFKLSICKKMS
                             GPLGPEEASPKPDDPCPEGWQSFPASLSCYKVFHAERIVRKRNWEEAERFCQALGAHLSS
         LY75 Extracellular  FSHVDEIKEFLHFLTDQFSGQHWLWIGLNKRSPDLQGSWQWSDRTPVSTIIMPNEFQQDY
  53                         DIRDCAAVKVFHRPWRRGWHFYDDREFIYLRPFACDTKLEWVCQIPKGRTPKTPDWYNPD
         Domain              RAG IHGPPLIIEGSEYWFVADLHLNYEEAVLYCASNHSFLATITSFVGLKAIKNKIAN IS
                             GDGQKWWIRISEWPIDDHFTYSRYPWHRFPVTFGEECLYMSAKTWLIDLGKPTDCSTKLP
                             FICEKYNVSSLEKYSPDSAAKVQCSEQWIPFQNKCFLKIKPVSLTFSQASDTCHSYGGTL
                             PSVLSQIEQDFITSLLPDMEATLWIGLRWTAYEKINKWTDNRELTYSNFHPLLVSGRLRI
                             PENFFEEESRYHCALILNLQKSPFTGTWNFTSCSERHFVSLCQKYSEVKSRQTLQNASET
                             VKYLNNLYKIIPKTLTWHSAKRECLKSNMQLVSITDPYQQAFLSVQALLHNSSLWIGLFS
                             QDDELNFGWSDGKRLHFSRWAETNGQLEDCWVLDTDGFWKTVDCNDNQPGAICYYSGNET
                             EKE VKP VDS VKCPSP VLNTPW IPFQNCCYN FIITKN RH MATTQDE VHTKCQKLN PKSH IL
                             SIRDEKENNFVLEQLLYFNYMASWVMLGITYRNKSLMWFDKTPLSYTHWRAGRPTIKNEK
                              FLAGLSTDGFWDIQTFKVIEEAVYFHQHSILACKIEMVDYKEEYNTTLPQFMPYEDGIYS
                             VIQKKVTWVYEALNMCSQSGGHLASVHNQNGQLFLEDIVKRDGFPLWVGLSSHDGSESSFE
                             WSDGSTFDYIPWKGQTSPGNCVLLDPKGTWKHEKCNSVKDGAICYKPTKSKKLSRLTYSS

WO 2014/072700                                                  PCT/GB2013/052899
                                    63
               RCPAAKENGSRWIQYKGHCYKSDQALHSFSEAKKLCSKHDHSATIVSIKDEDENKFVSRL
               MRENNNITMRVWLGLSQHSVDQSWSWLDGSEVTFVKWENKSKSGVGRCSMLIASNETWKK
               VECEHGFGRWVCKVPLGPD

                                                      64
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.     A method for the treatment or prophylaxis of a cancer selected from the group consisting of
          gastric cancer, lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia, thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, esophagus
 5        cancer, head and neck cancer and skin cancer wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, which
          comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of an
          affinity reagent which binds to LY75, wherein said affinity reagent is conjugated to a
          therapeutic moiety.
10 2.     The method according to claim 1, wherein the lymphoma is selected from the group consisting
          of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, B-Cell Lymphoma, Follicular
          Lymphoma, Mantle Cell Lymphoma, Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue
          (MALT), T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich B-Cell Lymphoma, Burkitt Lymphoma, Lymphoplasmacytic
          Lymphoma, Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, Marginal Zone Lymphoma, T-Cell Lymphoma,
15        Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma and Angiolmmunoblastic T
          Cell Lymphoma.
   3.     The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the affinity reagent binds specifically to
          LY75.
20
   4.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the affinity reagent is an antibody,
          a monoclonal antibody, a chimeric antibody, a human antibody, a humanized antibody, a single
          chain antibody, a defucosylated antibody or a bispecific antibody, or a functional fragment
          thereof or antigen-binding portion thereof, or an antibody mimetic.
25
   5.     The method according to claim 4, wherein
          a)       the functional antibody fragment is a UniBody, a domain antibody or a Nanobody; or
          b)       the antibody mimetic is an Affibody, a DARPin, an Anticalin, an Avimer, a Versabody
                   or a Duocalin.
30
   6.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the therapeutic moiety is a
          cytotoxic moiety or a radioactive isotope.
   7.     The method according to claim 6 wherein the cytotoxic moiety is selected from the group
35        consisting of duocarmycins, calicheamicins, maytansines and auristatins, or derivatives thereof.
   8.     The method according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the affinity reagent is an antibody drug
          conjugate.
40 9.     A method of detecting, diagnosing and/or screening for or monitoring the progression of a
          cancer selected from the group consisting of gastric cancer, lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia,
          thyroid cancer, bladder cancer, esophagus cancer, head and neck cancer and skin cancer
          wherein LY75 is expressed in said cancer, or of monitoring the effect of a cancer drug or
          therapy directed to said cancer, in a subject which comprises:-

                                                    65
       a)       detecting the presence or level of LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, or the
                presence or level of nucleic acid encoding LY75, or which comprises detecting a
                change in the level of either thereof in said subject; or
       b)       detecting the presence or level of antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to
 5              LY75, or one or more fragments thereof.
   10. The method according to claim 9 which comprises detecting the presence of LY75, or one or
       more fragments thereof, or the presence of nucleic acid encoding LY75, in which either (a) the
       presence of an elevated level of LY75, or said one or more fragments thereof, or an elevated
10     level of nucleic acid encoding LY75 in the subject as compared with the level in a healthy
       subject, or (b) the presence of a detectable level of LY75, or said one or more fragments
       thereof, or a detectable level of nucleic acid encoding LY75 in the subject as compared with a
       corresponding undetectable level in a healthy subject is indicative of the presence of said
       cancer in said subject.
15
   11. The method according to claim 9 or claim 10 wherein the presence of LY75, or one or more
       fragments thereof, or the presence of nucleic acid encoding LY75, or the presence or level of
       antibodies capable of immunospecific binding to LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, is
       detected by analysis of a biological sample obtained from the subject.
20
   12. The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein the presence of LY75, or one or
       more fragments thereof, is detected using an affinity reagent which binds to LY75.
   13. The method according to claim 12 wherein the affinity reagent is as defined in any one of
25     claims 3 to 8.
   14. The method according to claim 12 or 13 wherein the affinity reagent contains or is conjugated
       to a detectable label.
30 15. The method according to any one of claims I to 14 wherein the subject is a human.
   16. A method for identifying an agent for the treatment or prophylaxis of a cancer selected from
       the group consisting of gastric cancer, lymphoma, myeloma, leukaemia, thyroid cancer,
       bladder cancer, esophagus cancer, head and neck cancer and skin cancer wherein LY75 is
35     expressed in said cancer, wherein the method comprises (a) contacting LY75, or one or more
       fragments thereof, with a candidate agent; and (b) determining whether the agent binds to
       LY75, or said one or more fragments thereof.
   17. The method according to claim 16 further comprising the step of testing the ability of an agent
40     which binds to LY75, or one or more fragments thereof, to:
       a)       inhibit said cancer; and/or
       b)       to modulate a physiological function of LY75, inhibit ligand binding to LY75 and/or
                inhibit a signal transduction pathway mediated by LY75.
45 18. The method according to any one of claims I to 17, wherein the cancer is multiple myeloma.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                  pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                                               SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>   Ox f or d Bi ot her apeut i c s Lt d
              <120>   THERAPEUTI C AND DI AGNOSTI C TARGET
              <130>   489. 118308/ 01
              <150>   GB 1220010. 1
              <151>   2012- 11- 07
              <160>   53
<removed-apn>
              <170>   Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   1722
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   1
              Met Ar g Thr Gl y Tr p Al a Thr Pr o Ar g Ar g Pr o Al a Gl y Leu Leu Met
              1                 5                       10                      15
              Leu Leu Phe Tr p Phe Phe As p Leu Al a Gl u Pr o Ser Gl y Ar g Al a Al a
                          20                    25                      30
              As n As p Pr o Phe Thr I l e Val Hi s Gl y As n Thr Gl y Ly s Cy s I l e Ly s
                        35                     40                      45
              Pr o Val Ty r Gl y Tr p I l e Val Al a As p As p Cy s As p Gl u Thr Gl u As p
                   50                       55                      60
              Ly s Leu Tr p Ly s Tr p Val Ser Gl n Hi s Ar g Leu Phe Hi s Leu Hi s Ser
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Gl n Ly s Cy s Leu Gl y Leu As p I l e Thr Ly s Ser Val As n Gl u Leu Ar g
                                 85                      90                     95
              Met Phe Ser Cy s As p Ser Ser Al a Met Leu Tr p Tr p Ly s Cy s Gl u Hi s
                          100                    105                    110
              Hi s Ser Leu Ty r Gl y Al a Al a Ar g Ty r Ar g Leu Al a Leu Ly s As p Gl y
                       115                     120                     125
              Hi s Gl y Thr Al a I l e Ser As n Al a Ser As p Val Tr p Ly s Ly s Gl y Gl y
                   130                     135                    140
              Ser Gl u Gl u Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl n Pr o Ty r Hi s Gl u I l e Ty r Thr Ar g
              145                   150                      155                      160
              As p Gl y As n Ser Ty r Gl y Ar g Pr o Cy s Gl u Phe Pr o Phe Leu I l e As p
                                 165                      170                   175
              Gl y Thr Tr p Hi s Hi s As p Cy s I l e Leu As p Gl u As p Hi s Ser Gl y Pr o
                            180                       185                     190
                                                           Page 1

                                                 pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Tr p Cy s Al a Thr Thr Leu As n Ty r Gl u Ty r As p Ar g Ly s Tr p Gl y I l e
                        195                   200                      205
              Cy s Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As n Gl y Cy s Gl u As p As n Tr p Gl u Ly s As n Gl u
                   210                     215                      220
              Gl n Phe Gl y Ser Cy s Ty r Gl n Phe As n Thr Gl n Thr Al a Leu Ser Tr p
              225                    230                    235                   240
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Gl u Al a Ty r Val Ser Cy s Gl n As n Gl n Gl y Al a As p Leu Leu Ser
                                  245                    250                     255
              I l e As n Ser Al a Al a Gl u Leu Thr Ty r Leu Ly s Gl u Ly s Gl u Gl y I l e
                             260                    265                     270
              Al a Ly s I l e Phe Tr p I l e Gl y Leu As n Gl n Leu Ty r Ser Al a Ar g Gl y
                        275                       280                    285
              Tr p Gl u Tr p Ser As p Hi s Ly s Pr o Leu As n Phe Leu As n Tr p As p Pr o
                   290                     295                    300
              As p Ar g Pr o Ser Al a Pr o Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Ser Cy s Al a Ar g Met
              305                     310                      315                    320
              As p Al a Gl u Ser Gl y Leu Tr p Gl n Ser Phe Ser Cy s Gl u Al a Gl n Leu
                                 325                    330                    335
              Pr o Ty r Val Cy s Ar g Ly s Pr o Leu As n As n Thr Val Gl u Leu Thr As p
                            340                     345                    350
              Val Tr p Thr Ty r Ser As p Thr Ar g Cy s As p Al a Gl y Tr p Leu Pr o As n
                       355                   360                      365
              As n Gl y Phe Cy s Ty r Leu Leu Val As n Gl u Ser As n Ser Tr p As p Ly s
                   370                    375                   380
              Al a Hi s Al a Ly s Cy s Ly s Al a Phe Ser Ser As p Leu I l e Ser I l e Hi s
              385                      390                   395                      400
              Ser Leu Al a As p Val Gl u Val Val Val Thr Ly s Leu Hi s As n Gl u As p
                                405                  410                    415
              I l e Ly s Gl u Gl u Val Tr p I l e Gl y Leu Ly s As n I l e As n I l e Pr o Thr
                              420                      425                      430
              Leu Phe Gl n Tr p Ser As p Gl y Thr Gl u Val Thr Leu Thr Ty r Tr p As p
                      435                     440                  445
              Gl u As n Gl u Pr o As n Val Pr o Ty r As n Ly s Thr Pr o As n Cy s Val Ser
                   450                     455                     460
                                                           Page 2

                                                pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Leu Gl y Gl n Tr p Ly s Val Gl n Ser Cy s Gl u Gl u Ly s
              465                    470                     475                     480
              Leu Ly s Ty r Val Cy s Ly s Ar g Ly s Gl y Gl u Ly s Leu As n As p Al a Ser
                                485                      490                     495
              Ser As p Ly s Met Cy s Pr o Pr o As p Gl u Gl y Tr p Ly s Ar g Hi s Gl y Gl u
                            500                     505                      510
<removed-apn>
              Thr Cy s Ty r Ly s I l e Ty r Gl u As p Gl u Val Pr o Phe Gl y Thr As n Cy s
                       515                       520                    525
              As n Leu Thr I l e Thr Ser Ar g Phe Gl u Gl n Gl u Ty r Leu As n As p Leu
                   530                   535                     540
              Met Ly s Ly s Ty r As p Ly s Ser Leu Ar g Ly s Ty r Phe Tr p Thr Gl y Leu
              545                     550                    555                    560
              Ar g As p Val As p Ser Cy s Gl y Gl u Ty r As n Tr p Al a Thr Val Gl y Gl y
                                 565                     570                    575
              Ar g Ar g Ar g Al a Val Thr Phe Ser As n Tr p As n Phe Leu Gl u Pr o Al a
                             580                  585                    590
              Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Cy s Val Al a Met Ser Thr Gl y Ly s Ser Val Gl y Ly s
                       595                     600                   605
              Tr p Gl u Val Ly s As p Cy s Ar g Ser Phe Ly s Al a Leu Ser I l e Cy s Ly s
                   610                     615                    620
              Ly s Met Ser Gl y Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Gl u Gl u Al a Ser Pr o Ly s Pr o As p
              625                    630                     635                     640
              As p Pr o Cy s Pr o Gl u Gl y Tr p Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Al a Ser Leu Ser Cy s
                                  645                     650                   655
              Ty r Ly s Val Phe Hi s Al a Gl u Ar g I l e Val Ar g Ly s Ar g As n Tr p Gl u
                            660                     665                      670
              Gl u Al a Gl u Ar g Phe Cy s Gl n Al a Leu Gl y Al a Hi s Leu Ser Ser Phe
                        675                     680                     685
              Ser Hi s Val As p Gl u I l e Ly s Gl u Phe Leu Hi s Phe Leu Thr As p Gl n
                  690                      695                    700
              Phe Ser Gl y Gl n Hi s Tr p Leu Tr p I l e Gl y Leu As n Ly s Ar g Ser Pr o
              705                    710                      715                    720
              As p Leu Gl n Gl y Ser Tr p Gl n Tr p Ser As p Ar g Thr Pr o Val Ser Thr
                                 725                    730                    735
                                                         Page 3

                                                 pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              I l e I l e Met Pr o As n Gl u Phe Gl n Gl n As p Ty r As p I l e Ar g As p Cy s
                              740                     745                       750
              Al a Al a Val Ly s Val Phe Hi s Ar g Pr o Tr p Ar g Ar g Gl y Tr p Hi s Phe
                        755                   760                      765
              Ty r As p As p Ar g Gl u Phe I l e Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Phe Al a Cy s As p Thr
                   770                     775                      780
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Leu Gl u Tr p Val Cy s Gl n I l e Pr o Ly s Gl y Ar g Thr Pr o Ly s Thr
              785                    790                       795                     800
              Pr o As p Tr p Ty r As n Pr o As p Ar g Al a Gl y I l e Hi s Gl y Pr o Pr o Leu
                                  805                      810                       815
              I l e I l e Gl u Gl y Ser Gl u Ty r Tr p Phe Val Al a As p Leu Hi s Leu As n
                               820                     825                   830
              Ty r Gl u Gl u Al a Val Leu Ty r Cy s Al a Ser As n Hi s Ser Phe Leu Al a
                        835                    840                     845
              Thr I l e Thr Ser Phe Val Gl y Leu Ly s Al a I l e Ly s As n Ly s I l e Al a
                  850                   855                      860
              As n I l e Ser Gl y As p Gl y Gl n Ly s Tr p Tr p I l e Ar g I l e Ser Gl u Tr p
              865                      870                      875                       880
              Pr o I l e As p As p Hi s Phe Thr Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Pr o Tr p Hi s Ar g Phe
                                   885                   890                      895
              Pr o Val Thr Phe Gl y Gl u Gl u Cy s Leu Ty r Met Ser Al a Ly s Thr Tr p
                           900                     905                   910
              Leu I l e As p Leu Gl y Ly s Pr o Thr As p Cy s Ser Thr Ly s Leu Pr o Phe
                        915                     920                   925
              I l e Cy s Gl u Ly s Ty r As n Val Ser Ser Leu Gl u Ly s Ty r Ser Pr o As p
                    930                      935                  940
              Ser Al a Al a Ly s Val Gl n Cy s Ser Gl u Gl n Tr p I l e Pr o Phe Gl n As n
              945                    950                     955                      960
              Ly s Cy s Phe Leu Ly s I l e Ly s Pr o Val Ser Leu Thr Phe Ser Gl n Al a
                                965                      970                 975
              Ser As p Thr Cy s Hi s Ser Ty r Gl y Gl y Thr Leu Pr o Ser Val Leu Ser
                           980                     985                   990
              Gl n I l e Gl u Gl n As p Phe I l e Thr Ser Leu Leu Pr o As p Met Gl u Al a
                         995                      1000                 1005
                                                          Page 4

                                               pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Tr p I l e Gl y Leu Ar g Tr p Thr Al a Ty r Gl u Ly s I l e As n
                  1010                    1015                    1020
              Ly s Tr p Thr As p As n Ar g Gl u Leu Thr Ty r Ser As n Phe Hi s Pr o
                   1025                    1030                  1035
              Leu Leu Val Ser Gl y Ar g Leu Ar g I l e Pr o Gl u As n Phe Phe Gl u
                  1040                  1045                     1050
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Gl u Ser Ar g Ty r Hi s Cy s Al a Leu I l e Leu As n Leu Gl n Ly s
                   1055                    1060                    1065
              Ser Pr o Phe Thr Gl y Thr Tr p As n Phe Thr Ser Cy s Ser Gl u Ar g
                  1070                  1075                  1080
              Hi s Phe Val Ser Leu Cy s Gl n Ly s Ty r Ser Gl u Val  Ly s Ser Ar g
                   1085                 1090                    1095
              Gl n Thr Leu Gl n As n Al a Ser Gl u Thr Val Ly s Ty r Leu As n As n
                   1100                   1105                  1110
              Leu Ty r Ly s I l e I l e Pr o Ly s Thr Leu Thr Tr p Hi s Ser Al a Ly s
                  1115                       1120                  1125
              Ar g Gl u Cy s Leu Ly s Ser As n Met Gl n Leu Val Ser I l e Thr As p
                   1130                   1135                  1140
              Pr o Ty r Gl n Gl n Al a Phe Leu Ser Val Gl n Al a Leu Leu Hi s As n
                   1145                    1150                  1155
              Ser Ser Leu Tr p I l e Gl y Leu Phe Ser Gl n As p As p Gl u Leu As n
                  1160                    1165                  1170
              Phe Gl y Tr p Ser As p Gl y Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Phe Ser Ar g Tr p Al a
                  1175                    1180                   1185
              Gl u Thr As n Gl y Gl n Leu Gl u As p Cy s Val Val Leu As p Thr As p
                   1190                   1195                   1200
              Gl y Phe Tr p Ly s Thr Val As p Cy s As n As p As n Gl n Pr o Gl y Al a
                   1205                  1210                     1215
              I l e Cy s Ty r Ty r Ser Gl y As n Gl u Thr Gl u Ly s Gl u Val Ly s Pr o
                    1220                    1225                    1230
              Val As p Ser Val Ly s Cy s Pr o Ser Pr o Val Leu As n Thr Pr o Tr p
                  1235                   1240                  1245
              I l e Pr o Phe Gl n As n Cy s Cy s Ty r As n Phe I l e I l e Thr Ly s As n
                    1250                    1255                     1260
                                                          Page 5

                                               pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Ar g Hi s Met Al a Thr Thr Gl n As p Gl u Val Hi s Thr Ly s Cy s Gl n
                   1265                  1270                    1275
              Ly s Leu As n Pr o Ly s Ser Hi s I l e Leu Ser I l e Ar g As p Gl u Ly s
                   1280                   1285                     1290
              Gl u As n As n Phe Val Leu Gl u Gl n Leu Leu Ty r Phe As n Ty r Met
                   1295                  1300                   1305
<removed-apn>
              Al a Ser Tr p Val Met Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ty r Ar g As n Ly s Ser Leu
                   1310                 1315                     1320
              Met Tr p Phe As p Ly s Thr Pr o Leu Ser Ty r Thr Hi s Tr p Ar g Al a
                  1325                   1330                  1335
              Gl y Ar g Pr o Thr I l e Ly s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Leu Al a Gl y Leu Ser
                   1340                     1345                   1350
              Thr As p Gl y Phe Tr p As p I l e Gl n Thr Phe Ly s Val  I l e Gl u Gl u
                  1355                    1360                    1365
              Al a Val  Ty r Phe Hi s Gl n Hi s Ser I l e Leu Al a Cy s Ly s I l e Gl u
                   1370                    1375                    1380
              Met Val  As p Ty r Ly s Gl u Gl u Ty r As n Thr Thr Leu Pr o Gl n Phe
                  1385                     1390                   1395
              Met Pr o Ty r Gl u As p Gl y I l e Ty r Ser Val I l e Gl n Ly s Ly s Val
                  1400                     1405                     1410
              Thr Tr p Ty r Gl u Al a Leu As n Met Cy s Ser Gl n Ser Gl y Gl y Hi s
                  1415                    1420                   1425
              Leu Al a Ser Val Hi s As n Gl n As n Gl y Gl n Leu Phe Leu Gl u As p
                  1430                   1435                    1440
              I l e Val  Ly s Ar g As p Gl y Phe Pr o Leu Tr p Val Gl y Leu Ser Ser
                    1445                     1450                  1455
              Hi s As p Gl y Ser Gl u Ser Ser Phe Gl u Tr p Ser As p Gl y Ser Thr
                   1460                   1465                  1470
              Phe As p Ty r I l e Pr o Tr p Ly s Gl y Gl n Thr Ser Pr o Gl y As n Cy s
                  1475                      1480                   1485
              Val Leu Leu As p Pr o Ly s Gl y Thr Tr p Ly s Hi s Gl u Ly s Cy s As n
                  1490                   1495                    1500
              Ser Val  Ly s As p Gl y Al a I l e Cy s Ty r Ly s Pr o Thr Ly s Ser Ly s
                  1505                     1510                      1515
                                                          Page 6

                                                      pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Ly s Leu Ser Ar g Leu Thr Ty r Ser Ser Ar g Cy s Pr o Al a Al a Ly s
                   1520                 1525                   1530
              Gl u As n Gl y Ser Ar g Tr p I l e Gl n Ty r Ly s Gl y Hi s Cy s Ty r Ly s
                   1535                    1540                      1545
              Ser As p Gl n Al a Leu Hi s Ser Phe Ser Gl u Al a Ly s Ly s Leu Cy s
                  1550                    1555                  1560
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ly s Hi s As p Hi s Ser Al a Thr I l e Val Ser I l e Ly s As p Gl u
                  1565                    1570                   1575
              As p Gl u As n Ly s Phe Val Ser Ar g Leu Met Ar g Gl u As n As n As n
                   1580                   1585                  1590
              I l e Thr Met Ar g Val Tr p Leu Gl y Leu Ser Gl n Hi s Ser Val As p
                    1595                  1600                  1605
              Gl n Ser Tr p Ser Tr p Leu As p Gl y Ser Gl u Val Thr Phe Val Ly s
                   1610                  1615                   1620
              Tr p Gl u As n Ly s Ser Ly s Ser Gl y Val Gl y Ar g Cy s Ser Met Leu
                   1625                    1630                   1635
              I l e Al a Ser As n Gl u Thr Tr p Ly s Ly s Val Gl u Cy s Gl u Hi s Gl y
                    1640                   1645                    1650
              Phe Gl y Ar g Val Val Cy s Ly s Val Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o As p Ty r Thr
                  1655                   1660                   1665
              Al a I l e Al a I l e I l e Val Al a Thr Leu Ser I l e Leu Val Leu Met
                   1670                       1675                   1680
              Gl y Gl y Leu I l e Tr p Phe Leu Phe Gl n Ar g Hi s Ar g Leu Hi s Leu
                   1685                    1690                   1695
              Al a Gl y Phe Ser Ser Val Ar g Ty r Al a Gl n Gl y Val  As n Gl u As p
                   1700                 1705                     1710
              Gl u I l e Met Leu Pr o Ser Phe Hi s As p
                   1715                   1720
              <210>     2
              <211>     6936
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Homo s api ens
              <400> 2
              aggc c gc gc t c agc aggc gg ggc gggagc c gc gt gc gc c c gaggac c c gg c c ggaaggc t             60
              t gc gc c agc t c aggat gagg ac aggc t ggg c gac c c c t c g c c gc c c ggc g gggc t c c t c a   120
                                                                   Page 7

                                                            pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              t gc t gc t c t t c t ggt t c t t c gat c t c gc gg agc c c t c t gg c c gc gc agc t aat gac c c c t    180
              t c ac c at c gt c c at ggaaat ac gggc aagt gc at c aagc c agt gt at ggc t ggat agt ag                  240
              c agac gac t g t gat gaaac t gaggac aagt t at ggaagt g ggt gt c c c ag c at c ggc t c t                 300
              t t c at t t gc a c t c c c aaaag t gc c t t ggc c t c gat at t ac c aaat c ggt a aat gagc t ga         360
              gaat gt t c ag c t gt gac t c c agt gc c at gc t gt ggt ggaa at gt gagc ac c ac t c t c t gt            420
              ac ggagc t gc c c ggt ac c gg c t ggc t c t ga aggat ggac a t ggc ac agc a at c t c aaat g              480
              c at c t gat gt c t ggaagaaa ggaggc t c ag aggaaagc c t t t gt gac c ag c c t t at c at g               540
<removed-apn>
              agat c t at ac c agagat ggg aac t c t t at g ggagac c t t g t gaat t t c c a t t c t t aat t g          600
              at gggac c t g gc at c at gat t gc at t c t t g at gaagat c a t agt gggc c a t ggt gt gc c a            660
              c c ac c t t aaa t t at gaat at gac c gaaagt ggggc at c t g c t t aaagc c t gaaaac ggt t                720
              gt gaagat aa t t gggaaaag aac gagc agt t t ggaagt t g c t ac c aat t t aat ac t c aga                   780
              c ggc t c t t t c t t ggaaagaa gc t t at gt t t c at gt c agaa t c aaggagc t gat t t ac t ga            840
              gc at c aac ag t gc t gc t gaa t t aac t t ac c t t aaagaaaa agaaggc at t gc t aagat t t                900
              t c t ggat t gg t t t aaat c ag c t at ac t c t g c t agaggc t g ggaat ggt c a gac c ac aaac            960
              c at t aaac t t t c t c aac t gg gat c c agac a ggc c c agt gc ac c t ac t at a ggt ggc t c c a        1020
              gc t gt gc aag aat ggat gc t gagt c t ggt c t gt ggc agag c t t t t c c t gt gaagc t c aac             1080
              t gc c c t at gt c t gc aggaaa c c at t aaat a at ac agt gga gt t aac agat gt c t ggac at              1140
              ac t c agat ac c c gc t gt gat gc aggc t ggc t gc c aaat aa t ggat t t t gc t at c t gc t gg           1200
              t aaat gaaag t aat t c c t gg gat aaggc ac at gc gaaat g c aaagc c t t c agt agt gac c                 1260
              t aat c agc at t c at t c t c t a gc agat gt gg aggt ggt t gt c ac aaaac t c c at aat gagg             1320
              at at c aaaga agaagt gt gg at aggc c t t a agaac at aaa c at ac c aac t t t at t t c agt               1380
              ggt c agat gg t ac t gaagt t ac t c t aac at at t gggat ga gaat gagc c a aat gt t c c c t              1440
              ac aat aagac gc c c aac t gt gt t t c c t ac t t aggagagc t aggt c agt gg aaagt c c aat                1500
              c at gt gagga gaaac t aaaa t at gt at gc a agagaaaggg agaaaaac t g aat gac gc aa                       1560
              gt t c t gat aa gat gt gt c c t c c agat gagg gc t ggaagag ac at ggagaa ac c t gt t ac a               1620
              agat t t at ga ggat gaggt c c c t t t t ggaa c aaac t gc aa t c t gac t at c ac t agc agat             1680
              t t gagc aaga at ac c t aaat gat t t gat ga aaaagt at ga t aaat c t c t a agaaaat ac t                 1740
              t c t ggac t gg c c t gagagat gt agat t c t t gt ggagagt a t aac t gggc a ac t gt t ggt g              1800
              gaagaaggc g ggc t gt aac c t t t t c c aac t ggaat t t t c t t gagc c agc t t c c c c gggc g           1860
              gc t gc gt ggc t at gt c t ac t ggaaagt c t g t t ggaaagt g ggaggt gaag gac t gc agaa                  1920
              gc t t c aaagc ac t t t c aat t t gc aagaaaa t gagt ggac c c c t t gggc c t gaagaagc at                1980
              c c c c t aagc c t gat gac c c c t gt c c t gaag gc t ggc agag t t t c c c c gc a agt c t t t c t t    2040
              gt t at aaggt at t c c at gc a gaaagaat t g t aagaaagag gaac t gggaa gaagc t gaac                      2100
              gat t c t gc c a agc c c t t gga gc ac ac c t t t c t agc t t c ag c c at gt ggat gaaat aaagg          2160
                                                                       Page 8

                                                          pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              aat t t c t t c a c t t t t t aac g gac c agt t c a gt ggc c agc a t t ggc t gt gg at t ggt t t ga     2220
              at aaaaggag c c c agat t t a c aaggat c c t ggc aat ggag t gat c gt ac a c c agt gt c t a              2280
              c t at t at c at gc c aaat gag t t t c agc agg at t at gac at c agagac t gt gc t gc t gt c a           2340
              aggt at t t c a t aggc c at gg c gaagaggc t ggc at t t c t a t gat gat aga gaat t t at t t             2400
              at t t gaggc c t t t t gc t t gt gat ac aaaac t t gaat gggt gt gc c aaat t c c aaaaggc c               2460
              gt ac t c c aaa aac ac c agac t ggt ac aat c c agac c gt gc t ggaat t c at ggac c t c c ac             2520
              t t at aat t ga aggaagt gaa t at t ggt t t g t t gc t gat c t t c ac c t aaac t at gaagaag             2580
<removed-apn>
              c c gt c c t gt a c t gt gc c agc aat c ac agc t t t c t t gc aac t at aac at c t t t t gt gggac       2640
              t aaaagc c at c aaaaac aaa at agc aaat a t at c t ggt ga t ggac agaag t ggt ggat aa                    2700
              gaat t agc ga gt ggc c aat a gat gat c at t t t ac at ac t c ac gat at c c a t ggc ac c gc t           2760
              t t c c t gt gac at t t ggagag gaat gc t t gt ac at gt c t gc c aagac t t gg c t t at c gac t          2820
              t aggt aaac c aac agac t gt agt ac c aagt t gc c c t t c at c t gt gaaaaa t at aat gt t t              2880
              c t t c gt t aga gaaat ac agc c c agat t c t g c agc t aaagt gc aat gt t c t gagc aat gga              2940
              t t c c t t t t c a gaat aagt gt t t t c t aaaga t c aaac c c gt gt c t c t c ac a t t t t c t c aag   3000
              c aagc gat ac c t gt c ac t c c t at ggt ggc a c c c t t c c t t c agt gt t gagc c agat t gaac         3060
              aagac t t t at t ac at c c t t g c t t c c ggat a t ggaagc t ac t t t at ggat t ggt t t gc gc t        3120
              ggac t gc c t a t gaaaagat a aac aaat gga c agat aac ag agagc t gac g t ac agt aac t                   3180
              t t c ac c c at t at t ggt t agt gggaggc t ga gaat ac c aga aaat t t t t t t gaggaagagt                3240
              c t c gc t ac c a c t gt gc c c t a at ac t c aac c t c c aaaaat c ac c gt t t ac t gggac gt gga       3300
              at t t t ac at c c t gc agt gaa c gc c ac t t t g t gt c t c t c t g t c agaaat at t c agaagt t a      3360
              aaagc agac a gac gt t gc ag aat gc t t c ag aaac t gt aaa gt at c t aaat aat c t gt ac a               3420
              aaat aat c c c aaagac t c t g ac t t ggc ac a gt gc t aaaag ggagt gt c t g aaaagt aac a                3480
              t gc agc t ggt gagc at c ac g gac c c t t ac c agc aggc at t c c t c agt gt g c aggc gc t c c          3540
              t t c ac aac t c t t c c t t at gg at c ggac t c t t c agt c aaga t gat gaac t c aac t t t ggt t       3600
              ggt c agat gg gaaac gt c t t c at t t t agt c gc t gggc t ga aac t aat ggg c aac t c gaag              3660
              ac t gt gt agt at t agac ac t gat ggat t c t ggaaaac agt t gat t gc aat gac aat c aac                  3720
              c aggt gc t at t t gc t ac t at t c aggaaat g agac t gaaaa agaggt c aaa c c agt t gac a                3780
              gt gt t aaat g t c c at c t c c t gt t c t aaat a c t c c gt ggat ac c at t t c ag aac t gt t gc t     3840
              ac aat t t c at aat aac aaag aat aggc at a t ggc aac aac ac aggat gaa gt t c at ac t a                 3900
              aat gc c agaa ac t gaat c c a aaat c ac at a t t c t gagt at t c gagat gaa aaggagaat a                 3960
              ac t t t gt t c t t gagc aac t g c t gt ac t t c a at t at at ggc t t c at gggt c at gt t aggaa        4020
              t aac t t at ag aaat aagt c t c t t at gt ggt t t gat aagac c c c ac t gt c a t at ac ac at t          4080
              ggagagc agg aagac c aac t at aaaaaat g agaagt t t t t ggc t ggt t t a agt ac t gac g                   4140
              gc t t c t ggga t at t c aaac c t t t aaagt t a t t gaagaagc agt t t at t t t c ac c agc ac a          4200
                                                                       Page 9

                                                     pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              gc at t c t t gc t t gt aaaat t gaaat ggt t g ac t ac aaaga agaat at aat ac t ac ac t gc                4260
              c ac agt t t at gc c at at gaa gat ggt at t t ac agt gt t at t c aaaaaaag gt aac at ggt                 4320
              at gaagc at t aaac at gt gt t c t c aaagt g gaggt c ac t t ggc aagc gt t c ac aac c aaa                 4380
              at ggc c agc t c t t t c t ggaa gat at t gt aa aac gt gat gg at t t c c ac t a t gggt t gggc            4440
              t c t c aagt c a t gat ggaagt gaat c aagt t t t gaat ggt c t gat ggt agt ac at t t gac t                4500
              at at c c c at g gaaaggc c aa ac at c t c c t g gaaat t gt gt t c t c t t ggat c c aaaaggaa             4560
              c t t ggaaac a t gaaaaat gc aac t c t gt t a aggat ggt gc t at t t gt t at aaac c t ac aa               4620
<removed-apn>
              aat c t aaaaa gc t gt c c c gt c t t ac at at t c at c aagat g t c c agc agc a aaagagaat g              4680
              ggt c ac ggt g gat c c agt ac aagggt c ac t gt t ac aagt c t gat c aggc a t t gc ac agt t               4740
              t t t c agaggc c aaaaaat t g t gt t c aaaac at gat c ac t c t gc aac t at c gt t t c c at aa            4800
              aagat gaaga t gagaat aaa t t t gt gagc a gac t gat gag ggaaaat aat aac at t ac c a                      4860
              t gagagt t t g gc t t ggat t a t c t c aac at t c t gt t gac c a gt c t t ggagt t ggt t agat g          4920
              gat c agaagt gac at t t gt c aaat gggaaa at aaaagt aa gagt ggt gt t ggaagat gt a                        4980
              gc at gt t gat agc t t c aaat gaaac t t gga aaaaagt t ga at gt gaac at ggt t t t ggaa                   5040
              gagt t gt c t g c aaagt gc c t c t gggc c c t g at t ac ac agc aat agc t at c at agt t gc c a           5100
              c ac t aagt at c t t agt t c t c at gggc ggac t gat t t ggt t c c t c t t c c aa aggc ac c gt t         5160
              t gc ac c t ggc gggt t t c t c a t c agt t c gat at gc ac aagg agt gaat gaa gat gagat t a               5220
              t gc t t c c t t c t t t c c at gac t aaat t c t t c t aaaagt t t t c t aat t t gc a c t aat gt gt t    5280
              at gagaaat t agt c ac t t aa aat gt c c c ag t gt c agt at t t ac t c t gc t c c aaagt agaa             5340
              c t c t t aaat a c t t t t t c agt t gt t t agat c t t aggc at gt gc t ggt at c c ac agt t aat t        5400
              c c c t gc t aaa t gc c at gt t t at c ac c c t aa t t aat agaat ggaggggac t c c aaagc t gg             5460
              aac t gaagt c c aaat t gt t t gt ac agt aat at gt t t aat g t t c at t t t c t c t gt at gaat           5520
              gt gat t ggt a ac t aggat at gt at at t t t a at agaat t t t t aac aaaac t t c t t agaaaa               5580
              t t aaaat agg c at at t ac t a ggt gac at gt c t ac t t t t t a at t t t t aaga gc at c c ggc c         5640
              aaat gc aaaa t t agt ac c t c aaagt aaaaa t t gaac t gt a aac t c t at c a gc at t gt t t c             5700
              aaaat agt c a t t t t t agc ac t ggggaaaaa t aaac aat aa gac at gc t t a c t t t t t aat t              5760
              t t t at t t t t t t gagac t gag t c t c t c t c t g t t gc c c aggc t ggagt ac aa t ggc gt gat c       5820
              t c ggc t c ac t gc aaat c t c c gc c t c c c agg t t c aagc gat t c t c c t gc c t c agc c t c c t g   5880
              agt agc t ggg at t ac aggc a ac t gc c ac c a t gc c c ggc t a at t t t t gt at t t t t agt aga         5940
              gat ggggt t t c ac c at gt t g gc c aggc t gg t c t c gaac t c gt gac c gc ag gt gat c c t c c          6000
              c gc c t c ggc c t c c c aaagt g c t gggat t ac aggc at gagc c ac c gc gc c t ggc c t c t gc t          6060
              t ac t t t t t at at agc aaaat gat t c c t c t t ggc aagat gt t t c t t at at t at t c c aaagt          6120
              t at t t c at ac c at t at t at g t aaat at gaa gagt t t t t t t c t gt t t at aa t t gt t t at aa      6180
              aac aat gac t t t t aaagat t t agt gc t t aa c at t t t c c c a agt gt gggaa c at t at t t t t          6240
                                                                      Page 10

                                                    pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              agat t gagt a ggt ac c t t gt agc agt gt gc t t t gc at t t t c t gat gt at t ac at gac t gt          6300
              t t c t t t t gt a aagagaat c a ac t aggt at t t aagac t gat aat t t t ac aa t t t at at gc t         6360
              t c ac at agc a t gt c aac t t t t gac t aagaa t t t t gt t t t a c t t t t t t aac at gt gt t aaa    6420
              c agagaaagg gt c c at gaag gaaagt gt at gagt t gc at t t gt aaaaat g agac t t t t t c                 6480
              agt ggaac t c t aaac c t t gt gat gac t ac t aac aaat gt a aaat t at gag t gat t aagaa                6540
              aac at t gc t t t gt ggt t at c ac t t t aagt t t t gac ac c t a gat t at agt c t t agt aat ag        6600
              c at c c ac t gg aaaaggt gaa aat gt t t t at t c ggc at t t a ac t t ac at t t gt ac t t t at t       6660
<removed-apn>
              t t t gt at aaa at c c at agat t t at t t t ac a t t t agagt at t t ac ac t at g at aaagt t gt        6720
              aaat aat t t t c t aagac agt t t t t at at ag t c t ac agt t g t c c t gat t t c t t at t gaat t      6780
              t gt t agac t a gt t c t c t t gt c c t gt gat c t gt gt ac aat t t t agt c ac t a agac t t t c c t   6840
              c c aagaac t a agc c aac t t g at gt gaaaag c ac agc t gt a t at aat ggt g at gt c at aat             6900
              aaagt t gt t t t at c t t t t aa gt aaaagt aa aaaaaa                                                  6936
              <210>     3
              <211>     15
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Homo s api ens
              <400>     3
              Al a Al a As n As p Pr o Phe Thr I l e Val Hi s Gl y As n Thr Gl y Ly s
              1                   5                      10                      15
              <210>     4
              <211>     8
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Homo s api ens
              <400>     4
              Cy s Leu Gl y Leu As p I l e Thr Ly s
              1                 5
              <210>     5
              <211>     11
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Homo s api ens
              <400>     5
              Cy s Gl u Hi s Hi s Ser Leu Ty r Gl y Al a Al a Ar g
              1                   5                      10
              <210>     6
              <211>     19
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Homo s api ens
              <400>     6
              Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Gl u Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl n Pr o Ty r Hi s Gl u I l e
              1                  5                      10                       15
                                                                      Page 11

                                                   pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Thr Ar g
              <210>      7
              <211>      18
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Homo s api ens
              <400>      7
              Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Gl u Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl n Pr o Ty r Hi s Gl u I l e Ty r
<removed-apn>
              1                  5                      10                       15
              Thr Ar g
              <210>      8
              <211>      17
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Homo s api ens
              <400>      8
              Tr p Gl y I l e Cy s Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As n Gl y Cy s Gl u As p As n Tr p Gl u
              1                    5                       10                       15
              Ly s
              <210>      9
              <211>      22
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Homo s api ens
              <400>      9
              Met As p Al a Gl u Ser Gl y Leu Tr p Gl n Ser Phe Ser Cy s Gl u Al a Gl n
              1                  5                      10                    15
              Leu Pr o Ty r Val Cy s Ar g
                            20
              <210>      10
              <211>      7
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Homo s api ens
              <400>      10
              Leu Hi s As n Gl u As p I l e Ly s
              1                  5
              <210>      11
              <211>      8
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Homo s api ens
              <400>      11
                                                              Page 12

                                                pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl u Gl u Val Tr p I l e Gl y Leu Ly s
              1                  5
              <210>   12
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   12
              Thr Pr o As n Cy s Val Ser Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Leu Gl y Gl n Tr p Ly s
              1                  5                     10                      15
<removed-apn>
              <210>   13
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   13
              Val Gl n Ser Cy s Gl u Gl u Ly s
              1                 5
              <210>   14
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   14
              Leu As n As p Al a Ser Ser As p Ly s
              1                  5
              <210>   15
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   15
              Met Cy s Pr o Pr o As p Gl u Gl y Tr p Ly s
              1                  5
              <210>   16
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   16
              Hi s Gl y Gl u Thr Cy s Ty r Ly s
              1                  5
              <210>   17
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   17
              Phe Gl u Gl n Gl u Ty r Leu As n As p Leu Met Ly s
              1                  5                      10
                                                         Page 13

                                                pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>    18
              <211>    7
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400>    18
              Ty r Phe Tr p Thr Gl y Leu Ar g
              1                 5
<removed-apn>
              <210>    19
              <211>    16
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400>    19
              As p Val As p Ser Cy s Gl y Gl u Ty r As n Tr p Al a Thr Val Gl y Gl y Ar g
              1                 5                        10                     15
              <210>    20
              <211>    33
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400>    20
              Met Ser Gl y Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Gl u Gl u Al a Ser Pr o Ly s Pr o As p As p
              1                 5                       10                      15
              Pr o Cy s Pr o Gl u Gl y Tr p Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Al a Ser Leu Ser Cy s Ty r
                             20                      25                    30
              Ly s
              <210>    21
              <211>    13
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400>    21
              Ser Pr o As p Leu Gl n Gl y Ser Tr p Gl n Tr p Ser As p Ar g
              1                 5                       10
              <210>    22
              <211>    19
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400>    22
              Thr Pr o Val Ser Thr I l e I l e Met Pr o As n Gl u Phe Gl n Gl n As p Ty r
              1                5                        10                      15
              As p I l e Ar g
                                                           Page 14

                                                pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>   23
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   23
              Gl u Phe I l e Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Phe Al a Cy s As p Thr Ly s
              1                   5                      10
              <210>   24
<removed-apn>
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   24
              Leu Gl u Tr p Val Cy s Gl n I l e Pr o Ly s
              1                 5
              <210>   25
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   25
              Thr Pr o As p Tr p Ty r As n Pr o As p Ar g
              1                  5
              <210>   26
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   26
              I l e Ser Gl u Tr p Pr o I l e As p As p Hi s Phe Thr Ty r Ser Ar g
              1                   5                         10
              <210>   27
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   27
              Phe Pr o Val Thr Phe Gl y Gl u Gl u Cy s Leu Ty r Met Ser Al a Ly s
              1                5                       10                    15
              <210>   28
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   28
              Thr Tr p Leu I l e As p Leu Gl y Ly s Pr o Thr As p Cy s Ser Thr Ly s
              1                  5                       10                    15
              <210>   29
                                                            Page 15

                                                 pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   29
              Val Gl n Cy s Ser Gl u Gl n Tr p I l e Pr o Phe Gl n As n Ly s
              1                 5                         10
              <210>   30
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   30
              Gl u Leu Thr Ty r Ser As n Phe Hi s Pr o Leu Leu Val Ser Gl y Ar g
              1                 5                      10                   15
              <210>   31
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   31
              I l e Pr o Gl u As n Phe Phe Gl u Gl u Gl u Ser Ar g
              1                    5                      10
              <210>   32
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   32
              Ty r Hi s Cy s Al a Leu I l e Leu As n Leu Gl n Ly s
              1                   5                      10
              <210>   33
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   33
              Hi s Phe Val Ser Leu Cy s Gl n Ly s
              1                5
              <210>   34
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   34
              Ty r Leu As n As n Leu Ty r Ly s
              1                  5
              <210>   35
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
                                                            Page 16

                                                  pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   35
              Thr Leu Thr Tr p Hi s Ser Al a Ly s
              1                5
              <210>   36
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
<removed-apn>
              <400>   36
              Gl u Val Ly s Pr o Val As p Ser Val Ly s
              1                  5
              <210>   37
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   37
              Hi s Met Al a Thr Thr Gl n As p Gl u Val Hi s Thr Ly s
              1                 5                      10
              <210>   38
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   38
              Ser Hi s I l e Leu Ser I l e Ar g
              1                  5
              <210>   39
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   39
              Ser Hi s I l e Leu Ser I l e Ar g As p Gl u Ly s
              1                  5                        10
              <210>   40
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   40
              Ser Leu Met Tr p Phe As p Ly s
              1                5
              <210>   41
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
                                                             Page 17

                                                 pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>   41
              Thr Pr o Leu Ser Ty r Thr Hi s Tr p Ar g
              1                5
              <210>   42
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   42
<removed-apn>
              Phe Leu Al a Gl y Leu Ser Thr As p Gl y Phe Tr p As p I l e Gl n Thr Phe
              1                 5                     10                       15
              Ly s
              <210>   43
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   43
              Gl y Gl n Thr Ser Pr o Gl y As n Cy s Val Leu Leu As p Pr o Ly s
              1                 5                       10
              <210>   44
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   44
              As p Gl y Al a I l e Cy s Ty r Ly s Pr o Thr Ly s
              1                    5                       10
              <210>   45
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   45
              Ser As p Gl n Al a Leu Hi s Ser Phe Ser Gl u Al a Ly s
              1                  5                    10
              <210>   46
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   46
              Hi s As p Hi s Ser Al a Thr I l e Val Ser I l e Ly s
              1                  5                      10
              <210>   47
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
                                                            Page 18

                                                pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   47
              Hi s As p Hi s Ser Al a Thr I l e Val Ser I l e Ly s As p Gl u As p Gl u As n
              1                  5                      10                        15
              Ly s
              <210>   48
<removed-apn>
              <211>   21
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   48
              Hi s As p Hi s Ser Al a Thr I l e Val Ser I l e Ly s As p Gl u As p Gl u As n
              1                  5                      10                        15
              Ly s Phe Val Ser Ar g
                           20
              <210>   49
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   49
              Ly s Val Gl u Cy s Gl u Hi s Gl y Phe Gl y Ar g
              1                  5                       10
              <210>   50
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   50
              Val Gl u Cy s Gl u Hi s Gl y Phe Gl y Ar g
              1                  5
              <210>   51
              <211>   35
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   51
              Val Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o As p Ty r Thr Al a I l e Al a I l e I l e Val Al a Thr
              1                 5                       10                         15
              Leu Ser I l e Leu Val Leu Met Gl y Gl y Leu I l e Tr p Phe Leu Phe Gl n
                            20                   25                      30
              Ar g Hi s Ar g
                        35
                                                           Page 19

                                                 pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>   52
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   52
              Ty r Al a Gl n Gl y Val As n Gl u As p Gl u I l e Met Leu Pr o Ser Phe Hi s
              1                   5                       10                     15
              As p
<removed-apn>
              <210>   53
              <211>   1639
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400>   53
              Ser Gl y Ar g Al a Al a As n As p Pr o Phe Thr I l e Val Hi s Gl y As n Thr
              1                  5                       10                      15
              Gl y Ly s Cy s I l e Ly s Pr o Val Ty r Gl y Tr p I l e Val Al a As p As p Cy s
                             20                       25                       30
              As p Gl u Thr Gl u As p Ly s Leu Tr p Ly s Tr p Val Ser Gl n Hi s Ar g Leu
                        35                     40                     45
              Phe Hi s Leu Hi s Ser Gl n Ly s Cy s Leu Gl y Leu As p I l e Thr Ly s Ser
                  50                     55                     60
              Val As n Gl u Leu Ar g Met Phe Ser Cy s As p Ser Ser Al a Met Leu Tr p
              65                     70                    75                   80
              Tr p Ly s Cy s Gl u Hi s Hi s Ser Leu Ty r Gl y Al a Al a Ar g Ty r Ar g Leu
                                  85                     90                       95
              Al a Leu Ly s As p Gl y Hi s Gl y Thr Al a I l e Ser As n Al a Ser As p Val
                            100                     105                      110
              Tr p Ly s Ly s Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Gl u Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl n Pr o Ty r Hi s
                        115                     120                    125
              Gl u I l e Ty r Thr Ar g As p Gl y As n Ser Ty r Gl y Ar g Pr o Cy s Gl u Phe
                   130                      135                     140
              Pr o Phe Leu I l e As p Gl y Thr Tr p Hi s Hi s As p Cy s I l e Leu As p Gl u
              145                     150                     155                      160
              As p Hi s Ser Gl y Pr o Tr p Cy s Al a Thr Thr Leu As n Ty r Gl u Ty r As p
                                 165                     170                    175
              Ar g Ly s Tr p Gl y I l e Cy s Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As n Gl y Cy s Gl u As p As n
                             180                      185                      190
                                                            Page 20

                                                 pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Tr p Gl u Ly s As n Gl u Gl n Phe Gl y Ser Cy s Ty r Gl n Phe As n Thr Gl n
                        195                     200                     205
              Thr Al a Leu Ser Tr p Ly s Gl u Al a Ty r Val Ser Cy s Gl n As n Gl n Gl y
                  210                    215                    220
              Al a As p Leu Leu Ser I l e As n Ser Al a Al a Gl u Leu Thr Ty r Leu Ly s
              225                   230                      235                   240
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Ly s Gl u Gl y I l e Al a Ly s I l e Phe Tr p I l e Gl y Leu As n Gl n Leu
                                  245                       250                      255
              Ty r Ser Al a Ar g Gl y Tr p Gl u Tr p Ser As p Hi s Ly s Pr o Leu As n Phe
                            260                      265                     270
              Leu As n Tr p As p Pr o As p Ar g Pr o Ser Al a Pr o Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser
                       275                      280                    285
              Ser Cy s Al a Ar g Met As p Al a Gl u Ser Gl y Leu Tr p Gl n Ser Phe Ser
                  290                     295                    300
              Cy s Gl u Al a Gl n Leu Pr o Ty r Val Cy s Ar g Ly s Pr o Leu As n As n Thr
              305                     310                     315                     320
              Val Gl u Leu Thr As p Val Tr p Thr Ty r Ser As p Thr Ar g Cy s As p Al a
                               325                    330                    335
              Gl y Tr p Leu Pr o As n As n Gl y Phe Cy s Ty r Leu Leu Val As n Gl u Ser
                            340                     345                   350
              As n Ser Tr p As p Ly s Al a Hi s Al a Ly s Cy s Ly s Al a Phe Ser Ser As p
                       355                      360                      365
              Leu I l e Ser I l e Hi s Ser Leu Al a As p Val Gl u Val Val Val Thr Ly s
                  370                      375                    380
              Leu Hi s As n Gl u As p I l e Ly s Gl u Gl u Val Tr p I l e Gl y Leu Ly s As n
              385                     390                      395                      400
              I l e As n I l e Pr o Thr Leu Phe Gl n Tr p Ser As p Gl y Thr Gl u Val Thr
                                    405                   410                    415
              Leu Thr Ty r Tr p As p Gl u As n Gl u Pr o As n Val Pr o Ty r As n Ly s Thr
                           420                      425                     430
              Pr o As n Cy s Val Ser Ty r Leu Gl y Gl u Leu Gl y Gl n Tr p Ly s Val Gl n
                        435                   440                     445
              Ser Cy s Gl u Gl u Ly s Leu Ly s Ty r Val Cy s Ly s Ar g Ly s Gl y Gl u Ly s
                  450                     455                     460
                                                         Page 21

                                                pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu As n As p Al a Ser Ser As p Ly s Met Cy s Pr o Pr o As p Gl u Gl y Tr p
              465                    470                    475                      480
              Ly s Ar g Hi s Gl y Gl u Thr Cy s Ty r Ly s I l e Ty r Gl u As p Gl u Val Pr o
                                  485                     490                       495
              Phe Gl y Thr As n Cy s As n Leu Thr I l e Thr Ser Ar g Phe Gl u Gl n Gl u
                           500                    505                    510
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Leu As n As p Leu Met Ly s Ly s Ty r As p Ly s Ser Leu Ar g Ly s Ty r
                       515                    520                     525
              Phe Tr p Thr Gl y Leu Ar g As p Val As p Ser Cy s Gl y Gl u Ty r As n Tr p
                  530                    535                    540
              Al a Thr Val Gl y Gl y Ar g Ar g Ar g Al a Val Thr Phe Ser As n Tr p As n
              545                    550                     555                   560
              Phe Leu Gl u Pr o Al a Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Cy s Val Al a Met Ser Thr Gl y
                                565                     570                   575
              Ly s Ser Val Gl y Ly s Tr p Gl u Val Ly s As p Cy s Ar g Ser Phe Ly s Al a
                           580                     585                     590
              Leu Ser I l e Cy s Ly s Ly s Met Ser Gl y Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o Gl u Gl u Al a
                      595                      600                    605
              Ser Pr o Ly s Pr o As p As p Pr o Cy s Pr o Gl u Gl y Tr p Gl n Ser Phe Pr o
                  610                      615                      620
              Al a Ser Leu Ser Cy s Ty r Ly s Val Phe Hi s Al a Gl u Ar g I l e Val Ar g
              625                   630                    635                      640
              Ly s Ar g As n Tr p Gl u Gl u Al a Gl u Ar g Phe Cy s Gl n Al a Leu Gl y Al a
                                  645                      650                    655
              Hi s Leu Ser Ser Phe Ser Hi s Val As p Gl u I l e Ly s Gl u Phe Leu Hi s
                           660                  665                       670
              Phe Leu Thr As p Gl n Phe Ser Gl y Gl n Hi s Tr p Leu Tr p I l e Gl y Leu
                      675                   680                     685
              As n Ly s Ar g Ser Pr o As p Leu Gl n Gl y Ser Tr p Gl n Tr p Ser As p Ar g
                   690                     695                    700
              Thr Pr o Val Ser Thr I l e I l e Met Pr o As n Gl u Phe Gl n Gl n As p Ty r
              705                  710                       715                     720
              As p I l e Ar g As p Cy s Al a Al a Val Ly s Val Phe Hi s Ar g Pr o Tr p Ar g
                                   725                     730                    735
                                                            Page 22

                                                  pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Ar g Gl y Tr p Hi s Phe Ty r As p As p Ar g Gl u Phe I l e Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o
                             740                     745                      750
              Phe Al a Cy s As p Thr Ly s Leu Gl u Tr p Val Cy s Gl n I l e Pr o Ly s Gl y
                       755                    760                     765
              Ar g Thr Pr o Ly s Thr Pr o As p Tr p Ty r As n Pr o As p Ar g Al a Gl y I l e
                   770                    775                      780
<removed-apn>
              Hi s Gl y Pr o Pr o Leu I l e I l e Gl u Gl y Ser Gl u Ty r Tr p Phe Val Al a
              785                     790                       795                    800
              As p Leu Hi s Leu As n Ty r Gl u Gl u Al a Val Leu Ty r Cy s Al a Ser As n
                                805                      810                    815
              Hi s Ser Phe Leu Al a Thr I l e Thr Ser Phe Val Gl y Leu Ly s Al a I l e
                           820                    825                  830
              Ly s As n Ly s I l e Al a As n I l e Ser Gl y As p Gl y Gl n Ly s Tr p Tr p I l e
                        835                        840                     845
              Ar g I l e Ser Gl u Tr p Pr o I l e As p As p Hi s Phe Thr Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r
                   850                      855                      860
              Pr o Tr p Hi s Ar g Phe Pr o Val Thr Phe Gl y Gl u Gl u Cy s Leu Ty r Met
              865                     870                   875                     880
              Ser Al a Ly s Thr Tr p Leu I l e As p Leu Gl y Ly s Pr o Thr As p Cy s Ser
                                885                     890                     895
              Thr Ly s Leu Pr o Phe I l e Cy s Gl u Ly s Ty r As n Val Ser Ser Leu Gl u
                           900                      905                    910
              Ly s Ty r Ser Pr o As p Ser Al a Al a Ly s Val Gl n Cy s Ser Gl u Gl n Tr p
                        915                    920                     925
              I l e Pr o Phe Gl n As n Ly s Cy s Phe Leu Ly s I l e Ly s Pr o Val Ser Leu
                    930                     935                     940
              Thr Phe Ser Gl n Al a Ser As p Thr Cy s Hi s Ser Ty r Gl y Gl y Thr Leu
              945                   950                    955                    960
              Pr o Ser Val Leu Ser Gl n I l e Gl u Gl n As p Phe I l e Thr Ser Leu Leu
                               965                      970                    975
              Pr o As p Met Gl u Al a Thr Leu Tr p I l e Gl y Leu Ar g Tr p Thr Al a Ty r
                            980                    985                      990
              Gl u Ly s I l e As n Ly s Tr p Thr As p As n Ar g Gl u Leu Thr Ty r Ser As n
                        995                      1000                    1005
                                                           Page 23

                                               pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Phe Hi s Pr o Leu Leu Val Ser Gl y Ar g Leu Ar g I l e Pr o Gl u As n
                  1010                  1015                   1020
              Phe Phe Gl u Gl u Gl u Ser Ar g Ty r Hi s Cy s Al a Leu I l e Leu As n
                  1025                   1030                     1035
              Leu Gl n Ly s Ser Pr o Phe Thr Gl y Thr Tr p As n Phe Thr Ser Cy s
                  1040                   1045                   1050
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gl u Ar g Hi s Phe Val Ser Leu Cy s Gl n Ly s Ty r Ser Gl u Val
                  1055                   1060                   1065
              Ly s Ser Ar g Gl n Thr Leu Gl n As n Al a Ser Gl u Thr Val Ly s Ty r
                   1070                  1075                    1080
              Leu As n As n Leu Ty r Ly s I l e I l e Pr o Ly s Thr Leu Thr Tr p Hi s
                  1085                    1090                      1095
              Ser Al a Ly s Ar g Gl u Cy s Leu Ly s Ser As n Met Gl n Leu Val Ser
                  1100                     1105                  1110
              I l e Thr As p Pr o Ty r Gl n Gl n Al a Phe Leu Ser Val  Gl n Al a Leu
                    1115                    1120                  1125
              Leu Hi s As n Ser Ser Leu Tr p I l e Gl y Leu Phe Ser Gl n As p As p
                  1130                  1135                    1140
              Gl u Leu As n Phe Gl y Tr p Ser As p Gl y Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Phe Ser
                   1145                   1150                    1155
              Ar g Tr p Al a Gl u Thr As n Gl y Gl n Leu Gl u As p Cy s Val Val Leu
                   1160                    1165                    1170
              As p Thr As p Gl y Phe Tr p Ly s Thr Val As p Cy s As n As p As n Gl n
                   1175                   1180                   1185
              Pr o Gl y Al a I l e Cy s Ty r Ty r Ser Gl y As n Gl u Thr Gl u Ly s Gl u
                   1190                      1195                    1200
              Val Ly s Pr o Val As p Ser Val  Ly s Cy s Pr o Ser Pr o Val Leu As n
                  1205                   1210                    1215
              Thr Pr o Tr p I l e Pr o Phe Gl n As n Cy s Cy s Ty r As n Phe I l e I l e
                  1220                     1225                     1230
              Thr Ly s As n Ar g Hi s Met Al a Thr Thr Gl n As p Gl u Val Hi s Thr
                  1235                    1240                   1245
              Ly s Cy s Gl n Ly s Leu As n Pr o Ly s Ser Hi s I l e Leu Ser I l e Ar g
                   1250                    1255                     1260
                                                        Page 24

                                               pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              As p Gl u Ly s Gl u As n As n Phe Val Leu Gl u Gl n Leu Leu Ty r Phe
                   1265                     1270                  1275
              As n Ty r Met Al a Ser Tr p Val  Met Leu Gl y I l e Thr Ty r Ar g As n
                   1280                   1285                    1290
              Ly s Ser Leu Met Tr p Phe As p Ly s Thr Pr o Leu Ser Ty r Thr Hi s
                   1295                 1300                   1305
<removed-apn>
              Tr p Ar g Al a Gl y Ar g Pr o Thr I l e Ly s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Leu Al a
                   1310                     1315                     1320
              Gl y Leu Ser Thr As p Gl y Phe Tr p As p I l e Gl n Thr Phe Ly s Val
                   1325                  1330                     1335
              I l e Gl u Gl u Al a Val Ty r Phe Hi s Gl n Hi s Ser I l e Leu Al a Cy s
                    1340                    1345                   1350
              Ly s I l e Gl u Met Val As p Ty r Ly s Gl u Gl u Ty r As n Thr Thr Leu
                   1355                    1360                     1365
              Pr o Gl n Phe Met Pr o Ty r Gl u As p Gl y I l e Ty r Ser Val I l e Gl n
                   1370                   1375                      1380
              Ly s Ly s Val Thr Tr p Ty r Gl u Al a Leu As n Met Cy s Ser Gl n Ser
                   1385                   1390                   1395
              Gl y Gl y Hi s Leu Al a Ser Val  Hi s As n Gl n As n Gl y Gl n Leu Phe
                   1400                   1405                     1410
              Leu Gl u As p I l e Val Ly s Ar g As p Gl y Phe Pr o Leu Tr p Val Gl y
                  1415                     1420                    1425
              Leu Ser Ser Hi s As p Gl y Ser Gl u Ser Ser Phe Gl u Tr p Ser As p
                  1430                   1435                 1440
              Gl y Ser Thr Phe As p Ty r I l e Pr o Tr p Ly s Gl y Gl n Thr Ser Pr o
                   1445                  1450                      1455
              Gl y As n Cy s Val Leu Leu As p Pr o Ly s Gl y Thr Tr p Ly s Hi s Gl u
                   1460                  1465                    1470
              Ly s Cy s As n Ser Val Ly s As p Gl y Al a I l e Cy s Ty r Ly s Pr o Thr
                   1475                   1480                      1485
              Ly s Ser Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Ar g Leu Thr Ty r Ser Ser Ar g Cy s Pr o
                   1490                  1495                  1500
              Al a Al a Ly s Gl u As n Gl y Ser Ar g Tr p I l e Gl n Ty r Ly s Gl y Hi s
                   1505                     1510                     1515
                                                         Page 25

                                              pc t gb2013052899- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Cy s Ty r Ly s Ser As p Gl n Al a Leu Hi s Ser Phe Ser Gl u Al a Ly s
                   1520                    1525                  1530
              Ly s Leu Cy s Ser Ly s Hi s As p Hi s Ser Al a Thr I l e Val Ser I l e
                   1535                   1540                   1545
              Ly s As p Gl u As p Gl u As n Ly s Phe Val Ser Ar g Leu Met Ar g Gl u
                   1550                     1555                  1560
<removed-apn>
              As n As n As n I l e Thr Met Ar g Val Tr p Leu Gl y Leu Ser Gl n Hi s
                   1565                    1570                   1575
              Ser Val  As p Gl n Ser Tr p Ser Tr p Leu As p Gl y Ser Gl u Val Thr
                  1580                    1585                   1590
              Phe Val  Ly s Tr p Gl u As n Ly s Ser Ly s Ser Gl y Val  Gl y Ar g Cy s
                  1595                     1600                   1605
              Ser Met  Leu I l e Al a Ser As n Gl u Thr Tr p Ly s Ly s Val Gl u Cy s
                  1610                    1615                    1620
              Gl u Hi s Gl y Phe Gl y Ar g Val  Val Cy s Ly s Val Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o
                   1625                    1630                   1635
              As p
                                                         Page 26

