ABSTRACT
        An electronic device may be configured to detect an external charging device when the
external charging device is initially engaged with, or connected to, the electronic device. The
electronic device, or an alert unit operably connected to the electronic device, can produce one or
more alerts for the user if the charging device is in an unpowered state. The alert or alerts can be
provided to the electronic device engaged with the charging device and/or to another electronic
device or alert unit that is in communication with the electronic device that is engaged with the
charging device.

DETECTION AND NOTIFICATION OF AN UNPOWERED RELEASABLE
                                     CHARGING DEVICE
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
[0001]     This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 62/190,930, filed July 10, 2015, entitled "Detection and Notification of an
Unpowered Releasable Charging Device," the entirety of which is incorporated herein by
reference as if fully disclosed herein.
[0001A]      This application is also a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed on 22 June 2016.
FIELD
[0002]      This invention relates generally to electronic devices, and more particularly to the
detection and notification of an unpowered power or charging device, such as, for example, a
power cable or a wireless energy transfer device.
BACKGROUND
[0003]       Portable electronic devices typically have a battery that needs to be recharged
periodically. Power can be provided to the electronic device to recharge the battery using one of
a variety of techniques. For example, a charging device either can plug into the electronic device
to supply power, or the charging device can transfer power wirelessly to the electronic device.
Both the wired and wireless charging devices include a power cable that plugs into a power
supply, such as a wall outlet or another electronic device.
[0004]       A user expects the electronic device to begin recharging immediately after he or she
engages the electronic device with a charging device. However, in some situations, the charging
device may be unpowered (e.g., not plugged in) when the user initially engages the electronic
device with the charging device. The user may not realize the charging device is not able to
supply power when he or she first engages the electronic device with the charging device, and,
                                                   1

the user expects the electronic device to be recharged (either partially or fully) when the user
returns after a period of time. Instead, the user discovers the electronic device is not recharged
because the charging device itself is unpowered.
SUMMARY
[0005]        Embodiments described herein provide techniques for detecting an unpowered
charging device at the time the electronic device is initially engaged with the charging device.
One or more notifications may be provided to the user via the electronic device and/or via
another electronic device regarding the unpowered charging device.
[00061        In one aspect, an electronic device can include a processing device and a detection
unit operably connected to the processing device. The processing device may be adapted to
detect an initial engagement with a charging device based on an output of the detection unit, to
detect whether the charging device is in an unpowered state, and to provide an alert signal to an
alert unit when the charging device is in an unpowered state (e.g., unable to provide power to the
electronic device). The alert unit is configured to produce an alert based on the alert signal.
Example alert units include, but are not limited to, a haptic device, an audio device, a display,
and/or a light source. As such, the alerts may include an audio alert, a visual alert (e.g., an alert
message displayed on a display or the light source flashing), and/or a haptic alert.
[00071        In another aspect, a method of operating an electronic device can include detecting
an initial engagement with a charging device and determining if the charging device is in an
unpowered state upon detecting the initial engagement with the charging device. If the charging
device is in an unpowered state, one or more alerts may be produced for a user. In some
embodiments, one or more alerts may be produced if the charging device is underpowered,
where the charging device does not have a sufficient amount of power to provide to the
electronic device. The same alert(s) or one or more different alert(s) may be provided to the user
after the initial alert or alerts. The alerts can be provided to the electronic device that is engaged
with the charging device, the charging device, and/or another electronic device in
communication with the charging device.
                                                     2

[00081        In yet another aspect, a system includes a charging device and an electronic device.
A triggering element may be included in the charging device. The electronic device can include
a processing device and a detection unit operably connected to the processing device. The
detection unit is configured to engage with the triggering element in the charging device. The
processing device is adapted to detect an initial engagement with the charging device based on
the triggering element engaging with the detection unit, determine the charging device is not
supplying power to the electronic device, and produce an alert signal when the charging device is
not supplying power to the electronic device. An alert unit that is operably connected to the
processing device is configured to generate an alert based on receipt of the alert signal from the
processing device.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]       Reference will now be made to representative embodiments illustrated in the
accompanying figures. It should be understood that the following descriptions are not intended
to limit the embodiments to one preferred embodiment. To the contrary, it is intended to cover
alternatives, modifications, and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the
described embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Identical reference numerals have
been used, where possible, to designate identical features that are common to the figures.
[0010]       FIG. 1 is a simplified block diagram of a system for detecting and notifying a user of
an unpowered charging device;
[0011]       FIGS. 2 and 3 are perspective views of example electronic devices that can be
connected to a releasable charging device;
[0012]       FIG. 4 is a perspective view of another example electronic device and charger device
in a disengaged configuration;
[0013]       FIG. 5 is a perspective view of the electronic device 404 and the charger device 402
shown in FIG. 4 in an engaged configuration;
[0014]       FIGS. 6-10 illustrate example techniques for detecting an external charging device;
                                                   3

[0015]       FIG. 11 is a flowchart of a method of detecting and notifying a user of an unpowered
charging device;
[0016]       FIG. 12 is a flowchart of a method of operating an electronic device;
[0017]       FIG. 13 illustrates a first example block diagram of an electronic device that can
detect a charging device and provide an alert to another electronic device; and
[0018]       FIG. 14 depicts a second example block diagram of an electronic device that can
detect a charging device and provide an alert to another electronic device.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019]        Embodiments described herein provide various techniques for detecting an
unpowered charging device at the time a device to be charged (which may be referred to herein
generally as an "electronic device") is initially engaged with the charging device. Generally,
embodiments may detect engagement with a charging device and, upon detecting engagement,
determine if the charging device is powered or unpowered. Embodiments may include a variety
of structures and/or methods for detecting engagement with a charging device. Such structures
and/or techniques may be incorporated in a device to be charged or the charging device.
[0020]        As used herein, the term "unpowered" refers to a state of a charging device in which
the charging device is unable to provide either power or another signal to an electronic device
that is engaged with the charging device. In one example, a connector of a power cable may be
inserted into a port of an electronic device, but if the plug of the power cable is not plugged into
a wall outlet, the power cable cannot supply any power to the electronic device. Thus, the power
cable is in an unpowered state. Alternatively, in a second example, the plug of the power cable
can be plugged into the wall outlet, but the power cable may still be unable to supply any power
to the electronic device because the power cable is damaged or defective (e.g., broken). Again,
the power cable in this second example is in an unpowered state.
[0021]        Additionally, as used herein, the terms "engage" and "engagement" refer to a
connection between a charging device and an electronic device in which power transfer may
occur when the charging device is in a powered state. The connection between the electronic
                                                    4

device can be physical (e.g., wired), wireless, or a combination of both. For example, as
described earlier, engagement can involve physical insertion where a connector of a charging
device (e.g., a power cable, a dock) is inserted into a port of the electronic device. In another
embodiment, an electronic device can be engaged with a charging device by mating a portion of
the electronic device (e.g., a first surface) with a portion of the charging device (e.g., a second
surface). Power can then be transferred wirelessly using near-field techniques (e.g., inductive or
magnetic coupling). In yet another embodiment, power may be transferred from a charging
device to an electronic device using far-field techniques (e.g., radio waves).
[0022]        A charging device can include a triggering element that is configured to be sensed
by, or to interact with, a detection unit in the electronic device. The triggering element and/or
the detection unit may be any suitable electrical, mechanical, optical, magnetic, electromagnetic,
or electromechanical device. Embodiments may detect engagement between a device to be
charged and a charging device either passively or actively utilizing the triggering element and the
detection unit. For example, with active detection, the charging device may transmit a signal or
perform an operation that indicates the presence of the charging device to a device to be charged.
Additionally or alternatively, the electronic device may transmit a signal to the charging device
to detect whether the charging device is present. For example, the electronic device can transmit
a signal to the charging device and then wait a given period of time to determine if the charging
device responds. The charging device may respond by transmitting a signal to the electronic
device and/or by initiating the transfer of power to the electronic device.
[0023]        With passive detection, a component or device in the charging device may engage or
be detected by the electronic device. For example, a triggering element in a charging device may
be a magnetic element (e.g., magnet) and the detection unit in the electronic device can be a
sensor, such as a Hall Effect sensor, that passively detects the presence and/or field strength of
the magnetic element. Thus, the electronic device can detect the presence of the charging device
based on the detection of the presence and/or the field strength of the magnetic element.
[0024]        As another example, the electronic device may optically detect engagement with the
charging device. In one example, a predetermined pattern can be provided on a surface of the
charging device (e.g., the charging surface of an inductive charging device), and an image sensor
                                                    5

may capture an image of the pattern. One example of a predetermined pattern is a bar code.
Alternatively, a pattern of different colors and/or shapes on the charging surface may be
passively detected optically by an image sensor, none of which necessarily need be detectable by
the human eye.
[0025]       Once the initial engagement between the charging device and the electronic device is
detected, the electronic device can determine whether or not the charging device is in an
unpowered state. As one example, the electronic device may expect or initiate receipt of power
from the charging device. If no power is received by the electronic device after a certain period,
then the electronic device may determine from the lack of power that the charging device is
unpowered or otherwise deficient or inoperative. Thus, the electronic device may actively detect
the presence of the charging device through the aforementioned example structure and passively
determine the charging device lacks power due to the failure of the electronic device to receive
any power.
[0026]       In another example, a charging device can include an internal power supply (e.g., a
battery) that is configured to temporarily supply power only to a triggering element. For
example, a power cable plug or a charging surface can include a light source (e.g., LED) that
temporarily emits light of any suitable spectrum toward a light sensor in the electronic device
when the charging device is engaged with the electronic device but is in an unpowered state
(e.g., the charging device is not plugged into a wall outlet). The flash of light can indicate to the
electronic device that the charging device is present and is in an unpowered state. Thus, the
charging device may actively indicate its unpowered state to the electronic device.
[00271       Additionally, one or more alerts may be provided to the user regarding the
unpowered charging device. As one example, an alert message or graphic can be displayed on a
display of the electronic device engaged with the charging device. Additionally or alternatively,
an audio, visual, and/or haptic alert may be produced by the electronic device. In some
embodiments, one or more of these events can occur on another electronic device that is in
communication with the electronic device through a wired or wireless connection. In this
manner, alerts can be provided to the electronic device engaged with the charging device and/or
to one or more other electronic devices the user has designated to receive such alerts.
                                                  6

[00281       Directional terminology, such as "top", "bottom", "front", "back", "leading",
"trailing", etc., is used with reference to the orientation of the Figure(s) being described.
Because components of embodiments described herein can be positioned in a number of
different orientations, the directional terminology is used for purposes of illustration only and is
in no way limiting.
[0029]       Referring now to FIG. 1, there is shown a simplified block diagram of a system for
detecting and notifying a user of an unpowered charging device. When a user wants to recharge
a battery in an electronic device 100, the user engages the electronic device 100 with a charging
device 102. The charging device 102 is connected to a power supply 104. In some
embodiments, the power supply 104 is an external power supply that the charging device 102
connects to via a power cable (e.g., a power cord, a USB cable). In another embodiment, the
power supply 104 may be included in the charging device 102. As one example, the charging
device 102 can include a battery. In other embodiments, the power supply can be multiple power
supplies (external and/or internal), and the electronic device may determine that all of the power
supplies are in an unpowered state.
[0030]       The charging device 102 is configured to supply at least some of the power received
from the power supply 104 to the electronic device 100. In some instances, the charging device
102 is unable to supply power either because the charging device 102 is not connected to the
power supply 104 or because the power supply 104 itself is unable to supply power. For
example, when the power supply 104 is a wall outlet, the electrical power may be temporarily
unavailable (e.g., a power outage) or turned off. In another example, the power supply 104 can
be a battery that is connected to the charging device 102. The charging device 102 is not able to
supply power to the electronic device 100 when the battery is not charged. Again, this lack of
power may be used by the electronic device 100 to passively determine that the charging device
102 is inoperative (e.g., unplugged, unpowered, in a failure state, or the like).
[0031]       Various techniques and structures are disclosed for detecting the charging device 102
is unable to supply power at the time the electronic device 100 is initially engaged with the
charging device 102. Additionally, the electronic device 100 can produce one or more alerts for
a user when the electronic device 100 determines the charging device 102 is unable to provide
                                                    7

power. In some embodiments, an alert can be produced by one or more alert units 106 in the
electronic device 100. In some embodiments, the alert can be a visual, haptic, and/or audio alert.
Additionally or alternatively, a user can receive one or more alerts on an alert device 108 that is
in communication with the electronic device 100 (wired or wireless communication link
illustrated by dashed line 110). The alert device 108 can be any suitable electronic device, such
as, for example, a smart telephone, a wearable device, and a tablet or laptop computing device.
[0032]        FIGS. 2 and 3 are perspective views of example electronic devices that can be
connected to a releasable charging device. The electronic device 200 is depicted as a smart
telephone, while the electronic device 300 is a tablet computing device. Other embodiments are
not limited to these types of electronic devices. Detection of a charging device and providing an
alert when the charging device is unpowered can be used in any suitable electronic device. For
example, an electronic device can be a laptop computer, a digital music player, a wearable
communication device, a smart watch, a wearable health monitoring device, a remote control
device, a gaming device, and any other electronic device that is configured to releasably connect
or engage with an external charging device.
[0033]      The example electronic devices 200, 300 can each include an enclosure 202 that forms
an outer surface or partial outer surface for the internal components of the electronic device 200,
300. The enclosure 202 at least partially surrounds a display 204 and one or more input/output
devices 206 (shown as a button in this example). The enclosure 202 can be formed of one or
more components operably connected together, such as a front piece and a back piece.
Alternatively, the enclosure 202 can be formed of a single piece operably connected to the
display 204. The enclosure 202 can be formed of any suitable material, including, but not
limited to, plastic and metal. In the illustrated embodiment, the enclosure 202 is formed into a
substantially rectangular shape, although this configuration is not required.
[0034]      In some embodiments, the display 204 may incorporate an input device configured to
receive touch input, force input, temperature input, and the like. The display 204 can be
implemented with any suitable display, including, but not limited to, a multi-touch sensing
touchscreen device that uses liquid crystal display (LCD) technology, light emitting diode (LED)
technology, organic light-emitting display (OLED) technology, or organic electro luminescence
                                                   8

(OEL) technology. The display 204 can be located substantially anywhere on the electronic
device 200, 300.
[0035]     In some embodiments, the input/output device 206 can take the form of an input
button, which may be a mechanical button, a soft button (e.g., a button that does not physically
move but still accepts inputs), an icon or image on a display, and so on. Further, in some
embodiments, the input/output device 206 can be integrated as part of a cover glass of the
electronic device. Although not shown in FIGS. 2 and 3, the electronic device 200, 300 can
include other types of input/output devices, such as a microphone, a speaker, a camera, a sensor
(e.g., biometric) and one or more ports, such as a network communication port.
[0036]     In the illustrated embodiment, a plug 208, 308 of a charging device 210, 310 (i.e.,
power cable) is configured to be received by a respective port 212, 312 in the electronic device
200, 300. In some embodiments, the charging device 210, 310 can include a triggering element
(not shown) that is configured to be sensed by, or to interact with, a detection unit in the
electronic device 200, 300. This interaction or sensing of the triggering element permits the
electronic device 200, 300 to detect the presence of the charging device 210, 310 when the
charging device 210, 310 is first inserted into the port 212, 312.
[0037]     Referring now to FIGS. 4 and 5, there are shown perspective views showing another
example electronic device and charging device in disengaged and engaged states, respectively.
The illustrated electronic device 404 is a wearable communication device that is configured to
receive power wirelessly (e.g., inductively) from the charging device 402. The wearable
communication device may be configured to provide, for example, wireless electronic
communications from other devices, and/or health-related information or data such as (but not
limited to) heart rate data, blood pressure data, temperature data, oxygen level data, diet/nutrition
information, medical reminders, health-related tips or information, or other health-related data.
[0038]       Although the system 400 depicts a wristwatch or smart watch, a system can include
any electronic device that is configured to receive energy inductively from a charging device.
For example, any portable or semi-portable electronic device may receive energy inductively,
and any portable or semi-portable docking station or charging device may transmit energy
inductively.
                                                   9

[00391       The charging device 402 and the electronic device 404 may each respectively
include an enclosure 406, 408 to enclose electronic, mechanical and structural components
therein. The enclosures 406, 408 are not described in more detail since the enclosures are similar
in form and function to the enclosure 202 shown in FIGS. 2 and 3.
[0040]        In the illustrated embodiment, the charging device 402 may be connected to a power
supply by a power cable 410. For example, the charging device 402 can receive power from a
wall outlet or from another electronic device through a cable, such as a USB cable. Additionally
or alternatively, the charging device 402 may be battery operated. Although the illustrated
embodiment is shown with the power cable 410 coupled to the enclosure 406 of the charging
device 402, the power cable 410 may be connected by any suitable means. For example, the
power cable 410 may be removable and may include a connector that is sized to fit within an
aperture or receptacle opened within the enclosure 406 of the charging device 402.
[0041]       The electronic device 404 may include a first interface surface 412 that may interface
with, align, or otherwise contact a second interface surface 414 of the charging device 402. In
this manner, the electronic device 404 and the charging device 402 may be positionable with
respect to each other. In certain embodiments, the second interface surface 414 of the charging
device 402 may be configured in a particular shape that engages with a complementary shape of
the electronic device 404 (see FIG. 5). The illustrative second interface surface 414 may include
a concave shape that follows a selected curve. The first interface surface 412 of the electronic
device 404 may include a convex shape following the same or substantially similar curve as the
second interface surface 414.
[0042]       In other embodiments, the first and second interface surfaces 412, 414 can have any
given shape and dimensions. For example, the first and second interface surfaces 412, 414 may
be substantially flat. Additionally or alternatively, the charging and electronic devices 402, 404
can be positioned with respect to each other using one or more alignment mechanisms. As one
example, one or more magnetic devices may be included in the charging and/or electronic
devices 402, 404 and used to align the devices. Additionally, in some embodiments the magnetic
elements may be used to detect the presence of the charging device 402 when the electronic
device 404 contacts the charging device 402.
                                                  10

[00431       In another example, one or more actuators in the charging and/or electronic devices
402, 404 can be used to align the devices. And in yet another example, alignment features, such
as protrusions and corresponding indentations in the interface surfaces and/or enclosures of the
charging and electronic devices 402, 404, may be used to align the charging and electronic
devices 402, 404. The design or configuration of the interface surfaces, one or more alignment
mechanisms, and one or more alignment features can be used individually or in various
combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the alignment features may be used to detect the
presence of the charging device 402 when the electronic device 404 contacts the charging device
402.
[0044]       Alignment of the devices (whether laterally, transversely, rotationally or otherwise)
may facilitate detection of a charging device by an electronic device, especially in situations
where a triggering element is asymmetrically or non-uniformly located on a charging device. A
"triggering element," as used herein, refers to a structure that permits an electronic device to
detect the presence of a charging device. Sample triggering elements are discussed in more
detail throughout this specification.
[0045]     It should be noted that FIGS. 2-4 are illustrative only. In other examples, an electronic
device may include different, fewer, or more components than those shown in FIGS. 2-4. For
example, in some embodiments an electronic device may not include a display. Additionally or
alternatively, an electronic device can include multiple buttons as input/output devices 206, such
as a rocker button, a push button, and/or a sliding button.
[0046]       FIGS. 6-10 illustrate example techniques for detecting an external charging device.
Although the charging device is depicted as the charging device 402 shown in FIGS. 4 and 5, the
described techniques can be used with any suitable charging device, including a power cable. A
triggering element can be formed at any suitable location in a charging device. As shown in
FIG. 6, a triggering element 600 can be formed on the second interface surface 414 of the
charging device 402. As one example, the triggering element 600 can be one or more colored
and/or differently shaped structural elements, or conductive contacts that may be imaged or
detected electrically by the electronic device. In another example, the triggering element 600 can
be a predetermined pattern (e.g., a bar code) or a pattern of materials having different absorptive
                                                  11

and/or reflective properties that can be imaged or sensed by the electronic device. And in
another example, the triggering element 600 may be a mechanical actuator that is configured to
activate a corresponding switch in the electronic device.
[00471       In FIG. 7, the triggering element 700 can be disposed within the charging device
402. As one example, the triggering element 700 may be a first magnetic element positioned at a
location in the charging device 402 that corresponds to a location of a sensor, such as a Hall
Effect sensor. Alternatively, the electronic device may include a second magnetic element that is
operably connected to a switch, and the attractive or repulsive magnetic field produced between
the first and second magnetic elements can cause the second magnetic element to activate the
switch.
[0048]       FIG. 8A is a cross-sectional view of one example of the electronic device 404 and
the charging device 402 taken along line A-A in FIG 5. The charging device 402 includes a light
pipe 800 and the electronic device 404 includes an emitter 804 and a detector 806 positioned at
respective input and output ends of the light pipe 800. In some embodiments, the emitter 804
can be a light source (visible or non-visible light source) and the detector 806 a light sensor.
When the emitter 804 is turned on, light 808 can propagate through the light pipe 800. The
detector 806 can detect the light produced by the emitter 804 only when the electronic device
404 is resting on the surface of the charging device 402 and the emitter 804 and the detector 806
are aligned with the light pipe 800.
[0049]       FIG. 9A is a top view of the second interface surface 414 of the charging device 402
(FIG. 4). In one embodiment, the emitter 804 emits light into the input opening 900 and the light
pipe 800 forms a ring 902 that emits light from the second interface surface 414 when the emitter
804 is turned on. In the illustrated embodiment, the ring 902 is a continuous ring. In other
embodiments, or one or more discrete points or segments can be used to detect the presence of
the charging device 402. The one or more discrete points can be any suitable shape (e.g.,
circular). Additionally, multiple discrete points may be positioned in an annular arrangement or
any other suitable arrangement.
[0050]       FIG. 8B is a cross-sectional view of another example of the electronic device 404
and the charging device 402 taken along line A-A in FIG 5. The charging device 402 includes a
                                                  12

light pipe 800 and the electronic device 404 includes the emitter 804 and the detector 806. When
the emitter 804 is turned on, light 808 propagates through the light pipe 800 to the detector 806.
The detector 806 can detect the light 808 when the electronic device 404 is in contact with the
charging device 402. FIG. 9B is a top view of the second interface surface 414 of the charging
device 402 (FIG. 4). In the illustrated embodiment, the emitter 804 emits light 808 into the input
opening 900 of the light pipe 800 and the light pipe 800 emits light 808 at the output opening
904 such that light 808 emits from the second interface surface 414.
[0051]       FIG. 8C is a cross-sectional view of yet another example of the electronic device 404
and the charging device 402 taken along line A-A in FIG 5. The charging device 402 includes
multiple light pipes 800 and the electronic device 404 includes multiple emitters 804 and
detectors 806. When at least one emitter 804 is turned on, light 808 propagates through the
corresponding light pipe 800 to a respective detector 806. FIG. 9C is a top view of the second
interface surface 414 of the charging device 402 (FIG. 4). In the illustrated embodiment, each
emitter 804 can emit light 808 into a respective input opening 900A, 900B and the light pipe 800
emits light 808 at a corresponding output opening 904A, 904B such that light 808 emits from the
second interface surface 414. The emitters 804 can be turned on individually, in different
groups, or all at once. Additionally, each emitter 804 can emit the same wavelength of light, or
at least one emitter 804 can emit a wavelength of light that differs from the wavelengths emitted
by the other emitter(s) 804. Other embodiments can configure the light pipes 800 differently to
pair an emitter 804 with a different detector 806. In this manner, a different arrangement of
discrete points may be produced.
[0052]        FIG. 10 depicts an enlarged cross-sectional view of the charging device 402 and the
electronic device 404 taken along line A-A in FIG. 5. In the illustrated embodiment, a triggering
element 1000 is positioned in an aperture 1002 formed in the second interface surface 414. In
some embodiments, the triggering element 1000 may be a pattern that is formed over one or
more surfaces in the aperture 1002. In FIG. 10, the triggering element 1000 is formed on a
bottom surface of the aperture 1002. For example, the triggering element 1000 can be a bar code
or a pattern of materials having different absorptive and/or reflective properties that can be
imaged or sensed by the electronic device 404. In some embodiments, the aperture 1002 may
                                                 13

engage with a structure on the back of the electronic device 404 in order to align the electronic
device 404 and charging device 402, thereby facilitating detecting of the triggering element
1000.
[0053]        A light source 1004 in the electronic device 404 may be positioned to emit light
towards the triggering element 1000 and a light sensor 1006 in the electronic device 404 can be
positioned to receive light reflected off the triggering element 1000. Alternatively, in one
embodiment, an image sensor in the electronic device 404 can be positioned to capture an image
of the illuminated triggering element 1000. In another embodiment, the charging device 402
may include a light source 1004 that is positioned to illuminate the triggering element 1000, a
light sensor 1006 that can detect the reflected light, or an image sensor that can capture an image
of the triggering element 1000.
[0054]        Various embodiments may use other methods, triggering elements, techniques, and
other structures to determine when a charging device is engaged. Sample embodiments and
detection units/triggering elements will now be described.
[0055]        In some embodiments, the alignment of the electronic device may shift with respect
to the charging device. As described earlier, the proper alignment of the electronic device to the
charging device can be effectuated by complementary curved first and second interfacing
surfaces, actuators, magnets, and the like.
[0056]        In some embodiments, an electrical element can be included in a plug, and the
electrical element may complete a circuit in the electronic device. Alternatively, a proximity
sensor may be included in a port or aperture that receives a plug of the charging device. A
processing device in the electronic device can monitor the output of the proximity sensor or the
output of the circuit (e.g., current or voltage) to detect the presence of the charging device.
[00571        In some embodiments, the electronic device may detect engagement with the
charging device through optical detection. In one example, a bar code or matrix bar code can be
provided on a surface of the charging device (e.g., the charging surface of an inductive charging
device), and an image sensor may capture an image of the bar code. Alternatively, a pattern of
different colors and/or shapes on the charging surface may be detected optically by an image
                                                    14

sensor. In another example, the charging surface on a charging device can be textured, or may
be formed from materials having different reflective and/or absorptive characteristics, both of
which can be detected by an image sensor. In yet another example, a power cable plug or a
charging surface can include a light source (e.g., LED) that emits light toward a light sensor in
the electronic device when the charging device is engaged with the electronic device and able to
supply power to the electronic device (e.g., the charging device is plugged into a wall outlet). A
processing device in the electronic device can analyze the images or output of the light sensor to
detect the presence of the charging device.
[0058]       Referring now to FIG. 11, there is shown a flowchart of a method of detecting and
notifying a user of an unpowered charging device. Initially, as shown in block 1100, an
electronic device can detect an initial connection or engagement with a charging device. Various
techniques can be used to detect the initial engagement with a charging device. As one example,
a mechanical element can be included in a charging surface or in a plug that is received by a port
in the electronic device. The mechanical element may actuate a switch within the electronic
device. A processing device in the electronic device can monitor the state of the switch to detect
the presence of the charging device. As another example, as described earlier, a charging device
can include a magnetic element (e.g., magnet) and the electronic device a sensor, such as a Hall
Effect sensor, that detects the presence and/or field strength of the magnetic element. The
electronic device can detect the presence of the charging device based on the detection of the
presence and/or the field strength of the magnetic element. Other sample structures and
triggering elements, including optical detection, may be used as described elsewhere herein.
[0059]       Referring now to block 1102 in FIG. 11, a determination may be made as to whether
the charging device is in an unpowered state after the initial engagement with the electronic
device. For example, a processing device in the electronic device can monitor a signal line
connected to a battery to detect if a signal level (e.g., current or voltage) on the signal line is
sufficient to recharge the battery (e.g., the signal level equals or exceeds a threshold level).
Similarly, a signal will not be provided to a battery when an inductive charging device is not
plugged into a wall outlet. In another example, an electronic device that receives power
wirelessly can "ping" the charging device through the inductive power transfer receiver and wait
                                                   15

for a reply ping or the transfer of power from the inductive power transfer transmitter in the
charging device. A "ping" is a short burst of energy that is transferred to the charging device or
from the charging device. The electronic device may determine the charging device is not able
to supply power when a reply ping is not received from the charging device, or when the
charging device does not begin to transfer power to the electronic device.
[00601       If the charging device is in an unpowered state, the process passes to block 1104
where one or more initial alerts are provided to the user. As one example, an alert message or
graphic can be displayed on a display of the electronic device engaged with the charging device.
Additionally or alternatively, an audio, visual, and/or haptic alert may be produced by the
electronic device. As will be described in more detail later, in some embodiments one or more
of these events can occur on another electronic device that is in communication with the
electronic device through a wired or wireless connection. In this manner, alerts can be provided
to the electronic device engaged with the charging device and/or to one or more other electronic
devices the user has designated to receive such alerts.
[00611       Returning to block 1102, when the charging device is able to supply power to the
electronic device (charging device is in a powered state), the method can pass to block 1106
where a determination is made as to whether the charging device is underpowered when initially
engaged with the electronic device. For example, the electronic device may be connected to an
external battery device for power or recharging. The electronic device may detect the amount of
charge on the battery pack, or the external battery pack can transmit data to the electronic device
regarding the remaining charge on the battery pack. If the remaining charge is insufficient to
recharge the battery to a given level (e.g., a threshold level), or to provide power for a given
amount of time, the method continues at block 1104. Otherwise, the process returns to block
1100. In this manner, the electronic device detects whether the charging device is able to supply
sufficient power only when the electronic device is first engaged with the charging device. The
subsequent reduction in the amount of available power and/or a subsequent loss of power is not
detected by the electronic device, and alerts are not produced when one of the events occurs.
[0062]       Once an initial alert or alerts is provided at block 1104, the method may continue at
block 1108 where a determination is made as to whether the electronic device will continue to
                                                    16

provide the alert(s) periodically or at select times after the initial alert(s). For example, an alert
or alerts may be produced after a given amount of time has passed since the initial alert and the
external charging device remains in an unpowered state. The process returns to block 1100 if the
electronic device will not provide a subsequent alert(s) for the user. Thus, the electronic device
produces an alert or alerts regarding the unpowered state of the charging device only when the
electronic device is first engaged with the charging device. A subsequent reduction in the
amount of available power and/or a subsequent loss of power is not detected by the electronic
device, so alerts are not produced when one of the events occurs.
[0063]       When the electronic device will provide one or more subsequent alerts for the user,
the method may pass to block 1110 where a determination is made as to whether the type of alert
and/or the presentation of the alert will change. For example, an alert different from the initial
alert can be produced. As one example, the initial alert may be an audio alert and a subsequent
alert can be a visual alert (e.g., alert message). Additionally or alternatively, the electronic
devices that receive the alert(s) (e.g., the presentation of the alert) can change or be
supplemented. For example, in some embodiments, one or more subsequent alerts may be
received by a device other than (or in addition to) the electronic device engaged with the external
charging device.
[0064]       If the type and/or presentation of alert(s) will not vary, the process continues at block
1112 where the one or more initial alerts are produced for the user again. The method then
returns to block 1108. When the type and/or presentation of alert(s) will vary, the method passes
to block 1114 where one or more different alerts are produced for the user. The process then
returns to block 1108. For example, an audio alert may be provided when the unpowered
charging device is initially engaged with, or connected to, the electronic device 404. Thereafter,
a visual alert, such as an alert message on a display or the activation of an LED light source for a
given period of time, may be produced.
[00651       FIG. 12 is a flowchart of a method of operating an electronic device. Initially, as
shown in block 1200, a determination may be made as to whether the electronic device detects a
surface while the electronic device is in a non-scanning mode. A non-scanning mode is a mode
where the electronic device is not trying to detect the presence of a charging device (e.g.,
                                                   17

charging device 402). However, while in the non-scanning mode, another sensor or device in the
electronic device may detect the presence of a surface. For example, a proximity sensor can
detect when an electronic device is in contact with a surface. In another example, a processing
device in the electronic device can monitor the output of one or more sensors, such as an
accelerometer, a touch sensor, a force sensor, and/or a biometric sensor to determine if the
electronic device is moving or if a user is interacting with the electronic device. The electronic
device can remain or enter in a non-scanning mode when the electronic device is moving and/or
the user is interacting with the electronic device (or may decrease the frequency of a scanning
mode as an alternative).
[00661       If the electronic device does not detect the presence of a surface while the electronic
device is in a non-scanning mode, the process passes to block 1202 where a determination may
be made as to whether the electronic device detects a surface while the electronic device is in a
first scanning mode. A scanning mode is a mode where the electronic device is attempting to
detect the presence of the charging device. The first scanning mode may continuously check for
the presence of a charging device, or the first scanning mode can scan for the presence of the
charging device at select times (e.g., with a given time interval between detection scans). As one
example, a scanning operation can be performed according to a schedule.
[00671       If the electronic device detects the presence of a surface while in the non-scanning
mode (block 1200) or while in the first scanning mode (block 1202), the method continues at
block 1204 where the electronic device determines if the surface is a charging surface of a
charging device. Any one of the techniques described earlier can be used to determine whether
the surface is a charging surface. For example, the charging surface can include one or more
triggering elements such as colored and/or differently shaped structural elements, a pattern, or
conductive contacts that may be imaged or detected electrically by the electronic device. In
another example, the charging device may include a light pipe that propagates light from an
emitter in the electronic device to a detector in the electronic device.
[00681       If the surface is not a charging surface, the method continues at block 1206 where
the electronic device switches to a second scanning mode. In the second scanning mode, the
electronic device can continue to determine if the surface is a charging surface with a greater
                                                   18

time interval between detection scans. For example, a user may slide the electronic device onto a
charging surface, and the electronic device can subsequently determine if the surface is a
charging surface in accordance with the second scanning mode. In some embodiments, if the
electronic device determines that it is placed on a surface other than a charging device the
electronic device may halt any active scans until it detects that it is moving or has moved based
on signals produced by a motion detector (e.g., an accelerometer). Alternatively, the electronic
device may determine that it is on a surface other than a charging device by determining it is
stable (e.g., no motion detected by a suitable motion sensor) for a certain period of time during
which the electronic device fails to detect a triggering element or other charging device indicator.
By halting scanning operations or decreasing a frequency of such operations while on a non
charging surface, the electronic device may conserve its power. In some embodiments, the
process can return to block 1200 instead of switching to the second scanning mode.
[0069]        If the surface is a charging surface (block 1204), the method passes to block 1208
where the electronic device determines if the charging surface is in an unpowered state. As one
example, a processing device in the electronic device can monitor the signal produced by the
inductive power transfer receiver. If the signal level is insufficient to charge the battery, the
processing device may determine the charging device is not able to provide power. For example,
the charging device may not be plugged into a wall outlet. In some embodiments, the charging
device may have an internal power supply that temporarily supplies power to the charging device
when the charging device is in an unpowered state. In such embodiments, the charging device
can provide a communication signal to the electronic device that informs the electronic device
that the charging device is not plugged into a wall outlet. The communication signal may also
provide information about the level of charge in the battery. Based on the communication signal,
the electronic device can provide one or more alerts for the user. For example, the charging
device can transmit the communication signal to the electronic device via a wired or wireless
communication link.
[00701        In some embodiments, the electronic device may be able to transmit power to the
charging device to power one or more alert units in the charging device. For example, the
charging device may include a light source (e.g., LED light) that provides an alert to the user that
                                                    19

the charging device is unpowered. In such embodiments, an alert unit may not be included in the
electronic device, which can reduce the number of components in the electronic device.
[00711       Returning to block 1208, if the charging surface is in an unpowered state, the process
can pass to block 1210 where the electronic device provides one or more alerts for the user. If
the charging surface is in a powered state, the method continues at block 1212 where the
scanning and non-scanning modes are disabled while the electronic device is receiving power
from the charging device.
[0072]       In some embodiments, a wearable electronic device, such as a watch, can be
configured to determine when a user is wearing the wearable electronic device. As one example,
a wearable electronic device can include a proximity sensor, and a processing device may
monitor the output of the proximity sensor to determine if the user is wearing the electronic
device. Alternatively, the wearable device can use a capacitive sensor or other suitable sensor to
detect when the band is closed or unclasped. The wearable electronic device may enter a
scanning mode when the user is not wearing the electronic device. The electronic device can
enter or remain in a non-scanning mode when the user is wearing the electronic device. In this
manner, the electronic device can operate in a scanning mode where the electronic device checks
for the presence of the charging device only after other conditions or events have occurred.
When the other conditions or events have not occurred, the electronic device may operate in a
non-scanning mode where the electronic device does not attempt to detect the charging device.
[00731       Other embodiments can perform the blocks shown in FIGS. 11 and 12 in a different
order and/or can add or omit blocks. As one example, block 1106 may be omitted in one
embodiment. Additionally or alternatively, blocks 1108, 1110, 1112, and 1114 can be omitted in
another embodiment. In FIG. 12, block 1206 and/or block 1212 may be omitted in other
embodiments.
[0074]     Referring now to FIG. 13, there is shown a first example block diagram of an
electronic device that can detect a charging device and provide an alert to an alert device. The
electronic device 1300 is suitable for use as the electronic devices 200 and 300 shown in FIGS. 2
and 3, respectively. The electronic device 1300 can include one or more processing devices
1302, memory 1304, a display 1306, a power supply 1308, one or more input/output (1/0)
                                                  20

devices 1310, a network/communication interface 1312, a detection unit 1314, and an alert unit
1316, each of which will be discussed in turn below.
[00751       The one or more processing devices 1302 can control some or all of the operations of
the electronic device 1300. The processing device(s) 1302 can communicate, either directly or
indirectly, with substantially all of the components of the device. For example, one or more
system buses 1318 or other communication mechanisms can provide communication between
the processing device(s) 1302, the memory 1304, the display 1306, the power supply 1308, the
I/O device(s) 1310, the network/communication interface 1312, the detection unit 1314, and/or
the alert unit 1316. At least one processing device can be configured to detect an external
charging device 1320 that is engaged with the electronic device 1300. Additionally, a processing
device 1302 may be configured to cause an alert to be produced when the external charging
device is in an unpowered state (e.g., a power cable is not plugged into a wall outlet).
[00761       The processing device(s) 1302 can be implemented as any electronic device capable
of processing, receiving, or transmitting data or instructions. For example, the one or more
processing devices 1302 can be a microprocessor, a central processing unit (CPU), an
application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a digital signal processor (DSP), or combinations
of multiple such devices. As described herein, the term "processing device" is meant to
encompass a single processor or processing unit, multiple processors, multiple processing units,
or other suitably configured computing element or elements.
[00771       The memory 1304 can store electronic data that can be used by the electronic device
1300. For example, the memory 1304 can store electrical data or content such as audio files,
document files, timing and control signals, operational settings and data, and image data. The
memory 1304 can be configured as any type of memory. By way of example only, memory
1304 can be implemented as random access memory, read-only memory, Flash memory,
removable memory, or other types of storage elements, in any combination.
[0078]       The display 1306 can provide a visual output to the user. The display 1306 can be
implemented with any suitable technology, including, but not limited to, a multi-touch sensing
touchscreen that uses liquid crystal display (LCD) technology, light emitting diode (LED)
technology, organic light-emitting display (OLED) technology, organic electroluminescence
                                                 21

(OEL) technology, or another type of display technology. In some embodiments, the display
1306 can function as an input device that allows the user to interact with the electronic device
1300. For example, the display can be a multi-touch touchscreen display.
[00791       The power supply 1308 can be implemented with any device capable of providing
energy to the electronic device 1300. For example, the power supply 1308 can be one or more
batteries or rechargeable batteries, or a connection cable that connects the electronic device to
another power supply such as a wall outlet.
[00801       The one or more I/O devices 1310 can transmit and/or receive data to and from a
user or another electronic device. Example I/O device(s) 1310 include, but are not limited to, a
touch sensing input device such as a touchscreen or track pad, one or more buttons, a
microphone, a haptic device, and/or a speaker.
[00811       The network/communication interface 1312 can facilitate transmission of data to or
from other electronic devices. For example, a network/communication interface can transmit
electronic signals via a wireless and/or wired network connection. Examples of wireless and
wired network connections include, but are not limited to, cellular, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, infrared,
RFID, Ethernet, and NFC.
[0082]       The detection unit 1314 can be any suitable electrical, mechanical, optical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, or electromechanical device that is configured to detect a triggering element
1322 in an external charging device 1320. Similarly, the triggering element 1322 may be any
suitable electrical, mechanical, optical, magnetic, electromagnetic, or electromechanical device
that is configured to interact with the detection unit 1314. For example, a triggering element
1322 may be a contact pad connected to a circuit, a magnetic element operably connected to a
Hall Effect sensor, a light source, or a pattern formed on or in a plug or charging surface of a
charging device.
[0083]       The detection unit 1314 detects the presence of the charging device 1320 when the
charging device is first engaged with, or connected to, the electronic device 1300. For example,
a detection unit 1314 includes, but is not limited to, a switch, a magnetic element, an optical
sensor, a PPG sensor, and an image sensor. The processing device 1302 is adapted to detect the
                                                   22

charging device 1320 by monitoring, receiving, and/or analyzing the state, an output signal, or
data produced by the detection unit 1314. The processing device 1302 is further adapted to
determine whether the power supply 1308 is receiving power 1324 from the external charging
device 1320.
[0084]        The processing device 1302 may provide alert control and timing signals to one or
more alert units 1316, and each produces an output designed to alert a user to the unpowered
state of the external charging device 1320. In some embodiments, an alert unit can include the
display 1306 and/or one or more input/output devices 1310 (e.g., speakers, haptic device).
Additionally or alternatively, an alert unit 1316 can be a device that is used only for the alerts.
For example, the alert unit 1316 may be a light source that is turned on or flashed when a
charging device is in an unpowered state.
[0085]        The processing device 1302 can cause one or more alerts to be produced when the
unpowered external charging device 1320 is initially engaged with, or connected to, the
electronic device 1300. Additionally, the processing device 1302 can cause the one or more
alerts to be provided to the user periodically or at select times after the initial alert(s) was
produced based on the determination that the external charging device 1320 was in an
unpowered state when the external charging device 1320 was first engaged with the electronic
device 1300. Additionally or alternatively, the processing device 1302 may supplement or vary
the number and types of electronic devices that receive the alerts. For example, the processing
device 1302 may transmit timing and control signals to an alert device 1326 that is in
communication with the electronic device 1300 via the network/communication interfaces 1312
and 1328. The network/communication interfaces 1312, 1328 can be used to establish a
communication link 1330 between the electronic device 1300 and the alert device 1326. The
communication link 1330 may be implemented as a physical link or as a wireless link.
[00861        In some embodiments, the alert device 1326 is a second electronic device such as a
smart telephone, a tablet computing device, or a laptop or desktop computer. The alert timing
and control signals sent to the alert device 1326 can be received by a processing device 1332,
which causes one or more alert units 1334 to produce an alert for a user. As one example, the
alert unit 1334 can include a haptic device, a display, a light source, and/or speakers that
                                                  23

respectively produce a haptic alert, a first visual alert (e.g., an alert message), a second visual
alert (e.g., a flashing light), and/or an audio alert. The alert device 1326 can produce the one or
more alerts in combination with the electronic device 1300, or the alert device 1326 can provide
the alert(s) instead of the electronic device 1300. Additionally, the processing device 1302 may
transmit the alert timing and control signals to one or more external electronic devices.
[00871        In some embodiments, a user can specify the type of alert to be produced when the
electronic device is first engaged with a charging device and the electronic device determines the
charging device is in an unpowered state. For example, a user may elect to receive a haptic alert
at a smart telephone because the user typically carries the smart telephone in his or her pocket.
Additionally, the user may specify the alert type based on one or more factors, such as the day of
the week (e.g., weekday vs. weekend) and/or the time of day. As one example, Mondays
through Fridays a user may elect to receive a visual alert at a computer during work hours and at
all other times the user may want to receive an audio alert at a smart telephone because the user
carries the smart telephone in a pocket or places the smart telephone on a nearby surface (e.g., a
table or a nightstand).
[00881        As one example, the electronic device can be a smart watch and the alert device a
smart telephone. The smart watch and the smart telephone can be in communication with each
other via a wireless communication link. When the smart watch is first engaged with a charging
device, the smart watch can determine if the charging device is in an unpowered state and if so,
the smart watch can provide one or more alerts to the user. Additionally or alternatively, the
smart watch may transmit alert timing and control signals to the smart telephone and the smart
telephone can produce one or more alerts for the user. In some embodiments, the charging
device can include an internal power supply (e.g., a battery) that is configured to temporarily
supply power only to a triggering element. For example, the charging device can include a light
source (e.g., LED) that receives light from the internal power supply to briefly emit light of any
suitable spectrum toward a light sensor in the electronic device when the charging device is
engaged with the electronic device and is in an unpowered state. The flash of light produced by
the charging device may indicate to the electronic device that the charging device is present but
is in an unpowered state.
                                                    24

[00891       Referring now to FIG. 14, there is shown a second example block diagram of an
electronic device that can detect a charging device and provide an alert to an alert device. The
electronic device is suitable for use as the electronic device 404, and the charging device is
suitable for use as the charging device 402 shown in FIGS. 4 and 5. The charging device 402
includes a power supply 1400 operably connected to an inductive power transfer transmitter
1402. In one embodiment, the inductive power transfer transmitter 1402 includes a DC-to-AC
converter operably connected to a transmitter coil. As described earlier, an example power
supply includes, but is not limited to, a wall outlet or another electronic device that is connected
to the charging device 402 by a power cable (see 410 in FIG. 4).
[0090]       The electronic device 404 can include an inductive power transfer receiver 1404. In
some embodiments, the inductive power transfer receiver 1404 includes a receiver coil
operatively connected to an AC-to-DC converter. The inductive power transfer receiver 1404 is
operably connected to a load, such as a rechargeable battery 1406.
[0091]       The transmitter coil and the receiver coil together form a transformer. The
transformer transfers power through inductive coupling between the transmitter coil and the
receiver coil (energy transfer represented by arrow 1408). Essentially, energy is transferred from
the transmitter coil to the receiver coil through the creation of a varying magnetic flux by an AC
signal flowing through the transmitter coil. The varying magnetic flux induces a current in the
receiver coil. The AC signal induced in the receiver coil is converted into a DC signal. The DC
signal is used to charge the battery 1406. Additionally or alternatively, the transferred energy
can be used to transmit communication signals between the electronic device 404 and the
charging device 402 (communication signals represented by arrow 1410).
[0092]       A processing device 1412 in the charging device 402 can be operatively connected to
the inductive power transfer transmitter 1402, a network/communication interface 1414, and
optionally to a triggering element 1416. Although not shown in FIG. 14, the processing device
1412 may be operatively connected to other components (e.g., display, sensor, memory) in the
charging device 402. The processing device 1412 may control or monitor the operations of the
inductive power transfer transmitter 1402, the network/communication interface 1414, and/or the
triggering element 1416.
                                                   25

[00931       A processing device 1418 in the electronic device 404 can be operatively connected
to the inductive power transfer receiver 1404, a network/communication interface 1420, a
detection unit 1422, and an alert unit 1424. Although not shown in FIG. 14, the processing
device 1418 may be operatively connected to other components (e.g., display, sensor, memory)
in the electronic device 404. The processing device 1418 may control or monitor the operations
of the inductive power transfer receiver 1404, the network/communication interface 1420, the
detection unit 1422, and/or the alert unit 1424.
[0094]       The processing devices 1412, 1418 and the network/communication interfaces 1414,
1420, may be similar in form and function to the processing device 1302 and the
network/communication interface 1312 shown in FIG. 13, and as such these components are not
described in more detail herein. The network/communication interfaces 1414, 1420 can be used
to establish a communication link 1426 between the electronic and charging devices.
Additionally, as described earlier, inductive energy transfer can be used for communication
between the electronic and charging devices (see arrow 1410). The communication link 1426 is
an additional communication mechanism that is separate from inductive energy transfer.
[0095]       Like the detection unit 1314 in FIG. 13, the detection unit 1422 can be any suitable
electrical, mechanical, optical, magnetic, electromagnetic, or electromechanical device that is
configured to detect the triggering element 1416 in the charging device 402. Additionally, the
triggering element 1416 may be any suitable electrical, mechanical, optical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, or electromechanical device that is configured to interact with the detection unit
1422. For example, a triggering element 1416 may be a contact pad connected to a circuit, a
magnetic element, a light source, or a pattern formed on or in a plug or charging surface of a
charging device.
[0096]       The detection unit 1422 detects the presence of the charging device 402 when the
charging device 402 is first engaged with, or connected to the electronic device 404. An
example detection unit 1422 includes, but is not limited to, a switch, a magnetic element
operably connected to a Hall Effect sensor, a light sensor, and an image sensor. The processing
device 1418 is adapted to detect the charging device 402 by monitoring, receiving, and/or
analyzing the state, an output signal, or data produced by the detection unit 1422. The
                                                  26

processing device 1418 is further adapted to determine whether the battery 1406 is receiving
power from the external charging device 402.
[0097]       Additionally, in the illustrated embodiment the inductive energy transfer receiver
1404 can function as a detection unit by transferring a ping to the inductive power transfer
transmitter 1402 in the charging device 402 receiving or not receiving a reply ping from the
inductive power transfer transmitter 1402. If the charging device 402 transmits a reply ping, or
alternatively begins transmitting power, the electronic device 404 can detect the presence of the
charging device 402 and the powered state of the charging device 402. However, if the charging
device 402 does not transmit a reply ping, or does not begin transmitting power, the electronic
device 404 can either detect the absence of the charging device 402 or the unpowered state of the
charging device 402.
[0098]       The electronic device 404 may also be operatively connected to an alert device 1326.
The electronic device 504 can communicate with the alert device 1326 using the
network/communication interface 1420. The alert device 1326 can be configured similar to the
alert device 1326 shown in FIG. 13, and as such is not described in more detail herein.
[0099]       It should be noted that FIGS. 13 and 14 are exemplary only. In other examples, the
electronic device, charging device, and/or alert device may include fewer or more components
than those shown in FIGS. 13 and 14. Additionally or alternatively, an electronic device can be
included in a system and one or more components shown in FIG. 13 or in FIG. 14 is separate
from the electronic device but in communication with the electronic device. For example, an
electronic device may be operatively connected to, or in communication with a separate display.
As another example, one or more applications or data can be stored in a memory separate from
the electronic device. In some embodiments, the separate memory can be in a cloud-based
system.
[00100]      In accordance with some embodiments, FIGS. 13 and 14 depict functional block
diagrams of an electronic device 1300, 404, a charging device 1320, 402, and an alert device
1326 configured in accordance with the principles of the various described embodiments.
The functional blocks of the device are, optionally, implemented by hardware, software,
firmware, or a combination thereof to carry out the principles of the various described
                                                 27

embodiments. It is understood by persons of skill in the art that the functional blocks described
in FIGS. 13 and 14 are, optionally, combined or separated into sub-blocks to implement the
principles of the various described embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally
supports any possible combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks
described herein.
[00101]      Additionally, as used herein, the terms "alert unit", "detection unit", "and triggering
element" can be implemented by hardware, software, firmware, or a combination thereof to carry
out the operations of the respective unit or element.
[00102]     Various embodiments have been described in detail with particular reference to
certain features thereof, but it will be understood that variations and modifications can be
effected within the spirit and scope of the disclosure. And even though specific embodiments
have been described herein, it should be noted that the application is not limited to these
embodiments. In particular, any features described with respect to one embodiment may also be
used in other embodiments, where compatible. Likewise, the features of the different
embodiments may be exchanged, where compatible.
                                                  28

CLAIMS
1.      A method for operating an electronic device, comprising:
        determining that the electronic device is moving or a user is interacting with the
electronic device;
        in response to determining that the electronic device is moving or the user is interacting
with the electronic device, entering a non-scanning mode in which the electronic device does not
attempt to detect a wireless charging device;
        detecting, in the non-scanning mode, a surface in contact with the electronic device;
        in response to detecting the surface in contact with the electronic device, determining, by
the electronic device, that the surface is a charging surface of the wireless charging device by
detecting a triggering element of the wireless charging device engaging with a detection unit of
the electronic device;
        in response to determining that the surface is the charging surface of the wireless
charging device, determining, by the electronic device, if the wireless charging device is in an
unpowered state; and
        causing an alert to be produced in response to determining that the wireless charging
device is in the unpowered state.
2.      The method as in claim 1, wherein:
        the alert comprises a first alert; and
        the method further comprises:
                detecting whether the wireless charging device is able to provide a sufficient
amount of power to the electronic device; and
                causing the first alert or a different second alert to be produced when the wireless
charging device is unable to provide the sufficient amount of power to the electronic device.
3.      The method as in claim 2, wherein:
                                                    29

         causing the first alert to be produced comprises providing a first alert signal to a first alert
unit to cause the first alert unit to produce the first alert based on the first alert signal; and
         causing the second alert to be produced comprises providing a second alert signal to a
second alert unit to cause the second alert unit to produce the second alert based on the second
alert signal.
4.       The method as in claim 3, wherein:
         the first alert unit is included in at least one of the electronic device, the wireless charging
device, or a first other electronic device in communication with the electronic device; and
         the second alert unit is included in at least one of the electronic device, the wireless
charging device, the first other electronic device, or a second other electronic device in
communication with the electronic device.
5.       The method as in claim 1, further comprising continuing to produce the alert for a given
period of time.
6.       The method as in claim 1, wherein:
         the alert comprises a first alert; and
         the method further comprises causing a different second alert to be produced after a given
period of time has elapsed since the first alert was produced.
7.       The method as in claim 1, wherein the detection unit comprises at least one of an
electrical element, a mechanical element, an optical element, or a magnetic element.
8.       The method as in claim 7, wherein:
         the optical element comprises one of a light sensor and the triggering element comprises a
light source;
         the optical element comprises an image sensor and the triggering element comprises at
least one of the light source or a pattern;
                                                      30

        the magnetic element comprises a magnet and the triggering element comprises a Hall
Effect sensor; and
        the electrical element comprises a switch and the triggering element comprises a
mechanical actuator.
9.      An electronic device, comprising:
        a processing device;
        an optical detection unit operably connected to the processing device and configured to
detect at least one of a texture, a reflective characteristic, or an absorptive characteristic of a
triggering element of a charging device; and
        an alert unit operably connected to the processing device and configured to generate an
alert based on receipt of an alert signal from the processing device,
        wherein the processing device is adapted to:
        detect an initial engagement with the charging device in response to the optical detection
unit detecting the at least one of the texture, the reflective characteristic, or the absorptive
characteristic of the triggering element;
                 in response to the detected initial engagement with the charging device, determine
the charging device is not supplying power to the electronic device; and
                 cause the alert signal to be transmitted to the alert unit in response to the
determination that the charging device is not supplying power to the electronic device.
10.     The electronic device as in claim 9, wherein the alert signal comprises a first alert signal,
the alert comprises a first alert, and the processing device is further adapted to:
        based on the detected initial engagement with the charging device, detect whether the
charging device is able to provide a sufficient amount of power to the electronic device; and
        cause the first alert signal or a second alert signal to be transmitted to the alert unit when
the charging device is unable to provide the sufficient amount of power to the electronic device,
                                                   31

wherein the alert unit produces the first alert or a second alert based on the received first or
second alert signal.
11.     The electronic device as in claim 9, wherein the alert unit comprises a haptic device and
the alert comprises a haptic output produced by the haptic device.
12.     The electronic device as in claim 9, wherein the alert unit comprises an audio device and
the alert comprises an audio alert produced by the audio device.
13.     The electronic device as in claim 9, wherein the alert unit comprises a display and the
alert comprises an alert message displayed on the display.
14.     The electronic device as in claim 9, wherein the alert unit comprises a light source and
the alert comprises activation of the light source.
15.     The electronic device as in claim 9, wherein the optical detection unit comprises at least
one of an image sensor or a light sensor.
16.     The electronic device as in claim 9, wherein the alert signal comprises a first alert signal
and the processing device is further adapted to cause a different second alert signal to be
transmitted to the alert unit after a given period of time has elapsed since the first alert signal was
transmitted to the alert unit, and wherein the alert unit produces a different second alert based on
the different second alert signal.
17.     A system, comprising:
        an electronic device, comprising:
                a processing device;
                                                   32

                 a magnetic sensor operably connected to the processing device and configured to
detect a magnetic element of a charging device; and
         an alert unit operably connected to the processing device and configured to produce an
alert in response to receipt of an alert signal from the processing device,
         wherein the processing device is adapted to:
                 detect an initial engagement with the charging device as a result of the magnetic
sensor detecting the magnetic element;
                 in response to the detected initial engagement with the charging device, determine
the charging device is not supplying power to the electronic device; and
         cause the alert signal to be transmitted to the alert unit in response to the determination
that the charging device is not supplying power to the electronic device.
18.      The system as in claim 17, wherein the system further includes the charging device.
19.      The system as in claim 18, wherein the alert signal comprises a first alert signal, the alert
comprises a first alert, and the processing device is further adapted to:
         based on the detected initial engagement with the charging device, detect whether the
charging device is able to provide a sufficient amount of power to the electronic device; and
         cause the first alert signal or a second alert signal to be transmitted to the alert unit when
the charging device is unable to provide the sufficient amount of power to the electronic device,
wherein the alert unit produces the first alert or a second alert based on the received first or
second alert signal.
20.      The system as in claim 19, wherein:
         the alert unit comprises a first alert unit;
         and the system further comprises a second alert unit;
                                                      33

        the processing device is further adapted to cause the second alert signal to be transmitted
to the second alert unit based on the determination that the charging device is not supplying
power to the electronic device; and
        the second alert unit is configured to produce the second alert based on receipt of the
second alert signal from the processing device.
                                                  34

<removed-date>
                    1/12
<removed-apn>
                ALERT DEVICE            108
                            110
              ELECTRONIC DEVICE
                                        100
                   ALERT          106
                  CHARGING
                                  102
                   DEVICE
                POWER SUPPLY            104
                   FIG. 1

<removed-date>
              2/12
                     200
<removed-apn>
                       204
                             202
                                   206
                                         208
                                               210
                                 212
              FIG. 2
                           300
                                   204
                                         202
                                                 206
                                                       308
                                                             310
                                           312
              FIG. 3

<removed-date>
                         3/12
                                 400
<removed-apn>
                        404
                                               408
                                 412
                                  414
                                         406
                  410
                        402
                        FIG. 4
                                               400
                        404        A
              A
                                               408
                                       406
                  410   402
                        FIG. 5

<removed-date>
                           4/12
                            600
<removed-apn>
                                   414
                     402
                          FIG. 6
              700
                                   414
                    702
                     402
                          FIG. 7

<removed-date>
                                 5/12
              404
<removed-apn>
                    804                     806
                EMITTER                   DETECTOR
                          800     808
              402               FIG. 8A
              402
                                           414
                900
                          902
                                FIG. 9A

<removed-date>
                                  6/12
              404
<removed-apn>
                    804                      806
                EMITTER                    DETECTOR
                           800     808
              402                FIG. 8B
              402                            414
                     900                   904
                                 FIG. 9B

<removed-date>
                                       7/12
              404
<removed-apn>
                       804       806             804        806
                           800                       808
              402                  FIG. 8C
              402
                                                              414
                    900A     904A             900B         904B
                                   FIG. 9C

<removed-date>
                                  8/12
<removed-apn>
               404
                     1004 1006
              1002
                     1000
              402
                                 FIG. 10

                                                      9/12
<removed-date>
                                          DETECT INITIAL ENGAGEMENT WITH
                                           RELEASABLE CHARGING DEVICE       1100
<removed-apn>
                                   1106
              NO      IS CHARGING          NO      IS CHARGING
                     DEVICE UNDER-                    DEVICE        1102
                       POWERED?                    UNPOWERED?
                            YES                          YES
                                   PROVIDE ONE OR MORE INITIAL ALERTS FOR
                                                                            1104
                                                   USER
                                            NO     CONTINUE TO
                                                     PROVIDE        1108
                                                    ALERT(S) ?
                                                          YES
                     PROVIDE THE
                     ONE OR MORE
              1112                          NO    VARY TYPE OR
                        INITIAL
                                                 PRESENTATION OF    1110
                      ALERTS FOR
                                                    ALERT(S) ?
                         USER
                                                          YES
                                    PROVIDE ONE OR MORE DIFFERENT ALERTS
                                                                            1114
                                                  FOR USER
                                                     FIG. 11

<removed-date>
                                         10/12
                                                   1200
                                         DETECT
                                     SURFACE IN NON-    YES
<removed-apn>
                                        SCANNING
                                          MODE?
                                             NO
                                         DETECT
                            NO        SURFACE IN A
                                                         1202
                                     FIRST SCANNING
                                         MODE?
                                              YES
                                           IS
                           YES         SURFACE A
                                       CHARGING          1204
                                       SURFACE?
                                              NO
                         SWITCH TO SECOND SCANNING MODE         1206
               DISABLE   1212
              SCANNING                  CHARGING
                                NO
              AND NON-                   SURFACE         1208
              SCANNING                 UNPOWERED?
               MODES
                                              YES
                         PROVIDE ONE OR MORE ALERTS TO USER     1210
                                         FIG. 12

                                                      <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                         ALERT UNIT        ALERT       1326
                               1334                        DEVICE
                                         PROCESSING      NETWORK/
                               1332                                    1328
                                           DEVICE          COMM
             1300
                                                  1330
   1302              1306         1310                          1312
PROCESSING
                    DISPLAY   INPUT/OUTPUT      NETWORK/COMM
  DEVICE
                                                                1318                        11/12
                                                                              1320
 MEMORY             POWER     ALERT UNIT         DETECTION UNIT        TRIGGERING
                                                                                     1322
                                                                        ELEMENT
   1304             1308          1316                   1314
                                                                          POWER      1324
                               FIG. 13

<removed-date>
                                                   12/12
                                                       1408
                                                                    500
                                                       1410                       404
                               402
<removed-apn>
                          INDUCTIVE POWER
              POWER                                               INDUCTIVE POWER
                              TRANSFER                                                       BATTERY
              SUPPLY                                             TRANSFER RECEIVER
                            TRANSMITTER
               1400            1402      1416                       1422     1404                1406
                  PROCESSING          TRIGGERING                 DETECTION              PROCESSING
                    DEVICE             ELEMENT                     UNIT                   DEVICE
                                                       1426                                      1418
                 1412
                                      NETWORK/                    NETWORK/
                                       COMM.                       COMM.
                          1414                                                      ALERT UNIT
                                                                                                        1424
                                                                           1420
                                                1328           NETWORK/COMM.
                                                1332          PROCESSING DEVICE
                                                                                          1326
                                                1334             ALERT UNIT
                                                                ALERT DEVICE
                                                   FIG. 14

