                                           10
   METHOD        FOR CLEANING          TANK MELTING        FURNACES        FOR
   MAKING GLASS ITEMS
                                    ABSTRACT
          A method for cleaning tank melting furnaces (10) for making glass
 5 items, provided with a melting chamber (11), which has a melting tank (12),
   to which a regeneration chamber (13) is connected, of the type provided
   with at least one regenerator (15) that comprises a supporting structure (16)
   for layers of refractory bricks (17), which are superimposed in a staggered
   arrangement so as to determine paths for the descent of the cooling exhaust
10 gases (1 8a, 18b) that arrive from the melting chamber (11), the method
   consisting in sandblasting the exhaust gas descent paths (18a, 18b) and
   providing for the insertion of a pipe (22) for the delivery of an abrasive
   material through openings for access from the outside (23, 23a) to the
   regeneration chamber (13) and gradually into the exhaust gas descent paths
15 (18a, 18b).

WO 2014/060322                    PCT/EP20131071333
                        2/3
                  19                    13
             19   1
           20
         Mgr     22
                25   3 23   2  23
                        Fig. 2

                                           1
   METHOD        FOR CLEANING           TANK MELTING          FURNACES       FOR
   MAKING GLASS ITEMS
          The present invention relates to a method for cleaning tank melting
   furnaces for making glass items.
 5        As is known, tank melting furnaces are used in factories for the
   continuous production of glass items.
          This type of furnace is constituted substantially by a melting chamber
   with a tank in which a mixture of components of the glass melts and from
   which the glass flows out in the liquid state through a neck located on the
10 bottom of the tank in order to reach the processing area, and by a
   regeneration chamber, in which the exhaust gases that originate from the
   molten glass tank cool down.
          These plants operate according to regenerative thermal cycles,
   recovering the heat that originates from the melting tank by means of
is regenerators, constituted by layers of stacked refractory bricks, typically
   made of magnesite, which are arranged inside the regeneration chamber and
   are supported by a supporting structure.
          It is preferable to use bricks having an octagonal base, arranged in a
   honeycomb configuration and with staggered layers, so as to define inline
20 vertical paths and articulated paths for the exhaust gases that originate from
   the tank and which, by cooling, descend toward the lower region of the
   regeneration chamber by passing through the layers of bricks.
          However, bricks of the cross-shaped type or solid bricks are also used
   and are in any case arranged in staggered side-by-side layers so as to create
25 paths of the described type.
          The exhaust gases contain sulfates, which during cooling are
   deposited on the walls of the bricks.
          Over time, due to this deposition, such paths are obviously subject to
   becoming clogged, forcing to shut down the furnace and therefore to
30 interrupt the production cycle in order to perform cleaning operations.

                                            2
          To avoid the need to resort to furnace shutdown, currently preference
   is given to a method for cleaning the paths of the regenerator which
   provides for the ignition of methane gas burners at the base of the
   regenerators. The increase in temperature inside the regenerators melts the
 5 sulfates and accordingly makes them fall onto the bottom of the
   regeneration chamber, which is cleaned by an operator assigned to
   maintenance of the plant, working in the lower part of the chamber below
   the supporting structure for the layers of bricks.
          This method is not devoid of drawbacks.
10        The foremost is the fact that the operator must work inside the
   regeneration chamber, in the lower part, exposing himself to extremely high
   temperatures, typically comprised between 450 and 650'C.
          Moreover, this method causes wear of the lowest layers of bricks
   (proximate to which the burners are located), which, brought to operating
is conditions that are at the limit of their thermal and mechanical strength, are
   spoiled and crushed until they cause collapses of the stack and failure of the
   surface on which they rest.
          Another drawback is linked to the fact that during this scrubbing
   process the furnace operates in pressure conditions that are higher than the
20 design operating pressure.
          The aim of the present invention is to devise a method for cleaning
   tank melting furnaces that is capable of solving the observed drawbacks.
          Within this aim, an object of the invention is to prevent the operators
   assigned to maintenance of the plant from being forced to work in high
25 temperature conditions.
          Another object of the invention is to devise a cleaning method that is
   not harmful for the structure of the regeneration chamber.
          A further object of the invention is to clean the regenerator without
   having to modify for this purpose the operating conditions of the furnace.
30        This aim, as well as these and other objects that will become better

                                            3
   apparent hereinafter, are achieved by a method for cleaning tank melting
   furnaces for making glass items, provided with a melting chamber, which
   has a melting tank, to which a regeneration chamber is connected, of the
   type provided with at least one regenerator that comprises a supporting
 5 structure for layers of refractory bricks, which are superimposed in a
   staggered arrangement so as to determine paths for the descent of the
   cooling exhaust gases that arrive from said melting chamber, said method
   consisting in sandblasting said exhaust gas descent paths and providing for
   the insertion of a pipe for the delivery of an abrasive material through
10 openings for access from the outside to the regeneration chamber and
   gradually into said exhaust gas descent paths.
          Further characteristics and advantages of the invention will become
   better apparent from the description of a preferred not exclusive
   embodiment of the method according to the invention, illustrated by way of
15 nonlimiting example in the accompanying drawings, wherein:
          Figure 1 is a schematic view of the tank melting furnace;
          Figure 2 is a schematic view of the regeneration chamber during the
   cleaning of the regenerator from above and from below;
          Figure 3 is a top view of a pair of layers of superimposed bricks;
20        Figure 4 is a sectional view of three layers of bricks, through which
   the exhaust gas descent paths are created.
          With reference to the figures, the method according to the invention is
   studied for tank melting furnaces 10, which are provided with a melting
   chamber 11, provided with a melting tank 12, to which a regeneration
25 chamber 13 is connected by means of a bridge-like connecting neck 14
   between them, as can be seen in Figure 1.
          The regeneration chamber 13 is of the type that has a regenerator 15
   that comprises a supporting structure 16 for layers of refractory bricks 17,
   which are superimposed in a staggered manner so as to produce descent
30 paths 18a and 18b for the cooling exhaust gases that originate from the

                                           4
   melting chamber 11 and reach the regeneration chamber 13 by passing
   through the connecting neck 14.
          The exhaust gas paths 18a and 18b are shown in Figure 4, while the
   bricks often are of the type with an octagonal base of the kind shown in
 5 Figure 3, which shows the way in which they are arranged in staggered
   layers 17.
          In this manner, they determine the descent paths of the exhaust gases,
   which can be of the vertical in-line type 18a or articulated paths 18b, as
   indicated in Figure 4.
10        The above cited Figures 3 and 4 illustrate respectively two and three
   layers of bricks 17; however, the regenerator 15 can comprise many more,
   depending on the design requirements.
          The described example shows bricks having an octagonal base;
   however, they can be of the cross-shaped or solid type, in any case arranged
15 in staggered layers and side by side so as to create paths of the described
   type.
          The cleaning method according to the invention consists in
   sandblasting the exhaust gas descent paths 18a and 18b by using a
   sandblasting machine 19.
20        The sandblasting machine 19 is provided conveniently with a
   reservoir 20, with a compressed air generator 21 and with a delivery pipe 22
   for an abrasive material. In particular, in the described method the delivery
   pipe 22 is supplied with compressed air with quartz dust, to clean the
   descent paths of the exhaust gases 18a and 18b from the substances, such as
25 sulfates, that deposit on their walls.
          The method consists in sandblasting the exhaust gas descent paths
    18a and 18b and provides for the insertion of the delivery pipe 22 through
   openings for access from outside 23, 23a to the regeneration chamber and
   gradually into the exhaust gas descent paths 18a, 18b.
30        The method provides for cleaning starting from below of the

                                             5
   regenerator 15 or, in an equivalent manner, from above.
          In the first case, sandblasting provides for the insertion of the delivery
   pipe 22, passing in succession through the openings for access from the
   outside 23 (arranged in the lower part of the regeneration chamber 13) and
 5 through vertical openings 24 of the supporting structure 16, in order to
   move it from the base of the regenerator 15 into the exhaust gas descent
   paths 18a and 18b.
          In the second case, the same sandblasting operation provides, in an
   equivalent and alternative manner, the insertion of the delivery pipe 22
10 through openings for access from the outside 23a provided proximate to the
   top of the regeneration chamber 13, to move it from the upper region of the
   regenerator 15 into the exhaust gas descent paths 18a, 18b.
          This operation can be performed both from the upper part and from
   the lower part of the regenerator 15, according to the requirements.
is        In particular, as shown in Figure 2, in order to clean the layers of
   bricks 17 starting from the lower part of the regenerator 15, the operator 25
   places himself proximate to the opening for access from the outside 23,
   from which, finding the free space below the supporting structure 16, he is
   able to insert the delivery pipe 22 through the vertical openings 24 into the
20 exhaust gas descent paths 18a.
          Continuing with the operation, the operator 25 causes the delivery
   pipe 22 to pass in each one of the vertical openings 24, inserting it each time
   gradually along an exhaust gas descent path 18a that is vertical and in-line
   and at most for a first extent of the articulated paths 18b.
25        Although the delivery pipe 22 does not follow also the more complex
   shapes of the articulated exhaust gas descent paths 18b and cannot reach in
   terms of length the farthest regions to be cleaned, the use of the sandblasting
   machine 19, which in this case operates by being supplied with compressed
   air with pressure levels that reach the order of 10 bar, allows to clean even
30 spaces that are not in the direct vicinity of the nozzle of the delivery pipe 22.

                                             6
          As regards the cleaning of the regenerator 15 starting from the upper
   region of the layers of bricks 17, the operator 25, again as shown in Figure
   2, inserts the delivery pipe 22 through an opening for access from the
   outside 23a into the regeneration chamber 13, remaining always completely
 5 outside the furnace, from which he can move the delivery pipe 22, inserting
   it in the regenerator 15 each time from a different point of the surface and
   gradually deeper along an exhaust gas descent path 18a. In a manner similar
   to what has been described for the insertion of the delivery pipe 22 from
   below, the use of the sandblasting machine 19 allows to clean also the
10 regions that are not in the direct vicinity of the nozzle of the pipe.
          Advantageously, the delivery pipe 22 can be contained in another
   pipe that is cooled with air or water to work at the high temperatures of the
   regeneration chamber 13. Moreover, the delivery pipe 22 can be calibrated
   and inclined appropriately according to the requirements and can be
is accompanied by one or more video cameras, which are also cooled with air
   or water.
           The video cameras are provided with a monitor for real-time
   monitoring of the cleaning process and for the optional recording and
   capture of photographs of the work being performed.
20        It should be noted that the proposed method allows to clean the
   regenerator 15 without interrupting or reducing the production activity of
   the furnace.
          In fact, by way of the method according to the invention, during
   cleaning the melting furnace 10 can operate according to the operating
25 parameters set by factory personnel.
          Moreover, the bricks that constitute the layers of the regenerator 15
   are not subjected to any thermal shock, thus excluding the danger of
   breaking and crushing and, in the worst cases, of collapses of the stack and
   of the supporting structure 16 on which they rest.
30        It should also be noted that the operator 25 assigned to the

                                            7
   maintenance of the tank melting furnace 10 remains outside the regeneration
   chambers 13, avoiding exposure to high temperatures.
          In practice it has been found that the invention achieves the intended
   aim and objects, proposing a method for cleaning melting furnaces,
 5 particularly regenerators of the regeneration chamber, that are capable of
   solving the observed drawbacks, preventing the operators from working in
   high temperature conditions, without causing damage to the structure and
   without having to interrupt or slow the production cycle of the plant.
          Another advantage arises from the fact that the sandblasting operation
io uses abrasive material that contains components that are compatible with
   molten glass; in this way, if some of them rise into the melting chamber,
   they dissolve and mix with the molten glass, without causing the presence of
   inclusions or air bubbles in the finished product.
          A further advantage resides in that the sandblasting operation as
is described, by allowing the operator to clean the regenerator while working
   fully from the outside of the regeneration chamber, renders this work
   exempt from the application of regulations related to confined spaces.
          The    invention    thus   conceived    is  susceptible  of numerous
   modifications and variations, all of which are within the scope of the
20 appended claims; all the details may further be replaced with other
   technically equivalent elements.
          In practice, the materials used, so long as they are compatible with the
   specific use, as well as the contingent shapes and dimensions, may be any
   according to requirements and to the state of the art.
25        The disclosures in Italian Patent Application No. PD2012A000300
   from which this application claims priority are incorporated herein by
   reference.
          Where technical features mentioned in any claim are followed by
   reference signs, those reference signs have been included for the sole
30 purpose of increasing the intelligibility of the claims and accordingly such

                                      8
reference signs do not have any limiting effect on the interpretation of each
element identified by way of example by such reference signs.

                                           9
                                      CLAIMS
          1. A method for cleaning tank melting furnaces (10) for making glass
   items, provided with a melting chamber (11), which has a melting tank (12),
   to which a regeneration chamber (13) is connected, of the type provided
 5 with at least one regenerator (15) that comprises a supporting structure (16)
   for layers of refractory bricks (17), which are superimposed in a staggered
   arrangement so as to determine paths for the descent of the cooling exhaust
   gases (18a, 18b) that arrive from said melting chamber (11), said method
   consisting in sandblasting said exhaust gas descent paths (18a, 18b) and
10 providing for the insertion of a pipe (22) for the delivery of an abrasive
   material through openings for access from the outside (23, 23a) to the
   regeneration chamber (13) and gradually into said exhaust gas descent paths
   (18a, 18b).
          2. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that said
15 sandblasting operation provides for the insertion of said delivery pipe (22)
   by passing in succession through said openings for access from outside (23)
   and through vertical openings (24) of said supporting structure (16), in order
   to move it from the base of said regenerator (15) into said exhaust gas
   descent paths (18a, 18b).
20        3. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that said
   sandblasting operation provides, in an equivalent and alternative matter, for
   the insertion of said delivery pipe (22) through openings for access from
   outside (23a) provided proximate to the top of said regeneration chamber
   (13), in order to move it from the top of said regenerator (15) into said
25 exhaust gas descent paths (18a, 18b).
          4. The method according to one or more of the preceding claims,
   characterized in that said delivery pipe (22) is supplied with compressed air
   with quartz dust.
          5. Use of a sandblasting machine (19) in a method for cleaning tank
30 melting furnaces (10) according to one or more of the preceding claims.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
