ABSTRACT
Systems and methods for imaging tissue are disclosed. In one embodiment, a system for
imaging tissue comprises: an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end; an
ablation device along a portion of the elongated body for ablating a tissue; a light source
providing light for illuminating the tissue having at least one wavelength sufficient to excite
mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen (NADH) in the tissue; a sensor
for detecting NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue, the sensor being configured to
receive light having at least one wavelength to detect the NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated tissue; and one or more optical fibers to deliver the light from the light source to
the tissue and to deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor, wherein the detected NADH
fluorescence from the illuminated tissue is used to distinguish between ablated tissue and
non-ablated tissue.
                                               76

                      20/23
             1601
       1701
  1802
   1803
1804   .....
    1805
   1700
                  Figure 18

      SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR VISUALIZING ABLATED TISSUE
                              RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is divided from accepted Australian patent application No.
<removed-apn>, which was itself divided from accepted (now granted) Australian patent
application No. 2012312066, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety. This application, and indeed AU <removed-apn> and AU 2012312066, claims
the benefit of and priority to U.S. Application No. 13/624,902, filed on September 22,
2012, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application No. 13/624,899, filed on
September 22, 2012, and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application
Serial No. 61/537,798, filed on September 22, 2011, and the entirety of these applications
are also hereby incorporated herein by reference.
                    STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
[0002] This invention was made with Government support under Grant/Contract No. RO 1
HL095828 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain
rights in this invention.
                                          FIELD
[0003] The embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods and systems for ablation and
visualization of tissue.
                                     BACKGROUND
[0004] Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is expressly
incorporated herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it should be read and
considered by the reader as part of this text.        That the document, reference, patent
application or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this text is merely for reasons of
                                              1

conciseness.
[0005] The following discussion of the background to the invention is intended to
facilitate an understanding of the present invention only. It should be appreciated that the
discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to
was published, known or part of the common general knowledge of the person skilled in
the art in any jurisdiction as at the priority date of the invention.
[0006] Exemplary embodiments are directed to techniques used during the treatment of
Atrial Fibrillation (AF).    Atrial fibrillation is the most common sustained arrhythmia,
which currently affects two million Americans.            Atrial fibrillation is associated with
increased mortality, morbidity and an impaired quality of life, and is an independent risk
factor for stroke. The substantial lifetime risk of developing atrial fibrillation underscores
the public health burden of the disease, which in the United States alone amounts to an
annual treatment cost exceeding $7 billion.
[0007] Eighty-five percent of episodes in patients with atrial fibrillation are reportedly
triggered by focal electrical activity originating from within muscle sleeves that extend
into the Pulmonary Veins (PV). Atrial fibrillation may also be triggered by focal activity
within the superior vena cava or other atrial structures.        These focal triggers can cause
atrial tachycardia that is driven by reentrant electrical activity and rotors, which may then
fragment into a multitude of electrical wavelets that are characteristic of atrial fibrillation.
Prolonged atrial fibrillation can cause functional alterations in membrane ion channels as
well as alterations in ion channel expression.         These changes further perpetuate atrial
fibrillation.
[0008] Radiofrequency (RF) ablation is an effective therapy for treating atrial and
ventricular rhythm disturbances. Nearly 100,000 RF ablation procedures are performed
                                                2

annually in the United States to treat cardiac arrhythmias. RF ablation targets the key
elements of reentrant pathways and/or abnormal ectopic loci without damaging significant
amounts of adjacent healthy myocardium and coronary vessels. Ablations are also done
with cryo-ablation and laser guided ablation systems.
[0009] To perform an RF ablation procedure, a catheter is threaded into the heart and the
tip is guided into the atria. A transseptal puncture is made to allow cross-over from the
right atrium into the left atrium where the crux of the ablation is performed. The catheter
then emits a pulse of high-energy RF electricity that damages atrial tissues and forms scar
tissue that blocks abnormal signals.     The most common RF ablation treatment of atrial
fibrillation consists of placing ablation lesions in a circular fashion around the ostium of
each pulmonary vein. The lesions electrically isolate the pulmonary veins to block focal
triggers from entering the left atrium. RF lesions can also be placed epicardially during
minimally invasive or open heart surgery.
[0010] The extent of RF ablation lesions is not simply a function of delivered RF energy,
but depends on many factors, including the contact between the catheter tip and the tissue,
the thickness of the myocardium, the degree of blood flow, and the presence of fat.
Currently we use surrogates to determine anatomy known as 3D mapping systems
(CARTO and NAVEX), surrogates can be off by 1 or 2 cm. Current electro-anatomical
mapping systems map mainly the physical location of the catheter tip but not the extent of
cell injury caused by the ablations. Therefore, as of today, RF ablation lesions are created
with no information regarding the physiological condition of the affected tissue. This is
problematic considering that gaps of excitable tissue between ablation lesions are directly
related to arrhythmia recurrences. Monitoring tissue injury produced by ablation in real
time remains a major limitation of current ablation approaches.
                                              3

[0011] To resolve the problem of incomplete lesions, two main strategies have been
proposed. The first is to improve ablation devices, which includes the development of
multi-polar and linear catheters, balloon-based technologies using lasers and high-intensity
focused ultrasound, as well as pressure-sensor equipped RF catheters.
[0012] The second strategy is to visualize RF ablation lesions during the ablation
procedure. Such visualization can be based upon acute changes in the chemical and/or
physical properties of the damaged tissue. Specifically, the current visualization proposals
require the use of a dye and include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), coherence
tomography (CT) and spectroscopy.
[0013] All these strategies use surrogates to predict the areas of the gaps and none has a
real time direct visualization technique as we have designed.        Despite all the current
technology, pulmonary vein reconnections occur in 94% of patients after the first
procedure. Atrial fibrillation recurrences after ablation procedures are 80-90% of the time
due to pulmonary vein reconnection at the sites of gaps.
                                       SUMMARY
[0014] Systems and methods for visualizing ablated tissue are disclosed herein.
[0015] According to a first principal aspect, there is provided a system for imaging tissue
comprising:
     an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
     an ablation device along a portion of the elongated body for ablating a tissue;
                                             4

        a light source providing light for illuminating the tissue having at least one
wavelength sufficient to excite mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen
(NADH) in the tissue;
        a sensor for detecting NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue, the sensor
being configured to receive light having at least one wavelength to detect the NADH
fluorescence from the illuminated tissue; and
        one or more optical fibers to deliver the light from the light source to the tissue and to
deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor,
        wherein the detected NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue is used to
distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
   [0016] Optionally, a processor associated with the sensor is configured to generate a
   digital representation of the NADH fluorescence to distinguish between ablated tissue and
   non-ablated tissue.
   [0017] Optionally, the light for illuminating the tissue has at least one wavelength between
   about 300 nm and 400 nm.
   [0018] Optionally, the sensor is configured to receive light having at least one wavelength
   between about 435 nm and about 485 nm.
   [0019] Optionally, the ablation device has an energy source selected from the group
   consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic
   energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy,
   and thermal energy.
   [0020] Optionally, the system further comprises an irrigation port configured to deliver a
                                                 5

fluid to the distal end of the elongate body.
[0021] According to a second principal aspect, there is provided a system for imaging
tissue comprising:
             an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
             an ablation device along a portion of the elongated body for ablating a tissue;
             a light source providing light for illuminating the tissue to excite
mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen (NADH) in the tissue, wherein
the light from the light source has at least one wavelength between about 300 nm and
about 400 nm sufficient for NADH excitation;
          a sensor being configured to receive light to detect NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated tissue, wherein the light detected by the sensor has at least one wavelength
between about 435 nm and about 485 nm; and
          a processor associated with the sensor and configured to generate a digital
representation of the NADH fluorescence to distinguish between ablated tissue and non
ablated tissue.
[0022] Optionally, the system further comprises an inflatable balloon disposed about the
distal end of the elongate body.
[0023] Optionally, the ablation device associated with the balloon for ablating a tissue
[0024] Optionally, the light source and the sensor are positioned inside the balloon.
[0025] Optionally, the ablation device has an energy source selected from the group
consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic
                                              6

energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy,
and thermal energy.
[0026] Optionally, the light source is a UV light emitting diode (LED).
[0027] Optionally, the sensor is configured to convert an optical image into an electronic
signal.
[0028] Optionally, the system further comprises one or more optical fibers to deliver the
light from the light source to the tissue and to deliver the NADH fluorescence to the
sensor.
[0029] Optionally, the system further comprises a first light source and a second light
source capable of generating light of a different wavelength than the first light source.
[0030] Optionally, the system further comprises an irrigation port configured to deliver a
fluid to the distal end of the elongate body.
[0031] According to a third principal aspect, there is provided a system for imaging tissue
comprising:
             an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
             an inflatable balloon disposed along the elongated body;
             an ablation device associated with the balloon for ablating a tissue;
             a light source providing light for illuminating the tissue having at least one
wavelength sufficient to excite mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen
(NADH) in the tissue;
                                              7

          a sensor for detecting NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue, the sensor
being configured to receive light having at least one wavelength to detect the NADH
fluorescence from the illuminated tissue; and
          one or more optical fibers to deliver the light from the light source to the tissue
and to deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor,
          wherein the detected NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue is used to
distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
[0032] Optionally, a processor associated with the sensor is configured to generate a
digital representation of the NADH fluorescence to distinguish between ablated tissue and
non-ablated tissue.
[0033] Optionally, the light for illuminating the tissue has at least one wavelength between
about 300 nm and 400 nm.
[0034] Optionally, the sensor is configured to receive light having at least one wavelength
between about 435 nm and about 485 nm.
[0035] Optionally, the ablation device has an energy source selected from the group
consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic
energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy,
and thermal energy.
[0036] Optionally, the system further comprises an irrigation port configured to deliver a
fluid to the distal end of the elongate body.
[0037] According to a fourth principal aspect, there is provided a method for imaging
tissue comprising:
                                              8

      advancing to a tissue an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
      ablating the tissue with an ablation device disposed at the distal end of the elongated
body;
      illuminating with light having at least one wavelength between about 300 nm and
about 400 nm from a light source an area of tissue including tissue treated by ablation and
surrounding tissue to excite NADH in the area of tissue;
      detecting with a sensor the area of tissue to detect light having at least one wavelength
between about 435 nm and about 485 nm to detect NADH fluorescence of the area of
tissue; and
      producing and displaying a representation of the NADH fluorescence, the display
illustrating ablated tissue as having less fluorescence than non-ablated tissue.
[0038] Optionally, the elongated body comprises an inflatable balloon disposed about the
distal end of the elongated body.
[0039] Optionally, the light source and the sensor are positioned inside the balloon.
[0040] Optionally, one or more optical fibers are employed to deliver the light from the
light source to the tissue and to deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor.
[0041] Optionally, the tissue is a heart muscle tissue.
[0042] Optionally, the method further comprises ablating additional injured tissue
identified by distinguishing between the ablated tissue and the injured non-ablated tissue
based on the amount of fluorescence.
[0043] Optionally, the method further comprises irrigating an area around the tissue using
                                               9

    an irrigation port configured to deliver a fluid to the distal end of the elongate body.
    [0044] Optionally, the ablating is performed with radiofrequency energy, microwave
    energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound
    energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy, and thermal energy.
    [0045] According to a broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging tissue
    comprising:
         a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end;
         an ablation element disposed at the distal end of the catheter for ablating the tissue;
         an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter, the balloon being
shaped for placement against a tissue;
         a light source positioned inside the balloon for illuminating the tissue outside the
balloon, the light source emitting light having a wavelength sufficient to excite NADH
fluorescence in the tissue;
         a camera positioned inside the balloon for imaging the illuminated tissue and
detecting the NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue; and
         a processor associated with the camera and configured to generate a digital
representation of the illuminated tissue based on the NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated tissue to distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue due to a
difference in the NADH fluorescence in ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
    [0046] Optionally, the light source is a UV light emitting diode (LED).
    [0047] Optionally, the camera includes image sensors that convert an optical image into
    an electronic signal.
    [0048] Optionally, the light source and the camera are supported by an optical housing
                                                  10

extending from the catheter into the balloon.
[0049] Optionally, a gap formed between an outside surface of the optical housing and an
inner wall of the balloon, the gap providing a fluid path between an inflation lumen of the
catheter and the balloon for inflating and deflating the balloon.
[0050] Optionally, the optical housing is rotatable in relation to the balloon.
[0051] Optionally, the system further comprises a support tube extending beyond the
distal tip of the catheter to provide a structural support for the balloon.
[0052] Optionally, the system further comprises a tip around a distal end of the support
tube, the tip being configured to act as the ablation element.
[0053] Optionally, the support tube includes an inner lumen in communication with an
inner lumen of the catheter for passing an ablation member distally of the balloon.
[0054] Optionally, the system further comprises a first light source and a second light
source capable of generating light of a different wavelength than the first light source.
[0055] Optionally, the system further comprises a display system connected to the camera
for generating an image of the illuminated tissue based on a NADH fluorescence detected
by the camera.
[0056] Optionally, the camera and the display system are in a wireless communication.
[0057] Optionally, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm.
[0058] According to another broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging
endocardial tissue comprising:
                                               11

         a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end, the catheter being sized for an
endovascular approach to an endocardial tissue;
         a support tube extending beyond the distal end of the catheter and having a tip around
a distal end of the support tube;
         an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter, the balloon being
made of a compliant ultraviolet (UV) light transparent material and shaped for placement
adjacent the endocardial tissue;
         an ablation device disposed at the distal end of the catheter for ablating the tissue;
         a UV light source inside the balloon, the UV light source producing light for
illuminating the endocardial tissue outside the balloon and having a wavelength sufficient to
excite NADH in the endocardial tissue;
         a camera inside the balloon, the camera being configured to detect NADH
fluorescence from the endocardial tissue illuminated by light from the UV light source to
image the endocardial tissue illuminated by the UV light source; and
a processor associated with the camera and configured to generate a digital representation of
the illuminated tissue based on the NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue to
distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue due to a difference in the NADH
fluorescence in ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
    [0059] Optionally, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm.
    [0060] Optionally, the UV light source and the camera are supported by an optical housing
    extending from the catheter into the balloon.
    [0061] Optionally, the optical housing is rotatable in relation to the balloon to rotate the
    camera and the light source in relation to the balloon.
    [0062] Optionally, the system comprises a second light source for providing white light.
                                                 12

    [0063] According to a further broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging tissue
    comprising:
         a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end;
         an irrigation port to displace blood with a fluid about the distal end of the catheter;
         a light source for illuminating the cardiac tissue, the light source emitting light having
a wavelength sufficient to excite NADH in the cardiac tissue;
         a visualization device including a plurality of image sensors that convert an optical
image into an electronic signal for imaging the illuminated tissue;
         an ablation device disposed at the distal end of the catheter for ablating the tissue; and
         a processor associated with the visualization device and configured to generate a
digital representation of the illuminated tissue based on the NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated tissue to distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue due to a
difference in the NADH fluorescence in ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
    [0064] Optionally, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm.
    [0065] Optionally, the UV light source and the camera are supported by an optical housing
    extending from the catheter into the balloon.
    [0066] According to a broad aspect, there is provided a method for imaging tissue
    comprising:
         advancing a catheter over a guidewire through an endovascular system to a cardiac
tissue, the catheter comprising a UV light source for providing light having a wavelength
sufficient to excite NADH in the cardiac tissue and an imaging device for detecting NADH
fluorescence
         ablating the cardiac tissue with an ablation member disposed at the distal end of the
catheter;
                                                 13

        exciting NADH in an area of the cardiac tissue including the cardiac tissue treated by
ablation by illuminating the cardiac tissue with a light from the UV light source;
        imaging with the imaging device the area of the cardiac tissue to detect NADH
fluorescence of the area of tissue; and
        distinguishing between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue due to a difference in the
NADH fluorescence in ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue using a digital representation of
the illuminated tissue based on the NADH fluorescence from the imaged tissue.
   [0067] Optionally, the cardiac tissue is a heart muscle tissue.
   [0068] Optionally, the method further comprises distinguishing between ablated cardiac
   tissue having a dark appearance and non-ablated cardiac tissue having a lighter
   appearance.
   [0069] Optionally, the method further comprises ablating additional non-ablated cardiac
   tissue identified by distinguishing between the ablated cardiac tissue and the non-ablated
   cardiac tissue based on the amount of fluorescence.
   [0070] Optionally, the method further comprises distinguishing between ablated cardiac
   tissue, edematous cardiac tissue, and non-ablated cardiac tissue.
   [0071] Optionally, the method further comprises performing a registration and overlay of
   the produced images onto an anatomy of a patient as seen using imaging modalities such
   as an MRI image, computed tomography (CT) image, ultrasound image and three
   dimensional reconstructions thereof.
   [0072] Optionally, the method further comprises registering and overlaying the produced
   images onto an anatomy of a patient as seen using electroanatomical mapping, anatomical
   reconstruction, and navigational systems.
                                                14

    [0073] Optionally, the system further comprises a filter having a center wavelength of 460
    nm with a 50 nm bandwidth coupled with the camera.
    [0074] Optionally, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera
    having a quantum efficiency of at least about 50% to about 70% at about 460 nm.
    [0075] Optionally, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera
    having a quantum efficiency of about 90% at about 460 nm.
    [0076] Optionally, the system further comprises a filter having a center wavelength of
    460 nm with a 50 nm bandwidth coupled with the camera.
    [0077] Optionally, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera
    having a quantum efficiency of at least about 50% to about 70% at about 460 nm.
    [0078] Optionally, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera
    having a quantum efficiency of about 90% at about 460 nm.
    [0079] According to another broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging tissue
    comprising:
        a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end, the catheter having an ablation
device disposed at the distal end for ablating tissue;
        a light source located outside the catheter, the light source providing light having a
wavelength sufficient to sufficient to excite NADH in the tissue;
        a sensor located outside the catheter for detecting NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated tissue;
        one or more optical fibers to deliver the light from the light source to the tissue and to
deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor; and
                                                 15

         a processor associated with the sensor and configured to generate a digital
representation of the illuminated tissue based on the NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated tissue to distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue due to a
difference in the NADH fluorescence in ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
    [0080] Optionally, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm.
    [0081] Optionally, the system further comprises a filter having a center wavelength of 460
    nm with a 50 nm bandwidth coupled with the camera.
    [0082] Optionally, the CCD camera has a quantum efficiency of at least about 50% to
    70% at about 460nm.
    [0083] Optionally, the CCD camera has a quantum efficiency of about 90% at about
    460nm.
    [0084] According to a further broad aspect, there is provided a method for imaging tissue
    comprising:
         advancing a catheter over a guidewire through an endovascular system to a cardiac
tissue, the catheter comprising a light source providing light having a wavelength sufficient to
excite NADH in the cardiac tissue and an imaging device for detecting NADH fluorescence,
and one or more light transmitting fibers having a distal end inside the inflatable balloon and
being connected to the light source and the imaging device;
         ablating the cardiac tissue with an ablation member disposed at the distal end of the
catheter;
         exciting NADH in an area of the cardiac tissue including the cardiac tissue treated by
ablation by illuminating the cardiac tissue with a light from the UV light source;
                                                 16

         imaging with the imaging device the area of the cardiac tissue to detect NADH
fluorescence of the area of tissue; and
distinguishing between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue due to a difference in the NADH
fluorescence in ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue using a digital representation of the
illuminated tissue based on the NADH fluorescence from the imaged tissue.
    [0085] Optionally, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm.
    [0086] According to a broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging tissue
    comprising:
         a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end;
         an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter, the balloon being
shaped for placement against a tissue;
         a light source positioned inside the balloon for illuminating the tissue outside the
balloon, the light source emitting light having a wavelength sufficient to excite NADH
fluorescence in the tissue; and
         a camera positioned inside the balloon for imaging the illuminated tissue.
    [0087] In one embodiment, the light source is a UV light emitting diode (LED).
    [0088] In another embodiment, the camera includes image sensors that convert an optical
    image into an electronic signal.
    [0089] In a further embodiment, the light source and the camera are supported by an
    optical housing extending from the catheter into the balloon.
    [0090] In one embodiment, the system further comprises a gap formed between an
    outside surface of the optical housing and an inner wall of the balloon, the gap providing a
    fluid path between an inflation lumen of the catheter and the balloon for inflating and
                                                 17

deflating the balloon.
[0091] In another embodiment, the optical housing is rotatable in relation to the balloon.
[0092] In a further embodiment, the system further comprises a support tube extending
beyond the distal tip of the catheter to provide a structural support for the balloon.
[0093] In one embodiment, the system further comprises a tip around a distal end of the
support tube, the tip being configured to act as an ablation element.
[0094] In another embodiment, the support tube includes an inner lumen in
communication with an inner lumen of the catheter for passing an ablation member
distally of the balloon.
[0095] In a further embodiment, the system further comprises a first light source and a
second light source capable of generating light of a different wavelength than the first light
source.
[0096] In one embodiment, the system further comprises a display system connected to
the camera for generating an image of the illuminated tissue based on a NADH
fluorescence detected by the camera.
[0097] In another embodiment, the camera and the display system are in a wireless
communication.
[0098]   In a further embodiment, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and
about 400 nm.
[0099] In one embodiment, the system further comprises a filter having a center
wavelength of 460 nm with a 50 nm bandwidth coupled with the camera.
                                              18

[00100]      In another embodiment, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device
(CCD) camera having a quantum efficiency of at least about 50% to about 70% at about
460 nm.
[00101]      In a further embodiment, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device
(CCD) camera having a quantum efficiency of about 90% at about 460 nm.
[00102]       According to another broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging
endocardial tissue comprising:
    a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end, the catheter being sized for an
    endovascular approach to an endocardial tissue;
    a support tube extending beyond the distal end of the catheter and having a tip around
    a distal end of the support tube;
    an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter, the balloon being
    made of a compliant ultraviolet (UV) light transparent material and shaped for
    placement adjacent the endocardial tissue;
    a UV light source inside the balloon, the UV light source producing light for
    illuminating the endocardial tissue outside the balloon and having a wavelength
    sufficient to excite NADH in the endocardial tissue; and
    a camera inside the balloon, the camera being configured to detect NADH
    fluorescence from the endocardial tissue illuminated by light from the UV light source
    to image the endocardial tissue illuminated by the UV light source.
[00103]       In one embodiment, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and
about 400 nm.
                                           19

[00104]       In another embodiment, the UV light source and the camera are supported by
an optical housing extending from the catheter into the balloon.
[00105]       In a further embodiment, the optical housing is rotatable in relation to the
balloon to rotate the camera and the light source in relation to the balloon.
[00106]       In one embodiment, the system further comprises a second light source for
providing white light.
[00107]       According to a further broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging
tissue comprising:
     a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end;
     an irrigation port to displace blood with a fluid about the distal end of the catheter;
     a light emitting diode (LED) light source for illuminating the cardiac tissue, the LED
     light source emitting light having a wavelength sufficient to excite NADH in the
     cardiac tissue;
     a visualization device including a plurality of image sensors that convert an optical
     image into an electronic signal for imaging the illuminated tissue; and
     an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter, the balloon being
     made of a compliant ultraviolet (UV) light transparent material and shaped for
     placement against the cardiac tissue, wherein the light source and the visualization
     device are positioned inside the balloon beyond the distal tip of the catheter.
[00108]       In one embodiment, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and
about 400 nm.
                                             20

    [00109]       In another embodiment, the UV light source and the camera are supported by
    an optical housing extending from the catheter into the balloon.
    [00110]      In one embodiment, the system further comprises a filter having a center
    wavelength of 460 nm with a 50 nm bandwidth coupled with the camera.
    [00111]      In another embodiment, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device
    (CCD) camera having a quantum efficiency of at least about 50% to about 70% at about
    460 nm.
    [00112]       In a further embodiment, the camera is coupled to a charge-coupled device
    (CCD) camera having a quantum efficiency of about 90% at about 460 nm.
    [00113]      According to a broad aspect, there is provided a method for imaging tissue
    comprising:
         advancing a catheter over a guidewire through an endovascular system to a cardiac
tissue, the catheter comprising an inflatable balloon disposed about a distal end of the
catheter, the balloon being shaped for placement adjacent the cardiac tissue; and an optical
housing extending from the distal end of the catheter into the balloon to position a UV light
source and a camera inside the balloon;
         ablating the cardiac tissue with an ablation member disposed at the distal end of the
catheter;
         exciting NADH in an area of the cardiac tissue including the cardiac tissue treated by
ablation by illuminating the cardiac tissue with a light from the UV light source;
         imaging with the imaging device the area of the cardiac tissue to detect NADH
fluorescence of the area of tissue; and
                                                 21

        producing a display of the imaged, illuminated cardiac tissue, the display illustrating
ablated cardiac tissue as having less fluorescence than non-ablated cardiac tissue.
   [00114]       In one embodiment, the cardiac tissue is a heart muscle tissue.
   [00115]       In another embodiment, the method further comprises distinguishing between
   ablated cardiac tissue having a dark appearance and non-ablated cardiac tissue having a
   lighter appearance.
   [00116]       In a further embodiment, the method further comprises ablating additional
   non-ablated cardiac tissue identified by distinguishing between the ablated cardiac tissue
   and the non-ablated cardiac tissue based on the amount of fluorescence.
   [00117]       In one embodiment, the method further comprises distinguishing between
   ablated cardiac tissue, edematous cardiac tissue, and non-ablated cardiac tissue.
   [00118]      In another     embodiment, the method        further comprises   performing     a
   registration and overlay of the produced images onto an anatomy of a patient as seen using
   imaging modalities such as an MRI image, computed tomography (CT) image, ultrasound
   image and three dimensional reconstructions thereof.
   [00119]              In a further embodiment, the method further comprises registering and
   overlaying    the produced images        onto an anatomy      of a patient as     seen using
   electroanatomical mapping, anatomical reconstruction, and navigational systems.
   [00120]      According to another broad aspect, there is provided a system for imaging
   tissue comprising:
                a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end;
                                                22

                 an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter;
                 a light source located outside the catheter, the light source providing light
                 having a wavelength sufficient to sufficient to excite NADH in the tissue;
                 one or more light transmitting fibers having a distal end inside the inflatable
                 balloon and being connected to the light source;
                 a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera located outside the catheter; and
                 one or more imaging fibers having a distal end inside the inflatable balloon
                 and being connected to the CCD camera.
    [00121]       In one embodiment, the light has a wavelength between about 300 nm and
    about 400 nm.
    [00122]       In another embodiment, the system further comprises a filter having a center
    wavelength of 460 nm with a 50 nm bandwidth coupled with the camera.
    [00123]       In a further embodiment, the CCD camera has a quantum efficiency of at least
    about 50% to 70% at about 460nm.
    [00124]       In one embodiment, the CCD camera has a quantum efficiency of about 90%
    at about 460nm.
    [00125]       According to a further broad aspect, there is provided a method for imaging
    tissue comprising:
         advancing a catheter over a guidewire through an endovascular system to a cardiac
tissue, the catheter comprising an inflatable balloon disposed about a distal end of the
catheter, the light source providing light having a wavelength sufficient to sufficient to excite
                                                23

NADH in the tissue, and one or more light transmitting fibers having a distal end inside the
inflatable balloon and being connected to the light source and the imaging device;
         ablating the cardiac tissue with an ablation member disposed at the distal end of the
catheter;
         exciting NADH in an area of the cardiac tissue including the cardiac tissue treated by
ablation by illuminating the cardiac tissue with a light from the UV light source;
         imaging with the imaging device the area of the cardiac tissue to detect NADH
fluorescence of the area of tissue; and
producing a display of the imaged, illuminated cardiac tissue, the display illustrating ablated
     cardiac tissue as having less fluorescence than non-ablated cardiac tissue.
    [00126]      In one embodiment, the light has a wavelength between about 300nm and
   about 400 nm.
    [00127]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
   imaging tissue that includes a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end; an
   inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter; and an optical housing
   extending from the distal end of the catheter into the balloon, the optical housing being
   configured to position inside the balloon a light source for illuminating a tissue outside the
   balloon and a camera for imaging the illuminated tissue.
    [00128]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
   imaging tissue that includes a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end; an
   inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter; and an optical housing
   extending from the distal end of the catheter into the balloon; a light source inside the
   balloon, the light source being supported by the optical housing and configured to excite
   excite native reduced form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide or nicotinamide adenine
                                                 24

dinucleotide hydrogen (NADH) in a tissue; and a camera inside the balloon, the camera
being supported by the optical housing and configured to image the tissue illuminated by
the light source.
[00129]       According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
imaging tissue that includes a catheter having a distal end and a proximal end; an irrigation
port to displace blood with a fluid about the distal end of the catheter; and an optical
housing extending from the distal end of the catheter, the optical housing being configured
to support a light emitting diode light source for illuminating tissue and a visualization
device including a plurality of image sensors that convert an optical image into an
electronic signal for imaging the illuminated tissue.
[00130]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
imaging tissue that includes a sheath for infusing a fluid capable of displacing blood and
transmitting light; a catheter disposed within the sheath, the catheter having a distal end
and a proximal end; an optical housing extending from the distal end of the catheter, the
optical housing being configured to support a light emitting diode light source for
illuminating tissue and a visualization device including a plurality of image sensors that
converts an optical image into an electronic signal for imaging the illuminated tissue.
[00131]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a method for
imaging tissue that includes advancing to a tissue a catheter comprising an inflatable
balloon disposed about the distal end of the catheter and an optical housing extending from
the distal end of the catheter into the balloon to position a light source and a camera inside
the balloon; ablating the tissue; illuminating with the light source an area of tissue
including tissue treated by ablation and surrounding tissue to excite NADH in the area of
tissue; imaging with an imaging device the area of tissue to detect NADH fluorescence of
                                              25

the area of tissue; and producing a display of the imaged, illuminated tissue, the display
illustrating ablated tissue as having less fluorescence than non-ablated tissue.
[00132]       According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
imaging endocardial tissue comprising: an endovascular catheter having a distal end and a
proximal end, the endovascular catheter being sized for an endovascular approach to an
endocardial tissue; an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the endovascular
catheter, the balloon being made of a compliant ultraviolet (UV) light transparent material
and shaped for placement against the endocardial tissue; a guidewire for guiding the
endovascular catheter to the endocardial tissue; an ablation member disposed outside the
balloon for ablation of a portion of the endocardial tissue; and an optical housing
extending from the endovascular catheter into the balloon, the optical housing comprising
a UV light source emitting light having a wavelength between about 300 nm and about
400 nm for illuminating the endocardial tissue outside the balloon to excite NADH
fluorescence in the endocardial tissue and a camera for imaging the illuminated tissue
where the UV light source and the camera are positioned inside the balloon beyond the
distal tip of the endovascular catheter.
[00133]       According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
imaging endocardial tissue comprising: an endovascular catheter having a distal end and a
proximal end, the endovascular catheter being sized for an endovascular approach to an
endocardial tissue; a support tube extending beyond the distal end of the endovascular
catheter and having a tip around a distal end of the support tube; an inflatable balloon
disposed about the distal end of the endovascular catheter, the balloon being made of a
compliant ultraviolet (UV) light transparent material and shaped for placement adjacent
the endocardial tissue; a guidewire for guiding the endovascular catheter to the endocardial
                                              26

tissue; an ablation member disposed outside the balloon for ablation of a portion of the
endocardial tissue; and an optical housing extending from the distal end of the
endovascular catheter into the balloon; a UV light source inside the balloon, the light
source being supported by the optical housing, the UV light source producing light having
a wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm for illuminating the endocardial
tissue outside the balloon to excite NADH in athe endocardial tissue; and a camera inside
the balloon, the camera being supported by the optical housing and configured to detect
NADH fluorescence from the endocardial tissue illuminated by light from the UV light
source to image the endocardial tissue illuminated by the UV light source.
[00134]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
imaging tissue comprising: an endovascular catheter having a distal end and a proximal
end, the endovascular catheter being sized for an endovascular approach to a cardiac
tissue; a guidewire for guiding the endovascular catheter to the cardiac tissue; an ablation
member disposed at the distal end of the endovascular catheter; an irrigation port to
displace blood with a fluid about the distal end of the catheter; an optical housing
extending from the distal end of the catheter, the optical housing being configured to
support a light emitting diode (LED) light source, the LED light source emitting light
having a wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm for illuminating the cardiac
tissue to excite NADH in the cardiac tissue and a visualization device including a plurality
of image sensors that convert an optical image into an electronic signal for imaging the
illuminated tissue; and an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the
endovascular catheter, the balloon being made of a compliant ultraviolet (UV) light
transparent material and shaped for placement against the cardiac tissue; wherein the light
source and the visualization device are positioned inside the balloon beyond the distal tip
of the endovascular catheter.
                                           27

[00135]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
imaging tissue comprising: a sheath for infusing a fluid capable of displacing blood and
transmitting light; an endovascular catheter disposed within the sheath, the endovascular
catheter having a distal end and a proximal end, the endovascular catheter being sized for
an endovascular approach to a cardiac tissue; a guidewire for guiding the endovascular
catheter to the cardiac tissue; an ablation member disposed at the distal end of the
endovascular catheter; an optical housing extending from the distal end of the catheter, the
optical housing being configured to support a light emitting diode (LED) light source, the
LED light source producing light having a wavelength between about 300 nm and about
400 nm for illuminating the cardiac tissue to excite NADH in the cardiac tissue and a
visualization device including a plurality of image sensors that convert an optical image
into an electronic signal for imaging the illuminated tissue; and an inflatable balloon
disposed about the distal end of the endovascular catheter, the balloon being made of a
compliant ultraviolet (UV) light transparent material and shaped for placement against the
cardiac tissue; wherein the light source and the visualization device are positioned inside
the balloon beyond the distal tip of the endovascular catheter.
[00136]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a method for
imaging tissue comprising: advancing a catheter over a guidewire through an endovascular
system to a cardiac tissue, the catheter comprising an inflatable balloon disposed about a
distal end of the catheter, the balloon being made of a compliant ultraviolet (UV) light
transparent material and shaped for placement adjacent the cardiac tissue; and an optical
housing extending from the distal end of the catheter into the balloon to position a UV
light source and a camera inside the balloon; ablating the cardiac tissue with an ablation
member disposed at the distal end of the catheter; exciting NADH in an area of the cardiac
tissue including the cardiac tissue treated by ablation by illuminating the cardiac tissue
                                            28

with a light from the UV light source having a wavelength between about 300 nm and
about 400 nm from the UV light source; imaging with the imaging device the area of the
cardiac tissue to detect NADH fluorescence of the area of tissue; and producing a display
of the imaged, illuminated cardiac tissue, the display illustrating ablated cardiac tissue as
having less fluorescence than non-ablated cardiac tissue.
[00137]      According to some aspects illustrated herein, there is provided a system for
imaging endocardial tissue comprising: an endovascular catheter having a distal end and a
proximal end, the endovascular catheter being sized for an endovascular approach to an
endocardial tissue; an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the endovascular
catheter, the balloon being made of a compliant ultraviolet (UV) light transparent material
and shaped for placement against the endocardial tissue; a guidewire for guiding the
endovascular catheter to the endocardial tissue; an ablation member disposed outside the
balloon for ablation through the endovascular catheter; a light source located outside the
endovascular catheter, the light source providing light having a wavelength between about
300 nm and about 400 nm; one or more light transmitting fibers having a distal end inside
the inflatable balloon and being connected to the light source; a charge-coupled device
(CCD) camera located outside the endovascular catheter; and one or more imaging fibers
having a distal end inside the inflatable balloon and being connected to the CCD camera.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00138]      The presently disclosed embodiments will be further explained with reference
to the attached drawings, wherein like structures are referred to by like numerals
throughout the several views.      The drawings shown are not necessarily to scale, with
emphasis instead generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the presently
disclosed embodiments.
                                             29

[00139]      FIG. 1A is a block diagram of an exemplary system in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[00140]      FIG. 1B illustrates an embodiment of a catheter for use in an exemplary
system in accordance with the present disclosure;
[00141]      FIG. IC illustrates a distal end of an embodiment of a catheter for use in an
exemplary system in accordance with the present disclosure;
[00142]      FIG. ID illustrates a proximal end of an embodiment of a catheter for use in
an exemplary system in accordance with the present disclosure;
[00143]      FIG. 2A is a block diagram of an exemplary system in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[00144]      FIG. 2B illustrates an embodiment filter box for use in connection with the
exemplary system shown in FIG. 2A;
[00145]      FIG. 3 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[00146]      FIG. 4A illustrates a RF ablation probe in the position to deliver a lesion onto
the epicardial surface;
[00147]      FIG. 4B illustrates the visual appearance of a typical lesion after a standard RF
ablation protocol performed in a blood-free rat heart;
[00148]      FIG. 4C illustrates the appearance of two distinct RF ablation lesions in a
blood-free heart, as revealed by fNADH imaging;
[00149]      FIG. 4D illustrates the appearance of the same two RF ablation lesions after
                                             30

TTC staining with vital TTC dye (white tissue - necrotic, red - viable);
[00150]      FIG. 4E illustrates transverse slicing through TTC-stained heart showing depth
of two lesions placed on opposite epicardial surfaces using two different power settings;
[00151]      FIG. 5A illustrates lesion stability over time as seen on fNADH-sensitive
channel;
[00152]      FIG. 5B illustrates an image of radiofrequency ablation lesion on the
epicardial surface of an excised rat heart 2 months after survival surgery as seen on
fNADH-sensitive channel;
[00153]      FIG. 6A, FIG. 6B and FIG. 6C illustrate comparison between the sizes of the
RF lesions as they are seen on fNADH-sensitive channel and after TTC staining;
[00154]      FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B and FIG. 7C illustrate occurrence of reentry between two
RF lesions based on data from dual imaging of epicardial electrical activity using voltage
sensitive dye and fNADH. Reentry formation occurs as electrical waves propagate through
narrow isthmus between two RF lesions;
[00155]      FIG. 8A, FIG. 8B, FIG. 8C and FIG. 8D illustrate profiles of fNADH and
electrical activity across the isthmus between two RF lesions;
[00156]      FIG. 9A, FIG. 9B, FIG. 9C and FIG. 9D illustrate RH237 retention within the
ablation areas;
[00157]      FIG. 10A, FIG. 1OB, FIG. 1 IC and FIG. I1D illustrate RH237 retention after
RF ablation procedure as it compares to NADH fluorescence. 1OB&C show RF ablations
done in rat hearts, 1OD - in a rabbit heart;
                                             31

[00158]       FIGS. 11A-IID illustrate visualization of RF ablation lesions in blood
perfused open-chest animals. As shown in FIG. 1 ID the ablated lesion is identified by
lack of fluorescence which gives the tissue a dark appearance (center portion of the figure)
whereas the ischemic or injured tissue becomes brighter as illustrated by the halo type
appearance;
[00159]       FIG. 12 is an image of an ablation lesion on the endocardial surface of blood
perfused canine left atrial tissue near pulmonary veins;
[00160]       FIG. 13 is an image of an ablation lesion on epicardial surface of blood-free
rat hart after cryo-ablation;
[00161]       FIG. 14 illustrates fNADH lesion in rat blood-perfused liver that has been
acutely ablated using radiofrequency ablation; and
[00162]       FIG. 15 is a 2D image on the right of a standard catheter and reconstruction
into 3D integrated into 3D mapping system. A computer system and program can be used
to convert the acquired 2D image of NADH fluorescence into a 3D image superimposed
on the atrial anatomy as displayed.
[00163]       FIG. 16 is a view of an embodiment of the balloon catheter assembly of the
present disclosure.
[00164]       FIG. 17 is a view of an embodiment of the balloon catheter assembly of the
present disclosure with balloon hidden.
[00165]       FIG. 18 is a view of an embodiment optical housing inserted into an
embodiment catheter of the present disclosure.
[00166]       FIG. 19, FIG. 20 and FIG. 21 illustrate various non-limiting embodiments of
                                            32

an optical housing of the present disclosure.
[00167]      While   the    above-identified    drawings   set   forth presently  disclosed
embodiments, other embodiments are also contemplated, as noted in the discussion. This
disclosure presents illustrative embodiments by way of representation and not limitation.
Numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art
which fall within the scope and spirit of the principles of the presently disclosed
embodiments.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00168]      Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to systems and
methods of visualizing RF ablation lesions during an ablation procedure.       Systems and
methods for treating Atrial Fibrillation (AF) are also provided.
[00169]      Systems, catheter and methods for treating Atrial Fibrillation (AF) are
provided. The fluorescence of endogenous NADH (fNADH) in heart tissue is imaged to
identify ablated and unablated areas using a balloon guided catheter equipped with UV
illumination source and UV capable fiber, a fluorescence capable camera or imaging
bundle and optical band pass filter to detect NADH fluorescence. Gaps between ablated
areas can be identified using the fNADH imaging and the gaps can then be ablated. The
imaging can be performed during the ablation procedure and does not require additional
chemicals, such as contrast agents, tracers or dyes.
[00170]      In some embodiments, the systems of the present disclosure can be utilized to
illuminate tissue using ultra-violet light and the fluorescence of endogenous NADH
(fNADH) can be imaged to identify ablated and unablated areas. The provision of ultra
violet light and imaging of the fNADH of the tissue can be achieved using, for example, a
                                             33

dual UV excitation/emission fiber-optic waveguide located at the tip of the catheter. The
methods and systems of the present disclosure do not require the addition of dyes and
stains. Moreover, the methods and systems of the present disclosure allow imaging during
the ablation procedure so as to not require an additional invasive ablation procedure
following the initial procedure. Utilizing the methods and systems of the present
disclosure results in having a completely dark area at the sites of complete ablation due to
lack of fluorescence which may enhance the ability to detect the ablated areas by
providing marked contrast to the healthy tissue and even more contrast at the border zone
between ablated and healthy tissue. This border area is the edematous and ischemic tissue
in which NADH fluorescence becomes bright white upon imaging. The border zone
creates a halo appearance around the ablated central tissue.
[00171]      In accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure, ablated
tissue and tissue surrounding the ablated tissue is imaged using the fluorescence of
endogenous NADH (fNADH) using low-intensity ultraviolet light illumination. NADH is
a coenzyme that is present within intact cells and is particularly abundant in cardiac
muscle cells.     Once NADH is released from mitochondria of damaged cells and/or
converted to its oxidized NAD+ form, cardiomyocyte fNADH markedly declines.             This
reveals the ablation-induced muscle injury to highlight gaps that indicate incomplete
epicardial lesions.
[00172]      Ablations are currently performed without meaningful real-time information
regarding the physiology of the ablated tissue. Electrical isolation of focal sources is the
only indicator of ablation efficiency.    There are two main limitations of this approach.
The first is that the extent of the lesions cannot be measured during the procedure. The
second is that the specific cause of electrical isolation cannot be determined. For example,
                                             34

electrical isolation may result from cardiac muscle damage, but also from functional
changes in reversibly injured cells, as well as by temporary edema. In the case of edema,
it may subside after a few weeks, potentially restoring abnormal electrical conduction.
The fNADH imaging of the present disclosure reveals irreversible cardiac muscle injury
without contrast agents, tracers or dyes. Lesions examined via fNADH imaging are seen
immediately after delivering RF energy and they are stable for several hours. Therefore,
visualization can be done concordantly with ablation or after multiple lesions have been
placed.
[00173]      There is no contradiction between the increase in NADH fluorescence during
ischemic injury used in the present disclosure as opposed to a decrease upon thermal
damage due to the following reasons.     About thirty percent of cardiomyocyte volume is
comprised of mitochondria, which contain a large amount of NADH.              Accordingly,
changes in the level of fNADH from myocytes can be measured with relative ease. When
the sarcolemma and mitochondrial membranes are disrupted by heat, NADH is lost and
fNADH levels immediately fall. During hypoxia and/or ischemia, cellular integrity is
preserved but oxygen availability is reduced. Oxygen serves as a final electron acceptor in
the mitochondrial electron chain and its decline leads to NADH accumulation.          Thus,
ischemia causes an increase in fNADH in a time dependent manner. For example, if
coronary perfusion is temporarily disrupted during ablation, patches of ischemic or injured
tissue with elevated fNADH levels may be observed adjacent to the darker circular
fNADH lesions after ablation, which can be seen in FIG. 4C.
[00174]      Monitoring endogenous fNADH can be done without additional tracers or
contrast agents. Since changes in fluorescence reflect acute biochemical changes, lesions
are seen almost immediately. Although imaging modalities such as MRI, C-arm CT, and
                                            35

contrast echocardiography are excellent tools in detecting parameters resulting from heat
induced biophysical changes, contrast agents are required to visualize changes in real time.
Additionally, while MRI and C-arm CT provide high spatial resolution, it could take up to
30 minutes to visualize cell necrosis. Echocardiography is faster but suffers from low
spatial resolution and limited field of view.      Other modalities based on physical tissue
changes including alteration in tissue elasticity, impedance, or absorption have also been
explored. While such strategies provide real-time feedback and may predict lesion size and
depth, they also require significant data processing and don't provide direct visualization
of the ablated region.     It should, however, be noted that these well-known imaging
methods may be used in combination with the methods of the present disclosure.
[00175]      Today a majority of ablation procedures are endocardial but approximately 10
to 20% could be applied to the epicardium. Epicardial substrates are frequently observed
for VT, including >20% of postinfarct VTs, and >30% of VTs from nonischemic
cardiomyopathy, particularly for Chagas disease. Ablation of these epicardial substrates
may use a percutaneous approach that involves the subxiphoid placement of sheaths into
an intact, closed pericardial space. fNADH imaging is particularly useful for these
procedures.    Conventional endoscopes equipped with UV-compatible optics and light
sensitive image capture devices would be suitable for this purpose.            Air insufflation
through the endoscope could be used to expand the pericardial space for adequate
visualization of ablation sites. In a clinical setting, insufflation with carbon dioxide rather
than air would likely reduce the risk of air embolization. fNADH imaging might also be
used for endocardial procedures if blood is displaced using inflatable balloons in front of
an endoscope.
[00176]      The systems and methods of the present disclosure enable the user to monitor
                                              36

myocardial damage while performing an ablation.               By doing so, clinical cardiac
electrophysiologists may be able to shorten the time and improve the efficiency of
ablation, minimize unnecessary tissue injury that may cause post ablation complications,
and decrease post-ablation recurrence of arrhythmias and the need for follow-up ablations.
fNADH imaging may also be useful for mechanistic studies of tissue injury near the
ablation sites and for assessment of drugs that may alter electrical propagation between
inter-lesion gaps.
[00177]      The use of fNADH imaging allows visualizing of ablation lesions and gaps
between lesions in both blood-free and blood-perfused rat and rabbit hearts. Optical action
potentials and the endogenous fluorescence of NADH can be imaged to study changes in
electrical activity and tissue viability around ablation lesions. The fNADH imaging can be
accomplished during ablation procedures using a dual UV excitation/emission fiber-optic
waveguide located at the tip of a catheter. Such a waveguide system could interface with a
3D mapping system to provide a detailed map of cardiac muscle viability near the catheter.
[00178]      FIG. 1A is a block diagram of an exemplary system in accordance with the
present disclosure.    The system includes an inflatable balloon catheter 105 coupled to
external equipment 125.       In some embodiments, the catheter 105 includes an ablation
device 110, illumination device 115 and an imaging device 120. In some embodiments,
the illumination device 115 and an imaging device 120 may utilize a fiber-optic
waveguide to pass the light to and from the treated tissue.
[00179]      In some embodiments, the methods and systems of the present disclosure may
be used in connection with ablation procedures to monitor in real time when the complete
ablation of desired tissue has been achieved. Ablation is a process that uses energy, heat
or extreme cold (cryo) to destroy or damage tissue (ablation). For example, RF ablation
                                              37

relies on heat    generated from the high frequency alternating current to ablate tissue.
Cryoablation is used in a variety of clinical applications using hollow tubes or needles
(cryoprobes) through which cooled, thermally conductive, fluids are circulated, to destroy
the tissue by freezing the tissue. The systems and methods of the present disclosure may
be utilized in connection with various types of tissue ablation, including, but not limited
to, RF ablation, cryoablation, acoustic energy ablation, electromagnetic energy ablation,
microwave energy ablation, ultrasound ablation, chemical ablation, laser ablation, thermal
ablation, electrical ablation or other types of thermal or non-thermal energy ablations. To
that end, in some embodiments, the ablation device 110 may be advanced to a tissue in
need of ablation to ablate the tissue. In some embodiments, the ablation device 110 has an
energy source selected from the group consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave
energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound
energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy, and thermal energy.
[00180]      The external equipment 125 includes a light source 130, which provides ultra
violet light to illumination device 115, a camera 135 and a display 140.            In some
embodiments, the camera 135 can be a CCD camera that has a high quantum efficiency for
wavelengths corresponding to NADH fluorescence (i.e., 80% quantum efficiency at
460nm), such as an Andor Ixon DV860 camera. In some embodiments, the camera 135
may be equipped with a 460/25nm filter 135 (i.e., a filter to pass ultra-violet light while
blocking light outside of the ultra-violet spectrum).
[00181]      In reference to FIG. 1B, in some embodiments, the catheter 105 is a multi
lumen catheter having a proximal end 220 and a distal end 221. The catheter 105 includes
a balloon 222 disposed about the distal end 221 of the catheter 105. The balloon 222 may
be made of a UV transparent material, such as, for example, a UV transparent
                                             38

fluoropolymer. In some embodiments, the balloon 222 may have a thickness of 50 pim
and refractive index of 1.31. The balloon 222 may be either a complaint balloon or a non
complaint balloon.
[00182]      The balloon 222 may be round, flat, cylindrical, oval, rectangular or another
shape depending on the anatomy to be treated using the catheter 105. The balloon 222
may displace blood at the site of fluorescence imaging in order to afford an optically
uncluttered view.      Since blood possesses fluorescent properties mostly due to the
hemoglobin, imaging through this medium would saturate the emission pathway.              The
balloon may be inflated with a gas or a liquid. For example, carbon dioxide, which has a
low refractive index of about 1.00045, may be used to inflate the balloon. Also, in the
event of a balloon breach in vivo, C02 exposure in the short term would not pose any
immediate mortal danger due to the abundant partial pressure of N2 gas. Suitable liquids
include, but are not limited to, water, saline, blood or another similar liquid. The catheter
105 may include an inflation/deflation lumen 225 for inflating and deflating the balloon
222.    Two separate lumens may be provided in some embodiments for inflating and
deflating the balloon 222.
[00183]      In addition to the inflation/deflation lumen 225, the catheter 105 may further
include an ablation lumen 223 for advancing an ablation device 110, an imaging lumen
224 for advancing an imaging device 120, and an illumination lumen 226 for advancing an
illumination device 115.     It should of course be understood that the catheter 105 may
include additional lumens or some lumens may serve multiple functions. For example, in
some embodiments, a single fiber optic bundle may be employed to pass the light from a
light source 130 to the tissue to illuminate the tissue and to pass the light reflected by the
tissue to a camera 135.
                                             39

[00184]      In reference to FIG. IC, an embodiment of the distal tip 221 of the catheter
105 without the balloon 222 is illustrated. The ablation lumen 223 allows an ablation
device 110 to be passed to or past the distal end 221 of the catheter 105 for ablation of
desired tissue.    The inflation/deflation lumen 225 enables the user to inflate and deflate
the balloon 222 to aid in fluorescence imaging.        The imaging lumen 224 allows an
imaging device 120 to be advanced into the balloon for imaging the ablated tissue, which
can be illuminated by an illumination device 105 advanced through the illumination lumen
226.   It should of course be understood that, to the extent desired, the position of various
lumens 223-226 in relation to one another may be varied.
[00185]      In reference to FIG. ID, an embodiment of the proximal tip 220 is illustrated.
In some embodiments, an ablation port 233 in communication with the ablation lumen 223
may be provided for introducing an ablation device 110 into the catheter 105. Another
port 235 may be provided in communication with the inflation lumen 225a and deflation
lumen 225b for operating the balloon 222. In some embodiments, the proximal end 220
includes an outlet 237 in communication with the imaging lumen 224 and illumination
lumen 226 to introduce an imaging device 120 and an illumination device 110 into the
catheter 105. The catheter 105 may also be provided with a connector 240 for connecting
the catheter 105 to one or more external equipment 125.
[00186]        Referring back to FIG. 1A, the external equipment 125 may include a
camera 135.     In some embodiments, the camera 135 may be a CCD (charge-coupled
device) camera. In some embodiments, the camera 135 may be selected so it is capable of
collecting as many photons as possible and that contributes minimal noise to the image.
Usually for fluorescence imaging of live cells, CCD cameras should have a quantum
efficiency at about 460 nm of at least between 50-70%, indicating that 30-50% of photons
                                             40

will be disregarded. In some embodiments, the camera 135 has quantum efficiency at 460
of about 90%.        The camera 135 may have a sample rate of 80 KHz.             In some
embodiments, the camera 135 may have a readout noise of 8 e- (electrons) or less. In
some embodiments, the camera 135 has a minimum readout noise of 3e-.
[00187]       The external equipment 125 may further include a light source 130, such as a
UV LED emitter. The light source is utilized to illuminate tissue via an imaging device
120, which may comprise a fiber optic light guide and may be advanced through the
imaging lumen 224 to the distal tip 221 of the catheter 105 to capture tissue images. In
some embodiments, the fiber optic light guide can act as an illumination device 115 to
pass the light at excitation wavelength from a light source 130 to the tissue for
illuminating tissue to be visualized. The fiber optic light guide can also act to pass the
light reflected by the tissue back to the camera 135. In some embodiments, separate fiber
optics networks can be used for illumination and imaging that is, in some embodiments an
illumination device 115 may be independent of the imaging device 120.             In some
embodiments, a fiberscope can be used as an imaging device, illumination device, or both.
[00188]       Once the images of illuminated tissue are captured by the CCD, these images
can be transmitted to a display 140 to be displayed to the user in real time. The images
can be analyzed by using software to obtain real-time details (e.g. intensity or radiated
energy in a specific site of the image) to help the user to determine whether further
intervention is necessary or desirable.
[00189]       In reference to FIG. 2A, in some embodiments, the system of the present
disclosure may include a filter box 145 positioned between the catheter system 105 and the
external equipment 125, such as the camera 135 and light source 130. The filter box 145
may include a dichroic mirror 146 for reflecting light from the light source 130 to be
                                            41

propagated by the illumination device 115.         The dichroic mirror 146 may be placed at a
450 incidence angle to light, creating a stop band of reflected light and a pass band of
transmitted light. Light from the light source 130 is reflected by 900 in the direction of the
specimen.     Concurrently, in the same orientation, light emanating from the specimen is
passed through the mirror. In some embodiments, a longpass dichroic mirror with a cutoff
(50%) wavelength of 425 nm may be used as it has an approximate reflection band of
more than 80% between 355 nm and 410 nm and a transmission band of more than 90%
between 440 nm and 700 nm. Of course it should be understood that other optical devices
may be used to pass light to and from the tissue to be visualized.
[00190]       The filter box 145 may also include an emission filter 147 to filter out light
that may contribute as some sort of noise or unwanted feature.           In some embodiments,
based on the NADH fluorescence, the filter 147 may be a center wavelength of 460 nm
with a 50-nm bandwidth (i.e. 460  25 mm). The filter box 145 may further include an
excitation filter for selection of the excitation wavelength of light from the light source
130.
[00191]       In reference to FIG. 2B, an embodiment filter box 145 includes a camera port
400 with an emission filter 401 held in a filter holder 402 positioned in front of the camera
port 400. The filter box 145 further includes an excitation filter 403 held in a filter holder
404, which may be positioned either at a light source port or a catheter port.                 The
excitation filter 403 is positioned at a catheter port 405. A dichroic mirror 405 is inserted
into a mirror slot 406 and is positioned at about a 45 degree angle to a port for attaching
the light source 130 to the filter box 145.
[00192]       In reference to FIG. 3, operation of the systems of the present disclosure is
illustrated. Initially, catheter 105 is inserted into the area affected by the atrial fibrillation,
                                               42

such as the pulmonary vein / left atrial junction (step 150). Blood is removed from the
visual field.   For atrial fibrillation ablation a transparent balloon surrounding the fiber
optic waveguide would be used to displace the blood at the pulmonary vein / left atrial
junction.    The affected area is illuminated by ultra-violet light from source 130 and
illumination device 115 (step 155) and tissue in the illuminated area is ablated using
ablation device 110 (step 160). Either point-to-point RF ablation or cryoablation or laser
or other known ablation procedures may be employed using the systems of the present
disclosure.    Ablation proceeds by threading the tip through the central lumen of the
catheter. After the procedure, the ablation tip may be retracted.
 [00193]      The illuminated area is imaged by the combination of imaging device 120 and
camera 135 (step 165).      The methods of the present disclosure rely on imaging of the
fluorescence emission of NADH, which is a reduced form of nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide (NAD+). NAD+ is a coenzyme that plays important roles in the aerobic
metabolic redox reactions of all living cells. It acts as an oxidizing agent by accepting
electrons   from citric acid     cycle (tricarboxylic acid cycle), which occurs in the
mitochondrion. By this process, NAD+ is thus reduced to NADH. NADH and NAD+ are
most abundant in the respiratory unit of the cell, the mitochondria, but are also present in
the cytoplasm. NADH is an electron and proton donor in mitochondria to regulate the
metabolism of the cell and to participate in many biological processes including DNA
repair and transcription.
 [00194]      By measuring the UV-induced fluorescence of tissue, it is possible to learn
about the biochemical state of the tissue. NADH fluorescence has been studied for its use
in monitoring cell metabolic activities and cell death. Several studies in vitro and in vivo
investigated the potential of using NADH fluorescence intensity as an intrinsic biomarker
                                              43

  of cell death (either apoptosis or necrosis) monitoring. Once NADH is released from the
  mitochondria of damaged cells or converted to its oxidized form (NAD+), its fluorescence
  markedly declines, thus making it very useful in the differentiation of a healthy tissue from
  a damaged tissue. NADH can accumulate in the cell during ischemic states when oxygen
  is not available, increasing the fluorescent intensity.        However, NADH presence
  disappears all together in the case of a dead cell.    The following table summarizes the
  different states of relative intensity due to NADH fluorescence:
       Cellular State                   NADH Presence            Relative Changes of Auto
                                                                    fluorescense intensity
Metabolically Active              Normal                       Baseline
Metabolically Active but          Increased to Hypoxia         Increased
Impaired (Ischemia)               IncreasedtoHypoxiaIncrease
Metabolically Inactive            None                         Full Attenuation
(Necrotic)
   [00195]     While both NAD+ and NADH absorb UV light quite readily, NADH is
  autofluorescent in response to UV excitation whereas NAD+ is not. NADH has a UV
  excitation peak of about 350-360 nm and an emission peak of about 460 nm. In some
  embodiments, the methods of the present disclosure may employ excitation wavelengths
  between about 335 to about 380 nm. With the proper instrumentation, it is thus possible to
  image the emission wavelengths as a real-time measure of hypoxia as well as necrotic
  tissue within a region of interest. Furthermore, a relative metric can be realized with a
  grayscale rendering proportionate to NADH fluorescence.
   [00196]     Under hypoxic conditions, the oxygen levels decline. The subsequent fNADH
  emission signal may increase in intensity indicating an excess of mitochondrial NADH. If
  hypoxia is left unchecked, full attenuation of the signal will ultimately occur as the
  affected cells along with their mitochondria die. High contrast in NADH levels may be
  used to identify the perimeter of terminally damaged ablated tissue.
                                                44

[00197]      To initiate fluorescence imaging, the operator may deploy the balloon, which
is installed around the distal portion of the catheter. Next, NADH is excited by the UV
light from the light source 130. In some embodiments with a filter box, first the excitation
light from the light source hits the dichromatic mirror (or dichroic beam splitter)
positioned within the filter box 145.        Then the excitation light is reflected   by the
dichromatic mirror toward the specimen via the fiber optic. In some embodiments, the
mirror may be positioned at a 450 angle relative to the excitation light and the excitation
light may be reflected 90'. In some embodiments, the methods of the present disclosure
may employ excitation wavelengths between about 335 to about 380 nm.
[00198]      NADH in the tissue specimen absorbs the excitation wavelengths of light and
emit longer wavelengths of light. The emission light may be collected and passed back
through the dichromatic mirror 146. This mirror 146 may therefore be designed to reflect
the excitation wavelengths, but transmit the emission wavelengths. The reflection of the
excitation wavelengths is not 100%, so a small amount of this light passes through the
dichromatic mirror 146. Likewise, additional light with a different wavelength could pass
through, and thus an emission filter may be employed in connection with the camera 135.
The emission filter may be selected for the emission wavelengths of light expected from
the fluorophore such as NADH.
[00199]      Once the light is filtered, the light may be collected by the camera 135, and a
display of the imaged illuminated area is produced on display 140 (step 170), which is
used to identify the ablated and unablated tissue in the imaged area using NADH
florescence (step 175).     The process then repeats by returning to the ablation step, if
necessary to ablate additional tissue.       It should be recognized that although FIG. 3
illustrates the steps being performed sequentially, many of the steps will be performed
                                              45

simultaneously or nearly simultaneously.      Thus, for example, the ablation, imaging and
display can occur at the same time, and the identification of the ablated and unablated
tissue can occur while ablating the tissue.
[00200]      The methods, systems and devices disclosed herein can be used for a variety
of therapeutic procedures.     Exemplary procedures in which the methods, systems and
devices disclosed herein can be utilized include, but not limited to, for diagnostic and
therapeutic procedures in the heart, for treating arrhythmias, such as, for example,
supraventricular arrhythmias and ventricular arrhythmias, for treating atrial fibrillation,
and pulmonary vein mapping and ablation. The ablated tissue may be cardiac muscle, but
the methods disclosed herein should have the same effect on skeletal muscle, liver, kidney,
and other tissues with significant presence of NADH-rich mitochondria.
[00201]      In reference to FIG. 16, a catheter 1601 for use in connection with systems and
methods of the present disclosure includes one or more lumens extending therethrough and
an expandable balloon 1603 disposed about the distal end of the catheter 1601. In some
embodiments, the balloon 1603 may be attached at its proximal tip 1604 to the distal end
of the body of the catheter 1601 and attached at its distal tip 1605 to a catheter tip 1606,
which may be connected to the catheter 1601 by a tube or lumen as described below. The
balloon 1603 may be made from an optically transparent material and may be used to
move blood out of the way for the optical components during fluorescence imaging. The
balloon 1603 can be made of many different materials and shapes that would best conform
to various anatomic structures. The balloons may be constructed of a soft material, such
as silicone, and be compliant to the anatomy.           Alternatively, the balloon may be
constructed of a stronger material, such as polyurethane, and be less compliant. As
illustrated in FIG. 16, the balloon 1603 may have a conical shape designed for insertion
                                             46

into the ostium of the pulmonary veins. Other shapes of a more circular nature may be
better suited for visualizing other cardiac anatomical sights for ablation therapy, including,
by way of a non-limiting example, accessory pathways, ventricular wall sites, atrial wall
sights, or atrio-ventricular nodal sights.
[00202]       The catheter 1601 may be utilized for tissue ablation, including, but not
limited to, RF ablation, cryoablation, acoustic energy ablation, electromagnetic energy
ablation, microwave energy ablation, ultrasound ablation, chemical ablation, laser
ablation, thermal ablation, electrical ablation or other types of thermal or non-thermal
energy ablations. To that end, in some embodiments, the catheter 1601 may be advanced
to a tissue in need of ablation and an ablation member capable of performing one more
ablation methods can be passed through the catheter 1601 to ablate the tissue. In some
embodiments, the ablation member has an energy source selected from the group
consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic
energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy,
and thermal energy.
[00203]       In some embodiments, the catheter tip 1606 may be configured to act as an
electrode either for diagnostic purposes, such as electrogram sensing, or for therapeutic
purposes, such as for emitting ablation energy.       In some embodiments where ablation
energy is required of the catheter, the tip 1606 of the catheter 1601 could serve as an
ablation electrode or ablation element.         In the embodiments where RF energy is
implemented, the wiring to couple the tip to the RF energy source (external to the catheter)
can be passed through a lumen of the catheter 1601. The tip 1606 may include a port 1607
in communication with the one or more lumens of the catheter 1601. In this manner, a
guide wire or other surgical instruments, such as, for example, an RF electrode, may be
                                             47

advanced out of the catheter 1601 past the tip 1606.       The tip 1606 can be made of any
biocompatible material.     In some embodiments, if the tip is configured to act       as an
electrode, the tip 1606 can be made of metal, including, but not limited to, platinum,
platinized iridium, stainless steel, or titanium.    The tip 1606 may also be made of a
biocompatible plastic, including, but not limited to, silicone, peek, polyurethane.
[00204]      In reference to FIG. 17, in some embodiments, the catheter tip 1606 may be
connected to the main body of the catheter 1601 by a guide wire tube 1700 extend past
distal tip of the main body of the catheter 1601. The guide wire tube 1700 may include
one or more lumens in communication with one or more lumens of the catheter 1601 for
advancing a guide wire, ablation member or other surgical instruments past the distal tip of
the catheter 1601.     The inner lumens of the guide wire tube 1700 may also be in
communication with the port 1607 of the catheter tip 1606 for advancing surgical
instruments through the guide wire tube 1700 to or past the catheter tip 1606.
[00205]      In some embodiments, the guide wire tube 1700 may act to provide structural
support to the balloon 1603, especially when the balloon 1603 is in a deflated state during
the advancement of the catheter 1601 to the treatment site. In some embodiments, the
guide wire tube 1700 may be semi-rigid to provide structural support to the balloon 1603.
In some embodiments, the guide wire tube 1700 may be an integral lumen of the catheter
1601. In some embodiments, the guide wire tube 1700 is separate from the catheter 1601
and may be removable inserted into the distal tip of the catheter 1601.             In some
embodiments, the guide wire tube 1700 may be slidable disposed within the catheter 1601,
so that the guide wire tube 1700 may be moved in relation to the catheter 1601 to adjust
the shape of the balloon 1603 to aid in advancement or withdrawal of the catheter 1601
from the patient's body.     For example, the guide wire tube 1700 may be advanced to
                                            48

stretch a collapsed balloon for easier withdrawal out of the patient's body. In such a state,
the balloon would be more behaved and less likely to get caught on an introducer sheath
when being removed.       The guide wire tube may be made of any material.           In some
embodiments, the guide wire tube 1700 may be made from a shape memory material, such
as Nitinol.
[00206]      In reference to FIG. 17 in combination with FIG. 16, the catheter 1601 may
include a neck down surface 1701 where the proximal end 1604 of the balloon 1603 may
be attached to the catheter 1601 without increasing the outer diameter of the combined
device.
[00207]      In reference to FIG. 18, an optical housing 1803 may be disposed at the distal
end of the catheter 1601 for positioning optical elements, such as a camera 1804 and a
light source 1805, inside the balloon 1603. The optical housing 1803 enables positioning
of the camera 1804 and light source 1805 within the balloon, thus eliminating the need for
an external light source. Moreover, by putting the light sources within the balloon, wider
angles of illumination may be achieved than when using a fiber bundle. As is shown in
FIG. 18, the optical housing 1803 can extend from the catheter into the balloon such that
the light source and the camera are completely contained within the balloon to ensure that
the catheter does not interfere with the field of view of the light source or the camera. As
shown in FIG. 18, that the light source and the camera are internal to the balloon and do
not extend outside the balloon. In some embodiments, the housing 1803 may position the
optical elements in a fixed relation to one another. In some embodiments, the camera
1804 and the light source 1805 are flush with each other so that neither component
"blocks" the function of the other. Being flush assures that the camera 1804 will not block
illumination nor will the light source 1805 show up in the camera image. In some
                                             49

embodiments, the position of the components may altered to avoid interference of one
optical component with the other one.
[00208]      The camera 1804 may be any image sensor that can convert an optical image
into an electronic signal. In some embodiments, the camera is a miniature CMOS image
sensor with a lens and with or without a filter to choose a specific wavelength or set of
wavelengths to record. In some embodiments, the camera is a CCD camera or other image
sensors that can convert an optical image into an electronic signal. The camera may
transmit its signal via wires to external image processor and video terminal for the
physician to see. In some embodiments, the camera may have wireless communication
capabilities for communication with external devices. The light source 1805 may be a
light emitting diode (LED) of suitable wavelength. In some embodiments, the LED will
have a wavelength in the UV range to cause the NADH fluorescence.                In some
embodiments, different wavelengths including white light for multicolor illumination are
possible by choosing the LED of the appropriate wavelength. By way of a non-limiting
example, suitable LEDs for UV applications would include those with wavelengths of 300
nm to 400 nm, while suitable LEDs for visible or white light applications would include
those with color temperature ranges from 2000K to 8000K.
[00209]      As shown in FIG. 18, the housing 1803 may be inserted into the distal end of
the catheter 1601. In some embodiments, the outer diameter of the housing 1803 may be
smaller than the inner diameter of the catheter 1601 such that a gap 1802 may be formed
between the inner wall of the catheter 1601 and the housing 1803. In some embodiments,
the balloon 1603 may be deflated or inflated through the gap 1802. It should of course be
understood that a separate lumen may be provided for operating the balloon 1603.
[00210]      In some embodiments, because the outer diameter of the optical housing 1803
                                           50

is smaller than the inner diameter of the catheter 1601, the housing 1803 may be moveable
in relation to the catheter 1601. In some embodiments, the housing 1803 may be freely
rotated in relation to the catheter 1601 and, thus the balloon 1603. In some embodiments,
the optical housing 1803 may be translated longitudinally in relation to the balloon
catheter 1601 to obtain a desired view point for the camera or illumination position for the
light source.    A lock may be provided to lock the optical housing 1803 in a desired
position.
[00211]      FIG. 19 is a view of the housing 1803 outside the catheter 1601, showing a
wire bundle 1901 of the camera 1804 and a wire bundle 1902 for the light source 1805.
These wire bundles may run the entire length of the catheter back to the handle (not
shown) where they can make electrical connections to the remainder of the imaging
system, such as a power source or a display. It should be noted however that, in some
embodiments, the camera may have wireless communication capabilities for wireless
communication with external devices
[00212]      The housing 1803 also includes a channel 1904 for accepting a guide wire
tube 1700 to facilitate communication between the guide wire tube 1700 and the catheter
1601.
[00213]      The catheters of the present disclosure may be used in minimally-invasive
procedures as well as in conventional surgical procedures, i.e. open procedures. In some
embodiments, the catheters of the present disclosure may be configured for endovascular
approach.     In some embodiments, the catheters of the present disclosure may be
configured for non-endovascular approach.        In some embodiments, the systems of the
present disclosure may be surgical systems or device used in surgical procedures via either
an open incision or percutaneous introduction into the tissue rather than via an
                                            51

endovascular route.     In some embodiments, the systems and devices of the present
disclosure may be either handheld or a part of a robotically controlled system. In some
embodiments, the systems or devices of the present disclosure may configured for
handling by a robotic system.
[00214]      In some embodiments, the size of the components may be varied depending on
the particular procedure. In some embodiments, the rigidity of the catheters of the present
disclosure may be varied depending on the type of procedure, anatomy to be treated or
both.    In some embodiments, the rigidity may be varied by selecting more rigid
components for the catheter 1601, the guide wire tube 1700 or both.
[00215]      In reference to FIG. 20, in some embodiments, an optical housing 2002 may
include multiple channels 2003, 2004 for accommodating multiple guide wire tubes, if
more rigidity is required. It should be noted that in various embodiments, some or all
guide wire tubes may include inner lumens in communication with the inner lumens of the
catheter 1601 and the port 1607 of the catheter tip 1606 for passing surgical instruments
through such guide wire tubes. In some embodiments, some or all guide wire tubes may
act simply be provided for structural support, and thus may not include inner lumens.
[00216]      FIG. 21 illustrates an embodiment of an optical housing 2100 configured to
support multiple light sources 2101 and 2102, which may emit light of different
wavelengths.     Having different wavelength sources allows for different functionality
within a single catheter or instrument. In some embodiments, the light source 2101 may be
selected to emit UV light for fluorescence imaging, while the light source 2102 may be
selected to emit white light to allow the user to see and navigate anatomical landmarks.
Bundled together, the user can use the same catheter both for navigating to the ablation
site to ablate tissue, and then to visualize the ablated tissue.    In some embodiments,
                                            52

multiple sources of the same wavelength may be employed. In some embodiments, the
optical housing 2100 may be configured to support two, three, four or more light sources.
[00217]      It should be noted that although the optical housing 1803 is illustrated and
describe as supporting a light source and camera, in some embodiments, the housing may
be configured to support one or more fiber optic bundles in communication with an
external camera and an external light source.
[00218]      The methods, systems and devices disclosed herein can be used for a variety
of therapeutic procedures.     Exemplary procedures in which the methods, systems and
devices disclosed herein can be utilized include, but not limited to, for diagnostic and
therapeutic procedures in the heart, for treating arrhythmias, such as, for example,
supraventricular arrhythmias and ventricular arrhythmias, for treating atrial fibrillation,
and pulmonary vein mapping and ablation.
[00219]      The presently disclosed methods can be used with two dimensional (2D) to
three dimensional (3D) mapping protocols. A plurality of 2D images can be superimposed
onto a 3D reconstruction image of the tissue or organs, including the heart.               Many
arrhythmia procedures include the use of reconstructed three dimension images of the
patient's specific anatomy during the procedure. Using a variety of imaging modalities
including computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound,
and electroanatomical mapping using systems such as NAVX and CARTO. In all cases,
the three dimensional anatomical images or surfaces present patient specific anatomy to
help target areas of tissue to treat. In all cases, the ability to visualize the precise location
where lesions are formed and the precise locations where lesions are missing, e.g., the
"'gaps" or breaks in the lesion set, would guide the procedure to optimize the therapeutic
outcome.    2D image to 3D image mapping allows the system to superimpose, spatially
                                              53

register, and/or texture map single or multiple images of tissue (that may indicate presence
or absence of lesions) with the specific anatomy of the patient in a three dimensional,
rotatable, interactive virtual environment.
[00220]      In some embodiments, the systems and methods of the present disclosure
allow the registration and/or overlay of the images produced by the system onto the
specific anatomy of the patient as seen using other imaging modalities such as an MRI
image, computed tomography (CT) image, ultrasound image and three dimensional
reconstructions thereof.     In some embodiments, the systems and methods of the present
disclosure may further include the registration and/or overlay of the images produced by
the system onto the specific anatomy of the patient as seen using other electroanatomical
mapping, anatomical reconstruction, and navigational systems such as NAVX and
CARTO.      The registration and overlay may be performed during the procedure in real
time. Texture mapping NADH images onto reconstructed endocardial surfaces permits
visualization of the treatment site.   For example, multiple NADH snapshots of lesions
could create a full panoramic image of the entire pulmonary vein opening, or multiple
pulmonary veins. Positioning sensors on the catheter tip could provide information that
will allow the NADH images to be combined together to create a 3D reconstruction image.
[00221]      While the methods and systems of the present disclosure were described in
connection with a balloon catheter, the methods and systems of the present disclosure may
also utilize catheters without balloons.       Other means for displacing blood during
fluorescence imaging may be utilized. For example, the catheter of the present disclosure
may be provided with an irrigation port through which a fluid can be delivered to the distal
tip of the catheter to displace blood away from the tissue being imaged.            In some
embodiments, the catheter may be introduced through a sheath which can infuse a clear
                                            54

  fluid capable of displacing blood and transmitting light. It should of course be understood
  that, in some embodiments, the means for displacement blood may be combined. Thus,
  for example, a balloon catheter as described above can be provided with additional
  irrigation port to assist in blood displacement by the balloon.
  [00222]      Examples of using the systems and methods of the present disclosure are
  provided below. These examples are merely representative and should not be used to limit
  the scope of the present disclosure. A large variety of alternative designs exists for the
  methods and devices disclosed herein. The selected examples are therefore used mostly to
  demonstrate the principles of the devices and methods disclosed herein.
EXAMPLES
EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES
  [00223]      Experiments were performed using animal hearts to compare the effectiveness
  of the imaging using NADH recording of the present disclosure compared to
  Triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. As will be described in more detail below,
  the imaging using NADH recording performed as good as TTC staining. Importantly, it
  was done in living tissue, did not require any additional processing time or the use of a dye
  to achieve the same performance.
Animal procedures
  [00224]      Ex-vivo experiments were conducted using excised blood-free hearts of a rat
  (200-300g Sprague-Dawley, n=8) and rabbit (2.5-3.5 Kg New Zealand White, n=3). The
  animals were heparinized and anesthetized using standard procedures. Hearts were then
  excised, the aorta was cannulated and Langendorff-perfused at constant pressure (50
  mmHg) with oxygenated, buffered Tyrode solution at room temperature. The hearts were
  placed on top of a grounding pad and submerged in 37oC Tyrode solution during ablation.
                                               55

  [00225]      In situ experiments (n=3) were performed using anesthetized open-chest rats
  (200-300g Sprague-Dawley). After an IP injection of Telazol (40mg/kg) the hair on the
  chest and back were shaved, the animal was immobilized on a heated platform, and an
  ablation pad was placed beneath the animal. Immediately after opening chest cavity, the
  ablations were carried out as the exposed epicardial surface was imaged. All anesthesia
  and euthanasia procedures were in compliance with the institutional Animal Care and Use
  committee approved protocols.
Ablation protocols and NADH recordings
  [00226]      Radiofrequency energy was delivered using a non-cooled blazer catheter with
  a 4mm tip (EP Technologies, Boston Scientific Corporation). Tip temperatures ranged
  between 50 to 70oC.      The catheter was placed perpendicular to the epicardial surface.
  Ablation durations varied from 15 to 60 sec with a maximum power of 50W.             The
  epicardial surface was illuminated with UV light (350/25 nm) using a 100 Watt mercury
  lamp (Zeiss HBO 100 W/2). To record the epicardial fluorescence of NADH, the emitted
  light was filtered (460/25nm) and imaged using a CCD camera (Andor Ixon DV860) that
  has high quantum efficiency for wavelengths corresponding to NADH fluorescence (80%
  QE at 460nm).
Optical mapping experiments
  [00227]      Hearts were stained with the potentiometric dye RH237 (Molecular Probes, 10
   tM solution) and Blebbistatin was added to the perfusate (10 tM final concentration) to
  reduce motion artifact. A dual optical mapping system comprised of two CCD cameras
  (Andor IXON DV860s) fitted with a dual port adapter (Andor CSU Adapter Dual Cam)
  and a dichroic mirror (610nm) was used to image the epicardial fluorescence of RH237
  (250-500 fps) and NADH (2 fps) from the same field of view. To record optical action
  potentials, the epicardium was illuminated using two light emitting diodes (LumiLEDs,
                                             56

  530/35nm).    The resulting fluorescence of RH237 was long-pass filtered at 680nm.
  NADH fluorescence was recorded with the other CCD camera as described above.
  [00228]     The    fluorescence   of RH237       was   processed to    subtract  background
  fluorescence from each image and signals for each pixel were normalized.               RH237
  fluorescence signals were smoothed using a median temporal filter (3 sample width).
  Isochronal maps of activation times were generated to show wave front propagation. The
  average amplitude of optical action potentials at each pixel was computed to reveal spatial
  changes in the amount of electrically active tissue.
TTC staining
  [00229]     Triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) vital staining is a standard procedure for
  assessing acute necrosis.    Immediately after the imaging protocol was completed, the
  tissue was retrogradely perfused through the coronaries with a 1.0% TTC in Tyrode
  solution.  The heart was then submersed in the TTC solution for an additional 8 min.
  Metabolically active tissue appeared crimson. Necrotic tissue appeared white.
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
  [00230]     FIG. 4A, FIG. 4B, FIG. 4C, FIG. 4D and FIG. 4E illustrate RF ablation lesions
  in blood-free excised rat hearts. The first set of experiments was conducted in excised
  hearts from healthy rats of either sex.      Hearts were retrograde-perfused with Tyrode
  solution. The epicardium of 8 hearts was ablated and imaged. Two ablation lesions were
  placed next to each other on 4 of the hearts. An example of an RF ablation probe in the
  position to deliver a lesion onto the epicardial surface is illustrated in FIG. 4A, and the
  visual appearance of a typical lesion after a standard RFA ablation protocol is illustrated in
  FIG. 4B. As illustrated in FIG. 4B, ablations caused immediate changes in the visual
  appearance of the epicardial surface as a distinct area of pale tissue.         The paleness
  corresponds to denaturation of myoglobin at temperatures above 60 0C. The heart was then
                                               57

  placed on a constant pressure perfusion system and imaged using either a single or dual
  CCD camera system.        FIG. 4C illustrates the appearance of two distinct RF ablation
  lesions, as revealed by fNADH imaging, where partially ischemic tissue appears as
  blotchy white.     As illustrated in FIG. 4C, fNADH images revealed that the areas of
  ablation   appeared markedly dark when compared to the surrounding unablated
  myocardium.
   [00231]      After imaging, the hearts were stained with vital dye TTC, which is illustrated
  in FIG. 4D, and sliced transmurally to examine the ablation lesions, which is illustrated in
  FIG. 4E. As illustrated in FIG. 4D after TTC staining, metabolically active tissue appears
  red and irreversibly damaged tissue appears white. FIG. 4E illustrates transverse slicing
  through the heart to show the depth of two lesions placed on opposite epicardial surfaces
  using two different power settings.
Spatial extent and temporal stability of RF ablation lesions.
   [00232]      FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B illustrate lesion stability over time. Specifically, the top
  row shows snapshots of fNADH at different time points (2-120 minutes) after RF ablation.
  The white box on the top left image indicates close-up area used in the three lower
  snapshots, which illustrate a close-up of the lesion border over three intermediate time
  points (5, 10 and 30 mins).
   [00233]      As shown in FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B, fNADH levels in ablated tissue did not
  return to their pre-ablation values and the size of the lesions did not significantly change
  over the course of the experiments (approx. 2 hours). As illustrated by the three lower
  close-up snapshots in FIG. 5A and FIG. 5B, areas in the fNADH images that corresponded
  to the lesions became homogenously dark over time.
                                               58

   [00234]      As illustrated in FIG. 6A, FIG. 6B and FIG. 6C, the size of the lesions
   measured from the fNADH images was identical to the size of the areas that stained
   negative for TTC. Specifically, FIGS. 6A and 6B illustrate sizes of the RF lesions as seen
   on fNADH-sensitive channel and after TTC staining. In FIG. 6A snapshots of the three
   lesions on the surface of the rabbit heart respectively illustrate the raw NADH image,
   inverted NADH image (i.e., the LUT scale of raw fNADH images was inverted to show
   lesions in white), raw TTC image and black and white TTC image (i.e., gray scale). The
   three graphs of FIG. 6B respectively correspond to the intensity profile through each
   lesion a, b, and c identified in the snapshots of FIG. 6A. As illustrated by the bar graph of
   FIG. 6C, widths of the lesions were not significantly different when examined using
   fNADH and TTC staining.
   [00235]      TTC staining is a common method to determine tissue viability. It relies on the
   ability of dehydrogenase enzymes and NADH to react with tetrazolium salts to form a
   formazan pigment.       Since both methods rely on the presence of active NADH, the
   measurement of lesion size is similar for the two methods. Thus, as illustrated by the
   graphs in FIG. 6B, live imaging of NADH fluorescence provides an estimate of the area of
   TTC-positive tissue with better than 95% accuracy.         From a clinical perspective, the
   stability of RF ablation lesions as seen in fNADH images suggests that UV-based imaging
   of NADH can be acquired after multiple RF ablations have been performed, since lesion
   appearance remains stable for several hours.
Identifying functional gaps between RF ablation lesions
   [00236]      FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B, and FIG. 7C illustrate dual imaging of epicardial electrical
   activity and fNADH of the propagation through narrow isthmus between two RF lesions.
   As discussed above, incomplete lesions may be even more dangerous if they serve as
   anatomical routes for reentry and inter-lesion isthmuses as small as 1 mm can lead to
                                                59

recurrent conduction. To study propagation through inter-lesion isthmuses wavefronts of
activity between two closely placed RF lesions were analyzed. A bipolar pacing electrode
was placed on the epicardium above the lesions and current was applied at twice the
diastolic threshold (2.5 mA). Paced waves caused spontaneous reentrant circuits around
the lesions when a functional isthmus was present.          An example of this activity is
illustrated in the sequential snapshots of FIG. 7C.        The three snapshots in FIG. 7A
respectively illustrate an fNADH image of tissue with two lesions, an isochronal map of
electrical activity of one of the reentrant circuits recorded using the voltage-sensitive dye
RH237, and the superposition of the isochronal map on the FNADH image.               FIG. 7B
illustrates the pseudo ECG trace reconstructed by averaging optical action potentials from
all pixels in individual frame, which corresponds to the sequence shown in FIG. 7C. FIG.
7C illustrates sequential      snapshots  of processed RH237        sequence that illustrate
propagation of paced beats and reentry around the lesions.
[00237]       To create the isochronal maps and to reveal propagating wave fronts (as
illustrated in FIG. 7A, FIG. 7B and FIG. 7C), optical action potentials were normalized to
show propagating wave fronts in an all-or-none fashion. This is useful for illustrating
propagation but it can be misleading because it obscures the true optical action potential
amplitudes. To better represent true optical action potential amplitudes, the RH237 signal
at each pixel was scaled as a percentage of the maximum optical action potential
amplitude for all the pixels.
[00238]       FIG. 8A, FIG. 8B, FIG. 8C and FIG. 8D illustrate fNADH and electrical
activity across the isthmus between two RF lesions. Specifically, FIG. 8A illustrates an x
t representation of the amplitudes of five sequential action potentials along the black line
in the adjacent RH237 image.       In FIG. 8A the x-axis is the distance between the two
lesions and the y-axis represents time with action potentials indicated by asterisks on the
                                             60

  right. FIG. 8B illustrates the graph overlaid on the interlesion intensity profile for fNADH
  with the profile of the action potential amplitude.      The two profiles had a correlation
  coefficient of r=0.95, P<0.05.     The inter-lesion profile of the optical action potential
  amplitude is illustrated in FIG. 8C as an x-t plot for six sequential beats, with the x-axis
  being the distance between the centers of the two lesions. In FIG. 8D the gap is identified
  by fNADH which gives it a light appearance whereas the ablated lesion is identified by
  lack of fluorescence which gives the tissue a dark appearance. The interlesion profile of
  action potential amplitude was then compared to the interlesion profile of fNADH
  intensity. The two were highly correlated (r-0.95). These findings suggest that fNADH
  loss can serve as a direct marker for the diminished functional state of the tissue near the
  ablation site.
Lack of fNADH indicates muscle damage and not damage to major coronary vessels
  [00239]      Abundant     mitochondria   that   contain NADH       make    cardiac   myocytes
  particularly suitable for fNADH imaging. Reduced fNADH at the site of the RF ablation
  lesions indicates loss of myocyte membrane            integrity, as cell and mitochondrial
  membranes are rapidly damaged by thermal stress. Notably, cardiac muscle cell necrosis
  within the ablation site does not necessarily mean that the integrity of all underlying
  structures, such as coronary vessels, was destroyed. In the experiments a disruption of
  major coronary vessel structure was not observed.          This is because, if vessels were
  disrupted, then tissue downstream of damaged vessels would become ischemic, causing
  fNADH to increase. Yet, as illustrated in FIG. 6A, fNADH levels near the lesions did not
  significantly change before and after ablation. The patches of whiter tissue occasionally
  seen near the ablation site occurred prior to the RF ablation event, potentially as a result of
  transient low perfusion that temporarily caused local ischemia. Other evidence of intact
  coronary structure was the homogeneity of post-ablation TTC staining: any major vessel
                                               61

  damage would have been indicated as areas of unstained tissue outside the RF ablation
  lesion.   However, all of the 13 RF ablation lesions made during the experiment and
  identified with TTC were localized strictly to the RF lesion site. Finally, as illustrated in
  FIG. 4B, observation of intact vessels on the epicardial surface did not indicate severe
  damage to major vessels at the ablation sites.
Conductive vs. direct resistive heating
  [00240]      FIG. 9A, FIG. 9B, FIG. 9C and FIG. 9D illustrate RH237 retention within the
  ablation area. Specifically, FIGS. 9A-9C illustrate three sequential snapshots of rat heart
  bolus stained with RH237. As illustrated in FIGS. 9A-9C, RH237 fluorescence decreases
  over time, highlighting the lesions as areas that retain the dye. FIG. 9D illustrates the
  intensity of RH237 staining acquired from the four regions of interest (ROI) identified in
  FIG. 9A. The solid points, which trend downward over time, correspond to ROIs in
  unablated areas, and the open points, which remain stable over time, correspond to ROIs
  in the lesion area.
  [00241]      As illustrated in FIG. 10A, FIG. 1OB, FIG. 1OC and FIG. 108D, during optical
  mapping the washout rate of RH237 was less within the ablation lesions than in the normal
  tissue, which resulted in high contrast between the lesions and normal tissue in the raw
  RH237 images. FIG. 10A, FIG. 10B, FIG. 1OC and FIG. 108D illustrate RH237 retention
  after RF ablation procedure compared to NADH fluorescence and visual appearance of the
  epicardium. FIG. 1OA is a schematic representation of lesion formation by RF catheter.
  FIGS. 1OB and 1OC illustrate two different rat hearts showing a lesion in an fNADH image
  (the left-hand side image) and the corresponding RH237 image (the right-hand side
  image). The scale bars below these images correspond to 5 mm. FIG. 1OD illustrates a
  rabbit heart with three RF ablations as it appears within fNADH, RH237 images and TTC
  staining images, with the scale bars below these images corresponding to 5 mm. It should
                                              62

  be noted that a brownish rim within white TTC channel coincides with RH237 retention
  area. Importantly, as can be seen by a comparison of the fNADH and RH237 images in
  FIG. 1OB and FIG. 10C, the diameter of the bright areas of RH237 (corresponding to a
  lesion) was significantly smaller than the area of the lesion indicated by fNADH. Lesion
  size in RH237 images corresponded to the internal ring-like structure often seen on both
  fNADH and TTC images, such as those illustrated in FIG. 6A.
  [00242]       The most plausible explanation for the bright RH237 areas is the acute damage
  to epicardial capillaries that occurs at the site of direct resistive heating immediately
  beneath the RF electrode. This then reduces washout of the RH237 dye, as can be seen in
  FIGS. 1OB and 10C. RF current heats tissue through resistive heating of a narrow rim of
  tissue that is in direct contact with the ablation electrode. Deeper tissue heating is a result
  of passive heat conduction from this small annular volume. Temperatures above 50oC are
  required for irreversible myocardial injury; at temperatures above 1OOoC, boiling occurs at
  the electrode-tissue contact, forming a coagulum (i.e., the brown rings in FIG. 6A). Direct
  comparison between two modes of imaging the lesions (fNADH and RH237) may allow
  direct resistive heating to be distinguished from conductive heat transfer to deeper tissue
  layers.
RF lesions in blood perfused rat hearts
  [00243]       FIG. 11 A, FIG. 1IB, FIG. 1 IC and FIG. lb illustrate a visualization of RF
  ablation lesions in blood-perfused open-chest animals. Specifically, FIG. 11 A is an open
  chest brightfield image of a rat heart with epicardial RF ablation lesion, and FIG. IB
  illustrates the same heart as observed using fNADH.            As illustrated in FIG. 1 1C,
  submerging the above ablated heart in externally added blood completely obscured
  fNADH signals. Blood is an optically dense medium and, within the visible light band, it
                                                63

interferes with spectroscopic assessment of tissue properties. Therefore, a critical issue
was to show the feasibility of fNADH-based imaging in blood perfused animals. This was
done by placing lesions on the epicardium immediately after opening the animal's chest
and acquiring fNADH images in the same way as the excised heart experiments.                As
illustrated in FIG. 11B, major blood vessels appeared as dark tracks within these images,
but the RF ablation lesion was clearly revealed, which indicated that mitochodria-rich
cardiac muscle provides enough fNADH to reveal surrounding unablated tissue.                As
illustrated in FIG. 11 C, the entire field became dark when the epicardial surface of the
same heart was submerged in blood. As illustrated in FIG. 1 ID, RF ablation lesions were
revealed within the fNADH images when blood was displaced from the epicardial surface
using a sheet of transparent polyvinylidene chloride.
[00244]       FIG. 12 illustrates an ablation lesion obtained from the left atrial tissue of a
canine at the time of open heart surgery.        The tissue is located near the area of atrial
fibrillation pulmonary vein isolation procedures.        The left atrium was opened surgically
and the blood had been removed from the field. The animal was in bypass at the time to
allow for normal perfusion of the atrial tissue.
[00245]       FIG. 13 is an image of an ablation lesion on epicardial surface of rat hart after
cryo-ablation. This image was obtained from a blood-free excised rat heart. Cryoablation
was done using liquid nitrogen on a the tip of a metal tip catheter.
[00246]       FIG. 14 illustrates liver perfused rat tissue that has been acutely ablated using
radiofrequency ablation.      This was done to illustrate how ablation lesions look on the
surface of other organs.
[00247]       FIG. 15 is a 2D image on the right of a standard catheter and reconstruction
into 3D integrated into 3D mapping system. A computer system and program can be used
                                              64

to convert the acquired 2D image of NADH fluorescence into a 3D image superimposed
on the atrial anatomy as displayed.
 [00248]     In some embodiments, a method for acquiring a real time image of ablated
endocardial heart muscle tissue and unablated gaps at the pulmonary vein and left atrial
junction is provided, comprising inflating an inflatable compliant balloon with transparent
fluid for displacing surrounding blood to allow visualization of NADH fluorescence;
illuminating with an ultra-violet light for exciting mitochondrial NADH of the pulmonary
vein and left atrial tissue using UV capable fiber; detecting NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated pulmonary vein and left atrial tissue using optical imaging bundle; creating a
fluorescence    image with a fluorescence camera by filtering the detected NADH
fluorescence with 460 nm band-pass filter; wherein the detected fluorescence image shows
the physiology of the ablated lesion having a dark appearance due to lack of fluorescence,
gaps having a light appearance due to normal fluorescence, and any ischemic or injured
tissue having a brighter halo type appearance surrounding the ablated lesion.
 [00249]     In some embodiments, a method for acquiring a real time image of ablated
endocardial heart muscle tissue and unablated gaps at the pulmonary vein and left atrial
junction is provided, comprising inflating an inflatable compliant balloon with transparent
fluid for displacing surrounding blood to allow visualization of NADH fluorescence;
illuminating with ultra-violet light for exciting mitochondrial NADH of the pulmonary
vein and left atrial tissue using uv capable fiber; detecting NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated pulmonary vein and left atrial tissue using a CMOS camera; creating a
fluorescence    image with a fluorescence camera by filtering the detected NADH
fluorescence with 460 nm band-pass filter; wherein the detected fluorescence image shows
the physiology of the ablated lesion having a dark appearance due to lack of fluorescence,
                                             65

gaps having a light appearance due to normal fluorescence, and any ischemic or injured
tissue having a brighter halo type appearance surrounding the ablated lesion.
[00250]      In some embodiments, a method of producing visualizations of ablated lesions
in the pulmonary vein area and provide additional information about physiology is
provided, the method comprising the steps of illuminating, using an ultraviolet light
source, tissue that includes ablated tissue and unablated tissue around the ablated tissue;
imaging the illuminated tissue; and producing a display of the imaged, illuminated tissue,
wherein the display illustrates the ablated tissue as having less fluorescence than the
unablated area around the ablated tissue. In some embodiments, the display may illustrate
areas of high fluorescence surrounded by an area of lower fluorescence or lack of
fluorescence. In some embodiments, the illustrated areas of high fluorescence surrounded
by the area of lower fluorescence indicate that the areas of high fluorescence are not
ablated. In some embodiments, the fluorescence is caused by NADH in the illuminated
tissue.  In some embodiments, the illumination, imaging and producing are performed
while a radio frequency, cryoablation or laser catheter is used to ablate the tissue. In some
embodiments, the illumination and imaging are performed using a fiber optic waveguide
coupled to a tip of the lumen catheter, the fiber optic waveguide delivers ultraviolet light
from the ultraviolet light source to the illuminated tissue. In some embodiments, the tissue
is heart tissue. In some embodiments, the imaging of the illuminated tissue is performed
without addition of chemicals to the illuminated tissue.
[00251]      In some embodiments, a method of treating Atrial Fibrillation (AF) is
provided, the method comprising the steps of ablating a portion of the atrial tissue;
illuminating tissue using an ultraviolet light source; imaging the illuminated tissue using
fluorescence camera and a filter for allowing visualization of fluorescence; producing a
                                             66

display of the imaged illuminated tissue; identifying gaps between ablated tissue based on
the display of the imaged illuminated tissue; wherein ablated tissue is identified by lack of
fluorescence which gives the tissue a dark appearance and wherein gaps constituting
unablated tissue are identified by fluorescence which gives them a light appearance and
ablating the identified unablated tissue gaps between ablated tissue. In some embodiments,
the display illustrates the ablated tissue as having less fluorescence than the gaps.
[00252]      In some embodiments, a system for imaging tissue includes a catheter having
a distal end and a proximal end; an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the
catheter; and an optical housing extending from the distal end of the catheter into the
balloon, the optical housing being configured to position inside the balloon a light source
for illuminating a tissue outside the balloon and a camera for imaging the illuminated
tissue.
[00253]      In some embodiments, a system for imaging tissue includes a catheter having
a distal end and a proximal end; an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the
catheter; and an optical housing extending from the distal end of the catheter into the
balloon; a light source inside the balloon, the light source being supported by the optical
housing and configured to excite excite native reduced form of nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen (NADH) in a tissue; and a
camera inside the balloon, the camera being supported by the optical housing and
configured to image the tissue illuminated by the light source.
[00254]      In some embodiments, a system for imaging tissue includes a catheter having
a distal end and a proximal end; an irrigation port to displace blood with a fluid about the
distal end of the catheter; and an optical housing extending from the distal end of the
catheter, the optical housing being configured to support a light emitting diode light source
                                               67

for illuminating tissue and a visualization device including a plurality of image sensors
that convert an optical image into an electronic signal for imaging the illuminated tissue.
[00255]      In some embodiments, a system for imaging tissue includes a sheath for
infusing a fluid capable of displacing blood and transmitting light; a catheter disposed
within the sheath, the catheter having a distal end and a proximal end; an optical housing
extending from the distal end of the catheter, the optical housing being configured to
support a light emitting diode light source for illuminating tissue and a visualization
device including a plurality of image sensors that converts an optical image into an
electronic signal for imaging the illuminated tissue.
[00256]      In some embodiments, a method for imaging tissue includes advancing to a
tissue a catheter comprising an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal end of the
catheter and an optical housing extending from the distal end of the catheter into the
balloon to position a light source and a camera inside the balloon; ablating the tissue;
illuminating with the light source an area of tissue including tissue treated by ablation and
surrounding tissue to excite NADH in the area of tissue; imaging with an imaging device
the area of tissue to detect NADH fluorescence of the area of tissue; and producing a
display of the imaged, illuminated tissue, the display illustrating ablated tissue as having
less fluorescence than non-ablated tissue.
[00257]      The foregoing disclosure has been set forth merely to illustrate various non
limiting embodiments of the present disclosure and is not intended to be limiting. Since
modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the
disclosure may occur to persons skilled in the art, the presently disclosed embodiments
should be construed to include everything within the scope of the appended claims and
equivalents thereof.
                                            68

[00258]     Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.
[00259]     Furthermore, throughout the specification, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "include" or variations such as "includes" or "including", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
[00260]     Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a skilled addressee
are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                            69

             THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
  1. A system for imaging tissue comprising:
         an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
         an ablation device along a portion of the elongated body for ablating a tissue;
         a light source providing light for illuminating the tissue having at least one
wavelength sufficient to excite mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen
(NADH) in the tissue;
         a sensor for detecting NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue, the sensor
being configured to receive light having at least one wavelength to detect the NADH
fluorescence from the illuminated tissue; and
         one or more optical fibers to deliver the light from the light source to the tissue and to
deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor,
         wherein the detected NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue is used to
distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
  2. The system of claim 1, wherein a processor associated with the sensor is configured to
  generate a digital representation of the NADH fluorescence to distinguish between ablated
  tissue and non-ablated tissue.
  3.  The system of claim 1 or 2, wherein the light for illuminating the tissue has at least one
  wavelength between about 300 nm and 400 nm.
  4. The system of claim 3, wherein the sensor is configured to receive light having at least
  one wavelength between about 435 nm and about 485 nm.
                                                 70

  5. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the ablation device has an
  energy source selected from the group consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave
  energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound
  energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy, and thermal energy.
  6. The system of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an irrigation port
  configured to deliver a fluid to the distal end of the elongate body.
  7. A system for imaging tissue comprising:
        an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
        an ablation device along a portion of the elongated body for ablating a tissue;
        a light source providing light for illuminating the tissue to excite mitochondrial
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen (NADH) in the tissue, wherein the light from the
light source has at least one wavelength between about 300 nm and about 400 nm sufficient
for NADH excitation;
        a sensor being configured to receive light to detect NADH fluorescence from the
illuminated tissue, wherein the light detected by the sensor has at least one wavelength
between about 435 nm and about 485 nm; and
        a processor associated with the sensor and configured to generate a digital
representation of the NADH fluorescence to distinguish between ablated tissue and non
ablated tissue.
  8. The system of claim 7, further comprising an inflatable balloon disposed about the distal
  end of the elongate body.
                                                 71

9. The system of claim 8, the ablation device associated with the balloon for ablating a
tissue.
10. The system of claim 8 or 9, wherein the light source and the sensor are positioned inside
the balloon.
11. The system of any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the ablation device has an energy
source selected from the group consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave energy,
electrical energy, electromagnetic energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound energy,
acoustic energy, chemical energy, and thermal energy.
12. The system of any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the light source is a UV light emitting
diode (LED).
13. The system of any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the sensor is configured to convert an
optical image into an electronic signal.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising one or more optical fibers to deliver the
light from the light source to the tissue and to deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor.
15. The system of any one of claims 7 to 14, further comprising a first light source and a
second light source capable of generating light of a different wavelength than the first light
source.
16. The system of any one of claims 7 to 15, further comprising an irrigation port
configured to deliver a fluid to the distal end of the elongate body.
17. A system for imaging tissue comprising:
       an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
                                               72

         an inflatable balloon disposed along the elongated body;
         an ablation device associated with the balloon for ablating a tissue;
         a light source providing light for illuminating the tissue having at least one
wavelength sufficient to excite mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydrogen
(NADH) in the tissue;
         a sensor for detecting NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue, the sensor
being configured to receive light having at least one wavelength to detect the NADH
fluorescence from the illuminated tissue; and
         one or more optical fibers to deliver the light from the light source to the tissue and to
deliver the NADH fluorescence to the sensor,
         wherein the detected NADH fluorescence from the illuminated tissue is used to
distinguish between ablated tissue and non-ablated tissue.
  18. The system of claim 17, wherein a processor associated with the sensor is configured to
  generate a digital representation of the NADH fluorescence to distinguish between ablated
  tissue and non-ablated tissue.
  19. The system of claim 17 or 18, wherein the light for illuminating the tissue has at least
  one wavelength between about 300 nm and 400 nm.
  20. The system of any one of claims 17 to 19, wherein the sensor is configured to receive
  light having at least one wavelength between about 435 nm and about 485 nm.
  21. The system of any one of claims 17 to 20, wherein the ablation device has an energy
  source selected from the group consisting of radiofrequency energy, microwave energy,
                                                 73

  electrical energy, electromagnetic energy, cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound energy,
  acoustic energy, chemical energy, and thermal energy
  22. The system of any one of claims 17 to 21, further comprising an irrigation port
  configured to deliver a fluid to the distal end of the elongate body.
  23. A method for imaging tissue comprising:
         advancing to a tissue an elongated body having a distal end and a proximal end;
         ablating the tissue with an ablation device disposed at the distal end of the elongated
body;
         illuminating with light having at least one wavelength between about 300 nm and
about 400 nm from a light source an area of tissue including tissue treated by ablation and
surrounding tissue to excite NADH in the area of tissue;
         detecting with a sensor the area of tissue to detect light having at least one wavelength
between about 435 nm and about 485 nm to detect NADH fluorescence of the area of tissue;
and
         producing and displaying a representation of the NADH fluorescence, the display
illustrating ablated tissue as having less fluorescence than non-ablated tissue.
  24. The method of claim 23, wherein the elongated body comprises an inflatable balloon
  disposed about the distal end of the elongated body.
  25. The method of claim 24, wherein the light source and the sensor are positioned inside
  the balloon.
                                                 74

26. The method of any one of claims 23 to 25, wherein one or more optical fibers are
employed to deliver the light from the light source to the tissue and to deliver the NADH
fluorescence to the sensor.
27. The method of any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein the tissue is a heart muscle tissue.
28. The method of any one of claims 23 to 27, further comprising ablating additional injured
tissue identified by distinguishing between the ablated tissue and the injured non-ablated
tissue based on the amount of fluorescence.
29. The method of any one of claims 23 to 28, further comprising irrigating an area around
the tissue using an irrigation port configured to deliver a fluid to the distal end of the
elongate body.
30. The method of any one of claims 23 to 29, wherein the ablating is performed with
radiofrequency energy, microwave energy, electrical energy, electromagnetic energy,
cryoenergy, laser energy, ultrasound energy, acoustic energy, chemical energy, and thermal
energy.
                                              75

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
