   ABSTRACT
   There is disclosed a valve assembly 100 for controlling the supply of breathable gas to
   a user, comprising a valve assembly inlet port 104 for a source of breathable gas and a
 5 valve assembly outlet port 106 for delivering breathable gas to a user. The valve
   assembly 100 also comprises a pressure reduction valve 108 disposed between the
   valve assembly inlet port and the valve assembly outlet port and configured to reduce
   the pressure of breathable gas supplied at the valve assembly inlet port in use; and a
   flow control valve 110 disposed between the pressure reduction valve and the valve
10 assembly outlet port and having a flow adjuster 112. In use, the flow adjuster 122 can
   be used to adjust the gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve
   assembly outlet port 106.
   Figure 12

             8/23
                            06               100
                                 138
        150 148                      134
144 146               15114
                            '1128
                                             010
              1168
           FI24
                                         122
                   120         104
           FIG. 12

                                                   1
   VALVE ASSEMBLY
   The invention relates to a valve assembly for controlling the supply of breathable gas to
   a user.
 5
   When working in an environment in which the atmosphere is either contaminated or
   otherwise unsuitable for breathing it is necessary to use breathing apparatus. One
   option is to use self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) which typically comprises a
   cylinder of breathable gas that is carried by the user. Whilst this may be suitable for
10 some applications, the equipment worn by the user may be bulky and may therefore
   restrict the activities that the user can carry out, and the size of the cylinder that the
   user can carry may not contain enough breathable gas for a suitable working duration.
   It is therefore known for the breathable gas to be supplied to the wearer from a large
   cylinder that is either static or moveable on a trolley, or from a breathable gas airline
15 installed within the building. The breathable gas is typically delivered to the user
   through a facemask or hood or protection suit that is fluidically connected to the source
   of breathable gas, such as a tank or airline, with a flexible conduit. The breathable gas
   may be supplied on demand, by using a lung demand valve for example, or may be
   supplied constantly.
20
   If the breathable gas is supplied constantly in a constant flow arrangement it is
   necessary to reduce the pressure of the gas and control the flow rate of the gas. It is
   known to use a valve assembly to achieve this. In previously considered arrangements
   valve assembly arrangements the flow rate is entirely dependent on the supply
25 pressure. Therefore, if the supply pressure drops, the flow rate drops. Similarly, it may
   not be possible to control the flow rate supplied without altering the pressure delivered.
   This may be problematic as the supply pressure may decrease as the source of
   breathable gas is depleted and/or as more users connect. This may be a particular
   problem where multiple users connect to a large tank or ring main.
30
   It is therefore desirable to provide an improved valve assembly.
   According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a valve assembly for
   controlling the supply of breathable gas to a user, comprising: a valve assembly inlet
35 port for a source of breathable gas; a valve assembly outlet port for delivering
   breathable gas to a user; a pressure reduction valve disposed between the valve

                                                  2
   assembly inlet port and the valve assembly outlet port and configured to reduce the
   pressure of breathable gas supplied at the valve assembly inlet port in use; and a flow
   control valve disposed between the pressure reduction valve and the valve assembly
   outlet port and having a flow adjuster which in use can be used to adjust the gas flow
 5 rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port, wherein the
   flow control valve comprises one or more flow passageways for breathable gas, the
   overall size of which can be adjusted in use by the flow adjuster so as to adjust the gas
   flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port, wherein
   the overall size of the one or more flow passageways has a minimum size so as to
10 ensure that in use the gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve
   assembly outlet port is kept above a minimum.
   The valve assembly may be referred to as an integrated flow control and reducer valve.
   The valve assembly may be particularly suitable for constant flow breathing apparatus
15 in which breathable gas is continuously supplied to a user from a source of breathable
   gas such as a cylinder, tank, compressor or compressed air network (or ring main)
   installed in a building.
   The pressure reduction valve may be arranged to reduce the pressure to 10 bar or
20 less, 8 bar or less, 6 bar or less, 4 bar or less, or 2.5 bar or less. The flow control valve
   may be capable of adjusting the flow rate between 0-600 1/min, 50-500 1/min, 100-400
   I/min, or 170-350 /min.
   The flow control valve and the pressure reduction valve may be separate valves. In
25 other words, the flow control valve and pressure reduction valves may be separate
   mechanical assemblies which may or may not be disposed in a single housing.
   The valve assembly may be configured such that the gas flow rate of the breathable
   gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port is substantially independent of the
30 pressure of the breathable gas supplied at the valve assembly inlet port. The flow rate
   may be independent of supply pressure over a range. The range may be within 0-20
   bar, 0.5-18 bar, 1-16 bar, 1.5-14 bar, 2-14 bar, 2.5-12 bar, or 2.8-10 bar. If the valve
   assembly is used with constant flow breathing apparatus, this may mean that the flow
   rate of the breathable gas supplied to the user does not change as the supply pressure
35 of the breathable gas changes. During the use of breathing apparatus, the supply
   pressure of the source of breathable gas may reduce as more users connect to the

                                                 3
   same source of breathable gas, or as the source of breathable gas is depleted. The
   valve assembly may be configured such that the in use the flow adjuster can be used
   to adjust the flow rate without substantially changing the pressure of the breathable gas
   delivered from the valve assembly outlet port.
 5
   The flow adjuster may comprise a rotatable knob. This may be easily adjustable by the
   user.
   The flow control valve may comprise at least one flow passageway for breathable gas,
10 the size of which can be adjusted in use by the flow adjuster so as to adjust the gas
   flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port. There
   may be multiple separate flow passageways, or a single passageway. If there are
   multiple flow passageways, each one may be of a variable size, or one or more may be
   fixed and one or more may be variable. The at least one flow passageway may have a
15 minimum size so as to ensure that in use the gas flow rate of the breathable gas
   delivered from the valve assembly outlet port is kept above a minimum. If there is a
   single passageway it may have a minimum size to which it can be reduced, if there are
   multiple passageways one may be fixed open and one may be variable between fully
   open and fully closed. As will be appreciated, other alternatives are possible.
20
   The flow control valve may comprise a first member, such as a plate or tube, having a
   first orifice opening and a second adjacent member, such as a plate or tube, having a
   second orifice opening, wherein in use the flow adjuster may be used to move one of
   the members relative to the other member so as to vary the degree of alignment of the
25 first and second orifice openings, thereby adjusting the size of an orifice passageway
   defined by the first and second orifice openings and hence the gas flow rate of the
   breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port. The first and/or second
   member may be rotatable or slidable, for example. The flow adjuster may be coupled
   to the first or second member. The first member may be a first plate and the second
30 member may be a second plate. The first and second plates may be parallel and in
   contact with each other. One of the members may be fixed and the other may be
   moveable by the flow adjuster. For example, the first plate may be rotatable and the
   second plate may be fixed.
35 The flow control valve may comprise a bypass passageway having a minimum size so
   as to ensure that in use the gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve

                                                  4
   assembly outlet port is kept above a minimum. The minimum may be at least 50 1/min,
   100 1/min, 150 1/min, or 170 1/min. The first and second members may comprise first
   and second bypass openings that in use are always aligned to at least some degree
   regardless of the relative position of the first and second members. The valve
 5 assembly may be arranged such that the flow adjuster can be used to rotate one of the
   members about a rotational axis with respect to the other member so as to vary the
   degree of alignment of the first and second openings. The first and second bypass
   openings may be coaxial with one another and the rotational axis. The degree of
   alignment of the first and second bypass openings may be fixed so that the size of the
10 bypass passageway is fixed. If the members are plates such as discs, the bypass
   openings may extend through the centre of the discs such that they are coaxial.
   The pressure reduction valve may comprise a pressure chamber downstream of a
   valve seat and a corresponding valve member. The pressure chamber may be
15 upstream of the flow control valve. The valve member may be resiliently biased away
   from the valve seat to an open position in which breathable gas supplied at the valve
   assembly inlet port can flow into the chamber. The valve member may be resiliently
   biased by any suitable means such as a spring or a mass of resilient material. In use,
   breathable gas in the pressure chamber may act against the bias to move the valve
20 member towards a closed position. The valve member may be coupled to a piston
   slidably disposed within the pressure chamber and upon which in use breathable gas in
   the pressure chamber acts to move the valve member towards a closed position. The
   valve member may be attached to the piston by a piston shaft. A fluid passageway
   may extend from the valve member through the piston and piston shaft and open into
25 the pressure chamber. The tip of the piston shaft may form the valve member.
   The pressure reduction valve and the flow control valve may be at least partially
   disposed within a common housing. The pressure reduction valve and flow control
   valve may be sealed within a common housing. The flow adjuster may be disposed
30 outside of the housing so that it can be easily adjusted. The valve assembly inlet port
   may be the pressure reduction valve inlet, the pressure reduction valve outlet may be
   in direct fluid communication with the flow control valve inlet and the flow control valve
   outlet may be the valve assembly outlet port. The valve assembly inlet and outlet ports
   may be formed in a housing and may be formed in opposing ends of a housing. The
35 valve assembly inlet port may be a threaded inlet port or a push-fit inlet port and

                                                 5
   similarly the valve assembly outlet may be a threaded outlet port or a push-fit outlet
   port.
   The invention also relates to breathing apparatus equipment, comprising: a manifold
 5 having a manifold inlet port for a source of breathable gas and at least one manifold
   outlet port; a valve assembly in accordance with any statement herein, wherein the
   valve assembly inlet port is fluidically connected to the manifold outlet port. The
   manifold may be arranged to be attached to a the user. The valve assembly may be
   connected to the manifold for controlling the supply of breathable gas to the user. The
10 equipment may further comprise a strap arranged to be worn by the user; and a holder
   coupled to the strap and to which the manifold is attached.
   The invention also relates to breathing apparatus, comprising: breathing apparatus
   equipment in accordance with any statement herein; a breathable gas delivery device
15 for delivering breathable gas to a user with a first flexible conduit fluidically coupled
   between the breathable gas delivery device and the valve assembly outlet port; and
   a source of breathable gas with a second flexible conduit fluidically coupled between
   the source of breathable gas and the manifold inlet port. The breathable gas delivery
   device may be a facemask or a hood or a protection suit. The source of breathable
20 gas may be a tank, a cylinder, a compressor or a compressed air network (or ring
   main) installed within a building.
   According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a fluid adapter for a
   breathable gas delivery device, such as a facemask, hood or protection suit, for
25 delivering breathable gas to a user, the fluid adapter comprising: an adapter body
   defining an adapter chamber; a pressurised gas inlet port in fluid communication with
   the adapter chamber and arranged to be fluidically coupled to a source of pressurised
   breathable gas; an ambient air inlet port arranged to provide fluid communication
   between the adapter chamber and ambient air outside of the fluid adapter; an adapter
30 outlet port in fluid communication with the adapter chamber and arranged to be
   fluidically coupled to a delivery device gas inlet port of the breathable gas delivery
   device; and an adapter connector arranged to connect the fluid adapter to the
   breathable gas delivery device such that the adapter outlet port is fluidically coupled to
   the delivery device gas inlet port. The adapter may allow either ambient air or
35 pressurised breathable gas to be supplied to the user. The adapter may be particularly
   suitable for constant flow breathing apparatus in which pressurised breathable gas is

                                                 6
   continuously supplied to a user from a source of breathable gas such as a cylinder,
   tank, compressor or compressed air network (or ring main) installed in a building.
   The pressurised gas inlet port may be provided with a pressurised gas connector for
 5 fluidically and/or physically connecting a flexible conduit for supplying pressurised
   breathable gas to the pressurised gas inlet port.
   The fluid adapter may further comprise a valve disposed between the ambient air inlet
   port and the adapter chamber. This may mean that the valve is disposed between, and
10 separates, the ambient air inlet port from both the pressurised gas inlet and the adapter
   outlet port. The valve may be a one-way valve arranged so as to permit fluid flow into
   the adapter chamber through the ambient air inlet port but restrict or prevent fluid flow
   out of the adapter chamber through the ambient air inlet port. The valve may be a
   diaphragm one-way valve. The valve may prevent pressurised breathable gas
15 supplied through the pressurised gas inlet port from exiting the adapter chamber
   through the ambient air inlet port. When pressurised breathable gas is supplied
   through the pressurised air inlet port, this may close the valve thereby preventing
   ambient air from being inhaled into the adapter chamber through the ambient air inlet
   port.
20
   The fluid adapter may further comprise a filter disposed between the ambient air inlet
   port and the adapter chamber. The filter may be disposed between the ambient air
   inlet port and both the pressurised gas inlet port and the adapter outlet port. The filter
   may be arranged to filter ambient air inhaled through the ambient air inlet port. The
25 filter may be disposed between the ambient air inlet port and the valve.
   The fluid adapter may further comprise a blanking plug that is located or is arranged to
   be located within the ambient air inlet port so as to prevent fluid flow through the
   ambient air inlet port. When located within the ambient air inlet port this may seal the
30 ambient air inlet port preventing ambient air from being inhaled through the ambient air
   inlet port. The blanking plug may be threadedly engaged with, or arranged to be
   threadedly engaged with the ambient air inlet port. Alternatively the blanking plug may
   be arranged for a push or snap fit.
35 The fluid adapter may further comprise an excess flow valve which is arranged to open
   and close in response to the pressure within the adapter chamber so as to vent

                                                   7
   exhaled air, or gas, within the adapter chamber to the atmosphere. When pressurised
   breathable gas is supplied through the pressurised gas inlet port, if the flow rate is in
   excess of that which is required by the user, the excess gas can exit to the atmosphere
   through the excess flow valve. The excess flow valve may be a one-way valve so that
 5 it does not permit ambient air from entering the adapter chamber. The fluid adapter
   may further comprise an excess flow passageway extending through the adapter body
   into the adapter chamber, wherein the excess flow valve is arranged to control the flow
   of exhaled air, or gas, through the excess flow passageway. The excess flow valve
   may be resiliently biased to a closed position and may be arranged to move to an open
10 position when the pressure within the adapter chamber is above a threshold. The
   excess flow valve may open when the user exhales as the pressure within the adapter
   chamber increases. The excess flow valve may be a one-way diaphragm valve or a
   sleeve valve.
15 The adapter connector may comprise a threaded adapter outlet port, a snap-fit adapter
   outlet port or a press-fit adapter outlet port.
   At least one fluid passageway may extending through the adapter body into the
   adapter chamber. The adapter body may have a generally cylindrical outer wall portion
20 through which at least one fluid passageway extends into the adapter chamber. There
   may be multiple fluid passageways circumferentially distributed about the body or
   cylindrical outer wall portion at substantially the same axial position. The body or
   generally cylindrical outer wall portion may have a stepped profile of various diameters
   or may be of a constant diameter. The fluid adapter may further comprise a rotatable
25 part comprising an annular member and the pressurised gas inlet port. The
   pressurised gas inlet port may extend from the annular member in a direction having a
   radial component. The rotatable part may be rotatably coupled to the adapter body
   with the annular member surrounding the adapter body, such as the cylindrical outer
   wall portion of the adapter body, and with the pressurised gas inlet port in fluid
30 communication with the adapter chamber through the at least one fluid passageway.
   The annular member may be sealed to the body or cylindrical outer wall portion axially
   either side of the at least one fluid passageway. The rotatable part may be rotatable to
   a plurality of angular positions with respect to the adapter body so as to alter the
   position of the pressurised gas inlet port. In each of the angular positions the
35 pressurised gas inlet port may be in fluid communication with the adapter chamber.
   The pressurised gas inlet port may be in fluid communication with the adapter chamber

                                                 8
   regardless of the angular position of the rotatable part. Alternatively, the pressurised
   gas inlet port may only be in fluid communication with the adapter chamber when it is in
   one of a set number of angular positions.
 5 The fluid adapter may further comprise an indexing feature defining a plurality of
   discrete angular positions to which the rotatable part can be rotated with respect to the
   adapter body. There may be at least two, at least four, at least six, at least eight, or at
   least ten discrete angular positions. The indexing feature may be integrally formed with
   the rotatable part and the adapter body. The indexing feature may comprise a plurality
10 of circumferentially spaced first formations formed on either the adapter body or the
   rotatable part and at least one corresponding second formation formed on the other of
   the adapter body and the rotatable part. The number of second formations may be the
   same as the number of first formations and may be spaced in the same way.
   Alternatively, there may be a single second formation and multiple first formations. In
15 one arrangement there are multiple first and second formations that are both evenly
   circumferentially spaced with the number of first formations an integer multiple of the
   number of second formations. The first and/or second formations may be evenly
   circumferentially distributed. First and second formations may be arranged to engage
   with one another at each of the plurality discrete angular positions. The first formations
20 may comprise recesses or projections and the at least one second formation may
   comprise the other of recesses or projections. The circumferential spacing of the first
   formations may define the plurality of discrete angular positions. First formations may
   be formed on either the adapter body, such as the outer surface of the cylindrical outer
   wall portion of the adapter body, or the inner surface of the annular member. The at
25 least one second formation may be formed on the other of the outer surface of the
   cylindrical outer wall portion and the inner surface of the annular member. The adapter
   body, or the cylindrical outer wall portion of the adapter body, or the annular member
   may be resiliently deformable. This may allow the first and second formations to
   engage, and be disengaged by relative rotation. The indexing feature may inhibit the
30 movement of the rotatable part away from a particular discrete angular position.
   Movement of the rotatable part away from a particular angular position may be
   achieved by applying a sufficient rotation force between the adapter body and the
   rotatable part.
35 The adapter may further comprise an annular fluid channel between the adapter body
   and the annular member into which the pressurised gas inlet port and the at least one

                                                  9
   fluid passageway opens so as to ensure fluid communication between the pressurised
   gas inlet port and the adapter chamber regardless of the angular position of the
   rotatable part. The inner surface of the annular member and/or the outer surface of the
   cylindrical outer wall portion may be provided with an annular fluid channel into which
 5 the pressurised gas inlet port or the at least one fluid passageway opens. The annular
   fluid channel may be aligned, such as axially aligned, so as to ensure fluid
   communication between the pressurised gas inlet port and the adapter chamber
   regardless of the angular position of the rotatable part.. If there are multiple fluid
   passageways they may all be aligned with the annular fluid channel.
10
   The fluid adapter may further comprise a sealing arrangement sealing between the
   adapter body and the annular member. The sealing arrangement may comprise first
   and second seals disposed either side of the at least one fluid passageway. The
   sealing arrangement may comprise at least one lip seal having a lip portion which seals
15 against a sealing surface formed by either the adapter body or the annular member.
   The lip seal may comprise a main ring portion integrally formed with the lip portion.
   The lip seal may be annular. The lip seal may be mounted to the adapter body or the
   annular member. The lip portion may extend between the adapter body and the
   annular member. The lip portion may be resiliently deformable. The lip portion may
20 extend in a direction inclined to the radial direction. The lip portion may extend in a
   direction that is inclined away from the at least one fluid passageway. The lip portion
   may be inclined in a direction away from the pressure side of the adapter chamber.
   The lip seal may be configured such that a pressure within the adapter chamber above
   a threshold causes the lip portion to resiliently deflect away from the sealing surface,
25 thereby allowing gas within the adapter chamber to be vented out of the adapter
   chamber. The lip seal may therefore provide the functionality of an excess flow or
   pressure relief valve.
   The invention also relates to breathing apparatus equipment, comprising: a breathable
30 gas delivery device for delivering breathable gas to a user and having a delivery device
   gas inlet port; and a fluid adapter in accordance with any statement herein; wherein the
   adapter connector connects the fluid adapter to the breathable gas delivery device
   such that the adapter outlet port is fluidically coupled to the delivery device gas inlet
   port. The breathable gas delivery device may be a facemask or a hood or a protection
35 suit.

                                                    10
   The invention also relates to breathing apparatus, comprising: a manifold having a
   manifold inlet port for a source of breathable gas and at least one manifold outlet port;
   a strap arranged to be worn by the user; a holder coupled to the strap and to which the
   manifold is attached; breathing apparatus equipment in accordance with any statement
 5 herein with a first flexible conduit fluidically coupled between the pressurised gas inlet
   port and the manifold outlet port; and a source of pressurised breathable gas with a
   second flexible conduit fluidically coupled between the pressurised source of
   breathable gas and the manifold inlet port. The source of breathable gas may be a
   tank, a cylinder, a compressor or a compressed air network (or ring main) installed
10 within a building.
   According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a fluid coupling, comprising: a
   body defining a fluid chamber at least one fluid passageway extending through the
   body into the fluid chamber; a rotatable part comprising an annular member and a
15 moveable fluid port, the rotatable part being rotatably coupled to the body with the
   annular member surrounding the body; and an indexing feature defining a plurality of
   discrete angular positions to which the rotatable part can be rotated with respect to the
   body so as to alter the position of the moveable fluid port, wherein in each of the
   angular positions the moveable fluid port is in fluid communication with the fluid
20 chamber. The body may have a generally cylindrical outer wall portion through which
   the at least on fluid passageway extends. The annular member may surround the
   cylindrical outer wall portion with the moveable fluid port in fluid communication with the
   fluid chamber through the at least one fluid passageway. There may be at least two, at
   least four, at least six, at least eight, or at least ten discrete angular positions. The
25 indexing feature may be integrally formed with the rotatable part and the adapter body.
   There may be multiple fluid passageways circumferentially distributed about the body
   or cylindrical outer wall portion at substantially the same axial position. The body or
   generally cylindrical outer wall portion may have a stepped profile of various diameters
30 or may be of a constant diameter. The fluid port may extend from the annular member
   in a direction having a radial component. The annular member may be sealed to the
   body or cylindrical outer wall portion axially either side of the at least one fluid
   passageway. The fluid port may be in fluid communication with the adapter chamber
   regardless of the angular position of the rotatable part. Alternatively, the fluid port may
35 only be in fluid communication with the adapter chamber when it is in one of a set
   number of angular positions.

                                                11
   The indexing feature may comprise a plurality of circumferentially spaced first
   formations formed on either the body or the rotatable part and at least one
   corresponding second formation formed on the other of the body and the rotatable part.
 5 The number of second formations may be the same as the number of first formations
   and may be spaced in the same way. Alternatively, there may be a single second
   formation and multiple first formations. In one arrangement there are multiple first and
   second formations that are both evenly circumferentially spaced with the number of first
   formations an integer multiple of the number of second formations. The first and/or
10 second formations may be evenly circumferentially distributed. First and second
   formations may be arranged to engage with one another at each of the plurality
   discrete angular positions. The first formations may comprise recesses or projections
   and the at least one second formation comprises the other of recesses or projections.
   The circumferential spacing of the first formations may define the plurality of discrete
15 angular positions. First formations may be formed on either the outer surface of the
   body, such as the cylindrical outer wall portion of the body, or the inner surface of the
   annular member. The at least one second formation may be formed on the other of the
   outer surface of the body, such as the cylindrical outer wall portion of the body, and the
   inner surface of the annular member. The body, such as the cylindrical outer wall
20 portion of the body, or the annular member may be resiliently deformable. This may
   allow the first and second formations to engage, and be disengaged by relative
   rotation. The indexing feature may inhibit the movement of the rotatable part away
   from a particular discrete angular position. Movement of the rotatable part away from a
   particular angular position may be achieved by applying a sufficient rotation force
25 between the adapter body and the rotatable part.
   The fluid coupling may further comprise an annular fluid channel between the body and
   the annular member into which the fluid port and the at least one fluid passageway
   opens so as to ensure fluid communication between the fluid port and the fluid
30 chamber regardless of the angular position of the rotatable part. The inner surface of
   the annular member and/or the outer surface of the body, such as the cylindrical outer
   wall portion of the body, may be provided with an annular fluid channel into which the
   fluid port or the at least one fluid passageway opens. The annular fluid channel may
   be aligned, such as axially aligned, so as to ensure fluid communication between the
35 fluid port and the fluid chamber regardless of the angular position of the rotatable part.

                                                 12
   If there are multiple fluid passageways they may all be aligned with the annular fluid
   channel.
   The fluid coupling may further comprise a sealing arrangement sealing between the
 5 body and the annular member. The sealing arrangement may comprise first and
   second seals disposed either side of the at least one fluid passageway. The sealing
   arrangement may comprise at least one lip seal having a lip portion which seals against
   a sealing surface formed by either the body or the annular member. The lip seal may
   comprise a main ring portion integrally formed with the lip portion. The lip seal may be
10 annular. The lip seal may be mounted to the body or the annular member. The lip
   portion may extend between the body and the annular member. The lip portion may be
   resiliently deformable. The lip portion may extend in a direction inclined to the radial
   direction. The lip portion may extend in a direction that is inclined away from the at
   least one fluid passageway. The lip portion may be inclined in a direction away from
15 the pressure side of the fluid chamber. The lip seal may be configured such that a
   pressure within the fluid chamber above a threshold causes the lip portion to resiliently
   deflect away from the sealing surface, thereby allowing gas within the fluid chamber to
   be vented out of the adapter chamber. The lip seal may therefore provide the
   functionality of a pressure relief valve.
20
   The moveable fluid port may be an input port for supplying fluid to the fluid chamber or
   an output port for delivering fluid from the fluid chamber. The body may comprise a
   fluid coupling inlet port and a fluid coupling outlet port at opposing ends.
25 The invention also relates to a manifold having a manifold inlet port for a source of
   breathable gas and at least one manifold outlet port for delivering breathable gas to a
   user, the manifold comprising at least one fluid coupling in accordance with any
   statement herein, wherein the manifold inlet port comprises a fluid coupling inlet port
   and/or wherein the manifold outlet port comprises the fluid coupling outlet port.
30
   The invention also relates to breathing apparatus equipment comprising the fluid
   coupling in accordance with any statement herein or a manifold in accordance with any
   statement herein.
35 According to an aspect of the invention there is provided breathing apparatus
   equipment, such as a waist mountable manifold, comprising: a manifold having a

                                                  13
   manifold inlet port for a source of breathable gas and at least one manifold outlet port
   for delivering breathable gas to a user; a strap, such as a waist belt, arranged to be
   worn by the user; and a holder coupled to the strap and having a socket which is
   configured such that the manifold can be removably located within the socket in
 5 multiple orientations. This may result in a versatile piece of equipment which may be
   configured by the particular user. For example, if the breathing apparatus equipment is
   a waist mountable manifold, the user may easily change the equipment from being
   suitable for wearing on their left side, to being suitable for wearing on their right side.
   This may be achieved by removing the manifold from the socket, and relocating it in the
10 same socket in a different orientation.
   The manifold may be removably located within the socket in one of the multiple
   orientations.
15 At least part of the socket may have a shape corresponding to the external profile, or at
   least a substantial part of the external profile, of the manifold. This allows the manifold
   to be located within the socket, although part of the manifold, such as any fittings or
   fluid ports, may project from the socket.
20 The holder may be arranged to protectively enclose the manifold within the socket.
   Thus, when the manifold is located within the socket the holder may protect it from
   damage.
   The shape of the socket may be symmetrical. This may allow the manifold to be
25 located within the socket in multiple orientations. The socket may be Y-shaped, such
   as a symmetrical Y-shape. If the manifold is also a symmetrical Y-shape, the manifold
   can be located within the socket in first and second orientations that are essentially
   mirror images of each other. Of course, it should be appreciated that shapes other
   than Y-shape could be used. For example, the socket and/or manifold could be X
30 shaped.
   The socket may be provided in the rear side of the holder such that in use the socket
   faces the user. This may mean that when the manifold is located within the socket, in
   use, the manifold is between the holder and user, thereby protecting the manifold from
35 being removed from the holder.

                                                 14
   The equipment may further comprise retaining means configured to retain the manifold
   within the socket. The socket may comprises the retaining means. The retaining
   means may be resilient such that the manifold snap-fits into the socket.
 5 The external profile of the manifold, or at least a substantial part of the external profile
   of the manifold, may be symmetrical. The external profile of the manifold may be Y
   shaped, particularly, a symmetrical Y-shape. As explained above, other shapes could
   be used, for example an X-shape. If the manifold is Y-shaped having three branches,
   the lower branch may comprise the manifold inlet port for a source of breathable gas,
10 and the upper two branches may each comprise a manifold outlet port, at least one of
   them being a manifold outlet port for delivering breathable gas to a user.
   The front side of the holder may have a curved profile. The holder may be integrally
   formed. The holder may be formed from a plastics material, but other suitable
15 materials may be used.
   The holder may be slidably coupled to the strap such that it can slide along at least a
   part of the length of the strap. The strap may extend across the socket and/or may
   extend across the rear side of the holder. The strap may be a waist belt, or a shoulder
20 strap, or a bandolier-style strap. The strap may be continuous. The strap may be
   provided with length adjustment means and/or a buckle allowing it to be fastened
   around a user.
   The invention also relates to breathing apparatus comprising: breathing apparatus
25 equipment in accordance with any statement herein; a breathable gas delivery device
   for delivering breathable gas to a user with a first flexible conduit fluidically coupled
   between the breathable gas delivery device and a manifold outlet port; and a source of
   breathable gas with a second flexible conduit fluidically coupled between the source of
   breathable gas and the manifold inlet port.
30
   The breathable gas delivery device may be a facemask, a hood or a protection suit.
   The source of breathable gas may be a tank, a cylinder, a compressor or a
   compressed air network (or ring main) installed within a building.
35 The breathing apparatus may further comprise a clip fitted to the first flexible conduit for
   securing the conduit to the user, for example securing to a garment worn by the user.

                                              15
   The invention may comprise any combination of the features and/or limitations referred
   to herein, except combinations of such features as are mutually exclusive.
 5 Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example, with reference
   to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 schematically shows a compressed airline breathing apparatus including a
   waist mountable manifold;
10
   Figure 2 schematically shows the manifold of the waist mountable manifold of Figure 1;
   Figure 3 schematically shows a perspective view of the holder of the waist mountable
   manifold of Figure 1;
15
   Figure 4 schematically shows a rear view of the holder of the waist mountable manifold
   of Figure 1;
   Figure 5 schematically shows the breathing apparatus equipment with the manifold
20 removed from the strap-mounted holder;
   Figure 6 schematically shows a rear view of the breathing apparatus equipment with
   the manifold located in the holder;
25 Figure 7 schematically shows a front view of the manifold located in the holder in a first
   orientation;
   Figure 8 schematically shows a front view of the manifold located in the holder in a
   second orientation;
30
   Figure 9 schematically shows the arrangement of Figure 7 with a banjo fitting attached
   to the manifold inlet port;
   Figure 10 schematically shows a manifold suitable for a constant flow delivery device
35 having a control valve attached to a manifold outlet port;

                                               16
   Figure 11 schematically shows a perspective view of the control valve of Figure 10;
   Figure 12 schematically shows a cross-sectional view through the control valve with the
   pressure reduction valve in an open position;
 5
   Figure 13 schematically shows a cross-sectional view through the control valve with the
   pressure reduction valve in a closed position;
   Figure 14 schematically shows a plan view of the first and second plates of the flow
10 control valve in a maximum flow state;
   Figure 15 schematically shows a plan view of the first and second plates of the flow
   control valve in a reduced flow state;
15 Figure 16 schematically shows a perspective view of an adapter suitable for use with a
   constant flow delivery device;
   Figure 17 schematically shows a cross-sectional view through the adapter of Figure 16;
20 Figure 18 schematically shows a perspective view of the adapter body of the adapter of
   Figure 16;
   Figure 19 schematically shows a perspective view of the rotatable part of the adapter of
   Figure 16;
25
   Figure 20 schematically shows a perspective view of the adapter of Figure 16 with the
   blanking plug located within the ambient air inlet port;
   Figure 21 schematically shows the adapter of Figure 16 with the rotatable part rotated
30 to a different angular position;
   Figure 22 schematically shows a cross-sectional view through an adapter according to
   a second embodiment;
35 Figure 23 schematically shows a perspective view of an adapter suitable for use with a
   constant flow delivery device according to a third embodiment;

                                                  17
   Figure 24 schematically shows a cross-sectional view through the adapter of Figure 23;
   Figure 25 schematically shows a perspective view of the adapter body of the adapter of
 5 Figure 23;
   Figure 26 schematically shows a perspective view of the rotatable part of the adapter of
   Figure 23;
10 Figure 27 schematically shows the adapter of Figure 23 with the rotatable part rotated
   to a different angular position;
   Figure 28 schematically shows a close-up of the sealing arrangement; and
15 Figure 29 schematically shows a close-up of the sealing arrangement with the lip
   portion of the lip seal deflected.
   Figure 1 shows compressed airline breathing apparatus 1 comprising breathing
   apparatus equipment, in the form of a waist mountable manifold 10, a breathable gas
20 delivery device 60, comprising a facemask 62 and a lung demand valve (LDV) 64, and
   a source of breathable gas, which in this embodiment is a cylinder of compressed air
   80. As will be described in detail below, the waist mountable manifold 10 comprises a
   holder 20 attached to a waist belt 14; the holder 20 holding a manifold 40 having a
   manifold inlet port 42 and first and second manifold outlet ports 44, 46. The manifold
25 inlet port 42 of the manifold 40 is fluidically coupled to the cylinder of compressed air
   80 with a first flexible hose 82 and one of the manifold outlet ports 44 of the manifold
   40 is fluidically coupled to the LDV 64 with a second flexible hose 84. In use, the waist
   mountable manifold 10 is worn around a user's waist and the facemask 62 is donned
   allowing the user to breathe clean air supplied from the cylinder 80.
30
   Figure 2 shows the manifold 40 of the waist mountable manifold 10. The manifold 40
   is essentially a fluid connector for receiving and distributing breathable gas. The
   manifold 40 is substantially a symmetrical Y-shape having a lower branch 41 and first
   and second upper branches 43, 45. The manifold 40 is substantially symmetrical about
35 an axis A which extends through the centre of the lower branch 42. The lower branch
   41 is provided with a manifold inlet port 42 which is threadedly attached to the lower

                                                 18
   branch 41, and the first and second upper branches 43, 45 are provided with first and
   second manifold outlet ports 44, 46. The manifold inlet port 42 is for fluidically
   connecting the manifold 40 to a source of breathable gas 80, and the first manifold
   outlet port 44 is for connection to a lung-demand valve (LDV) 64 which is attached to a
 5 facemask 60. The second manifold outlet port 46 is for connection to an auxiliary
   device. In the embodiment shown in Figure 2, the auxiliary device is a low-pressure
   warning device 70, such as an alarm or whistle, that sounds when the pressure of the
   breathable gas supplied to the manifold inlet port 42 falls below a minimum threshold,
   such as 2.5bar.
10
   With reference to Figure 3 the holder 20 is an integrally formed component
   manufactured from a plastics material such as fibre reinforced Nylon@. The holder 20
   has a front side 22 that in use faces away from the user and a rear side 24 that in use
   faces towards the user. The front side of the holder 20 is curved along its length and
15 has a substantially smooth surface. As will be described below, this reduces the risk of
   snagging. As shown in Figure 4, a socket 26 in the form of a cavity is provided on the
   rear side 24 of the holder 20 such that in use it faces and is open towards the user.
   The socket 26 is a substantially symmetrical Y-shape and comprises a lower channel
   28 and first and second upper channels 30, 32. The socket 26 is substantially
20 symmetrical shape about an axis B which extends through the centre of the lower
   channel 28. The shape of the socket 26 substantially corresponds to the external
   profile of the manifold 40. Specifically, the socket 26 is shaped such that the lower and
   upper branches 41, 43, 45 of the manifold 40 can be located within the lower and upper
   channels 28, 30, 32 of the socket 26. The lower channel 28 is provided with snap-fit
25 retaining lugs 34 for retaining the manifold 40 within the socket 26. In particular, when
   the manifold 40 is located within the socket 26, the opposing retaining lugs 34 grip the
   lower branch 41 of the manifold 40 and retain it within the socket 26. The holder 20 is
   also provided with an elongate strap slot 18 at either side of the socket 26 through
   which a strap or belt 14 can be passed. This will be described in more detail below.
30
   Referring back to Figure 1, the waist belt 14 is an elongate strap that can be worn
   around a user's waist. The waist belt 14 comprises male and female connectors 16
   that allows the waist belt 14 to be fastened around the user's waist, and is provided
   with an adjustment buckle (not shown) that allows the overall length of the waist belt 14
35 to be varied so as to provide a comfortable fit. As shown in Figure 5, the waist belt 14
   passes through the two strap slots 18 in the holder 20 such that the belt 14 extends

                                                  19
   across the rear side 24 of the holder 20 and across the socket 26. This configuration
   allows the holder 20 to be slid along the length of the belt 14.
   As shown in Figure 6, the manifold 40 is removably located within the socket 26 of the
 5 holder 20. The lower branch 41 of the manifold 40 is located within the lower channel
   28 of the socket 26, and the first and second upper branches 43, 45 of the manifold 40
   are located in the first and second upper channels 30, 32 of the socket 26. With the
   manifold 40 located within the socket 26, the manifold inlet and manifold outlet ports
   42, 44, 46 project from the holder 20. The manifold 40 snap-fits into the socket 26 and
10 is retained within the socket by the retaining lugs 34 which grip the lower branch 41 of
   the manifold 40. The manifold 40 can be removed from the socket 26 with ease
   without any tools by simply pulling the manifold 40 away from the holder 20. This
   causes the retaining lugs 34 to be resiliently deformed to allow the manifold 40 to be
   removed from the socket 26.
15
   Due to the shape of both the manifold 40 and the socket 26, the manifold 40 can be
   located within the socket 26 in two different orientations. In this particular embodiment
   this is because the shape of the socket 26 corresponds to a substantial part of the
   external profile of the manifold 40, and because the socket 26 and manifold 40 are
20 substantially symmetrical. This means that the manifold 40 can be located in a first
   orientation (Figure 7) in which the first manifold outlet port 44 located on the left side of
   the holder 20 as viewed from the front side, and in a second orientation (Figure 8) in
   which the first manifold outlet port 44 is located on the right side of the holder 20 as
   viewed from the front side. The benefits of being able to locate the manifold 40 within
25 the socket 26 in multiple orientations will be described in detail below. It should be
   appreciated that in other embodiments the socket and manifold may be configured
   differently in order to achieve the ability of being able to locate the manifold within the
   socket in multiple orientations.
30 In use, with the holder 20 slidably attached to the waist belt 14 and a manifold 40 in the
   socket 26, the user secures the belt 14 around his waist with the buckle 16. When
   worn, the front curved profile 22 of the holder 20 faces away from the user and the rear
   side 24 of the holder 20 provided with the socket 26 faces the user. Since the belt 14
   extends across the rear side 24 of the holder 20, the manifold 40 is securely located
35 between the holder 20 and the belt 14 (and the user's body). As the belt 14 is
   tightened, the portion of the belt 14 extending across the socket 26 ensures that the

                                                  20
   manifold 40 is fully pushed into the socket 26. If the manifold 40 is located within the
   socket 26 in the first orientation as shown in Figure 7, the holder 40 is moved along the
   belt 14 so that it is located on the left side of the user's body. In this position the first
   manifold outlet port 44 of the manifold 40 is angled forwards and the second manifold
 5 outlet port 46 is angled rearwards.
   The user then connects the first hose 82 between the LDV 64 attached to the facemask
   62 and the first manifold outlet port 44 of the manifold 40, and connects the second
   hose 84 between the cylinder of breathable gas 80 and the manifold inlet port 42. This
10 arrangement is shown in Figure 1. The user then dons the facemask 62 and a valve
   (not shown) is opened so that breathable gas is supplied to the user. If desired, a hose
   clip (not shown) can be used to secure the first hose 82 to the user's garments. This
   may reduce the risk of snagging.
15 The breathing apparatus 1 including the waist mountable manifold 10 allows the user to
   work within an area of reduced or contaminated air. The breathing apparatus 1 allows
   the user to move around easily as the source of breathable gas is not worn by the user.
   Further, the waist mountable manifold 10 ensures that the hoses 82, 84 are kept close
   to the user's body which reduces any snagging hazard. In addition to this, since the
20 manifold 40 is protectively housed in a holder 20 having a smooth front face 22 and is
   held against the user's body, any snagging risks are minimised. Due to its low profile,
   the breathing equipment 1 is particularly useful for work such as tank cleaning,
   painting, welding or inspection in confined spaces where the atmosphere is reduced
   and/or contaminated.
25
   It has been described above that the manifold 40 is located within the socket 26 in the
   first orientation (Figure 7) and the holder 20 is positioned on the left side of the user's
   body. In this configuration the first hose 82 attaches to the manifold 40 on the left side
   of the user's body, and the second hose 84 extends from the left hip region of the
30 user's body up to the facemask 62. However, depending on the working conditions
   and equipment used, it may be desirable to have the manifold on the right side of the
   user's body so that the hoses 82, 84 are located on the right side.
   In order to reposition the manifold 40 on the opposite side of the body, the belt 14 is
35 loosened, and the manifold 40 is pulled out of the socket 26 by hand. The holder 20 is
   then slid along the length of the belt to the desired position, such as the right side of the

                                                   21
   body, and the manifold 40 is pushed into the socket 26 in the second orientation
   (Figure 8). The belt 14 is then retightened which ensures that the manifold 40 is fully
   pushed into the socket 26. As described above, in the second orientation, the first
   manifold outlet port 44 to which the second hose 84 is attached is angled forwards.
 5
   With the embodiment described above, repositioning the manifold 40 can be achieved
   quickly and easily without any tools and without disconnecting or doffing the breathing
   apparatus 1. Thus, the manifold 40 and hoses 82, 84 can be repositioned during use
   without having to leave the working environment.
10
   As opposed to fitting a low pressure warning device 70 to the second (or auxiliary)
   manifold outlet port 46, the manifold outlet port 46 may be configured so that it is
   suitable for other purposes. For example, it may be configured or suitable for use with
   a second breathable gas delivery device (such as an LDV or a constant flow device in
15 which case it may be provided with a flow control device), a compressed gas driven
   tool, a paint spray gun, a ventilation vest, or a chemical protection suit.
   As shown in Figure 9, a banjo fitting 50 may be attached to the inlet of the manifold 40
   so as to provide a third manifold outlet port 52. In order to attach the banjo fitting 50
20 the manifold inlet port 42 is unscrewed from the lower branch 41 of the manifold 40 and
   a different manifold inlet port 42 around which the banjo fitting 50 is rotatably mounted
   is screwed into the lower branch 41. The third manifold outlet port 52 of the banjo
   fitting 50 is in fluid communication with the manifold inlet port 42. The third manifold
   outlet port 52 may be configured or suitable for use with a compressed gas driven tool,
25 a paint spray gun, a ventilation vest, or a chemical protection suit, for example. The
   banjo fitting 50 may be rotated about an axis passing through the inlet port 42 so that
   the position of the third manifold outlet port 52 can be changed. For example, if the
   orientation of the manifold 40 within the socket 26 is changed so that the manifold 40
   can be positioned differently with respect to the user, it may be desirable to rotate the
30 banjo fitting 50 so that it is facing forwards.
   It has been described that a substantial part of the external profile of the manifold 40 is
   a symmetrical Y-shape and that the socket 26 is a corresponding symmetrical Y shape.
   This allows the manifold 40 to be located within the socket 26 in first and second
35 orientations that are mirror images of one another. However, the ability to locate a
   manifold in a socket in multiple orientations may be achieved with differently shaped

                                                22
   manifolds and/or sockets. For example, the socket could be Y-shaped and the
   manifold could have a lower branch and a single upper branch extending obliquely with
   respect to the lower branch. This would allow the manifold to be located within the
   socket is first and second orientations that are mirror images of one another. In
 5 another example the socket could be a symmetrical X-shape and the manifold could be
   a non-symmetrical Y-shape. The skilled person should be able to appreciate other
   combinations of socket and manifold shape that allow the manifold to be located within
   the socket in multiple orientations.
10 Although it has been described above that the manifold has a single manifold inlet port
   and first and second manifold outlet ports, it should be appreciated that the manifold
   may have any suitable number of manifold inlet and manifold outlet ports. For
   example, the manifold could have a single manifold inlet port and three manifold outlet
   ports, a single manifold inlet port and a single manifold outlet port, or two manifold inlet
15 ports and two manifold outlet ports.
   In the embodiment described above the holder is mounted on a waist belt. However, it
   should be appreciated that in other embodiments, the holder may be mounted on any
   belt or strap which can be worn by the user. For example, the holder may be mounted
20 or attached to a shoulder strap or a bandolier-style strap.
   In the foregoing embodiment it has been described that the delivery device 60 is a
   facemask 62 provided with a LDV 64. However, in other embodiments, the delivery
   device 60 may be a constant flow hood or mask or protection suit, for example. As
25 shown in Figure 10, in such an embodiment the manifold outlet port 44 to which the
   hood or mask is fluidically connected may be provided with a valve assembly in the
   form of a gas control valve 100 which both reduces the pressure of the breathable gas
   supplied at the manifold inlet port 42, and regulates the flow rate.
30 As shown in Figure 11, the gas control valve 100 comprises a valve assembly housing
   102 provided with a valve assembly inlet port 104 at a lower end and a valve assembly
   outlet port 106 at an upper end. The inlet port 104 is for receiving a source of
   breathable gas and the outlet port 106 is for providing a constant regulated flow of
   breathable gas to a user. Referring back to Figure 10, the inlet port 104 can be
35 fluidically and physically connected to a manifold outlet port 44 such that the control
   valve 100 is mounted to the manifold 40 and receives breathable gas supplied at the

                                                 23
   manifold inlet port 42. A flexible conduit (not shown) can be used to fluidically connect
   the outlet port 106 to a breathable gas delivery device such as a hood (not shown) for
   supplying breathable gas to a user.
 5 The control valve 100 comprises a pressure reduction valve 108 (Figure 12) which
   receives breathable gas from the inlet port 104 and reduces the pressure of it, and a
   separate flow control valve 110 (Figure 12) downstream of the pressure reduction valve
   108 which receives reduced pressure breathable gas from the pressure reduction valve
   108 and delivers it from the outlet port 106 at a controlled flow rate. The pressure
10 reduction valve 108 and the flow control valve 110 are both at least partly disposed
   within the same housing 102. The flow control valve 110 comprises a flow adjuster 112
   in the form of a rotatable knob disposed outside of the housing 102 which can be
   rotated to adjust the flow rate of the breathable gas without altering the pressure at
   which it is supplied.
15
   Referring now to Figure 12, the pressure reduction valve 108 is sealed within the
   housing 102 by O-rings 114 and is disposed towards the lower, upstream end of the
   housing 102. The pressure reduction valve 108 comprises a pressure reduction valve
   inlet 114 at the upstream end of the pressure reduction valve 108 which is arranged to
20 receive breathable gas from the inlet port 104, and a pressure chamber 118 at the
   downstream end of the pressure reduction valve 108 which is arranged to supply
   reduced pressure breathable gas to the flow control valve 110. Disposed between the
   inlet 114 and the chamber (or outlet) 118 is a valve arrangement comprising a valve
   seat 120, a valve member 122, a piston shaft 124, a piston 126 and a resilient biasing
25 means 128 which are all coaxial with one another and the general axial direction of the
   control valve 100.
   The valve inlet 114 is in the form of a bore formed in a cylindrical wall 130 and the
   valve seat 120 is disposed within the cylindrical wall 130 and is axially located below
30 the valve inlet 114. The valve seat 120 is in the form of an elastomeric disc. Slidably
   disposed within the cylindrical wall is the piston shaft 124, the lower tip of which forms
   the valve member 122 and the upper end of which is attached to the piston 126 which
   is located within the pressure chamber 118. The piston shaft 124 is hollow along its
   entire length forming a fluid passageway 132 which passes through the piston 126 and
35 opens into the pressure chamber 118. The resilient biasing means 128 acts between
   the housing 102 and the piston 126 and biases the piston, piston shaft and valve

                                                 24
   member upwards to an open position (Figure 12) in which the valve member 122 is
   axially spaced away from the valve seat 120. In the open position there is an open
   fluid passageway between the valve inlet 116 and the pressure chamber 118 as gas
   can flow between the valve member 122 and the valve seat 120 and through the fluid
 5 passageway 132. As will be described in detail below, gas within the pressure
   chamber 118 acts on the piston 126 to move it towards a closed position (Figure 13) in
   which the valve member 122 is seated on the valve seat 120 thereby preventing flow
   through the pressure reduction valve 108. The spring force of the resilient biasing
   means 128 determines the pressure at which the pressure reduction valve 108 closes
10 (i.e. at what pressure the valve member 122 contacts the valve seat 120 thereby
   closing the fluid passageway). The resilient biasing means 128 may be a spring, such
   as a coil spring, or a mass of resiliently deformable material, for example.
   The flow control valve 110 is sealed within the housing 102 by O-rings 134 and is
15 disposed towards the upper, downstream end of the housing 102. The flow control
   valve 110 comprises a flow control valve inlet 136 at the upstream end of the flow
   control valve 110 which is in direct fluid communication with the pressure chamber 118
   and is arranged to receive reduced pressure breathable gas therefrom, and a flow
   control valve outlet 138 which is arranged to deliver reduced pressure breathable gas
20 at a controlled flow rate to the outlet port 106. Disposed within the housing 102
   between the inlet and outlet 136, 138 is a lower plate member 140 and an upper plate
   member 142. The lower and upper plates 140, 142 are generally disc-like and are
   coaxially aligned with one another and the general axial direction of the control valve.
   The lower and upper plates 140, 142 lie on top of one another such that they abut.
25
   The lower plate 140 is rotabaly and axially fixed within the housing 102 and comprises
   an annular wall portion 144 that extends upwardly. The upper plate 142 has a
   diameter substantially the same as the inner diameter of the annular wall portion 144
   and is located within the annular wall 144 such that it is sealed against the lower plate
30 140. The upper plate 142 is rotatable with respect to the lower plate 140 about the axis
   of the control valve 100. The upper plate 142 is provided with a hole 146 within which
   a first end of a pin 148 is located. The other end of the pin 148 is located within a hole
   150 provided in the flow adjuster knob 112 which is itself rotatably mounted to the
   housing 102 about the axis of the control valve 100. Therefore, rotation of the flow
35 adjuster knob 112 causes the upper plate 142 to be rotated with respect to the lower

                                                 25
   plate 140 within the housing 102. Stops (not shown) are provided to limit the rotation of
   the flow adjuster knob 112 between maximum and minimum angular limits.
   With additional reference to Figure 14 and 15, the lower and upper plates 140, 142 are
 5 each provided with an orifice opening 152, 154 and a bypass opening 156, 158. The
   orifice openings 152, 154 are in the form of arcuate slots that are at the same radial
   position and the bypass openings 156, 158 are in the form of central openings that are
   coaxially aligned. As can be seen from the Figures, since the bypass openings 156,
   158 are coaxial with one another, they are always aligned to the same extent
10 regardless of the relative rotational position of the lower and upper plates 140, 142.
   The bypass openings 156, 158 therefore form a bypass passageway through the upper
   and lower plates 140, 142 of a fixed size. However, since the orifice openings 152, 154
   are arcuate, the alignment between the slots can be adjusted between complete
   alignment (Figure 13), partial alignment (Figure 14), and no alignment. This variation
15 can be achieved by rotating the upper plate 142 relative to the lower plate 140 using
   the flow adjuster knob 112. Therefore, the orifice openings 152, 154 form a orifice
   passageway through the lower and upper plates 140, 142 of a variable size. Together,
   the orifice openings 152, 154 and the bypass openings 156, 158 provide a flow
   passageway through the lower and upper plates 140, 142, the size of which can be
20 varied between a fixed minimum size (the size of the fixed bypass passageway) and a
   maximum size (the size of the orifice passageway when the orifice openings 152, 154
   are in complete alignment and the fixed bypass passageway). As will be described in
   detail below, the flow adjuster know 112 can be rotated (thereby rotating the upper
   plate 142) to vary the size of the flow passageway so as to control the flow rate of
25 breathable gas delivered from the control device 100 without changing the pressure.
   In use, the inlet port 104 of the control valve 100 is attached to the manifold outlet port
   44 and the outlet port 106 of the control valve 100 is attached to a constant flow
   delivery device, such as a hood, using a flexible conduit (not shown). The manifold
30 inlet port 42 is connected to a source of breathable gas, such as a compressed air
   network (or ring main) installed within a building, using another flexible conduit (not
   shown). The manifold 40 may be worn around a user's waist using the waist belt 14.
   In this embodiment the supply pressure of the source of breathable gas may be
35 between 2.8 bar and 10 bar. This pressure is received at the inlet port 104 and flows
   through the pressure reduction valve inlet 116. The pressurised gas then flows under

                                                 26
   the valve member 122 and through the flow passageway 132 into the pressure
   chamber 118. The pressurised gas acts on the piston 126 and acts against the
   resilient biasing means 128 to move the piston, piston shaft and valve member towards
   the closed position (Figure 13) in which the valve member 122 is engaged with the
 5 valve seat 120. The spring force of the resilient biasing means 128 is chosen to set the
   pressure delivered from the pressure reduction valve 108 at a desired value P.
   Specifically, the spring force is set so that when the pressure within the pressure
   chamber 118 is P, the valve member 122 is seated on and engages the valve seat 120
   preventing any gas flow through the pressure reduction valve 108. In this embodiment
10 the pressure value P is set at 2.5 bar. This ensures that the pressure delivered from
   the pressure reduction valve 108 is 2.5 bar. The breathable gas within the pressure
   chamber 118 then flows through the flow control valve 110 to the outlet port 106 and
   ultimately the hood. As the pressure within the pressure chamber 118 reduces and
   falls below P, the spring force of the resilient biasing means 128 moves the piston,
15 piston shaft and valve member to an open position (Figure 12) in which the valve
   member 122 is spaced away from the valve seat 120. This opens the flow path and
   allows breathable gas to flow from the inlet 116 to the pressure chamber 118. This
   causes the pressure to rise within the pressure chamber 118 which closes the valve.
   This cycle repeats continuously ensuring that the pressure of the breathable gas within
20 the pressure chamber 118 is at or about P. In reality, this may mean that the piston,
   piston shaft and valve member "hover" with the valve member 122 just above the valve
   seat 120.
   The breathable gas within the pressure chamber 118 flows through the flow control
25 valve 110 to the outlet port 106 at a controlled flow rate. The gas is allowed to flow
   through both the orifice passageway defined by the orifice openings 152, 154 and the
   bypass passageway defined by the bypass openings 156, 158. Since in this
   embodiment the size of the bypass opening is fixed at a minimum, it is not possible to
   completely shut-off the flow control valve 110 and therefore the breathable gas is
30 always supplied at a minimum flow rate. The minimum flow rate is defined by the size
   of the bypass opening and in this embodiment the minimum flow rate is 170
   litres/minute. This may be the minimum safe flow rate of breathable gas and therefore
   the bypass passageway may provide an important safety feature. In order to increase
   or decrease (but only to a minimum) the flow rate of the breathable gas supplied to the
35 hood, the flow adjuster knob 112 can be rotated causing the degree of alignment of the
   orifice openings 152, 154 to change, thereby altering the size of the orifice

                                                27
   passageway. The degree of alignment of the orifice openings 152, 154 can be altered
   between complete alignment and no alignment. At complete (or maximum) alignment
   the flow rate of the breathable gas is at a maximum which in this embodiment is 350
   litres/minute. At no alignment the breathable gas only flows through the bypass
 5 passageway and the flow rate is therefore 170 litres/minute.
   An important feature of the control device 100 is that the flow rate of the breathable gas
   delivered from the outlet port 106 is independent of the pressure supplied at the inlet
   port 104 within a specified range. The specified range of input pressure may be
10 between 2.8 bar and 10 bar, for example. This means that if the supply pressure of the
   source of breathable gas changes, for example if a number of additional users connect
   to the same ring main, the flow rate of breathable gas delivered from the outlet port 106
   does not change. This may be important to ensure the safety of the users. Further,
   altering the flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the outlet port 106 does not
15 change the pressure of the breathable gas delivered from the outlet port 106. These
   benefits result from the pressure reduction valve 108 and the flow control valve 110
   being separate and independent from one another, albeit housed in a common
   housing. In some known prior art arrangements if the supply pressure drops, the flow
   rate delivered drops automatically which may be undesirable or hazardous. This
20 significant disadvantage is overcome with the above described arrangement.
   Although it has been described that the control valve 100 can be attached to a manifold
   inlet port 44 of a manifold 40, it should be appreciated that it could be used with other
   types of breathing equipment and could be mounted on or to other components.
25
   If a constant flow breathable gas delivery device, such as a mask or hood, is used it
   may be desirable for the user to be able to inhale ambient air without removing the
   mask or hood. For example, it may be desirable for the user to don the mask or hood
   before commencing work and breathe ambient air, and then only breathe pressurised
30 breathable gas from a source of breathable gas, such as a compressed air network (or
   ring main) installed within a building, when they start work. This may preserve the
   source of breathable gas; only using it when necessary.
   Figure 16 schematically shows an adapter 200 which may help achieve the above
35 objective. The adapter 200 comprises an adapter body 202, an ambient air inlet port
   204, a rotatable part 206 having a pressurised gas inlet port 208, a threaded adapter

                                                28
   outlet port 210 and a blanking plug 212. In use, the threaded adapter outlet port 210
   can be threadedly attached to the threaded gas inlet port of a breathable gas delivery
   device, such as a hood or mask, such that it is fluidically and physically coupled to the
   delivery device. A pressurised source of breathable gas, such as breathable gas from
 5 a compressed air network (or ring main) can be fluidically connected to the pressurised
   gas inlet port 208 using a flexible conduit (not shown). When the source of breathable
   gas is turned on the user can inhale this through the adapter outlet port 210, but if the
   source of breathable gas is turned off, the user can inhale ambient air through the
   ambient air inlet port 204 and the adapter outlet port 210. If it is required to close off
10 the ambient air inlet port 204 completely, the blanking plug 212 can be located within it.
   Referring now to Figures 17 and 18, the adapter body 202 is generally cylindrical and
   defines an adapter chamber 214. The first end of the adapter body 202 is open and
   forms the ambient air inlet 204 which opens into the adapter chamber 214. The
15 second opposing end of the adapter body 202 is also open and opens into the adapter
   chamber 214 and forms the adapter outlet port 210. The inner surface of the adapter
   body 202 at the first end is threaded 216 and the blanking plug (Figure 16) is threaded
   on an outer surface such that it can be threaded into the ambient air inlet port 204 to
   seal it. The outer surface of the second end of the adapter body 202 is also threaded
20 and forms an adapter connector 218 which allows the adapter 200 to be threadedly
   attached to a breathable gas delivery device. Although generally cylindrical, the outer
   surface of the adapter body 202 is provided with a number of annular channels. One of
   the annular channels provides an annular fluid channel 219 within which two fluid
   passageways 220 are provided which are diametrically opposite and which extend
25 through the wall of the adapter body 202 into the adapter chamber 214. As will be
   described in detail below, the pressurised gas inlet port 208 is in fluid communication
   with the adapter chamber 214 through these passageways 220. In another of the
   annular channels a plurality of, in this case 12, small recesses 222 are formed which
   are circumferentially equally spaced around the adapter body 202. As will be
30 described in detail below, these small recesses 222 form part of an indexing feature.
   Disposed within the adapter chamber 214 is a filter 234 and a one-way diaphragm
   valve 232. Both are disposed between the ambient air inlet port 204 and the adapter
   chamber 214 and therefore separate the ambient air inlet port 204 from both the
35 pressurised gas inlet port 208 and the adapter outlet port 210. The filter 234 prevents
   any particulate from being inhaled into the adapter chamber 214 and then out through

                                                29
   the adapter outlet port 210. The one-way valve 236 permits the flow of air into the
   adapter chamber 214 through the ambient air inlet port 204, but prevents the flow of
   gas, such as pressurised gas supplied through the pressurised gas inlet port 208, from
   exiting to the atmosphere through the ambient air inlet port 204.
 5
   Referring now also to Figure 19, the rotatable part 206 comprises an annular member
   224 having an inner diameter comparable to the outer diameter of the adapter body
   202 and a stem 226 which extends radially and slightly forward from the annular
   member 224. The stem 226 is hollow along its entire length and forms a fluid
10 passageway 228 which is open at the inner surface on the annular member 224. The
   end of the stem 226 is open and provides the pressurised gas inlet port 208. The end
   of the stem 226 is also provided with a connector 230 which allows a flexible conduit
   carrying pressurised breathable gas to be connected to the pressurised gas inlet port
   208. On the inner surface of the annular member 224 a plurality of, in this case six,
15 small projections 232 are formed which are circumferentially and equally spaced
   around the inner circumference. As will be described in detail below, these cooperate
   with the small recesses 222 formed on the adapter body 202 to provide an indexing
   feature.
20 Referring back to Figure 17, the rotatable part 206 is rotatably mounted to the adapter
   body 202 with the annular member 224 surrounding the generally cylindrical adapter
   body 202. Two O-rings 233 are provided in annular channels to seal the annular
   member 224 to the adapter body 202. The rotatable part 206 is located such that the
   passageway 228 of the stem 226 is axially aligned with the annular fluid channel 219
25 which ensures that the pressurised gas inlet port 208 is in fluid communication with the
   adapter chamber 214 through the fluid passageways 220 regardless of the angular
   position of the rotatable part. Also, the rotatable part 206 is located such that the
   recesses 222 formed in the outer surface of the adapter body 202 are axially aligned
   with the projections 232 formed on the inner surface of the annular member 224. The
30 rotatable part 206 can be rotated to a plurality of, in this case 12, discrete angular
   positions so as to change the position of the stem 226 and pressurised gas inlet port
   208 whilst ensuring fluid communication between the pressurised gas inlet port 208
   and the adapter chamber 214. The plurality of discrete angular positions are defined
   by the angular spacing of the recesses 222 and at each position the six projections 232
35 engage with six of the 12 recesses 222. The engagement of the recesses 222 and
   projections 232 inhibit the rotational movement of the rotatable part 206 away from that

                                                30
   angular position. However, by applying a sufficiently large rotational force one or both
   of the parts resiliently deform, causing the projections 232 and recesses 222 to
   disengage allowing the rotatable part 206 to be rotated to a different angular position.
   This indexing feature allows the rotatable part 206 to be temporarily locked in one of a
 5 number of angular positions whilst allowing the angular position of the rotatable part to
   be easily adjusted.
   In use, the adapter 200 is connected to a breathable gas delivery device, such as a
   mask, with the adapter connector 230 threaded into the gas inlet port of the mask. This
10 ensures fluid communication between the adapter outlet port 210 and the gas inlet port
   of the mask. A pressurised source of breathable gas, such as a compressed air
   network (or ring main), is connected to the pressurised gas inlet port 208 of the adapter
   200 using a flexible conduit. The flexible conduit may be fluidically connected to a
   manifold outlet port 44, and may be connected to the outlet port 104 of the control
15 valve assembly 100. Before turning on the source of breathable gas, the user can
   inhale ambient air through the ambient air inlet port 204. As shown in Figure 20, if the
   option of breathing ambient air is not required, or is indeed hazardous, the blanking
   plug 212 can be threaded into the ambient air inlet port 204 to seal it.
20 As shown in Figure 21, for comfort and safety reasons, the angular position of the
   pressurised gas inlet port 208 can be adjusted by rotating the rotatable part 206 with
   respect to the adapter body 202. The indexing feature comprising the recesses 222
   and projections 232 define a discrete number of angular positions, but the adapter 200
   is configured to ensure that the pressurised gas inlet port 208 is always in fluid
25 communication with the adapter chamber 214 regardless of the angular position of the
   rotatable part 206.
   When it is desired to breathe pressurised gas from the source of breathable gas, the
   supply can be turned on. It may be possible to turn on the source of breathable gas
30 such that pressurised gas is continuously supplied to the pressurised gas inlet port 208
   at a fixed pressure, such as 2.5 bar, and at a flow rate of between 170 litres/minute and
   350 litres/minute, for example. The pressurised gas flows through the pressurised gas
   inlet port 208, through the passageway 228 in the stem 226 and into the annular fluid
   channel 219 formed in the adapter body 202. The gas then flows through the
35 passageways 220 in the adapter body 202 and into the adapter chamber 214 where it
   can be inhaled through the adapter outlet port 210. The pressurised gas is above

                                               31
   atmospheric pressure and therefore acts on the one-way diaphragm valve 236 to keep
   it in a closed position. This prevents the supplied pressurised gas from exiting through
   the ambient air inlet port 204, and also ensures that no ambient air can be inhaled
   through the ambient air inlet port 204. This may be particularly important if the ambient
 5 atmosphere is contaminated.
   Figure 22 shows a second alternative embodiment of the adapter 200 in which an
   excess flow passageway 238 is provided that extends through the adapter body 202
   and opens into the adapter chamber 214 downstream from the filter 234 and valve 236.
10 Disposed within the excess flow passageway 238 is a one-way diaphragm excess flow
   valve 240. In use, if the pressure within the adapter chamber 214 and the mask (or
   hood) is too great then the excess flow valve 240 will open causing excess pressurised
   gas to vent to the atmosphere. Although excess gas can typically vent to the
   atmosphere through the mask or hood, if the gas flow rate is particularly high, when the
15 user exhales the excess gas will not be able to be vented through the mask or hood.
   Therefore, the adapter 200 provides this beneficial feature.
   Figure 23 schematically shows a third embodiment of the adapter 200 which is similar
   to the first and second embodiments. As for the first and second embodiments, the
20 adapter 200 comprises an adapter body 202, an ambient air inlet port 204, a rotatable
   part 206 having a pressurised gas inlet port 208, a threaded adapter outlet port 210
   and a blanking plug 212.
   Referring now to Figures 24 and 25, as for the first and second embodiments, the
25 adapter body 202 is generally cylindrical and defines an adapter chamber 214. The
   first and second ends of the adapter body 202 are open and form the ambient air inlet
   204 and adapter outlet port 210 respectively. The inner surface of the adapter body
   202 at the first end is threaded 216 for cooperation with the threaded blanking plug
   212, and the outer surface of the second end of the adapter body 202 is also threaded
30 and forms an adapter connector 218 which allows the adapter 200 to be threadedly
   attached to a breathable gas delivery device. The outer surface of the adapter body
   202 is provided with an annular fluid channel 219 within which four fluid passageways
   220 are provided which are uniformly circumferentially spaced around the annular
   channel 219. The passageways 220 are in the form of elongate holes which extend
35 through the wall of the adapter body 202 into the adapter chamber 214. A second
   annular channel is provided within which two diametrically opposite projections 223 are

                                                32
   provided. These projections 223 form part of an indexing feature. As for the first and
   second embodiment, disposed within the adapter chamber 214 is a filter 234 and a
   one-way diaphragm valve 232 disposed between the ambient air inlet port 204 and the
   adapter chamber 214.
 5
   Referring now also to Figure 26, the rotatable part 206 comprises an annular member
   224 having an inner diameter comparable to the outer diameter of the adapter body
   202 and a socket body 226 which extends away from the annular member 224 in a
   direction that is perpendicular to the centreline of the annular member 224 and offset
10 from it. The socket body 226 is hollow and forms a fluid passageway which is open at
   the inner surface on the annular member 224. The end of the socket body 226 is open
   and provides the pressurised gas inlet port 208. A flexible conduit carrying pressurised
   breathable gas can be secured within the socket body 226. The end of the annular
   member 224 is provided with a plurality of, in this case 18, teeth 231 which are
15 circumferentially and equally spaced such that there is a gap 235 (or recess) between
   adjacent teeth. Each tooth 231 (with the exception of every sixth tooth) comprises an
   inwardly extending radial projection 231a. The teeth 231 cooperate with the
   projections 223 formed on the adapter body 202 to provide an indexing feature.
20 Referring back to Figure 24, the rotatable part 206 is rotatably mounted to the adapter
   body 202 with the annular member 224 surrounding the generally cylindrical adapter
   body 202. The rotatable part 206 is located such that the passageway of the socket
   body 226 is axially aligned with the annular fluid channel 219 which ensures that the
   pressurised gas inlet port 208 is in fluid communication with the adapter chamber 214
25 through the fluid passageways 220 regardless of the angular position of the rotatable
   part. Also, the rotatable part 206 is located such that the two projections 223 formed in
   the outer surface of the adapter body 202 are axially aligned with the teeth projections
   231a of the annular member 224. The rotatable part 206 can be rotated to a plurality
   of, in this case 18, discrete angular positions so as to change the position of the
30 pressurised gas inlet port 208, whilst ensuring fluid communication between the
   pressurised gas inlet port 208 and the adapter chamber 214. The plurality of discrete
   angular positions are defined by the angular spacing of the teeth 231. At each discrete
   angular position at least one of the projections 223 is disposed within the gap 235
   between the teeth projections 231a of adjacent teeth 231. The gaps (or recesses) 235
35 between the teeth 231 therefore engage with the projections 223 to inhibit the rotational
   movement of the rotatable part 206 away from that angular position. However, by

                                                 33
   applying a sufficiently large rotational force, at least one tooth 231 resiliently deforms
   radially outwardly, thereby allowing the tooth projection 231 a to ride over the
   projections 223. This indexing feature allows the rotatable part 206 to be temporarily
   locked in one of a number of angular positions, whilst allowing the angular position of
 5 the rotatable part 206 to be easily adjusted.
   As for the first and second embodiments, in use, the adapter 200 is connected to a
   breathable gas delivery device, such as a mask, with the adapter connector 230
   threaded into the gas inlet port of the mask. A pressurised source of breathable gas,
10 such as a compressed air network (or ring main), is connected to the pressurised gas
   inlet port 208 of the adapter 200 using a flexible conduit. Before turning on the source
   of breathable gas, the user can inhale ambient air through the ambient air inlet port
   204. As shown in Figure 27, for comfort and safety reasons, the angular position of
   the pressurised gas inlet port 208 can be adjusted by rotating the rotatable part 206
15 with respect to the adapter body 202. The indexing feature comprising the teeth 231
   defining the gaps/recesses 235 and the projections 223 define a discrete number of
   angular positions.
   As best shown in Figure 28, the adapter 200 is provided with a sealing arrangement
20 for sealing between the adapter body 202 and the annular member 224 of the rotatable
   part 206. The sealing arrangement comprises an annular lip seal 242 and an o-ring
   244 that are disposed between the adapter body 202 and the annular member 224. In
   other embodiments both seals 242, 244 could be lip seals. The seals 242, 244 are
   located in respective annular grooves or channels 246, 248 provided in the other
25 surface of the adapter body 202. In other embodiments, the seals 242, 244 could be
   located in grooves or channels formed in the inner surface of the annular member 224.
   The seals 242, 244 are located either side of the fluid passageways 220 and the
   annular fluid channel 219. The sealing arrangement therefore allows the rotatable part
   206 to be rotated with respect to the adapter body 202, whilst ensuring fluid
30 communication between the annular fluid channel 219 and the adapter chamber 214,
   but preventing undesirable fluid leakage from between the two components 202, 224.
   The lip seal 242 is integrally formed from a resilient material such as a synthetic rubber
   and comprises a main ring portion 250 and a lip portion 252. The lip portion 252
35 extends away from the main ring portion 250 in a direction L that is inclined (oblique) to
   the radial direction R and the axial direction A. The direction of extent of the lip portion

                                                   34
   252 therefore has both a radial and an axial component. The lip seal 242 is mounted
   to the adapter body 202 with the main ring portion 250 disposed in the annular groove
   246 such that the lip portion 252 extends in a direction L that is away from the fluid
   passageway 220 and the annular fluid channel 219. It therefore extends in a direction
 5 L away from the pressure side (i.e. the axial component of the direction of extent is
   away from the pressure side). The outer tip of the lip portion 252 abuts or seals
   against a sealing surface 254 which in this embodiment is the inner surface of the
   annular member 224. The o-ring 244 also seals against this sealing surface 244.
10 Advantageously, in this embodiment, the sealing arrangement provides the
   functionality of an excess flow valve. In use, exhaled or excess gas is typically vented
   to the atmosphere through the mask or hood. However, if the pressurised gas flow rate
   is particularly high, when the user exhales, not all of the excess gas is able to be
   vented through the mask or hood. As shown in Figure 29, if the pressure within the
15 adapter chamber 214 and the mask (or hood) is too great, the pressure acts of the
   inner surface of the lip portion 252 of the lip seal 242 to resiliently deflect it (towards the
   axial direction) so that the tip of the lip portion 252 moves away from the sealing
   surface 254. This forms an excess flow passageway 256 between the lip seal 242 and
   the sealing surface 254. This allows excess gas within the adapter chamber 214 to
20 vent to the atmosphere between the tip of the lip portion 252 and the sealing surface
   254. When the pressure within the adapter chamber 214 drops again, the lip portion
   252 moves back such that the tip of the lip portion 252 once again seals against the
   sealing surface 254. The lip seal 242 also prevents gas flowing into the adapter
   chamber 214 from the outside. For example, if the gas pressure outside the adapter
25 chamber 214 is greater than the pressure within the adapter chamber 214, the
   pressure acts on the outside surface of the lip portion 252 which pushes the tip of the
   lip portion 252 against the sealing surface 254. The improves the seal provided by the
   sealing arrangement.
30 Although it has been described that the adapter 200 could be used with the manifold 40
   and/or the control valve 100, it should be appreciated that it could be used with any
   source of pressurised breathable gas.
   Further, the indexing feature provided between the adapter body 202 and the rotatable
35 part 206 could be used with any rotatable fluid coupling (such as banjo fittings) in order
   to provide indexing. For example, the banjo fitting of Figure 9 could be provided with

                                                35
   the indexing feature of the adapter 200 such that it can be rotated to a plurality of
   discrete angular positions. Of course it should also be appreciated that the adapter
   200 need not necessarily be provided with an indexing feature, or indeed the position
   of the pressurised gas inlet port could be fixed.
 5
   Although it has been described that the source of breathable gas is a cylinder of
   compressed air, it will be appreciated that in other embodiments the source of
   breathable gas may be a compressed air network (or ring main) installed within a
   building, or a large tank of compressed air, for example.
10

                                                 36
   CLAIMS:
   1.     A valve assembly for controlling the supply of breathable gas to a user,
   comprising:
 5         a valve assembly inlet port for a source of breathable gas;
           a valve assembly outlet port for delivering breathable gas to a user;
           a pressure reduction valve disposed between the valve assembly inlet port and
   the valve assembly outlet port and configured to reduce the pressure of breathable gas
   supplied at the valve assembly inlet port in use; and
10         a flow control valve disposed between the pressure reduction valve and the valve
   assembly outlet port and having a flow adjuster which in use can be used to adjust the
   gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port,
   wherein the flow control valve comprises one or more flow passageways for breathable
   gas, the overall size of which can be adjusted in use by the flow adjuster so as to
15 adjust the gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet
   port, wherein the overall size of the one or more flow passageways has a minimum
   size so as to ensure that in use the gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from
   the valve assembly outlet port is kept above a minimum.
20 2.     A valve assembly according to claim 1, wherein the flow control valve comprises
   a first member having a first orifice opening and a second adjacent member having a
   second orifice opening, wherein in use the flow adjuster can be used to move one of
   the members relative to the other member so as to vary the degree of alignment of the
   first and second orifice openings, thereby adjusting the size of an orifice passageway
25 defined by the first and second orifice openings and hence the gas flow rate of the
   breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port.
   3.     A valve assembly according to claim 2, wherein the first and second orifice
   openings each comprise an arcuate slot.
30
   4.     A valve assembly according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the flow adjuster can be
   used to rotate one of the members about a rotational axis with respect to the other
   member so as to vary the degree of alignment of the first and second orifice openings,
   preferably wherein the degree of alignment can be adjusted between complete
35 alignment, partial alignment, and no alignment.

                                               37
   5.     A valve assembly according to claim 4, wherein the first and second orifice
   openings are formed at the same radial position relative to the rotational axis.
   6.     A valve assembly according to any of claims 2-5, wherein the first member is a
 5 first plate and the second member is a second plate.
   7.     A valve according to claim 6, wherein the first and second plates are parallel and
   in contact with each other.
10 8.     A valve assembly according to any of claims 2-7, wherein the flow control valve
   comprises a bypass passageway having a minimum size so as to ensure that in use
   the gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve assembly outlet port is
   kept above a minimum.
15 9.     A valve assembly according to claim 8, wherein the first and second members
   comprise first and second bypass openings that in use are always aligned to at least
   some degree regardless of the relative position of the first and second members,
   thereby forming a bypass passageway of a minimum size.
20 10.    A valve assembly according to claim 9 when appended to claim 4, wherein the
   first and second bypass openings are coaxial with one another and the rotational axis.
   11.    A valve assembly according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the degree of alignment of
   the first and second bypass openings is fixed so that the size of the bypass
25 passageway is fixed.
   12.    A valve assembly according to any of claims 1-11, wherein the flow control valve
   and the pressure reduction valve are separate.
30 13.    A valve assembly according to any of claims 1-12, wherein the valve assembly is
   configured such that the gas flow rate of the breathable gas delivered from the valve
   assembly outlet port is substantially independent of the pressure of the breathable gas
   supplied at the valve assembly inlet port.
35 14.    A valve assembly according to of claims 1-13, wherein the valve assembly is
   configured such that the in use the flow adjuster can be used to adjust the flow rate

                                               38
   without substantially changing the pressure of the breathable gas delivered from the
   valve assembly outlet port.
   15.    A valve assembly according to any of claims 1-14, wherein the flow adjuster
 5 comprises a rotatable knob.
   16.    A valve assembly according to any of claims 1-15, wherein the pressure
   reduction valve comprises a pressure chamber downstream of a valve seat and a
   corresponding valve member, the valve member being resiliently biased away from the
10 valve seat to an open position in which breathable gas supplied at the valve assembly
   inlet port can flow into the chamber, wherein in use, breathable gas in the pressure
   chamber acts against the bias to move the valve member towards a closed position.
   17.    A valve assembly according to claim 16, wherein the valve member is coupled to
15 a piston slidably disposed within the pressure chamber and upon which in use
   breathable gas in the pressure chamber acts to move the valve member towards a
   closed position.
   18.    A valve assembly according to claim 17, wherein the valve member is attached to
20 the piston by a piston shaft and wherein a fluid passageway extends from the valve
   member through the piston and piston shaft and opens into the pressure chamber.
   19.    A valve assembly according to claim 18, wherein the tip of the piston shaft forms
   the valve member.
25
   20.    A valve assembly according to any of claims 1-19, wherein the pressure
   reduction valve and the flow control valve are disposed within a common housing.
   21.    Breathing apparatus equipment for supplying breathable gas to a user,
30 comprising:
          a manifold having a manifold inlet port for a source of breathable gas and at least
   one manifold outlet port, wherein the manifold is arranged to be attached to the user;
   and
          a valve assembly in accordance with any of claims 1-20 connected to the
35 manifold with the valve assembly inlet port fluidically connected to the manifold outlet
   port.

                                                  39
   22.     Breathing apparatus according to claim 21, further comprising a strap arranged to
   be worn by the user; and a holder coupled to the strap and to which the manifold is
   attached.
 5
   23.     Breathing apparatus, comprising:
           breathing apparatus equipment in accordance with any of claims 21 or 22;
           a breathable gas delivery device for delivering breathable gas to a user with a
   first flexible conduit fluidically coupled between the breathable gas delivery device and
10 the valve assembly outlet port; and
           a source of breathable gas with a second flexible conduit fluidically coupled
   between the source of breathable gas and the manifold inlet port.
   24.     Breathing apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the breathable gas delivery
15 device is a facemask or a hood or a protection suit.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
