ABSTRACT
A floor track for a sliding door including a main rail adapted to support and
directionally guide the wheels of the sliding door. The main rail having an
upper section definable with a substantially triangular cross-sectional
configuration along said main rail upper section length, wherein converging
opposing inclined surfaces towards an apex of the substantially triangular
cross-sectional configuration are adapted to engage the peripheral rim edges
of a wheel of the sliding door so that the load of the sliding door is kept away
from the apex of the substantially triangular cross-sectional configuration.

           A FLOOR TRACK FOR A SLIDING DOOR AND/OR GATE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[001] This invention relates to an above or in-ground floor track for sliding
doors and/or gates and more particularly to a floor track that has a main
central rail adapted to receive support and to provide direction or guidance to
the wheels (or rollers and so forth) of such sliding doors and/or gates.
BACKGROUND ART DISCUSSION
[002] From here on after the specification refers to these kinds of floor tracks
for use with sliding doors but as introduced above the track can be utilised in
akin type products such as gates and so forth and therefore the scope of this
specification is to incorporate such embodiments.
[001] The word wheel is also used but this term also covers such akin
arrangements such as rollers, castors and similar such rail engaging devices
that allow movement there along.
[002] Wheels on sliding doors allow ground engagement so that the door can
be shifted, for example between open and closed positions. In order to assist
this movement from point A to point B wheels are often mounted to a track
which includes a main rail support. This rail support often has a shape which
correlates to the contoured shape of the rail engaging part of the wheel.
[003] This rail engaging section of the wheel is curved and/or contoured so it
is able to rest comfortably upon the matching shape of the main rail of the
floor track.
 [004] The contoured mating shape of both the main rail engaging periphery
edge of the wheel and that of the main rail itself places a significant load
 pressure upon the top of the main rail.
 [005] Problems arise when the main rail becomes damaged and chips and
 bumps interrupt that smooth contoured finish of the main rail circumferential
edge or apex and as this circumferential edge or apex has the load of the

wheel thereupon it, it soon becomes difficult to conveniently and efficiently
slide the door along the main rail as the bumps, dents, dimples, accumulated
debris stuck the top of the main rail and so forth, all present themselves as
obstacles for ongoing sliding of the door.
[006] Also as the wheel of the sliding door and the main rail are configured to
comfortably come together with the same contoured contacting surfaces,
there is nothing preventing the wheel from being derailed accidently or even in
some cases deliberately as there is no inherent anchoring in such a matched
contoured contact which is often curved between both the main rail and that
part of the wheel which is engaging the main rail for movement and directional
guiding so as to move the door from one position to another through a sliding
action.
[007] Accordingly it would be advantageous to be able to provide a floor track
wherein the main rail if damaged with bumps, dimples, protrusions,
accumulated debris and so forth so as to interrupt the overall contour at the
top of the main rail to where the majority of load sits thereupon, that such
problems can be overcome through the use of a rail and wheel assembly
which is still adapted to support and directionally guide the wheels of a sliding
door but do so even in the event that the main rail of such a support becomes
damaged as referred to above.
[008] It would also be advantageous to provide a floor track which includes a
main rail which would be inherently adapted to improve upon the ability to be
able to anchor the wheel to the main rail so as to reduce accidental and/or
deliberate derailment thereby providing increased safety and security than
would otherwise be expected from such conventional floor tracks for sliding
doors.
[009] Therefore it is an object of this invention to provide a floor track for a
sliding door and/or gate that includes a main rail adapted to support and
directionally guide the wheels of a sliding door so that the door can move from
point A to point B and back again as required even in the event that the top or
apex of the main rail becomes damaged to include dents, dimples or other
                                         2

disfigurements that would normally provide an obstacle to the convenient and
efficient sliding of the door.
[010] A further object of this invention is to provide a floor track for a sliding
door wherein the wheels of the sliding door are securable upon the main rail
adapted to support the wheel so as to prevent derailment.
[011] Further objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent
from a complete reading of this specification.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[012] Accordingly in one form of the invention there is provided a floor track
for a sliding door, said floor track including;
        a main rail adapted to support and directionally guide the wheels of a
sliding door;
        said main rail having an upper section definable with a substantially
triangular cross-sectional configuration along said main rail upper section
length, wherein converging opposing inclined surfaces towards an apex of the
substantially triangular cross-sectional configuration are adapted to engage
the peripheral rim edges of a wheel of the sliding door so that the load of the
sliding door is kept away from the apex of the substantially triangular cross
sectional configuration.
[013] An advantage of such an arrangement is that rather than having a
matched contour of the curvature associated with the skirting between the
respective circumferential peripheral edges of the wheel and that of the main
rail which supports the ground-engaging section of the wheel, in this invention
that curvature of the main rail has been replaced by a substantially triangular
configuration so that the sides of the sliding door wheels rest upon the side of
the triangular configuration rather than previously where the weight
disbursement of that internal curvature of the peripheral width of the wheel
was placed upon the top of the main rail.
                                           3

[014] Therefore if the apex becomes damaged and bumps, dents,
accumulated debris and so forth are introduced along the length of the main
rail, this will not have a consequence upon the general sliding ability of the
wheel because the wheel is now engaging and placing the load upon the
inclined surfaces so that the wheel is slightly raised up or at least that
contoured portion of the wheel which previously would mate up and match in
its complete configuration with the exposed surface of the main rail is no
longer the case.
[015] The wheel assembly which supports the wheel engaging the main rail
adapted to support and directionally guide the wheels includes an extension
which is able to extend out and engage under the base of the triangular cross
sectional configuration.
[016] Advantageously not only do the inclined surfaces provide a contact
point for the respective sides of the wheel rim edges to engage thereby
keeping the main load of the wheel and the corresponding door away from the
apex of the main rail, the base of the triangular cross-sectional configuration
provides an inherent point to which an extension from the wheel assembly
which supports the wheel is able to engage there under.
[017] Therefore if one was to attempt to try and de-rail the wheel it would be
prevented from doing so as the wheel assembly extensions are able to clamp
themselves about the base portion of the triangular cross-sectional
configuration.
[018] Accordingly the introduction of the substantially triangular cross
sectional configuration provides dual functionality and improvement over the
conventional main rail by providing support surfaces away from the apex of
the main rail which is easily damaged by bumping and so forth, but also the
inherent location created by the triangular cross-sectional configuration which
allows a location for extensions coming from the wheel assembly to clamp
there about.
                                          4

[019] Advantageously by being able to prevent either accidental or deliberate
derailment improves overall safety and security of sliding doors utilising such
floor track arrangements as described for this invention.
[020] In preference the upper section of the main rail which is defined by a
substantially triangular cross-section configuration is supported by a bottom
section wherein the bottom section includes two vertical uprights that engage
the base of the triangular cross-section configuration wherein the vertical
uprights define a gap between each other and wherein a lateral platform
extends substantially orthogonally out from the base of each of the respective
vertical uprights.
[021] In one embodiment of the invention the floor track is positionable above
ground and in an alternative embodiment the floor track for the sliding door is
positionable in-ground.
[022] In preference the floor track for a sliding door positionable in-ground
further includes a substantially right-angled side skirting having. a vertical
surface and a horizontal surface outwardly extending therefrom said vertical
surface, wherein the elevation of the horizontal surface on one side of the
apex is at a higher elevation relative to the horizontal surface on the other side
above said main rail apex.
[023] An advantage of such an arrangement is that by having one of the side
skirtings at a slightly lower elevation to the other assists in drainage from the
building floor and also allows two or more tracks to be nested one within the
other for improved self-alignment to provide correct spacing between multiple
tracks.
[024] As is to be appreciated as one side of the railing is slightly lower than
an adjacent track arrangement with the slightly raised right angle skirt allows
the two, or in fact multiple, tracks to come together such that the overall laying
of multiple tracks has an inbuilt self-aligning mechanism and means to provide
correct spacing as referred to above between adjacent tracks.
                                          5

[025] In preference the floor track arrangement for the sliding door further
includes a support bracket wherein the support bracket includes an
upstanding T section adapted to slide in between the gap defined by the
vertical uprights at the base of the triangle and wherein the top of the T
configuration is adapted to be positioned within the triangular confines of the
substantially triangular cross-sectional configuration of the main rail.
[026] An advantage of such an arrangement is that once again simple
defined shaping of the support bracket allows a fastening and mounting
mechanism of the support bracket to the main floor track without additional
fastening mechanisms.
[027] While conventional arrangements will be discussed in greater detail
where the preferred embodiments can be used to actually fix and mount the
support bracket in place under ground, the actual ability to mount the floor
track to the support bracket can be achieved through the T shaped tab
extension.
 [028] Advantageously the support bracket is designed to locate the main rail
 of the floor track and allow the correct levelling and alignment before concrete
 is poured and formed around the in-ground positioned floor track.
 [029] In order now to describe the invention in greater detail preferred
 embodiments will be shown with the assistance of the following illustrations
 and accompanying text.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [001]   Figure 1 is a perspective view of a floor track arrangement in a
 preferred embodiment of the invention.
 [002] Figure 2 is a cross sectional view of the floor track arrangement shown
 in Figure 1.
 [003] Figure 3 shows a multiple floor track arrangement.
                                           6

[004] Figure 4 is a cross sectional view of the multiple floor track
arrangement shown in Figure 3.
[005] Figure 5 is an exploded view showing the use of the support bracket in
conjunction with the floor track arrangement and also the use of the preferred
wheel that is used as part of the sliding door.
[006] Figure 6 for the most part is a cross sectional view of Figure 5 wherein
the support bracket has been slotted back in to floor track arrangement.
[007] Figure 7 is a perspective view of a further preferred embodiment of the
invention wherein the floor track arrangement and particularly the main rail
adapted to support and directionally guide the wheels of a sliding door is
mountable above the ground.
 [008] Figure 8 is a cross sectional view illustrating the addition to the wheel
 assembly in order to provide a means for eliminating or substantially
 ameliorating the possibility of derailment of the wheel from the floor track
 arrangement.
 [009] Figure 9 is a perspective view of the invention focusing on the feature
 of including an additional extension as part of the wheel assembly which is
 able to prevent derailment as shown if figure 8.
 [030] DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [031] Referring to the drawings now in greater detail wherein Figures 1 to 6
 for the most part provide for the floor track arrangement which is mountable
 and fastenable in-ground.
 [032] The floor track arrangement is shown generally as (10) and includes a
  main rail (11) having a substantially triangular cross sectional configuration
 along its length to provide an apex (14) and incline surfaces (12) and (13).
  [033] The apex (14) and incline surfaces (12) and (13) define the upper
  portion of the main rail (11) and provide slot opening (27).
                                            7

[034] The upper portion of the main rail is supported by a vertical upright
section (15) and (16) which bends out along folds (17) and (18) to the lateral
extensions (19) and (20).
[035] Both lateral extensions (19) and (20) terminate in a right angle skirt
which has vertical uprights (21) and (23) and lateral lips (24) and (25).
[036] As best seen in Figure 4 there is a height elevation difference between
the lateral lip (24) on one side of the apex (14) to that of the corresponding
horizontal lip (25) so that when two floor tracks come together they are able to
comfortably nest one within the other.
[037] As discussed precedingly this height difference between the respective
sides of the main rail by providing an outer edge lower therefore helping
draining from a building floor and so forth when such track arrangements are
introduced as part of the sliding door assembly.
[038] Advantageously it also allows multiple tracks to be nested one within
the other and wherein the height elevation differences provide an inherent
self-alignment and correct spacing between the multiple tracks.
[039] Figures 5 and 6 illustrate one of the important aspects of this invention
 notably the fact that the apex (14) of the main rail (11) does not come in
contact with the wheel (14).
 [040] As can be seen notably in the cross sectional view of Figure 6, the
 peripheral side edges (44) and (45) of the wheel (43) have been configured to
 rest upon the corresponding inclined surfaces (12) and (13).
 [041] As is notable the apex (14) is free from direct contact and engagement
with the wheel (14).
 [042] Therefore unlike in previous conventional arrangements where there is
 a continuous contoured contact between the wheel and the main rail along the
 profiled engaging edges, in this instance it is the inclined surfaces which are
 accepting the load of the wheel and the apex is no longer wheel engaging.
                                          8

[043] Advantageously if damage such as an impact and so forth upon the
main rail occurs and there is bumps and dints in the apex this will not translate
to obstacles for the general sliding functionality upon the floor track (10).
[044] The reason being is that the wheel (43) and the use of the periphery
edges (44) and (45) to rest upon the inclined surfaces (12) and (13) to carry
the weight means that it does not matter if the apex of the main rail becomes
damaged as the apex, unlike in conventional designs, is no longer responsible
for carrying the weight of the wheel assembly as part of the sliding door
arrangement.
 [045] Figures 5 and 6 also introduce a further preferred feature of the
 invention through the use of the support bracket (35) which includes general
 uprights (36) and (37) plus the main support top plate (38).
 [046] Fastening holes (39a) and (39b) allow the support plate (35) to be
 mounted and fastened into place as required.
 [047] The support bracket includes quite a unique engagement feature
 through the use of the substantially cross sectional T shaped protrusion
 shown generally as (41) in Figure 6 that includes the main vertical section (41)
 and two flanged out lateral arms (41a) and (41b).
 [0481 The base of the T includes a triangular type fold support and as can be
 appreciated can be formed from the single sheet by folding and pressing into
 the required configuration.
 [049] Advantageously the presented configuration (41) shown in Figure 6 is
 inherently adapted through this shape to provide support engagement with the
 floor track arrangement as the main vertical upright (40) portion is able to pass
 through a defined opening (32) and then the flanged out lateral arms (41a)
 and (41 b) fix up against the internal surfaces of the base sections (29) and
  (31) of the main rail (11).
  [050] Advantageously no additional separate fastening considerations need
 to be made.
                                          9

[051] The bracket can be conveniently fixed into place and the floor track
then slid in position or vice versa.
[052] The support bracket (35) through the use of the T extension (41) is able
to conveniently locate the slots provided by the cross sectional configuration
of the main rail and accordingly provides correct leveling and alignment before
concrete is poured and formed around the floor track arrangement.
[053] Figure 7 shows a preferred embodiment of the invention however in
this instance the floor track arrangement shown generally as (50) can be
mounted above ground.
[054] Nonetheless the same functionality remains in that the main rail
includes an apex (51) and inclined surfaces (52) and (53). There are base
portions (54) and (55) and the general upright supports include the bended
fold (56) and (57) that flange out into lateral extensions (58) and (59).
 [055] A series of fastening holes (60) is included to allow the floor track
arrangement (50) to be mounted above ground as required.
 [056] Figures 8 and 9 introduce the preferred embodiment wherein the
 additional feature is included as part of the wheel assembly so as to engage
the underside of the upper section of the main rail so as to prevent the wheel
 and accordingly the connected sliding door from being derailed.
 [057] It is important to note that Figures 8 and 9 show one preferred
 embodiment and there can literally be scores of different such embodiments
 as the main embodiment is to include an extension as part of the wheel
 assembly or the support for the wheel which is able to extend and anchor
 there under the unique substantially triangular cross sectional configuration
 brought about by the upper section of the main rail which is adapted to
 support and directionally guide the wheel of the sliding door.
 [058] As can be seen in Figures 8 and 9 there is a wheel assembly support
 cassette (61) where the wheel (62) is enclosed therein.
                                          10

[059] Extensions (62) which include lateral hooks (63) which are positionable
under the base portion (64) and (65) of the upper portion of the main rail
which includes the triangular cross sectional configuration.
                                       11

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION
1.      A floor track for a sliding door, said floor track including;
        a main rail adapted to support and directionally guide the wheels of a
sliding door;
        said main rail having an upper section definable with a substantially
triangular cross-sectional configuration along said main rail upper section
length, wherein converging opposing inclined surfaces towards an apex of the
substantially triangular cross-sectional configuration are adapted to engage
the peripheral rim edges of a wheel of the sliding door so that the load of the
sliding door is kept away from the apex of the substantially triangular cross
sectional configuration.
2.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 1 wherein the upper section of
the main rail which is defined by a substantially triangular cross-section
configuration is supported by a bottom section wherein the bottom section
includes two vertical uprights that engage the base of the triangular cross
section configuration wherein the vertical uprights define a gap between each
other and wherein a lateral platform extends substantially orthogonally out
from the base of each of the respective vertical uprights.
3.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the floor
track is positionable above ground.
4.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the floor
track is positionable in-ground.
5.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 4 wherein the floor track for a
sliding door positionable in-ground further includes a substantially right-angled
side skirting having a vertical surface and a horizontal surface outwardly
extending therefrom said vertical surface, wherein the elevation of the
horizontal surface on one side of the apex is at a higher elevation relative to
the horizontal surface on the other side above said main rail apex.
                                           12

6.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 5 wherein a plurality of floor
tracks can aligned one with the other by placing a raised horizontal surface
outwardly extending with a lowered horizontal surface outwardly extending of
the respective floor tracks being aligned one with the other.
7.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the floor
track arrangement for the sliding door further includes a support bracket for
holding the floor track in place.
8.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 7 wherein the support bracket
includes an upstanding T section adapted to slide in between the gap defined
by the vertical uprights at the base of the triangle and wherein the top of the T
configuration is adapted to be positioned within the triangular confines of the
substantially triangular cross-sectional configuration of the main rail.
9.      The floor track for a sliding door of claim 1 further including a wheel
assembly which supports the wheel engaging the main rail adapted to support
and directionally guide the wheels.
10.     The floor track for a sliding door of claim 9 wherein the wheel assembly
includes an extension which is able to extend out and engage under the base
of the triangular cross-sectional configuration.
11.     The floor track for a sliding door of claim 1 wherein the floor track is a
continuous integral length that can be cut to size as required.
                                         13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
