Various embodiments that may generally relate to collusion are described. Collusion detection may be used to
prevent players in a wagering environment from violating the integrity of a game. Player actions may be tracked
to develop a wagering profile that is specific to various game situations. A player acting in a manner that would
be against their interest and against their defined profile may be considered a colluding action. Information
about collusion actions may be presented for evaluation and/or anti-collusion actions may be automatically
taken in response to such collusion actions being determined.

                                   COLLUSION DETECTION
Cross Reference to Related Applications
         This application claims priority to US provisional application 61/749,525 filed January 7,
2013, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. Patent Application No. 13/110,519
filed May 18, 2011; U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/680,168, filed August 6, 2012; and U.S.
Provisional Application 61/642,812, filed May 4, 2012 are hereby incorporated herein by
reference.
Field
[0001] Some embodiments may generally relate to gaming and/or mobile devices.
Background
[0002] Mobile devices, such as cellular telephones, PDAs, notebook computers, and/or various
other devices may be used by individuals. Gaming, such as casino gaming, sports wagering,
video gaming, and/or various other forms of gaming may be performed.
Summary
[0003] The following should be understood as example embodiments, and not as claims.
[0004] A. A method comprising: monitoring, by a computing device, play of a player in a
plurality of games; generating, by the computing device, profile data for the player based on the
monitored play; determining, by the computing device, that an action by the player in a second
game results in a collusive outcome; in response to determining that the action by the player
results in the collusive outcome, determining, by the computing device, that the action deviates
from the profile data; and in response to determining that the action deviates from the profile
data, taking, by the computing device, a collusion prevention action.
[0005] A. 1. The method of claim A, in which determining that the action deviates from the
profile data includes determining a probability that the action is not in line with historical play of
the player by comparing the action to the profile data. A.2. The method of claim A, in which the
collusive outcome includes a transfer of a large amount of chips from the player to another
player in the second game. A.3. The method of claim A, in which determining that the action
                                                  1

results in the collusive outcome includes determining a severity of collusion based on the
collusive outcome and in which the determination that that action deviates from the profile data
is adjusted to account for the severity so that a higher deviation is required to make the
determination for a lower severity and a lower deviation is required to make the determination
for a higher severity.
[0006] A.4. The method of claim A, comprising determining a likelihood of collusion and
presenting the likelihood to a collusion detector. A.4. 1. The method of claim A, comprising
determining a high likelihood of collusion in response to determining that the collusive outcome
is a highly severe collusion and deviation from the profile data is great. A.4.2. The method of
claim A, comprising determining a low likelihood of collusion in response to determining either
a) that the collusive outcome is not severe or b) that deviation from the profile data is not great.
A.5. The method of claim A, comprising determining an ongoing collusion rating for the player
over the plurality of games based on a percentage of possible collusive actions detected over
those games and present that collusion rating to a collusion detector.
[0007] A.6. The method of claim A, in which the collusion prevention action includes presenting
information to a collusion detector through a user interface that allows the collusion detector to
perform at least one of undue a result of the second game, ban the player from gameplay, halt
gameplay by the second player, and cause a replay of the second game. A.6. 1. The method of
claim A.6, comprising recording history of the second game, and in which the user interface
allows the collusion detector to access recorded game history of the second game. A.6.1.1. The
method of claim A.6.1, in which the user interface is configured to allow the collusion detector
to access recorded game history in context of the game. A.6.1.2. The method of claim A.6.1, in
which the game history allows the collusion detector to recreate the second game.
[0008] A.7. The method of claim A, comprising storing the profile data in a vector, in which
each dimension of the vector represents a determined behavior of the player. A.7.1. The method
of claim A.7, in which one dimension of the vector includes a tightness of play dimension
determined by a small blind completion percentage in poker games. A.7.2. The method of claim
A.7, in which one dimension of the vector includes an aggression dimension determined by a bet
and raise percentage post flop compared to a call percentage post flop in Texas hold 'em games.
A.7.3. The method of claim A.7, in which dimensions of the vector are situationally-generic
                                                   2

dimensions. A.7.4. The method of claim A.7, in which dimensions of the vector are specific to a
context in which behavior is observed. A.7.4.1. The method of claim A.7.4, in which a context
for a dimension of the vector is defined by at least one of a hole card strength and a hand strength
of the player in the context. A.7.5. The method of claim A.7, comprising estimating a dimension
for the vector when there is not sufficient information for the dimension by referencing one or
more other dimensions in the vector. A.7.6. The method of claim A.7, comprising determining a
dimension of the vector by weighting data so that more recent games are given more weight than
less recent games for the dimension.
[0009] A.8. The method of claim A, comprising generating the profile data to identify historical
actions taken in each of a plurality of gaming situations. A.9. The method of claim A, comprising
generating the profile data to identify historical actions taken against each of a plurality of types
of players. A.10. The method of claim A, in which monitoring play of the player includes
operating an electronic platform through which the player may play the plurality of games
against a plurality of other players and determining actions in those games taken through the
electronic platform.
[00010]         B. An apparatus comprising: a computing device; and a non-transitory medium
having stored thereon a plurality of instruction that when executed by the computing device
cause the apparatus to: monitor play of a player in a plurality of games; generate by the
computing device, profile data for the player based on the monitored play; determine that an
action by the player in a second game results in a collusive outcome; in response to determining
that the action by the player results in the collusive outcome, determine that the action deviates
from the profile data; and in response to determining that the action deviates from the profile
data, take a collusion prevention action.
Brief Description of the Drawin2s
[00011]         Figure 1 shows a block diagram of a hand-reading system of some embodiments.
[00012]         Figure 2 shows apparatus for playing a game in some embodiments.
[00013]         Figure 3 (in parts, A and B) shows example information storage according to
some embodiments.
                                                    3

[00014]         Figure 4 (in parts, A and B) shows an example data structure of game actions
according to some embodiments.
[00015]         Figure 5 shows example hand strength determinations according to some
embodiments.
[00016]         Figure 6 (in parts, A and B) shows an example data structure of player actions
according to some embodiments.
[00017]         Figure 7 (in parts, A and B) shows examples of player profile categories
according to some embodiments.
[00018]         Figure 8 shows an example data structure of collusion actions according to some
embodiments.
[00019]         Figure 9 shows an example interface that may be used to show collusion at
various tables according to some embodiments.
[00020]         Figure 10 shows an example interface that may be used to show information
about a specific table in some embodiments.
[00021]         Figure 11 (in parts, A and B) shows an example interface that may be used to
show specific event information about a possible collusion according to some embodiments.
[00022]         Figure 12 shows an example method that may be performed in some
embodiments.
Detailed Description
        I.      Example Embodiments
[00023]         Some embodiments may facilitate gaming. For example one or more users may
play in a game together. The game may be a competitive wagering game such as a card game, a
video game, a tile based game (e.g., mahjong), a casino game and/or any other game. For
example, some embodiments may include a card game of poker (e.g., Texas Hold'em, Omaha,
draw, stud, etc.). Some examples of a poker game are given in Application 13/110,519, which
has been incorporated by reference herein. It should be recognized that any arrangement and/or
combination of games may be used in various embodiments.
[00024]         Some embodiments may include gaming with physical components (e.g., cards.
Some embodiments may include gaming with virtual components (e.g., virtual cards). Some
                                                 4

embodiments may include any combination of physical and virtual components. For example,
some embodiments may include gaming at a physical table with physical cards. Data may be
tracked in such a situation through camera tracking, card RFID tracking, and so on. As another
example, some embodiments may include gaming with computing devices using virtual cards.
Some examples of such devices are given in application 61/680,168, which has been
incorporated by reference herein. Such computing devices may include stationary devices such
as desktop computers or kiosks, mobile devices such as smart phones, and/or any other devices
desired. It should be recognized that any combination of devices and/or physical elements may
be used in any combination or arrangement in various embodiments.
[00025]          Some embodiments may include one or more collusion prevention actions,
methods, devices, and/or other elements. Collusion in a competitive game may undermine the
integrity of a game experience for those players that do not engage in collusion. Collusion may
be considered cheating in a game and may be against the rules of play of the game. Those that
engage in collusion often take actions to prevent detection of their collusive behavior. This can
make collusion detection difficult and various described features of various embodiments
described herein may overcome some of the difficulty in detecting collusion.
[00026]          Collusion can take many forms. Some example forms of collusion may include
deliberately losing or causing another player to win, chip dumping from one player to another,
casual play rather than competitive play in a tournament, passive play rather than aggressive play
against a particular player, lack of raising against a particular player, combining betting patterns
with a teammate to squeeze out another player at a table, and so on. Whether a particular type of
action is actually considered against the rules of a game may vary from embodiment to
embodiment. For example, some embodiments may allow some forms of collusion but not others
(e.g., casual play may be allowed but chip dumping and squeezing out may not be allowed).
Other embodiments may not allow any form of collusion. And, still other embodiments may
allow all forms of collusion. Such examples of collusion activity are given as non-limiting
examples only and other embodiments may relate to any desired collusion behavior.
[00027]          Collusion detection can similarly take many forms. For example, in some
embodiments, gameplay of one or more players and/or games may be monitored to determine
possibilities of collusion. Such monitoring may include receiving data about a game (e.g., from a
                                                   5

gaming server, form players, from cameras, from RFID readers, from a data collection device,
from a source of the data such as a random number generator or game result engine, and so on).
Such data may be recorded and analyzed to determine possible collusion. Such possibilities may
be flagged for investigation and/or tracked for pattern recognition. Actions may be taken in
response to determinations of a possible collusion activity (e.g., based on the likelihood of the
possibility and/or severity of the collusion). For example, players may be banned, game play
may be halted, an investigation may be conducted, authorities may be notified, a game may be
replayed, results may be invalidated, players may be removed from a tournament, players may be
prevented from future paring in a game, and so on. It should be recognized that collusion
detection examples are given as non-limiting examples only and that other embodiments may
include any desired collusion detection elements.
[00028]          It should be recognized that various elements of described embodiments may be
combined in any manner and that examples given herein are non-limiting examples only. It
should further be recognized that while some examples are given in terms of poker, tracked play
characteristics, collusion actions, collusion detection methods, responses to collusion, and so on,
that these descriptions are given as non-limiting examples only.
[00029]          In some embodiments, collusion detection may include an attempt to determine a
change in play style, betting actions, or other behavior. Collusion detection may include
evaluating gameplay over time to detect patterns and/or divergences from patterns, create player
behavior profiles in specific situations, and so on. An example of player profile and indexing
elements is given in application 61/642,812, which has been incorporated by reference.
Collusion detection may include determining teamed up players in a competitive game where
players should not be teamed up based on analysis of determined behavior dimensions and/or
tracked actions in one or more games. Some embodiments may include tracking player behavior,
gathering player statistics, detecting play patterns, detecting collusion using this information,
preventing collusion based on detected collusion, and so on. Some embodiments may use tracked
information to research collusion and learn previously unknown collusion techniques that may be
detectable and/or preventable to improve the integrity of a game. Such methods may be very
difficult to detect without robust tracking and/or analysis elements.
                                                   6

[00030]         Some embodiments may include recording information about one or more games.
Such information may include actions that took place in the game, cards dealt in the game,
players of the game, bets made in the game, results of the game, positions in the games, and/or
any desired information about the game. Figure 3 illustrates some example information that may
be stored about a game. Such information may be used for re-creation of a game at a later date,
for analysis purposes to determine collusion behavior in that game or other games, to research
collusion activities, and/or for any other desired reasons. It should be recognized that such
examples of storing game information are given as non-limiting examples only and that other
embodiments may not store such information or may store different information as desired.
[00031]         Some further examples of information about a game, round, and/or tournament
that may be determined and/or stored may include game type, tournament type, limit type,
tournament or not, rebuy allowed or not, and so on. Further examples of information about a
game, round, and/or tournament that may be determined and/or stored may include position of
blind, blind status, which cards were used at each point in the game to make a player's hand,
result, pot amount(s), bets, etc. Still further examples of information about a game, round, and/or
tournament that may be determined and/or stored may include strength of hand(s) (may be
relative and/or absolute), whether there is a pair, whether there is a straight or flush possibility,
whether suited cards are dealt to a player, strength of pocket cards, rank of player hand, player
hand strength vs. other players, possible draws, dealt community cards, and so on.
[00032]         Some embodiments may include recording player action information for one or
more games, rounds, tournaments, and so on. Such player action information may be stored in a
vector or other data structure. Dimensions of such a profile may describe actions or behaviors of
a player in a game. Some example dimensions may include a tight vs. loose play dimension, an
aggressive vs. nonaggressive play dimension, a bluff dimension, a semi-bluff dimension, a long
shot play dimension, a reach draw dimension, player position, hand strength, community card
strength, possible draw strength, player actions (pre and/or post flop), player bet techniques (pre
and/or post flop), round specific data, game generic data, and/or any desired dimension. A
dimension may be specific for a round of play or a game at a large. A vector or other data
structure describing each dimension may be stored in a database for each situation that it is
relevant to. Such information may be accessed to form a player profile and/or for investigation of
                                                    7

collusion activity to review previous behavior of a player. Such information may be determined
for each desired game and/or each desired player in each game (e.g., every player, every game,
every player except trusted players). Figure 4 illustrates an example data structure that may be
used for recording player behaviors in a game. It should be recognized that such dimensions and
data structure are given as a non-limiting example only. It should further be recognized that the
use and/or recording of such information at all is given as a non-limiting example and that other
embodiments may directly create player behavior profiles without the recording or generation of
such specific game or round level data.
[00033]         Figure 5 illustrates an example of hand strength determination that may be used in
some embodiments. As discussed above, some embodiments may include hand strength
dimensions or other data. Figure 5 illustrates how in some embodiments, hole cards in a Texas
Hold' em game may be assigned rank strength into a rank category. In some embodiments, hand
strength determinations may be absolute and/or relative to other player's hands.
In some embodiments, hand strength determinations may be based on community cards. A
strength may be lower if all or more cards come from community cards rather than hole cards. It
should be recognized that such example strength categories are given as non-limiting examples
only and that some embodiments may not even include such categories but rather may include
separate strength information for each combination or no strength dimensions at all.
[00034]         Some embodiments may include determining detailed and/or context-specific
game information for one or more games. Such information may include placing information
about player actions into game context. For each desired game and/or each desired player in each
desired game, such information may be determined. In some embodiments, such information
may be separately determined for each round of a game for each player to identify the round
specific level of player behavior. Such information may include, for example, bluffing and/or
semi-bluffing actions, check raising actions, continuation actions, slow play actions, trap actions,
lay down actions, blind steal actions, vs. continuation actions, squeeze play and/or defense
actions, blind defense actions, passive actions, looseness indicating actions, tightness indicating
actions, aggressive actions, and so on. Figure 6 illustrates an examples data structure and set of
action that may be used in some embodiments to record such information. With such
information, a robust player profile may be generated for each desired player. It should be
                                                  8

recognized that the determination of such information, the data structure, and the information are
given as non-limiting examples only. Other embodiments may not include such actions or may
determine different information stored in different data structures as desired. Such information
may be used, in some embodiments, in place of the information discussed with respect to figure
4, in addition to the information of Figure 4, and so on. Such information may be duplicative,
different from, additive, in replace of, and so on to the information of Figure 4.
[00035]          An example determination of a tightness of play dimension may include
determining a small blind completion percentage. If the player sees the flop when a small blind a
high percentage of time, then the player may play loose. If the player sees the flop when small
blind a lower percentage of time, then the player may play tight. It should be recognized that this
example of tightness indication is a non-limiting example only and that other methods of
determining tightness may be used as desired.
[00036]          An example determination of an aggression of player dimension may include
determining bets and raises compared to calls post flop. For example, in some embodiments an
aggression factor may be determined by dividing post flop bets and raises by post flop calls. The
higher the number, the more likely the player is to be aggressive without warrant. The lower the
number the more passive the player may be when aggression is warranted. An aggression factor
< 1 may be considered a passive player. An aggression factor over 1.5 may be considered an
aggressive player. An aggression factor between 1 and 1.5 may be considered a neutral player. It
should be recognized that this example of aggression indication is a non-limiting example only
and that other methods of determining aggression may be used as desired.
[00037]          Any combination of information may be collected that may be used for a category
determination and/or otherwise collected as part of a player profile that may or may not be used
to determine a player style category (e.g., may be used as general style information for a
category determination or not). Some examples may include how often a player does something
in given situations, how often a player puts money in when under the gun (first to act), how often
a player puts money in against certain players or players with certain play styles, how often a
player pre-flop raises, how often a player pre-flop raises when last to act before the flop, how
often a player calls pre-flop, how often a player calls pre-flop when big blind, how often a player
raises first, how often a player raises first when in the middle position, how often a player calls
                                                   9

pre-flop with a strong hand (over all strong and/or relative strong) and/or a weak hand, how often
a player calls post-flop with a strong hand and/or weak hand. It should be recognized that these
are example pieces of information only and that various embodiments may include more, less,
different, no, and so on information as desired to help determine player behavior expectations.
Some embodiments may include determining a number of situations when an action could occur
and the number of times an action is taken in those situations to determine such a piece of
information. Such information may be updated overtime as more information is obtained.
[00038]          As still further examples illustrating possible dimensions, statistics and levels of
robustness, some embodiments may include determining total number of hands (#H), percentage
of voluntarily putting money in the pot (% of games a player voluntarily puts money in the pot
pre-flop), pre-flop raise percentage, 3bet pre-flop % (% times a player raises pre-flop when
facing a raise), % of time a player raises unopened pot pre-flop from the cutoff/button/small
blind position, a player aggression factor (e.g., as in the example above), % of continuation bet
on flop (% of time a player bets the flop after being the pre-flop raise), % of time a player went
to showdown (measure whether player is solid or overplayed), chip amount that this player is up
or down, and so on.
[00039]          As an example of determining a voluntarily put money in the pot percentage,
some embodiments may count a times that the player puts money in the pot when the player is
not required to do so. For example, blinds paid by a player may not count to such percentage but
rather, raises, bets, and/or call may count. Such a statistic may measure a player's playing style
in regard to tightness vs. looseness of play. Tight play may be in the less than 24% rate, neutral
may be 24 to 28%, slightly loose may by 28 to 33 and loose may be 33% and over. It should be
recognized that this example of voluntarily putting money in the pot calculations are given as
non-limiting examples only. Other embodiments may include an amount of money or other
actions may be counted such as including blinds.
[00040]          Determining a % of time a player went to showdown may include determining a
number of times a player saw the flop and did not fold afterward. For example, the number of
times the player stayed in the game to see the flop may be determined and the percentage of
those times that the player did not fold in the game may be determined to calculate a % of time
the player went to showdown. Greater than 39% may be considered over played. Less than 39%
                                                    10

may be considered solid play style. It should be recognized that this example of showdown
calculations is a non-limiting example only and that other methods of making such a showdown
calculation may be used as desired.
[00041]          It should be recognized that any actions or analysis of actions may be determined
based on player behavior. Further examples of actions that may be tracked (e.g., each round,
each game, each tournament, etc.) may include aggressive actions (first in, raise, re-raise, four
bet), tightness actions (e.g., fold to big blind or open bet, fold to raise, fold to re-raise, fold to
four bet), passive actions (check to limp, check to leader, call to raise, fold to big blind),
looseness actions may be tracked (e.g., call to limp, call to raise, call to re-raise, call to four bet),
blind steal actions may be tracked (e.g., player raises with weak hand in late position and no
other raisers), blind defensive actions may be tracked (e.g., defend a big blind, fold a big blind),
squeeze play actions may be tracked (e.g., previous raise followed by one or more calls, re-raise
when squeeze possible), squeeze defend actions may be tracked (e.g., previously called a raise
now being re-raised, called re-raise when squeezed), continuation actions may be tracked (e.g.,
made continuation bet, checked-passed on continuation bet, made bet/checked then re-raised
raise, made bet/checked then folded to bet/raise, player raised previous round and bets/raises
current round), versus continuation actions may be tracked (e.g., bet into opponent with previous
action, check to opponent with previous action, folded to continuation bet, raised to continuation
bet), bluff actions may be tracked (player makes bet or raise with very weak hand), semi-bluff
actions may be tracked (e.g., player makes bet or raise with average hand), check raises may be
tracked (player checks with strong hand then re-raises), slow play may be tracked (e.g., player
checks with strong hand and calls all raises), lay down actions may be tracked (e.g., player folds
with a strong or very strong hand), and/or any desired actions may be tracked.
[00042]          Tracked actions may be generically tracked and/or tracked with reference to the
specific context in which the actions occur. For example, betting actions in various context may
be tracked to determine a behavior profile of a player in specific situations. For example, a
determination may be made regarding when a player raises with a strong hand, raises with a
weak hand, folds with a strong hand, folds with a weak hand, makes any betting action against a
player with a specific play style (e.g., actions against lions, actions ), makes betting actions
against a specific player.
                                                    11

[00043]          For example, a determination regarding play style when a player holds pocket
aces may be made. It may be typical for players to raise or check-raise in this situation. Each
player, however, may approach this situation differently, and some players, as an example, may
always slow-play a strong hand such as this. Tracking this trend may prevent a valid slow play
from being confused with a collusion event where a player does not bet into a colluding
teammate.
[00044]          As another example, a determination may be made regarding a play style when a
player holds a weak hand in a late table position. A determination may be made that it is not
unusual for a player to attempt a raise to steal the blinds in such a situation, and that the
likelihood of this tactic increases later in a tournament. Tracking this trend may prevent a valid
bluff or semi-bluff action from being confused with two players teaming up against the middle
player if the big blind re-raises.
[00045]          Yet another example of a determination regarding play style may include a
determination that one player notices that other players are playing a very tight style of play and
in response plays aggressively against them. A further determination may be made that yet
another player reacts to the one player's behavior by playing aggressively against the one player.
Other players may get caught in the middle of these two aggressive players, however, by
tracking the trends of the players, it can be determined that there is not collusion between the
aggressive players, rather it is simply their play styles in this particular situation.
[00046]          Still another example of a determination regarding play style in context may
include a determination that a player seems to randomly play very poorly. For example, a player
may hold a decent hand and may happen to make a strong hand by drawing to a straight or a
flush. However, the player may not realize this and fold the big hand. This on its own could look
like collusion, but in the context of previous play by this player, it can be determined that there is
not a history of colluding activity and perhaps this is an inexperienced player that simply made a
mistake.
[00047]          Accordingly, for a given player and/or set of situations, any data may be tracked
to determine a player profile. A player may be assigned a player type based on that data. Such
information may be determined for each situation type desired at any level of granularity so that
an expected action of a player is known in any given situation and/or in broad strokes.
                                                    12

[00048]          Some embodiments may include determining player styles over time. Such
information may be determined from player action information recorded in gameplay of one or
more games (e.g., from recorded action and/or game information such as that described above).
Such player style information may be generic to overall gameplay and/or may be context
specific. For example, such information may indicate a general style of play for a player in poker
games. As another example, such information may indicate a style of play in a specific situation
(e.g., against a specific player, against a type of player, with a given starting hand strength, with
a given community hand strength, with a full table, and so on). Such information may indicate a
betting trend for a player over time. Such style information may be used to determine collusion
action of a player. For example, if a player deviates from a style in an unexplained manner to
take an action that seems to be a colluding action, then the player may be determined to likely be
engaged in collusion.
[00049]          As more information is obtained, expectations of player behavior may become
more accurate. Some embodiments may need about 30 to about 40 hands of play to form an
accurate read of a player. Some more specific or tougher dimensions of player behavior may
need more hands for an accurate determination (e.g., about 150 to about 400 hands). Various
dimensions may take longer or shorter times that may depend on how often a situation occurs
and how specific a dimension is.
[00050]          Information about one dimension may be used to guess at another dimension. For
example, if a player is seen as a tight and aggressive player in some situations, that player may
be considered a tight and aggressive player in situations that have not yet occurred. Over time, a
system of collusion detection according to some embodiments may become better at guessing the
type of person new players will be with less data. The system may learn how to categorize
people based on prior categorizations of other people. Over time, a system may determine
correlations between play styles in one situation and other situations and use that correlation
information to fill in profile information about situations that it does not have information about.
[00051]          Figure 7 illustrates an example of player style determination that may be used in
some embodiments. In this example, players may be placed into one of nine different style
categories that are defined by the historic actions of the players. For example, if a player is loose
and aggressive and likes to bluff, the player may be considered a "lion". A lion may be
                                                   13

determined by analyzing play actions to find that the player raises pre-flop more than 8% of the
time, has an aggression factor greater than 2, and has a voluntarily putting money in the pot
chance of less than or equal to 20%. It should be recognized that the various categories shown in
figure 7 are given as non-limiting examples only. It should further be recognized that the
example dimensions used to define the example categories are also given as non-limiting
examples only. In various embodiments, any number of categories or no categories at all may be
used. In various embodiments, any play style characteristics may be used to determine category
information. As illustrated, different categories may use different characteristics for their
determination or may use all the same characteristics.
[00052]          In some embodiments, as that illustrated in Figure 7, a player style determination
may vary based on the context of play. In this example, a player is show to have different style
determinations for a full table, a short table, and heads up play. A player may have the same style
of play in all situations or other embodiments may include only a single play style determination
for all game play. In still other embodiments, the context of play style determination may be
more specific. For example, play style may be determined for specific rounds of play (e.g., play
style pre flop, play style post flop, etc.), play style may be determined against other player types
(e.g., play style against a person that is typically a "lion"), play style may be determined for
specific card strengths (e.g., play style when community cards are weak and hold cards are
strong), play style may be determined for a specific table position (e.g., big blind, small blind),
play style may be determined for a time of day, play style may be determined for a type of game
(e.g., tournament, non-tournament ), play style may be determined for a level in a tournament,
play style may be determined for a chip count (e.g., most chips, least chips, average chips), play
style may be determined for any desired situation in any level of specificity as desired.
[00053]          Determination of game actions, player actions, and/or player styles may be an
ongoing element in some embodiments. For example, as new games are played by players,
information about those games may be received and stored. That information may be used to
update player style information so that over time player style information may be kept up to date
to account for player behavioral changes or style evolution. In some embodiments, player action
may be given weight based on time. In some embodiments, because player styles may evolve
naturally over time, more recent player actions may be given a higher weight in a determination
                                                     14

of player styles. For example, some embodiments may ignore information that is greater than six
month old (e.g., unless there is no or insufficient recent data). As another example, some
embodiments may give full weight to recent data and increasingly diminished weight to more
distant data. At some point data may be given no weight (e.g., if there is sufficient information to
make the determination without the data). In some embodiments, old data may be used if there is
not sufficient information to otherwise make a complete analysis without it (e.g., if a particular
situation has not occurred in the last year for a player, then older data than a year old may be
used to determine a style in that situation for embodiments that record style information for that
situation). Accordingly, sliding updated style information may be maintained for a player that
accounts for evolution of play in some embodiments.
[00054]         Some embodiments may include receiving game information. Such information
may be received after a player profile has been determined based on previously received game
information. The new game information may be analyzed to determine collusion. Such
determination of possible collusion may be made with reference to the prior game information
and/or player style information. Accordingly, an ongoing determination of collusion and
updating of player style information may be made on new game information.
[00055]         Some embodiments may include determining possible collusion actions in a
game. Figure 8 illustrates an example data structure that may be used to identify and/or store
possible collusion actions in each round of play by each player in a game. For example, a
determination may be made if a player is engaged in soft play, chip dumping, squeeze play or
shared cards in a particular round based on actions taken in that round or in the game up to that
point of the round. Such a determination may or may not take into account player style
information. It should be recognized that any forms of collusion and collusion actions or
determination may be made in various embodiments and that these are given as non-limiting
examples only.
[00056]         For example, in some embodiments, a chip dumping event may be determined if
the player action results in a transfer of chips from one player to another player when the player
should not have lost the game (e.g., based on the cards in his or her hands). A soft play may be
determined if a player plays in a non-aggressive manner when he should play in an aggressive
manner (e.g., based on having good or the best cards in his hand). It should be recognized that
                                                   15

these examples are non-limiting and that any form of determining whether an action in a game is
a possible collusion action may be used in various embodiments.
[00057]         As another set of examples, in some embodiments, a chip dumping may be
determined to be possible if a player action in a round results in a chip transfer from one player
to another because of an action by the player that is not in line with the player's determined style.
Similarly, a soft play may be determined if a player makes a passive play in a situation when the
player would take a non-passive play according to his determined play style in the situation. It
should once again be recognized that these examples of determining collusion with reference to
determined player styles are given as non-limiting examples only.
[00058]         Some embodiments may include determining a collusion rating (e.g., likelihood
or severity level). For example, based on the amount of money involved in a collusion action, a
level may be greater or lower (e.g., high money involved may mean high severity). As another
example, a likelihood level may be based on how drastically divergent from a style or
expectation of play an action may be. Such likelihood may further be based on how strong an
expectation is (e.g., if the expectation that an action will be taken is strong and it is not taken
then the likelihood may be greater, if the player has always taken an action in a given situation
but doesn't then it may be higher, if the player only slightly more often than not takes an action
in a game but doesn't then the likelihood may be low). A number of collusion actions between a
set of people over time may be used to determine likelihood and/or severity (e.g., the more
collusion action the greater the likelihood that the players are colluding).
[00059]         Some embodiments may include determining, for an ongoing table, game or
tournament, that collusion continues to be possible based on actions at the table, game, or
tournament. For example, as game or table continues more and more possible collusion action
may happen and be used to affect a collusion rating for the game, table, tournament, etc.
[00060]         Some embodiments may include an ongoing collusion rating. Some embodiments
may determine total actions and the percentage of those actions that are between a same set of
people that are considered collusion actions. For example, some embodiments may determine Y
events that might be collusion actions. In some embodiments those determinations may account
for historic play styles of players as discussed above. In other embodiments, a number of those
collusion actions may be subtracted from this equation based on being accounted for by
                                                   16

historical styles (e.g., an analysis may be done to determine which of the Y actions are according
to player styles and therefore taken out of the collusion action equation). In still other
embodiments, all of the possible collusion actions regardless of conformity to style may be used
in such an equation. The Y value may be divided by X total actions to determine a collusion
percentage.
[00061]          Other embodiments may include other collusion ratings over time. For example,
collusion severity, collusion likelihood, and so on may be used. Collusion percentage may be one
component of a collusion determination and/or the only components. For example, in some
embodiments money amounts, percentages of collusion actions, likelihood of collusion, and/or
any other factor may be combined and/or used separately to determine a collusion problem.
[00062]          Some embodiments may include determining that a collusion rating meets some
problem threshold indicating that collusion has likely occurred. One or more actions may be
taken in response to such a determination. For example, an alert may be made, a regulator may
be notified, a player may be banned, a game may be replayed, and so on.
[00063]          For example, a collusion percentage identifies that the number of collusions
divided by the total actions is greater than some threshold percentage (e.g., 1%, .001%, 10%,
etc.) then collusion may be determined to be likely and an anti-collusion action may be triggered.
As another example, in some embodiments, if a severity and/or likelihood rating exceeds some
threshold (e.g., 10% likely collusion, high severity such that large amounts of money at a high
likelihood is indicated) some action may be triggered. In some embodiments, a relationship
between money at risk and likelihood may exist such that a lower threshold of likeliness may be
needed for higher dollar amounts. It should be recognized that these examples of triggering an
action are given as non-limiting only.
[00064]          Some embodiments may include displaying information identifying collusion
ratings to one or more users of a collusion detection system. For example, an anti-collusion
professional may be shown collusion rating information (e.g., likelihood, severity, percentage, an
aggregate rating, etc.) for a table, a player, a game, a tournament, and so on. The user may be
able to obtain more information to help analyze the collusion.
[00065]          Figure 9 illustrates an example interface that may be used to display collusion
information. Such an interface may show a collusion specialist information about ongoing games
                                                   17

(e.g., in a tournament or not). A graphical representation of physical or virtual poker tables at
which games may be taking place are shown. Tables may be grouped in columns according to
limits of the games or other game characteristics. Tables may be numbered to identify them.
Tables may show the number of players around them with a dot indicator as shown.
[00066]          As shown, in the center of each table (or anywhere desired) may be a collusion
indicator. The collusion indicator may identify a rating of collusion at the table (e.g., likelihood
of collusion, number of collusion events, severity rating of collusion, any other type of collusion
rating). The tables may be color-coded based on collusion ratings to help a user identify which
tables are likely falling victim to collusion actions.
[00067]          A user of an anti-collusion system may be able to obtain detailed information
about one or more games at a table. For example, a user may click on a table in the interface of
Figure 9 to obtain detailed information about that table. Figure 10 illustrates an example
interface that may be used to provide detailed information to a user. The information may
identify collusion events that may have occurred at the table during each game played at the
table. The information may include detailed information about asset of games that have been
played at the table and each collusion event that may have been detected during each of these
games. Collusion events in this interface may be color-coded to indicate likelihood and/or
severity.
[00068]          In some embodiments, a user may be able to obtain detailed information about a
game and/or collusion event. For example, by clicking on a particular game or collusion event in
the interface of Figure 10, the user may be provided with detailed information about that event
and/or game. For example, a user may be shown a replay of an event, statistics tracked about the
event, information about prior games and/or events, players in the event, results of the event,
historic relevance of the event, actions that took place in the game in which the event took place,
table information regarding the event, player relationships that have been observed between
players involved in the event, information that may have been used to make the collusion
determination of the event, and/or any other desired information. Information may be sorted or
displayed in any order, such as sorted in order of its importance, in order of time, and so on.
[00069]          Figure 11 illustrates one example interface that may be used to display game
and/or event information to a user. This interface may display information about a collusion
                                                   18

event, other events, a game in which a collusion event occurred, other games, and so on. Any
information or game that the user chooses to help investigate collusion may be displayed through
such an interface.
[00070]          As illustrated, an event type and players involved in the event may be displayed
through such an interface. In this example, a soft play collusion event has been detected because
John bet some amount and Gus, with a strong hand checked rather than raised as his hand would
warrant. This determination may have been made because typically one would raise in this
situation and/or because Gus has historically raised in similar situations.
[00071]          Information about each player's play style may be shown. For example, in the
illustrated interface, the avatar of each player is shown to indicate a paly style of the player in
this particular situation. The play styles may correspond to the categories of Figure 7. Further, as
illustrated, detailed information about each player may be shown, such as number of hands dealt,
percent of time a player raises pre-flop or takes any other action in a given situation, frequency
of number of times player voluntarily puts money in the pot, aggression factor based on number
of times player raised compared to number of times player called, percent of time player went to
show down, percent of time player won (or possibly split a pot), and so on. Each such statistic
may be an at large statistic and/or a statistic that is relevant to a particular situation at any level
of desired granularity (e.g., with a hand in the pocket hand strength category, with the specific
pocket cards, against players of these styles, and so on). Information about collusion events
and/or play events at a table may be shown in some embodiments. For example, in the illustrated
interface, the number of collusion events that have been detected and certain play actions are
shown in a center grid. Any information may be shown as desired.
[00072]          This information may be used to determine collusion. For example, a user may
view this information and make an assessment as to whether collusion has occurred or not. The
user, in some embodiments, may be a state regulator assigned to monitor collusion. In other
embodiments, the user may be a collusion expert assigned to maintain integrity of a gaming
environment. Any information desired by the user may be recorded and displayed through an
interface to enable the user to make a decision regarding whether collusion has occurred or not.
[00073]          In some embodiments, a user of such a system may control a system to take a
desired anti-collusion action. For example, a player may be banned, game play may be halted, an
                                                    19

investigation may be conducted, authorities may be notified, a game may be replayed, results
may be invalidated, players may be removed from a tournament, players may be prevented from
future paring in a game, and so on. It should be recognized that anti-collusion actions are given
as non-limiting examples only and that other embodiments may include any desired anti
collusion actions.
[00074]           Although some examples have been described in terms of a collusion expert
monitoring for collusion activity, it should be recognized that those examples are non-limiting
examples only. Some embodiments may include an automated anti-collusion system in which
based on determined player actions an anti-collusion action is taken automatically and/or
recommended to a user for confirmation. Some examples of such a system are discussed herein
already. As one further example, some embodiments may include a system whereby based on a
collusion rating (e.g. likelihood of collusion, severity of collusion, and/or number of collusion
actions), one or more actions may be taken. For example, if likelihood of collusion is high (e.g.,
90%likely, 99% likely, 95% likely, etc.), then a player may be banned automatically. If severity
of collusion is high (e.g., $10,000 wager, an all in wager being part of the game, a table max bet,
$1,000 wager, any threshold wager level) and likelihood is moderate (e.g., 40% likely, 60%
likely, etc.), then a game may be caused to be replayed. If a number or percentage of collusion
action involving two players reaches some threshold (e.g., 10% colluding actions, 1% colliding
actions, .5% colluding actions, .1% colluding actions, etc.), then the players may be prevented
from playing together in the future. It should be recognized that any set of thresholds applying
any input collusion ratings to trigger any desired action may be implemented as desired.
[00075]           Some embodiments may include an expert system that may learn player behavior
recognition and/or collusion action triggering over time. For example, such a system may include
a rule based system. Such a system may implement a Bayesian belief network. Such a system
may be programmed in a LISP derivative such as CLIPS.
[00076]           For example, such a system may begin with an initial set of thresholds for
determining player styles and/or triggering anti-collusion actions (e.g., as discussed above with
respect to high likelihood, high severity, % of time voluntarily put money in the pot, and so on).
Such a system may begin with an initial set of relationships between these thresholds and input
information. The relationships and/or thresholds may change over time. For example, a threshold
                                                  20

of likelihood before a triggered action happens may decrease over time. Such a decrease may
happen in response to the system determining or being told that it is not catching collusion
actions (e.g., because a user may cause the action to trigger in a hybrid auto/manual system).
Over time the manual aspect of such a system may decrease as the expert system learns to catch
collusion actions more in line with how the expert collusion user detects the collusion actions.
Similarly, the expert system may implement new rules or relationships that explain why an
expert user has triggered an action (e.g., may implement a rule that triggers based on an
otherwise unexpected relationship such as based on table position when it is thought originally
that table position does not affect collusion but table position explains why an expert user is
triggering an anti-collusion caution). Determinations of regulators may be used as input to such
an expert system for the development of new rules (e.g., if regulators determine when to trigger
actions, if regulators determine that an action was collusive, and so on a relationship may be
established to account for such a determination). Determinations that an incorrect collusion
action was taken may be used as input to further train such an expert system (e.g., if the system
itself makes the determination and is later shown to be wrong the system may adjust its rules, if a
user of the system makes an incorrect determination that information may also be used to train
the system). It should be recognized that various examples of machine learning are given as non
limiting examples only and that other embodiments may include any artificial intelligence
components (e.g., neural networks, genetic algorithms, etc.) or no such components as desired.
[00077]          Some embodiments may include a collusion detection system implemented
through one or more computing devices. Such a computing device may include any number of
machine readable medium (e.g., on which data structures and/or instructions may be stored), any
number of processors, modules, engines, servers, network interface, blades, terminals, connected
devices, and/or components as desired in any combination. For example, such a system may be
part of a gaming system through which users may play wagering games (e.g. through mobile
devices, through computing devices, at physical locations, etc.). Data may be received by the
system (e.g., through a network, captured via camera, input by users, determined by a processor
of a gaming system, and so on). For example, in some embodiments, events at a game may be
determined by a gaming event engine of a gaming system. Such events may be shown to players
accessing the system through remote devices and recorded by a collusion detection engine of the
                                                  21

gaming system. Actions by players may be taken through device used to play games. The actions
may be received by the gaming system through a network and used to move the game forward by
interaction with a gaming engine. The actions may be recorded and/or analyzed by a collusion
detection engine. A collusion detection engine may control a gaming service and/or terminal to
take an action and/or display information related to determined collusion actions. It should be
recognized that various examples of systems and/or components are given as non-limiting
examples and that embodiments may be implemented on any desired devices. For example,
various functionality to play a game and/or detect collusion in a game may be implemented
across any number of computing devices operated by a same or different entities (e.g., a
regulator may run a collusion system, a game provider may run a gaming system; a gaming
provider may run both; a collusion service provider may run a collusion system for a gaming
provider that runs the collusion system, and so on).
[00078]         Some embodiments may include a method that may be performed (e.g. by a
computing device). Figure 12 illustrates one example method that may be performed in some
embodiments. Such a method may include determining events in a plurality of games,
determining actions taken by players in the plurality of games based on the events, determining
player profiles for the players based on the actions, determining possible collusion actions by a
player in further games based on actions that diverge from a respective player profile, and
displaying information indicating the possible collusion actions and/or taking an anti-collusion
action in response to the determination of the collusion actions.
[00079]         As indicated at block 1201, some embodiments may include determining events
in a plurality of games. For example, game actions, game outcomes, cards dealt, and so on may
be received for a plurality of games. Various examples of game information are given herein.
Such information may be stored and/or processed as desired.
[00080]         As indicated at block 1203, some embodiments may include determining actions
taken by players in the plurality of games based on the events. For example, bluff actions, raise
actions, soft play actions and so on may be determined based on events that happen in a game
(e.g., including things done by the player in the game). Things done by a player may be put into
                                                  22

context based on the states of the game. Various examples of player actions that may be
determined are given herein. Such information may be stored and/or processed as desired.
[00081]          As indicated at block 1205, some embodiments may include determining player
profiles for the players based on the actions. For example, any behavioral profile of a player with
any degree of specificity may be determined. Various examples of behavioral patterns that may
be determined are given herein. As an example, some embodiments may include determining a
player category for each of a set of possible play situations for each player. As another example,
some embodiments may include determining statistics of a percentage of time a player takes
various actions in specific situations. Such information may be stored and/or processed as
desired.
[00082]          As indicated at block 1207, some embodiments may include determining possible
collusion actions by a player in further games based on actions that diverge from a respective
player profile. Various examples of determining collusion actions based on profile information
are described herein. For example, some embodiments may include determining that an action is
a possible collusion action because is typical collusive behavior and is against a player typical
behavior in a given situation (e.g., most of the time the player does not take that action, 75% of
the time the player does not take that action, a plurality of time the player takes a different type
of action, the player has never taken that action in the situation before, etc.). Some embodiments
may count on going collusion actions and develop an ongoing collusion rating for a game, table,
tournament, and soon based on continued monitoring of game play. Some embodiments may
include providing some rating level to a possible collusion action such as a severity, a likelihood,
a trend or pattern based on ongoing collusion action counts, and so on.
[00083]          As indicated at block 1209, some embodiments may include displaying
information indicating the possible collusion actions and/or taking an anti-collusion action in
response to the determination of the collusion actions. Various examples of display interfaces
that may be provided to present such information are described herein. Various examples of
actions that may be taken in response to different collusion action determinations are described
                                                  23

herein. For example, based on a collusion rating reaching some threshold level for a table, game
play at the table may be halted.
[00084]         It should be recognized that the example method is given as a non-limiting
examples only and that other embodiments may include different, or no methods with differently
ordered, more, fewer, different, same, similar, and so on actions as desired.
[00085]         It should be recognized that while various examples of functionality and
implementations have been described, that these examples are given as non-limiting examples
only. Other embodiments may include some, none, or all of these examples in any combination
as desired.
[00086]         It should be recognized that while examples are given in terms of a texas hold'em
poker game that other embodiments are not so limited. For example, other embodiments may
include a Chinese poker game, a stud or draw poker game, and/or any form of poker. It should
further be recognized that while some embodiments are given in terms of a poker game that other
embodiments may include any card game. For example, some embodiments may include a
baccarat game, a blackjack game and/or any desired card game. It should be recognized that
while some embodiments may be given in terms of a card game that other embodiments may
include a game of any type. For example, some embodiments may include a mahjong game a
dominos game and/or any other card or non-card game.
[00087]         In a non-texas hold 'em embodiment, different types of play may be monitored
that may be appropriate to the game, different trigger or decision points that may be appropriate
to the game may be used, different actions may be monitored that are actions that could be taken
in the game, and so on. It should be recognized that texas hold 'em poker is given as an example
because of the many example actions and collusion types that may be found in such a game. One
of ordinary skill in the art will recognize how such various examples may apply to one or more
other game types based on the rules of such other game types.
[00088]         A system that monitors collusion and takes collusion prevention actions may
includes a system that operates a gaming system. For example, a tournament gaming engine
operated by Cantor Gaming may have an associated collusion detection module that runs on a
same or different computing device. Accordingly information about game play may be
                                                 24

monitored by communication between such systems. Those systems may be separate or run by
different entities as desired in various embodiments so that a collusion module may be operated
together or remotely from a gaming platform as desired.
[00089]          The following sections provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
II.     Terms
[00090]          The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of
matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
[00091]          The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless
expressly specified otherwise.
[00092]          Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process have
an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like term.
Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient antecedent
basis.
[00093]          The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed in
this application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[00094]          The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment",
"the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "certain embodiments",
"one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one or more (but not all)
embodiments of the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[00095]          The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention,
unless expressly specified otherwise.
[00096]          A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not
imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g., an
embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified otherwise.
[00097]          The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but
not necessarily limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the
sentence "the portfolio includes a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the
red widget and the blue widget, but may include something else.
                                                 25

[00098]         The term "consisting of' and variations thereof means "including and limited to",
unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the portfolio consists of a
red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the red widget and the blue widget,
but does not include anything else.
[00099]         The term "compose" and variations thereof means "to make up the constituent
parts of, component of or member of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example,
the sentence "the red widget and the blue widget compose a portfolio" means the portfolio
includes the red widget and the blue widget.
[000100]        The term "exclusively compose" and variations thereof means "to make up
exclusively the constituent parts of, to be the only components of or to be the only members of',
unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the red widget and the
blue widget exclusively compose a portfolio" means the portfolio consists of the red widget and
the blue widget, and nothing else.
[000101]        The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified
otherwise.
[000102]        The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[000103]        The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything which
may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[000104]        The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things
(such as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or more of those things,
unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and
a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget
and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least one
of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the plurality
of things.
[000105]        Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity indicated by
that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical term. For
example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one widget", and therefore the phrase
"one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
                                                   26

[000106]         The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly specified
otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on" and "based at
least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based at least in part on".
[000107]         The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly specified
otherwise. For example, the term "represents" does not mean "represents only", unless expressly
specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data represents a credit card number"
describes both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data represents a credit
card number and the data also represents something else".
[000108]         The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words
that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is previously
and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the clause or other
words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further limitations of the claim
or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
[000109]         The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit the
term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g.,
instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that "instructions" are
an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and also explains that "a data
structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet. However, both
"instructions" and "a data structure" are merely examples of "data", and other things besides
"instructions" and "a data structure" can be "data".
[000110]         The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if two or
more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its own characteristic,
and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For example, the
phrase "each of two machines has a respective function" means that the first such machine has a
function and the second such machine has a function as well. The function of the first machine
may or may not be the same as the function of the second machine.
[000111]         The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase it
explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions) over the
Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the computer sends over
the Internet.
                                                   27

[000112]        Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within
the range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically include whole
numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and non-whole numbers (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2, ... 1.9).
[000113]        Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an explicit
statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such term / phrase does
not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a different meaning. For example,
where a statement renders the meaning of "including" to be synonymous with "including but not
limited to", the mere usage of the phrase "including but not limited to" does not mean that the
term "including" means something other than "including but not limited to".
III.    Determining
[000114]        The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a
price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in an
extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of actions and
therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing, deriving, investigating,
looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data structure), ascertaining and the
like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving information), accessing (e.g.,
accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining" can include resolving, selecting,
choosing, establishing, and the like.
[000115]        The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and the like.
[000116]        The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply that an
algorithm or process is used.
[000117]        The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used.
For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
IV.     Forms of Sentences
[000118]        Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more
than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget as well as
                                                   28

more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim, the second
claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this does not
imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature, and this does not imply that the second
claim covers only one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one widget and more than
one widget).
[000119]         When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used as
an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified otherwise)
merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular feature from another
feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example, a "first widget"
may be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the mere usage of
the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate any other
relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any other characteristics of
either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second"
before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate that either widget comes before or after any other
in order or location; (2) does not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any
other in time; and (3) does not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in
importance or quality. In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a
numerical limit to the features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage
of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate that there
must be no more than two widgets.
[000120]         When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more than one
device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place of the single
device / article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as being
possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device / article (whether
or not they cooperate).
[000121]         Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described herein
(whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively be used in place of the
more than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of computer-based
devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device. Accordingly, the various
                                                   29

functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may
alternatively be possessed by a single device / article.
[000122]        The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described may be
alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not explicitly
described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other embodiments need not include the
described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices which would, in
those other embodiments, have such functionality / features.
V.      Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
[000123]        Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be taken as
limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s), is to be used in interpreting the
meaning of any claim or is to be used in limiting the scope of any claim.. An Abstract has been
included in this application merely because an Abstract is required under 37 C.F.R.  1.72(b).
[000124]        The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the
present application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in
any way.
[000125]        Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not
intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely applicable
to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in
the art will recognize that the disclosed invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications
and alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although
particular features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or more
particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be understood that such features are not
limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to which
they are described, unless expressly specified otherwise.
[000126]        Though an embodiment may be disclosed as including several features, other
embodiments of the invention may include fewer than all such features. Thus, for example, a
                                                    30

claim may be directed to less than the entire set of features in a disclosed embodiment, and such
claim would not include features beyond those features that the claim expressly recites.
[000127]        No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present
application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the invention claimed
herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein, except where it is either expressly
stated to be so in this specification or expressly recited in a claim.
[000128]        The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and possible
uses of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
[000129]        The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s) which
must be present in all embodiments.
[000130]        All disclosed embodiment are not necessarily covered by the claims (even
including all pending, amended, issued and canceled claims). In addition, an embodiment may
be (but need not necessarily be) covered by several claims. Accordingly, where a claim
(regardless of whether pending, amended, issued or canceled) is directed to a particular
embodiment, such is not evidence that the scope of other claims do not also cover that
embodiment.
[000131]        Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in
continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and may
actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in
communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other machine
for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in communication
with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
[000132]        A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not
imply that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the contrary, a variety
of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of
the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no component / feature is
essential or required.
                                                   31

[000133]         Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in a
particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In
other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed does not
necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of
processes described herein may be performed in any order possible. Further, some steps may be
performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non-simultaneously
(e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the illustration of a process
by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other
variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps
are necessary to the invention(s), and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred.
[000134]         Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does
not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various other
embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that omit
some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is essential or
required.
[000135]         Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods.
For example, such interaction may include linking one business model to another business
model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.
[000136]         Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not indicate that any or all of the
plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of the
described invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the described plurality.
[000137]         An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise.
Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply that
any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly specified otherwise.
For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply that any or all of
the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that any or all of the three
items of that list are comprehensive of any category.
                                                    32

[000138]        An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.
[000139]        All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
VI.      Computing
[000140]        It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general
purpose computers, special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor
(e.g., one or more microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal
processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those
instructions, thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.
Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or more scripts.
[000141]        A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
(CPUs), computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like devices or any
combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level multiprocessing / multi-core,
RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining configuration,
simultaneous multithreading).
[000142]        Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a processor
and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the process.
[000143]        Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of data)
may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media) in a
number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware may be
used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions that can
implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware and
software may be used instead of software only.
[000144]        The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the
same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g., instructions,
data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like device. Such a medium
                                                  33

may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and
transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or magnetic disks and
other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory (DRAM),
which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables,
copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the
processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves, light waves and
electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infrared
(IR) data communications. Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a
floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM,
DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with
patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or
cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer
can read.
[000145]        Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data (e.g.
sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered from RAM to a
processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted and / or transmitted
according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP,
ATP, Bluetooth D, and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv) encrypted to ensure
privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
[000146]        Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer-readable
medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable medium can store
(in any appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate to perform the
method.
[000147]        Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the
described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer / computing
device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
[000148]        Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate
that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium storing a
program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a program that, when
                                                  34

executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described
process.
[000149]          Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in
the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed, and
(ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or
descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored
representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides
those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated
entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will
understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those described
herein. Further, despite any depiction of the databases as tables, other formats (including
relational databases, object-based models and / or distributed databases) could be used to store
and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviors of a
database can be used to implement various processes, such as the described herein. In addition,
the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely from a device which
accesses data in such a database.
[000150]          Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with one or
more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly, via any
wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a telephone
line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications line, commercial on-line service
providers, bulletin board systems, a satellite communications link, a combination of any of the
above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other computing devices,
such as those based on the Intel@ Pentium@ or CentrinoTM processor, that are adapted to
communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be in communication
with the computer.
[000151]          In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be
necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be practiced
on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any functions
                                                    35

described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as stored on the server
computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
[000152]          Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate without
any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human intervention
(e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
VII. Following the Bets
[000153]          Various embodiments include a smart card delivery shoe that reads the suit and
rank of each card before it is delivered to the various positions where cards are to be dealt in the
play of the casino table card game. The cards are then dealt according to the rules of the game to
the required card positions. Different games have diverse card distribution positions, different
card numbers, and different delivery sequences that the hand identifying system of some
embodiments of the invention may encompass. For example, in the most complex of card
distribution games of blackjack, cards are usually dealt one at a time in sequence around a table,
one card at a time to each player position and then to the dealer position. The one card at a time
delivery sequence is again repeated so that each player position and the dealer position have an
initial hand of exactly two cards. Complexity in hand development is introduced because players
have essentially unlimited control over additional cards until point value in a hand exceeds a
count of twenty-one. Players may stand with a count of 2 (two aces) or take a hit with a count of
21 if they are so inclined, so the knowledge of the count of a hand is no assurance of what a
player will do. The dealer, on the other hand, is required to follow strict house rules on the play
of the game according to the value of the dealer's hand. Small variances such as allowing or
disallowing a hit on a "soft" seventeen count (e.g., an Ace and a 6) may exist, but the rules are
otherwise very precise so that the house or dealer cannot exercise any strategy.
[000154]          Other cards games may provide equal numbers of cards in batches. Variants of
stud poker played against a dealer, for example, would usually provide hands of five cards, five
at a time to each player position and if competing against a dealer, to the dealer position. This
card hand distribution is quite simple to track as each sequence of five cards removed from the
dealer shoe is a hand.
                                                   36

[000155]        Other games may require cards to be dealt to players and other cards dealt to a
flop or common card area. The system may also be programmable to cover this alternative if it is
so desired.
[000156]        Baccarat is closer to blackjack in card sequence of dealing, but has more rigid
rules as to when hits may be taken by the player and the dealer, and each position may take a
maximum of one card as a hit. The hand identification system of some embodiments of the
invention may be able to address the needs of identifying hands in each of these types of games
and especially may be able to identify hands in the a complex situation, the play of blackjack.
[000157]        In various embodiments, where cameras are used to read cards, the light sensitive
system may be any image capture system, digital or analog, that is capable of identifying the suit
and rank of a card.
[000158]        In various embodiments, a first step in the operation is to provide a set of cards to
the smart delivery shoe, the cards being those cards that are going to be used in the play of a
casino table card game. The set of cards (usually one or more decks) is provided in an already
randomized set, being taken out of a shuffler or having been shuffled by hand. A smart delivery
shoe is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/622,321, titled SMART DELIVERY
SHOE, which application is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference. Some delivery
systems or shoes with reading capability include, but are not limited to those disclosed in U.S.
Pat. Nos. 4,750,743; 5,779,546; 5,605,334; 6,361,044; 6,217,447; 5,941,769; 6,229,536;
6,460,848; 5,722,893; 6,039,650; and 6,126,166.      In various embodiments, the cards are read in
the smart card delivery shoe, such as one card at a time in sequence. Reading cards by edge
markings and special codes (as in U.S. Pat. No. 6,460,848) may require special encoding and
marking of the cards. The entire sequence of cards in the set of cards may thus be determined
and stored in memory. Memory may be at least in part in the smart delivery shoe, but
communication with a central processor is possible. The sequence would then also or solely be
stored in the central computer.
[000159]        In various embodiments, the cards are then dealt out of the smart delivery shoe,
the delivery shoe registering how many cards are removed one-at-a-time. This may be
accomplished by the above identified U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/622321 where cards are
fed to the dealer removal area one at a time, so only one card can be removed by the dealer. As
                                                  37

each card is removed, a signal is created indicating that a specific card (of rank and suit) has
been dealt. The computer and system knows only that a first card has been dealt, and it is
presumed to go to the first player. The remaining cards are dealt out to players and dealer. In the
play of certain games (e.g., stud variants) where specific numbers of cards are known to be dealt
to each position, the shoe may be programmed with the number of players at any time, so hands
can be correlated even before they have been dealt. If the shoe is playing a stud variant where
each player and the dealer gets three cards (Three Card PokerTM game), the system may know in
advance of the deal what each player and the dealer will have as a hand. It is also possible that
there be a signal available when the dealer has received either his first card (e.g., when cards are
dealt in sequence, one-at-a-time) or has received his entire hand. The signal may be used to
automatically determine the number of player positions active on the table at any given time. For
example, if in a hand of blackjack the dealer receives the sixth card, the system may immediately
know that there are five players at the table. The signal can be given manually (pressing a button
at the dealer position or on the smart card delivery shoe) or can be provided automatically (a card
presence sensor at the dealer's position, where a card can be placed over the sensor to provide a
signal). Where an automatic signal is provided by a sensor, some physical protection of the
sensor may be provided, such as a shield that would prevent accidental contact with the sensor or
blockage of the sensor. An L-shaped cover may be used so a card could be slid under the arm of
the L parallel to the table surface and cover the sensor under that branch of the L. The signal can
also be given after all cards for the hand have been delivered, again indicating the number of
players, For example, when the dealer's two cards are slid under the L-shaped cover to block or
contact the sensor, the system may know the total number of cards dealt on the hand (e.g., 10
cards), know that the dealer has 2 cards, determine that players therefore have 8 cards, and know
that each player has 2 cards each, thereby absolutely determining that there are four active player
positions at the table (10-2=8 and then 8/2=4 players). This automatic determination may serve
as an alternative to having dealers input the number of players each hand at a table or having to
manually change the indicated number of players at a table each time the number changes.
[000160]         Once all active positions have been dealt to, the system may now know what
cards are initially present in each player's hand, the dealer's hand, and any flop or common hand.
The system operation may now be simple when no more cards are provided to play the casino
                                                   38

table game. All hands may then be known and all outcomes may be predicted. The complication
of additional cards will be addressed with respect to the game of blackjack.
[000161]         After dealing the initial set of two cards per hand, the system may not
immediately know where each remaining card will be dealt. The system may know what cards
are dealt, however. It is with this knowledge and a subsequent identification of discarded hands
that the hands and cards from the smart delivery shoe can be reconciled or verified. Each hand is
already identified by the presence of two specifically known cards. Hands are then played
according to the rules of the game, and hands are discarded when play of a hand is exhausted. A
hand is exhausted when 1) there is a blackjack, the hand is paid, and the cards are cleared; 2) a
hand breaks with a count over twenty-one and the cards are cleared; and/or a round of the game
is played to a conclusion, the dealer's hand completed, all wagers are settled, and the cards are
cleared. As is typically done in a casino to enable reconciling of hands manually, cards are
picked up in a precise order from the table. The cards are usually cleared from the dealer's right
to the dealer's left, and the cards at each position comprise the cards in the order that they were
delivered, first card on the bottom, second card over the first card, third card over the second
card, etc. maintaining the order or a close approximation of the order (e.g., the first two cards
may be reversed) is important as the first two cards form an anchor, focus, basis, fence, end point
or set edge for each hand. For example, if the third player position was known to have received
the 10 of hearts (10H) and the 9 of spades (9S) for the first two card, and the fourth player was
known to receive the 8 of diamonds (8D) and the 3 of clubs (3C) for the first two cards, the
edges or anchors of the two hands are 9S/1OH and 8D/3C. When the hands are swept at the
conclusion of the game, the cards are sent to a smart discard rack (e.g., see U.S. patent
application Ser. No. 10/622,388, which application is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety) and the hand with the 9S/1OH was not already exhausted (e.g., broken or busted) and
the swept cards consist of 9S, 10H, 8S, 8D and 3C (as read by the smart discard rack), the
software of the processor may automatically know that the final hands in the third and fourth
positions were a count of 19 (9S and 10H) for the third hand and 19 (8D and 3C originally plus
the 8S hit) for the fourth hand. The analysis by the software specifically identifies the fourth
hand as a count of 19 with the specific cards read by the smart discard shoe. The information
from reading that now exhausted hand is compared with the original information collected from
                                                    39

the smart delivery shoe. The smart delivery shoe information when combined with the smart
discard rack information shall confirm the hands in each position, even though cards were not
uniformly distributed (e.g., player one takes two hits for a total of four cards, player two takes
three hits for a total of five cards, player three takes no hit for a total of two cards, player four
takes one hit for a total of three cards, and the dealer takes two hits for a total of four cards).
[000162]          The dealer's cards may be equally susceptible to analysis in a number of different
formats. After the last card has been dealt to the last player, a signal may be easily and
imperceptibly generated that the dealer's hand will now become active with possible hits. For
example, with the sensor described above for sensing the presence of the first dealer card or the
completion of the dealer's hand, the cards would be removed from beneath the L-shaped
protective bridge. This type of movement is ordinarily done in blackjack where the dealer has at
most a single card exposed and one card buried face down. In this case, the removal of the cards
from over the sensor underneath the L-cover to display the hole card is a natural movement and
then exposes the sensor. This can provide a signal to the central processor that the dealer's hand
will be receiving all additional cards in that round of the game. The system at this point knows
the two initial cards in the dealer's hand, knows the values of the next sequence of cards, and
knows the rules by which a dealer may play. The system knows what cards the dealer will
receive and what the final total of the dealer's hand will be because the dealer has no freedom of
decision or movement in the play of the dealer's hand. When the dealer's hand is placed into the
smart discard rack, the discard rack already knows the specifics of the dealer's hand even without
having to use the first two cards as an anchor or basis for the dealer's hand. The cards may be
treated in this manner in some embodiments.
[000163]          When the hands are swept from the table, dealer's hand then players' hands from
right to left (from the dealer's position or vice-versa if that is the manner of house play), the
smart discard rack reads the shoes, identifies the anchors for each hand, knows that no hands
swept at the conclusion can exceed a count of twenty-one, and the computer identifies the
individual hands and reconciles them with the original data from the smart delivery shoe. The
system thereby can identify each hand played and provide system assurance that the hand was
played fairly and accurately.
                                                    40

[000164]         If a lack of reconciling by the system occurs, a number of events can occur. A
signal can be given directly to the dealer position, to the pit area, or to a security zone and the
cards examined to determine the nature and cause of the error and inspect individual cards if
necessary. When the hand and card data is being used for various statistical purposes, such as
evaluating dealer efficiency, dealer win/loss events, player efficiency, player win/loss events,
statistical habits of players, unusual play tactics or meaningful play tactics (e.g., indicative of
card counting), and the like, the system may file the particular hand in a 'dump' file so that hand
is not used in the statistical analysis, this is to assure that maximum benefits of the analysis are
not tilted by erroneous or anomalous data.
[000165]         Various embodiments may include date stamping of each card dealt (actual time
and date defining sequence, with concept of specific identification of sequence identifier
possibly being unique). The date stamping may also be replaced by specific sequence stamping
or marking, such as a specific hand number, at a specific table, at a specific casino, with a
specific number of players, etc. The records could indicate variations of indicators in the stored
memory of the central computer of Lucky 777 Casino, Aug. 19, 1995, 8:12:17 a.m., Table 3,
position 3, hand 7S/4D/9S, or simply identify something similar by alphanumeric code as L7C
819-95-3-3-073-7S/4D/9S (073 being the 73 dhand dealt). This date stamping of hands or even
cards in memory can be used as an analytical search tool for security and to enhance hand
identification.
[000166]         FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of the minimum components for the hand-reading
system on a table 4 of some embodiments, a smart card-reading delivery shoe 8 with output 14
and a smart card-reading discard rack 12 with output 18. Player positions 6 are shown, as is a
dealer's hand position sensor 10 without output port 16.
[000167]         The use of the discard rack acting to reconcile hands returned to the discard rack
out-of-order (e.g., blackjack or bust) automatically may be advantageous, in some embodiments.
The software as described above can be programmed to recognize hands removed out-of-dealing
order on the basis of knowledge of the anchor cards (the first two cards) known to have been
dealt to a specific hand. For example, the software will identify that when a blackjack was dealt
to position three, that hand will be removed, the feed of the third hand into the smart card discard
tray confirms this, and position three will essentially be ignored in future hand resolution. More
                                                     41

importantly, when the anchor cards were, for example, 9S/5C in the second player position and
an exhausted hand of 8D/9S/5C is placed into the smart discard rack, that hand will be identified
as the hand from the second player position. If two identical hands happen to be dealt in the same
round of play, the software will merely be alerted (it knows all of the hands) to specifically check
the final order of cards placed into the smart discard rack to more carefully position the location
of that exhausted hand. This is merely recognition software implementation once the concept is
understood.
[000168]         That the step of removal of cards from the dealer's sensor or other initiated signal
identifies that all further cards are going to the dealer may be useful in defining the edges of play
between rounds and in identifying the dealer's hand and the end of a round of play. When the
dealer's cards are deposited and read in the smart discard rack, the central computer knows that
another round of play is to occur and a mark or note may be established that the following
sequence will be a new round and the analytical cycle may begin all over again.
[000169]         The discard rack indicates that a complete hand has been delivered by absence of
additional cards in the Discard Rack in-feed tray. When cards are swept from an early exhausted
hand (blackjack or a break), they are swept one at a time and inserted into the smart discard rack
one at a time. When the smart discard rack in-feed tray is empty, the system understands that a
complete hand has been identified, and the system can reconcile that specific hand with the
information from the smart delivery shoe. The system can be hooked-up to feed strategy analysis
software programs such as the SMI licensed proprietary BloodhoundTM analysis program.
[000170]         Various embodiments include a casino or cardroom game modified to include a
progressive jackpot component. During the play of a Twenty-One game, for example, in addition
to this normal wager, a player will have the option of making an additional wager that becomes
part of, and makes the player eligible to win, the progressive jackpot. If the player's Twenty-One
hand comprises a particular, predetermined arrangement of cards, the player will win all, or part
of, the amount showing on the progressive jackpot. This progressive jackpot feature is also
adaptable to any other casino or cardroom game such as Draw Poker, Stud Poker, Lo-Ball Poker
or Caribbean StudTM Poker. Various embodiments include a gaming table, such as those used for
Twenty-One or poker, modified with the addition of a coin acceptor that is electronically
connected to a progressive jackpot meter. When player drops a coin into the coin acceptor, a
                                                    42

light is activated at the player's location indicating that he is participating in the progressive
jackpot component of the game during that hand. At the same time, a signal from the coin
acceptor is sent to the progressive meter to increment the amount shown on the progressive
meter. At the conclusion of the play of each hand, the coin acceptor is reset for the next hand.
When a player wins all or part of the progressive jackpot, the amount showing on the progressive
jackpot meter is reduced by the amount won by the player. Any number of gaming tables can be
connected to a single progressive jackpot meter.
VIII.    Apparatus for Playing Over a Communications System
 [000171]        FIG. 2 shows apparatus for playing the game. There is a plurality of player units
40-1 to 40-n which are coupled via a communication system 41, such as the Internet, with a
game playing system comprising an administration unit 42, a player register 43, and a game unit
45. Each unit 40 is typically a personal computer with a display unit and control means (a
keyboard and a mouse).
 [000172]        When a player logs on to the game playing system, their unit 40 identifies itself to
the administration unit. The system holds the details of the players in the register 43, which
contains separate player register units 44-1 to 44-n for all the potential players, i.e., for all the
members of the system.
 [000173]        Once the player has been identified, the player is assigned to a game unit 45. The
game unit contains a set of player data units 46-1 to 46-6, a dealer unit 47, a control unit 48, and
a random dealing unit 49.
 [000174]        Up to seven players can be assigned to the game unit 45. There can be several
such units, as indicated, so that several games can be played at the same time if there are more
than seven members of the system logged on at the same time. The assignment of a player unit
40 to a player data unit 46 may be arbitrary or random, depending on which player data units 46
and game units 45 are free. Each player data unit 46 is loaded from the corresponding player
register unit 44 and also contains essentially the same details as the corresponding player unit 40,
and is in communication with the player unit 40 to keep the contents of the player unit and player
data unit updated with each other. In addition, the appropriate parts of the contents of the other
player data units 46 and the dealer unit 47 are passed to the player unit 40 for display.
                                                    43

[000175]         The logic unit 48 of the game unit 45 steps the game unit through the various
stages of the play, initiating the dealer actions and awaiting the appropriate responses from the
player units 40. The random dealing unit 49 deals cards essentially randomly to the dealer unit
47 and the player data units 46. At the end of the hand, the logic unit passes the results of the
hand, i.e., the wins and/or losses, to the player data units 46 to inform the players of their results.
The administrative unit 42 also takes those results and updates the player register units 44
accordingly.
[000176]         The player units 40 are arranged to show a display. To identify the player, the
player's position is highlighted. As play proceeds, so the player selects the various boxes, enters
bets in them, and so on, and the results of those actions are displayed. As the cards are dealt, a
series of overlapping card symbols is shown in the Bonus box. At the option of the player, the
cards can be shown in a line below the box, and similarly for the card dealt to the dealer. At the
end of the hand, a message is displayed informing the player of the results of their bets, i.e., the
amounts won or lost.
[000177]         What is claimed is:
                                                   44

Claims
1. A method comprising:
        monitoring, by a computing device, play of a player in a plurality of games;
        generating, by the computing device, profile data for the player based on the monitored
play;
        determining, by the computing device, that an action by the player in a second game that
is subsequent to the plurality of games results in a collusive outcome;
        in response to determining that the action by the player results in the collusive outcome,
determining, by the computing device, that the action deviates from the profile data; and
        in response to determining that the action deviates from the profile data, taking, by the
computing device, a collusion prevention action.
2. The method of claim 1, in which determining that the action deviates from the profile data
includes determining a probability that the action is not in line with historical play of the player
by comparing the action to the profile data.
3. The method of claim 1, in which the collusive outcome includes a transfer of a large amount
of chips from the player to another player in the second game.
4. The method of claim 1, in which determining that the action results in the collusive outcome
includes determining a severity of collusion based on the collusive outcome and in which the
determination that that action deviates from the profile data is adjusted to account for the severity
so that a higher deviation is required to make the determination for a lower severity and a lower
deviation is required to make the determination for a higher severity.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising determining a likelihood of collusion and presenting the
likelihood to a collusion detector.
6. The method of claim 5, comprising determining a high likelihood of collusion in response to
determining that the collusive outcome is a highly severe collusion and deviation from the profile
data is great.
                                                  45

7. The method of claim 5, comprising determining a low likelihood of collusion in response to
determining either a) that the collusive outcome is not severe or b) that deviation from the profile
data is not great.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising determining an ongoing collusion rating for the player
over the plurality of games based on a percentage of possible collusive actions detected over
those games and present that collusion rating to a collusion detector.
9. The method of claim 1, in which the collusion prevention action includes presenting
information to a collusion detector through a user interface that allows the collusion detector to
perform at least one of undue a result of the second game, ban the player from gameplay, halt
gameplay by the second player, and cause a replay of the second game.
10. The method of claim 9, comprising recording history of the second game, and in which the
user interface allows the collusion detector to access recorded game history of the second game.
11. The method of claim 10, in which the user interface is configured to allow the collusion
detector to access recorded game history in context of the game.
12. The method of claim 10, in which the game history allows the collusion detector to recreate
the second game.
13. The method of claim 1, comprising storing the profile data in a vector, in which each
dimension of the vector represents a determined behavior of the player.
14. The method of claim 13, in which one dimension of the vector includes a tightness of play
dimension determined by a small blind completion percentage in poker games.
15. The method of claim 13, in which one dimension of the vector includes an aggression
dimension determined by a bet and raise percentage post flop compared to a call percentage post
flop in Texas hold 'em games.
                                                 46

16. The method of claim 13, in which dimensions of the vector are situationally-generic
dimensions.
17. The method of claim 13, in which dimensions of the vector are specific to a context in which
behavior is observed.
18. The method of claim 17, in which a context for a dimension of the vector is defined by at
least one of a hole card strength and a hand strength of the player in the context.
19. The method of claim 13, comprising estimating a dimension for the vector when there is not
sufficient information for the dimension by referencing one or more other dimensions in the
vector.
20. The method of claim 13, comprising determining a dimension of the vector by weighting
data so that more recent games are given more weight than less recent games for the dimension.
21. The method of claim 1, comprising generating the profile data to identify historical actions
taken in each of a plurality of gaming situations.
22. The method of claim 1, comprising generating the profile data to identify historical actions
taken against each of a plurality of types of players.
23. The method of claim 1, in which monitoring play of the player includes operating an
electronic platform through which the player may play the plurality of games against a plurality
of other players and determining actions in those games taken through the electronic platform.
                                                  47

24. An apparatus comprising:
       a computing device; and
       a non-transitory medium having stored thereon a plurality of instruction that when
executed by the computing device cause the apparatus to:
       monitor play of a player in a plurality of games;
       generate by the computing device, profile data for the player based on the monitored
play;
       determine that an action by the player in a second game that is subsequent to the plurality
of games results in a collusive outcome;
       in response to determining that the action by the player results in the collusive outcome,
determine that the action deviates from the profile data; and
       in response to determining that the action deviates from the profile data, take a collusion
prevention action.
                                                 48

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
