                    ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         Provided is a method which exerts an excellent effect
  in controlling a pest in a field of cotton, using a
 neonicotinoid compound, an azole compound, a strobilurin
 compound, and/or a metalaxyl compound, and a PPO inhibiting
 compound.    A method of controlling a pest  (a weed,a harmful
 arthropod, and/or a plant pathogen) in a field of cotton,
 including treating a field before, at or after seeding with
 a seed of cotton treated with one or more compounds
 selected from the group consisting of a neonicotinoid
compound, an azole compound, a strobilurin compound and a
metalaxyl compound, with one or more PPO-inhibiting
compounds selected from the group consisting of flumioxazin,
sulfentrazone, saflufenacil, oxyfluorfen, fomesafen and a
compound of the formula:
          F     0
H3 C'N      N   N
   S   N            0O
       CH 3

                                           .docx-1904/2018
Il:\szp\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\16826322_
                                                  BACKGROUND OF   THE INVENTION
                 This application is a divisional of Australian Patent
Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of
Australian Patent Application No. 2012258419, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
                 The present invention relates to a method of
controlling a pest, that is,                                  a harmful arthropod, a plant
pathogen and a weed.
Description of the Related Art
                 A neonicotinoid compound has been known as an active
ingredient of an insecticide.                                     An azole compound has been
known as an active ingredient of a fungicide.                                     A strobilurin
compound has been known as an active ingredient of a
fungicide.                          A metalaxyl compound has been known as an active
ingredient of a fungicide.                                   A PPO-inhibiting compound has
been known as an active ingredient of a herbicide.
Prior Art Literature
Patent Literature
                 Patent Literature 1:                      WO 02/066471
Non-Patent Literature
                 Non-Patent Literature 1:                       Crop Protection Handbook, vol.
 96          (2010)
                                                                1

                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides a method which exerts
    excellent effects in controlling a pest in a field of
   cotton.
          The present invention relates to the followings.
           [1]   A method of controlling a weed in a field of
   cotton,   comprising applying one or more PPO-inhibiting
   compounds selected from the group consisting of flumioxazin,
   sulfentrazone,       saflufenacil,   oxyfluorfen, fomesafen and a
  compound of the formula:
  H3CN     N         N     O
     S  N. 0
        CH 3
  to a field before, at or after seeding with a seed of
 cotton treated with one or more compounds selected from the
 group consisting of a neonicotinoid compound, an azole
 compound,     a strobilurin      compound and a metalaxyl compound.
         [2]    A method of controlling a pest in a field of
 cotton, comprising steps of:
        treating a seed of cotton with one or more compounds
 selected from the group          (I) consisting of a neonicotinoid
compound, an azole compound, a strobilurin compound and a
metalaxyl compound, and
        treating a field before, at or after seeding with the
seed of cotton treated with one or more compounds selected
                                      2

    from the group        (I), with one or more PPO-inhibiting
    compounds selected from the group consisting of flumioxazin,
    sulfentrazone,       saflufenacil,   oxyfluorfen,   fomesafen and a
    compound of the formula:
           0F          0
   H3C,N    N          N    O
     S    N    Ok
         CH3,
           [3]    The method of controlling a pest according to
   [1]  or [2],     wherein the neonicotinoid compound is one
  selected from the group consisting of clothianidin,
  thiamethoxam,       imidacloprid,    dinotefuran,   nitenpyram,
  acetamiprid and thiacloprid.
          [4]    The method of controlling a pest according to
  [1] or [2],      wherein the neonicotinoid compound is
 clothianidin or thiamethoxam.
          [5]   The method of controlling a pest according to
 [4],   wherein the PPO-inhibiting compound is flumioxazin or
 fomesafen.
         [6]    The method of controlling a pest according to
 [1] or [2],      wherein the azole compound is one selected from
the group consisting of azaconazole,            bitertanol,
bromuconazole,        cyproconazole,    difenoconazole,    diniconazole,
epoxyconazole,        fenbuconazole,    fluquinconazole,    flusilazole,
flutriafol,      hexaconazole,     imibenconazole,   ipconazole,
                                      3

   metconazole,     myclobutanil,  penconazole,    propiconazole,
   prothioconazole, simeconazole, tebuconazole, tetraconazole,
   triadimenol,     triticonazole,   fenarimol,  nuarimol,  pyrifenox,
   imazalil, oxpoconazole-fumarate, pefurazoate, prochloraz
   and triflumizole.
           [7]   The method of controlling. a pest according to
   [1]  or [2],   wherein the azole compound is     one selected from
  the group consisting of difenoconazole,         ipconazole,
  metconazole, tebuconazole, triadimenol, myclobutanil,
  triticonazole and fluquinconazole.
          [8]   The method of controlling a pest according to
  [71,  wherein the PPO-inhibiting compound is        flumioxazin or
  fomesafen.
          [9]   The method of controlling a pest according to
  [1]  or [2],   wherein the strobilurin compound is one
 selected from the group consisting of kresoxim-methyl,
 azoxystrobin,      trifloxystrobin,   fluoxastrobin,   picoxystrobin,
pyraclostrobin, dimoxystrobin, pyribencarb, metominostrobin
 and orysastrobin.
         [10]    The method of controlling a pest according to
 [1] or    [2],  wherein the strobilurin compound is
azoxystrobin, trifloxystrobin or pyraclostrobin.
         [11]   The method of controlling a pest according to
[10],   wherein the PPO-inhibiting compound is flumioxazin or
fomesafen.
                                   4

             [12]    The method of controlling  a pest according  to
    [1]  or [2],     wherein the metalaxyl compound is   metalaxyl or
   metalaxyl-M.
             [13]   The method of controlling a pest according to
   [12],    wherein the PPO-inhibiting compound is flumioxazin or
   fomesafen.
            [14]    The method of controlling a pest according to
   [2],   comprising a step of treating the field before seeding
  with the seed of cotton, with the PPO-inhibiting compound.
            [15].    The method of controlling a pest according to
  [2],   comprising a step of treating      the field  to be seeded,
  with the PPO-inhibiting compound simultaneously at seeding
 with the seed of cotton.
           [16]    The method of controlling a pest according to
  [2],   comprising a step of treating the field after seeding
 with the seed of cotton, with the PPO-inhibiting compound.
          [17]    The method of controlling a pest according to
 [2],   wherein the pest is a weed, a harmful arthropod,
 and/or a plant pathogen.
          [18]    The method of controlling a pest according to
 [2],   wherein the pest is a weed.
        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         The method of controlling a pest of the present
invention includes steps of:
                                    5

            (1) treating a seed of cotton with one or more
   compounds selected from the group (I) consisting of a
   neonicotinoid        compound,    an azole compound,    a strobilurin
   compound and a metalaxyl compound, and
           (2)  treating     a field    before,  at or after    seeding with
   the seed of cotton treated with one or more compounds
   selected from the group           (I), with one or more PPO
  inhibiting compounds selected from the group consisting of
  flumioxazin,       sulfentrazone,      saflufenacil,  oxyfluorfen,
  fomesafen and a compound of the formula:
  H3C'N      N        N    O
    S   N     O
        CH3
         In the present invention, the seed of cotton is not
 limited as far as it is a variety which is generally
 cultivated as a crop.
         Examples of a plant of such a variety include plants
 to which resistance to a PPO-inhibiting compound such as
 flumioxazin;          4
                   a     -hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase
 inhibiting compound such as isoxaflutole; an acetolactate
synthase      (hereinafter abbreviated as ALS) -inhibiting
compound such as imazethapyr or thifensulfuron methyl; a 5
enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase              (hereinafter,
abbreviated as EPSP) inhibitor such as glyphosate;                  a
glutamine synthase inhibitor such as glufosinate;                 an auxin
                                        6

   type herbicide such as 2,4-D or dicamba;     or bromoxynil has
   been imparted by a classical breeding method or a genetic
   engineering technique.
          Examples of a crop to which resistance has been
   imparted by a classical breeding method include cotton
  resistant to an imidazolinone type ALS inhibiting herbicide
  such as imazethapyr under a trade name of Clearfield
   (registered trademark).
         Examples of a plant to which resistance has been
  imparted by a genetic engineering technique include cotton
  variety which is resistant to glyphosate, and it has
  already been commercially available under trade names of
 RoundupReady    (registered trade mark),  RoundupReadyFLEX
  (registered trademark),    Gly-Tol (registered trademark) and
 the like.     Similarly, there is cotton variety which is
 resistant to glufosinate by a genetic engineering technique,
 and it has already been commercially available under trade
 names of LibertyLink    (registered trademark)  and the like.
 Similarly,   there  is cotton variety which is  resistant to
bromoxynil by a genetic engineering technique, and this has
already been commercially available under the trade name of
BXN   (registered trademark).
       Cotton variety which is resistant to dicamba can be
produced by introducing a dicamba degrading enzyme such as
                                 7

   dicamba monooxygenase isolated from Pseudomonas maltophilia
   into a plant  (Behrens et al. 2007 Science 316: 1185-1188).
         By introducing a gene encoding aryloxyalkanoate
   dioxygenase, cotton which becomes resistant to a phenoxy
   acid-type herbicide such as 2,4-D, MCPA, dichlorprop or
  mecoprop, and an aryloxyphenoxypropionic acid-type
  herbicide such as quizalofop, haloxyfop, fluazifop,
  diclofop,  fenoxaprop, metamifop,  cyhalofop and clodinafop
  can be produced (Wright et al. 2010:    Proceedings of
  National Academy of Science.   107 (47) : 20240-20245).
        The crop includes, for example, a crop which has
  become possible to synthesize a selective toxin known in
 Bacillus genus,   using a genetic engineering technique.
        Examples of the toxin which is expressed in such a
 genetically engineered plant include an insecticidal
 protein derived from Bacillus cereus or Bacillus popilliae;
 a S-endotoxin such as CrylAb, CrylAc, Cry1F, CrylFa2,
 Cry2Ab, Cry3A, Cry3Bb1 or Cry9C, derived from Bacillus
 thuringiensis; an insecticidal protein such as VIP1, VIP2,
VIP3 or VIP3A; an insecticidal protein derived from
nematode; a toxin produced by an animal such as a scorpion
toxin, a spider toxin, a bee toxin or an insect-specific
neurotoxin; a filamentous fungus toxin; plant lectin;
agglutinin; a protease inhibitor such as a trypsin
inhibitor, a serine protease inhibitor, patatin, cystatin,
                               8

   and a papain inhibitor; a ribosome inactivating protein
    (RIP) such as lysine, corn-RIP, abrin, luffin, saporin or
   bryodin; a steroid metabolism enzyme such as 3
   hydroxysteroid oxidase,     ecdysteroid-UDP-glycosyltransferase,
   and cholesterol oxidase; an ecdysone inhibitor; HMG-CoA
   reductase; an ion channel inhibitor such as a sodium
   channel inhibitor or a calcium channel inhibitor; juvenile
  hormone esterase;     a diuretic hormone receptor; stilbene
  synthase; bibenzyl synthase; chitinase; glucanase; and the
  like.
         A toxin expressed by such a genetically engineered
  crop includes a hybrid toxin of a 6-endotoxin protein such
 as CrylAb,   CrylAc,   CrylF,  CrylFa2,  Cry2Ab,  Cry3A,  Cry3Bbl,
 Cry9C,   Cry34Ab or Cry35Ab,    and an insecticidal protein such
 as VIP1,   VIP2,   VIP3 or VIP3A,   and a partially deleted toxin,
 and a modified toxin.      The hybrid toxin can be produced by
 a new combination of different domains of these proteins
 using a genetic engineering technique.        As the partially
deleted toxin,     CrylAb in   which a part of an amino acid
sequence has been deleted is known.         In the modified toxin,
one or a plurality of amino acids of a natural toxin are
substituted.      Examples of these toxins and recombinant
plants which can synthesize these toxins are described in
EP-A-0374753,     WO 93/07278,  WO 95/34656,   EP-A-0427529,  EP-A
451878, WO 03/052073 and the like.        The toxins contained in
                                  9

    these recombinant plans impart resistance to Coleoptera
    vermin,  Diptera vermin and Lepidoptera vermin to a plant.
          In addition, genetically engineered cotton containing
   one or a plurality of insecticidal vermin-resistant genes
   and expressing one or a plurality of toxins have already
   been known, and some of them are commercially available.
   Examples of the genetically engineered cotton include
   BollGard   (registered trademark)     (cotton variety expressing
   CrylAc toxin),    BollGard   (registered trademark)   II (cotton
  variety expressing CrylAc and Cry2Ab toxins) , BollGard
   (registered trademark)     III  (cotton variety expressing
  CrylAc, Cry2Ab and VIP3A toxins), VipCot (registered
  trademark)    (cotton variety expressing VIP3A and CrylAb
 toxins),   WideStrike    (registered trademark)    (cotton variety
 expressing CrylAc and CrylF toxins).
         Examples of the plant used in the present invention
 also include plants to which resistance to an aphid has
 been imparted,    such as soybeans into which a Rag1
 (Resistance Aphid Gene 1) gene has been introduced.
        The crop also includes a crop to which the ability to
produce an anti-pathogenic substance having selective
action has been imparted using a genetic engineering
technique.     As an example of the anti-pathogenic substance,
a PR protein and the like are known (PRPs,        EP-A-0392225).
Such an anti-pathogenic substance and a genetically
                                   10

   engineered plant producing the substance are described in
   EP-A-0392225,  WO 95/33818,   EP-A-0353191  and the like.
   Examples of the anti-pathogenic substance expressed in such
   a genetically engineered plant include an ion channel
   inhibitor such as a sodium channel inhibitor or a calcium
  channel inhibitor    (KPl, KP4 and KP6 toxins,   etc., which are
  produced by viruses,    have been known); stilbene synthase;
  bibenzyl synthase; chitinase;     glucanase; a PR protein; and
  an anti-pathogenic substance generated by microorganisms,
  such as a peptide antibiotic, an antibiotic having a hetero
  ring,  or a protein factor associated with resistance to
 plant diseases    (which is  called a plant disease-resistant
 gene and is described in WO 03/000906).
         The crop also includes a plant to which a useful
 character such as oil cake component modification or an
 amino acid content enhancing character has been imparted
 using a genetic engineering technique.
        Further, stack varieties are also included in which a
plurality of the classical herbicide character or
herbicide-resistant gene, insecticidal vermin-resistant
gene, anti-pathogenic substance production gene, and a
useful character such as oil cake component modification or
amino acid content enhancing character are combined.
        In the present invention, one kind or a plurality of
kinds of compounds of the group (I) may be used.
                                11

    The neonicotinoid   compound is   preferably a compound
   selected from the group consisting of clothianidin,
   thiamethoxam,   imidacloprid,   dinotefuran,  nitenpyram,
   acetamiprid and thiacloprid,     more preferably clothianidin
   or thiamethoxam,   further preferably clothianidin.
          In the present invention, the azole compound is a
  compound having a 5-membered heterocyclic structure having
  a nitrogen atom and,    generally,   exhibits an action of
  inhibiting demethylation in the course of biosynthesis of
  ergosterol or an analog thereof contained in a cellular
 membrane of fungi.      The azole compound is also called a DMI
  agent   (demethylation inhibitor)    (see, The Frontiers of
 Agrobioregulators, 2003).
         The azole compound is preferably a compound selected
 from the group consisting.of azaconazole,       bitertanol,
 bromuconazole,   cyproconazole,    difenoconazole,   diniconazole,
 epoxyconazole,   fenbuconazole,    fluquinconazole,   flusilazole,
 flutriafol, hexaconazole, imibenconazole, ipconazole,
metconazole, myclobutanil, penconazole, propiconazole,
prothioconazole, simeconazole, tebuconazole, tetraconazole,
triadimenol, triticonazole, fenarimol, nuarimol, pyrifenox,
imazalil,    oxpoconazole-fumarate,    pefurazoate,  prochloraz
and triflumizole,    more preferably a compound selected from
the group consisting of difenoconazole, triadimenol,
                                 12

    metconazole,  ipconazole,    fluquinconazole,   myclobutanil,
    tebuconazole and triticonazole.
          The strobilurin compound is also called a QoI
   compound and, generally, exhibits a plant disease
   controlling activity by acting on the Qo site of the
   mitochondrial electron transport system complex of
   filamentous fungus.
  The strobilurin compound is a compound selected from the
  group consisting of kresoxim-methyl, azoxystrobin,
  trifloxystrobin, fluoxastrobin, picoxystrobin,
  pyraclostrobin, dimoxystrobin, pyribencarb, metominostrobin
  and orysastrobin, more preferably pyraclostrobin,
  azoxystrobin,   dimoxystrobin or trifloxystrobin,        further
 preferably pyraclostrobin, azoxystrobin or trifloxystrobin,
 particularly preferably pyraclostrobin.
        The metalaxyl compound generally exhibits an action
 of controlling a plant disease derived from Phycomycetes.
 The metalaxyl compound is preferably metalaxyl or
metalaxyl-M.     Metalaxyl-M is also called mefenoxam.
        In the present invention, in the step of treating a
seed of cotton with the compound of the group         (I),   the
compound of the group    (I)  is   usually used by formulating
into a preparation by mixing with a carrier such as a solid
carrier or a liquid carrier and, further, if necessary,
                                  13

   adding an auxiliary agent for a preparation such as a
   surfactant.
          The compound of the group (I) is applied at an amount
   in a range of usually 0.001 to 40 g, preferably 0.01 to 10
   g per 1 kg of the seed.   Examples of a method of applying
  an active ingredient (i.e., the compound of group (I)) to a
  seed of a plant include a method of covering a seed with a
  preparation containing an active ingredient; a method of
  immersing a seed in a preparation containing an active
  ingredient; and a method of coating a seed with a carrier
  containing an .active ingredient.
         In the present invention, there is a step of treating
 a field before, at or after seeding with a seed of cotton
 treated with the compound of the group (I),   with one or
 more PPO-inhibiting compounds.
        The PPO-inhibiting compound is .a herbicidally active
 compound which inhibits protoporphyrinogen IX oxidase
 (EC1.3.3.4) located on a chlorophyll synthesis pathway in a
plastid of a plant and, as a result, leads to withering of
the plant.
        The PPO-inhibiting compound in the present invention
is flumioxazin, sulfentrazone, saflufenacil, oxyfluorfen,
fomesafen and a compound of the formula:
                               14

    H3 C'N N     N      O
         N N O
           CH3
    (hereinafter, may be called compound A).     In the present
   invention, fomesafen includes a free body and sodium salt
   of fomesafen.
            In the step of treating the field with the PPO
   inhibiting compound,    the PPO-inhibiting compound is  usually
  mixed with a solid carrier or a liquid carrier,      formulated
  with optional addition of an auxiliary agent for
  formulation such as a surfactant, and then used..
           Examples of a method of treating the field with the
  PPO-inhibiting compound include a method of applying the
  PPO-inhibiting compound to a soil of the field and a method
 of applying the PPO-inhibiting compound to a weed after its
 emergence.
          A does of the PPO-inhibiting compound used in the
 step of treating a field with the PPO-inhibiting compound
 is usually in the range of 5 to 5000 g per 10000 M 2 .     In
the step of treating a field with the PPO-inhibiting
compound, an adjuvant may be mixed upon treatment with the
PPO-inhibiting compound.
          The seed of cotton treated with the group (I) is
seeded on a field by a conventional method.       In the method
of controlling a pest of the present invention, the PPO
                                 15

    inhibiting compound may be applied before seeding with the
    seed of cotton, may be applied simultaneously at seeding
    with the seed of cotton or may be applied after seeding
    with the seed of cotton.
          When a field is treated with the PPO-inhibiting
   compound before seeding with the cotton seed, the field is
   treated with the PPO-inhibiting compound 50 days before
   seeding to immediately before seeding, preferably 30 days
   before seeding to immediately before seeding,   further
  preferably 20 days before seeding to immediately before
  seeding.
         When a field is treated with the PPO-inhibiting
  compound after seeding with the cotton seed,   the field is
 treated with the PPO-inhibiting compound immediately after
 seeding to 70 days after seeding, preferably 30 days after
 seeding to 50 days after seeding.     Examples of a specific
 treating term when a field is treated with the PPO
 inhibiting compound after seeding with the cotton seed
 include pre-emergence to flowering of the cotton.
 Preferred is   a lignification initiation term of the stem
base of the cotton to a term when a lignification portion
is 20 cm from the base.
        According to the method of controlling a pest of the
present invention, a pest such as a harmful arthropod/ or a
                               16

   plant pathogen, and a weed in a field of cotton can be
   controlled.
         Examples of the harmful arthropod include the
   followings:
         Hemiptera vermin: Delphacidae such as Laodelphax
   striatellus, Nilaparvata lugens, and Sogatella furcifera;
   Deltocephalidae such as Nephotettix cincticeps and
  Nephotettix virescens; Aphididae such as Aphis gossypii,
  Myzus persicae, Brevicoryne brassicae, Macrosiphum
  euphorbiae, Aulacorthum solani, Rhopalosiphum padi, and
  Toxoptera citricidus;  Pentatomidae such as Nezara antennata,
  Riptortus clavetus, Leptocorisa chinensis, Eysarcoris
 parvus, Halyomorpha mista, and Lygus lineolaris;
 Aleyrodidae such as Trialeurodes vaporariorum, Bemisia
 tabaci,   and Bemisia argentifolii; Coccidae such as
 Aonidiella aurantii, Comstockaspis perniciosa, Unaspis
 citri, Ceroplastes rubens, and Icerya purchasi; Tingidae;
 Psyllidae; and the like;
        Lepidoptera vermin: Pyralidae such as Chilo
 suppressalis, Tryporyza incertulas, Cnaphalocrocis
medinalis, Notarcha derogata, Plodia interpunctella,
Ostrinia furnacalis, Ostrinia nubilaris, Hellula undalis,
and Pediasia teterrellus; Noctuidae such as Spodoptera
litura, Spodoptera exigua, Pseudaletia separata, Mamestra
brassicae, Agrotis ipsilon, Plusia nigrisigna, Trichoplusia
                               17

   spp.,   Heliothis spp.,  and Helicoverpa spp.; Pieridae such
   as Pieris rapae; Adoxophyes spp.; Tortricidae such as
   Grapholita molesta,    Leguminivora glycinivorella,
  Matsumuraeses azukivora, Adoxophyes orana fasciata,
  Adoxophyes sp.,    Homona magnanima,   Archips fuscocupreanus,
  and Cydia pomonella;     Gracillariidae such as Caloptilia
  theivora and Phyllonorycter ringoneella;      Carposinidae such
  as Carposina niponensis; Lyonetiidae such as Lyonetia spp.;
  Lymantriidae such as Lymantriidae spp. and Euproctis spp.;
  Yponameutidae such as Plutella xylostella, Gelechiidae such
 as Pectinophora gossypiella and Phthorimaea operculella;
 Arctiidae such as Hyphantria cunea; Tineidae such as Tinea
 translucens and Tineola bisselliella; and the like;
          Thysanoptera vermin: Thripidae such as Frankliniella
 occidentalis,    Thrips parmi,  Scirtothrips dorsalis,   Thrips
 tabaci, Frankliniella intonsa, and Frankliniella fusca; and
 the like;
         Diptera vermin: Agromyzidae such as Musca domestica,
 Culex popiens pallens,    Tabanus trigonus,   Hylemya antiqua,
Hylemya platura, Anopheles sinensis, Agromyza oryzae,
Hydrellia griseola, Chlorops oryzae, and Liriomyza
trifolii; Dacus cucurbitae, Ceratitis capitata, and the
like;
         Coleoptera vermin: Epilachna vigintioctopunctata,
Aulacophora femoralis, Phyllotreta striolata, Oulema oryzae,
                                 18

   Echinocnemus squameus,     Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus,
   Anthonomus >grandis,   Callosobruchus   chinensis,  Sphenophorus
   venatus,   Popillia japonica,   Anomala cuprea,   Diabrotica spp.,
   Leptinotarsa decemlineata, Agriotes spp., Lasioderma
   serricorne,  Anthrenus verbasci,    Tribolium castaneum,   Lyctus
  brunneus, Anoplophora malasiaca, Tomicus piniperda, and the
  like;
          Orthoptera vermin: Locusta migratoria, Gryllotalpa
  africana,   Oxya yezoensis,   Oxya japonica,   and the like;
          Hymenoptera vermin: Athalia rosae, Acromyrmex spp.,
  Solenopsis spp.,    and the like;
         Blattidae verimin: Blattella germanica, Periplaneta
 fuliginosa,    Periplaneta americana,    Periplaneta brunnea,
 Blatta orientalis, and the like;
         Acarina vermin:   Tetranychidae such as Tetranychus
 urticae, Panonychus citri, and Oligonychus spp.;
 Eriophyidae such as Aculops pelekassi; Tarsonemidae such as
 Polyphagotarsonemus latus; Tenuipalpidae; Tuckerellidae;
Acaridae such as Tyrophagus putrescentiae; Dermanyssidae
such as Dermatophagoides      farinae and Dermatophagoides
ptrenyssnus;    Cheyletidae such as Cheyletus eruditus,
Cheyletus malaccensis, and Cheyletus moorei; and the like.
        Examples of the plant pathogen include the
followings:
                                 19

            Cercospora gossypina, Phakopsora gossypii,
   Rhizoctonia solani, Colletotrichum gossypii, Peronospora
   gossypina, Phyotophthora spp.,     Pythium spp., Aspergillus
   spp.,    Penicillium spp., Fusarium spp., Tricoderma spp.,
   Thielaviopsis spp.,    Rhizopus spp., Mucor spp., Corticium
   spp.,   Phoma spp.,  Diplodia spp., Verticillium spp.,
   Puccinia spp. and Mycosphaerella spp.
           Examples of the weed include the followings:
           Urticaceae weeds: Urtica urens
          Polygonaceae weeds: Polygonum convolvulus, Polygonum
  lapathifolium, Polygonum pensylvanicum, Polygonum
  persicaria, Polygonum longisetum, Polygonum aviculare,
  Polygonum arenastrum, Polygonum cuspidatum, Rumex japonicus,
 Rumex crispus, Rumex obtusifolius, Rumex acetosa
          Portulacaceae weeds: Portulaca oleracea
         Caryophyllaceae weeds: Stellaria media, Cerastium
 holosteoides, Cerastium glomeratum, Spergula arvensis,
 Silene gallica
         Aizoaceae weeds: Mollugo verticillata
         Chenopodiaceae weeds: Chenopodium album, Chenopodium
ambrosioides, Kochia scoparia, Salsola kali, Atriplex spp.
        Amaranthaceae weeds: Amaranthus retroflexus,
Amaranthus viridis, Amaranthus lividus, Amaranthus spinosus,
Amaranthus hybridus, Amaranthus palmeri, Amaranthus rudis,
Amaranthus patulus, Amaranthus tuberculatos, Amaranthus
                                 20

   blitoides, Amaranthus deflexus, Amaranthus quitensis,
   Alternanthera philoxeroides, Alternanthera sessilis,
   Alternanthera tenella
          Papaveraceae weeds: Papaver rhoeas, Argemone mexicana
          Brassicaceae weeds: Raphanus raphanistrum, Raphanus
   sativus, Sinapis arvensis, Capsella bursa-pastoris,
  Brassica juncea,    Brassica campestris,  Descurainia pinnata,
  Rorippa islandica,    Rorippa sylvestris,  Thlaspi arvense,
  Myagrum rugosum, Lepidium virginicum, Coronopus didymus
         Capparaceae weeds: Cleome affinis
         Fabaceae weeds: Aeschynomene indica, Aeschynomene
  rudis, Sesbania exaltata, Cassia obtusifolia, Cassia
 occidentalis,    Desmodium tortuosum,  Desmodium adscendens,
 Trifolium repens, Pueraria lobata, Vicia angustifolia,
 Indigofera hirsuta,    Indigofera truxillensis., Vigna sinensis
        Oxalidaceae weeds:   Oxalis corniculata,  Oxalis strica,
 Oxalis oxyptera
        Geraniaceae weeds: Geranium carolinense, Erodium
 cicutarium
        Euphorbiaceae weeds: Euphorbia helioscopia, Euphorbia
maculata,    Euphorbia humistrata,  Euphorbia esula,  Euphorbia
heterophylla, Euphorbia brasiliensis, Acalypha australis,
Croton glandulosus, Croton lobatus, Phyllanthus
corcovadensis, Ricinus communis
                                21

          Malvaceae weeds: Abutilon theophrasti, Sida
    rhombiforia, Sida cordifolia, Sida spinosa, Sida glaziovii,
   Sida santaremnensis,    Hibiscus trionum, Anoda cristata,
   Malvastrum coromandelianum
          Sterculiaceae weeds:   Waltheria indica
          Violaceae weeds: Viola arvensis, Viola tricolor
          Cucurbitaceae weeds:   Sicyos angulatus, Echinocystis
   lobata, Momordica charantia
         Lythraceae weeds: Lythrum salicaria
         Apiaceae weeds: Hydrocotyle sibthorpioides
         Sapindaceae weeds:   Cardiospermum halicacabum
         Primulaceae weeds: Anagallis arvensis
         Asclepiadaceae weeds: Asclepias syriaca, Ampelamus
  albidus
         Rubiaceae weeds:   Galium aparine, Galium spurium var.
 echinospermon,    Spermacoce latifolia,     Richardia brasiliensis,
 Borreria alata
        Convolvulaceae weeds: Ipomoea nil, Ipomoea hederacea,
 Ipomoea purpurea, Ipomoea hederacea var. integriuscula,
 Ipomoea lacunosa,    Ipomoea triloba,   Ipomoea, acuminata,
 Ipomoea hederifolia,    Ipomoea   coccinea,  Ipomoea quamoclit,
Ipomoea grandifolia, Ipomoea aristolochiafolia, Ipomoea
cairica, Convolvulus arvensis, Calystegia hederacea,
Calystegia japonica, Merremia hedeacea, Merremia aegyptia,
Merremia cissoides, Jacquemontia tamnifolia
                                 22

          Boraginaceae weeds: Myosotis arvensis
          Lamiaceae weeds:   Lamium purpureum, Lamium
   amplexicaule, Leonotis nepetaefolia, Hyptis suaveolens,
   Hyptis lophanta, Leonurus sibiricus, Stachys arvensis
          Solanaceae weeds:   Datura stramonium,  Solanum nigrum,
   Solanum americanum, Solanum ptycanthum, Solanum
  sarrachoides,   Solanum rostratum,    Solanum aculeatissimum,
  Solanum sisymbriifolium,     Solanum carolinense,  Physalis
  angulata,   Physalis subglabrata,   Nicandra physaloides
         Scrophulariaceae weeds: Veronica hederaefolia,
  Veronica persica, Veronica arvensis
         Plantaginaceae weeds: Plantago asiatica
        Asteraceae weeds: Xanthium pensylvanicum, Xanthium
 occidentale, Helianthus annuus, Matricaria chamomilla,
 Matricaria perforata, Chrysanthemum segetum, Matricaria
 matricarioides, Artemisia princeps, Artemisia vulgaris,
 Artemisia verlotorum, Solidago altissima, Taraxacum
 officinale, Galinsoga ciliata, Galinsoga parviflora,
 Senecio vulgaris,    Senecio brasiliensis,   Senecio grisebachii,
 Conyza bonariensis, Conyza canadensis, Ambrosia
artemisiaefolia, Ambrosia trifida, Bidens pilosa, Bidens
frondosa, Bidens subalternans, Cirsium arvense, Cirsium
vulgare, Silybum marianum, Carduus nutans, Lactuca serriola,
Sonchus oleraceus, Sonchus asper, Wedelia glauca,
Melampodium perfoliatum, Emilia sonchifolia, Tagetes minuta,
                                 23

   Blainvillea    latifolia,      Tridax procumbens,    Porophyllum
   ruderale, Acanthospermum australe, Acanthospermum hispidum,
   Cardiospermum halicacabum, Ageratum conyzoides, Eupatorium
  perfoliatum, Eclipta alba, Erechtites hieracifolia,
  Gamochaeta     spicata,     Gnaphalium spicatum,    Jaegeria hirta,
  Parthenium hysterophorus,          Siegesbeckia orientalis,    Soliva
  sessilis
           Liliaceae weeds: Allium canadense,        Allium vineale
           Commelinaceae weeds:       Commelina communis, Commelina
 bengharensis, Commelina erecta
           Poaceae weeds: Echinochloa crus-galli, Setaria
 viridis,     Setaria fabe-ri,     Setaria glauca,   Setaria geniculata,
 Digitaria ciliaris, Digitaria sanguinalis, Digitaria
 horizontalis,      Digitaria insularis,      Eleusine indica,   Poa
 annua, Alospecurus aequalis, Alopecurus myosuroides, Avena
 fatua, Sorghum halepense, Sorghum vulgare, Agropyron repens,
Lolium multiflorum,          Lolium perenne,   Lolium rigidum,   Bromus
secalinus, Bromus tectorum, Hordeum jubatum, Aegilops
cylindrica,      Phalaris     arundinacea,  Phalaris minor,   Apera
spica-venti,      Panicum dichotomiflorum,       Panicum texanum,
Panicum maximum, Brachiaria platyphylla, Brachiaria
ruziziensis, Brachiaria plantaginea, Brachiaria decumbens,
Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria humidicola, Cenchrus
echinatus, Cenchrus pauciflorus, Eriochloa villosa,
Pennisetum setosum, Chloris gayana,. Eragrostis pilosa,
                                      24

   Rhynchelitrum   repens,      Dactyloctenium aegyptium,    Ischaemum
   rugosum,   Oryza sativa,      Paspalum notatum,   Paspalum maritimum,
   Pennisetum clandestinum,         Pennisetum setosum,  Rottboellia
   cochinchinensis
          Cyperaceae weeds: Cyperus microiria, Cyperus iria,
   Cyperus odoratus,     Cyperus rotundus,     Cyperus esculentus,
  Kyllinga gracillima
         Equisetaceae weeds: Equisetum arvense, Equisetum
  palustre, and the like.
         In the method of controlling a pest of the present
  invention, one or more kinds of other agrochemicals can be
 also used in    combination simultaneously or separately with
 the compounds of the group          (I) or the PPO inhibitor.
 Examples of the other agrochemicals include an insecticide,
 a miticide,    a nematocide,      a fungicide,  a herbicide,   a plant
 regulating agent and a safener.
        Examples of the other agrochemicals include the
 followings:
        Herbicide:  dicamba and a salt thereof (diglycolamine
salt, dimethylammonium salt, isopropylammonium salt,
potassium salt, sodium salt, choline salt),           2,4-D and a
salt or ester thereof         (butotyl ester, dimethylammonium salt,
diolamine salt, ethylhexyl ester, isooctyl ester,
isopropylammonium salt, sodium salt, triisopropanolamine
salt, choline salt),        2,4-DB and a salt or ester thereof
                                     25

     (dimethylammonium        salt,      isooctyl ester,           choline salt),      MCPA
    and a   salt   or ester       thereof     (dimethylarmonium salt,               2
    ethylhexyl ester, isooctyl ester, sodium salt, choline
    salt),   MCPB, mecoprop and a salt or ester thereof
    (dimethylammonium salt,             diolamine        salt,    ethadyl ester,       2
   ethylhexyl      ester,    isooctyl ester,            methyl ester,          potassium
   salt, sodium salt, trolamine salt, choline salt), mecoprop
   P and a salt or ester thereof                 (dimethylammonium salt, 2
   ethylhexyl ester,        isobutyl salt,            potassium salt,           choline
   salt),   dichlorprop and a salt or ester thereof                           (butotyl
   ester, dimethylammonium salt, 2-ethylhexyl ester, isooctyl
  ester, methyl ester, potassium salt, sodium salt, choline
  salt),    dichlorprop-P,          dichlorprop-P-dimethylammonium,
 bromoxynil,       bromoxynil-octanoate,              dichlobenil,           ioxynil,
 ioxynil-octanoate,          di-allate,        butylate,        tri-allate,
 phenmedipham,         chlorpropham,        asulam,       phenisopham,
 benthiocarb, molinate, esprocarb, pyributicarb,
 prosulfocarb,        orbencarb,        EPTC,   dimepiperate,             swep,
 propachlor,       metazachlor,         alachlor,      acetochlor,          metolachlor,
 S-metolachlor, butachlor, pretilachlor, thenylchlor,
aminocyclopyrachlor, aminocyclopyrachlor-methyl,
aminocyclopyrachlor-potassium,                 trifluralin,            pendimethalin,
ethalfluralin,         benfluralin,        prodiamine,         simazine,        atrazine,
propazine, cyanazine, ametryn, simetryn, dimethametryn,
prometryn,       indaziflam,        triaziflam,       metribuzin,           hexazinone,
                                           26

    isoxaben,   diflufenican,     diuron,    linuron, fluometuron,
    difenoxuron,   methyl-daimuron,       isoproturon,    isouron,
    tebuthiuron,   benzthiazuron,       methabenzthiazuron,    propanil,
   mefenacet, clomeprop, naproanilide, bromobutide, daimuron,
   cumyluron,    diflufenzopyr,      etobenzanid,    bentazon,  tridiphane,
   indanofan,   amitrole,    fenchlorazole,       clomazone,  maleic
   hydrazide, pyridate, chloridazon, norflurazon, bromacil,
   terbacil,   oxaziclomefone,      cinmethylin,     benfuresate,
   cafenstrole, pyrithiobac, pyrithiobac-sodium, pyriminobac,
  pyriminobac-methyl,     bispyribac, bispyribac-sodium,
  pyribenzoxim,     pyrimisulfan,      pyriftali.d,   fentrazamide,
  dimethenamid, dimethenamid-P, ACN, benzobicyclon, dithiopyr,
  triclopyr and a salt or ester thereof             (butotyl ester,
  triethylammonium salt.),      fluroxypyr,      fluroxypyr-meptyl,
 thiazopyr, aminopyralid and a salt thereof (potassium salt,
 triisopropanolammonium salt,           choline salt),    clopyralid and
 a salt thereof (olamine salt, potassium salt,
 triethylammonium salt,       choline salt),       picloram and a salt
 thereof    (potassium salt,     triisopropanolammonium salt,
 choline salt),     dalapon,   chlorthiamid,       amidosulfuron,
azimsulfuron, bensulfuron, bensulfuron-methyl, chlorimuron,
chlorimuron-ethyl,      cyclosulfamuron,        ethoxysulfuron,
flazasulfuron, flucetosulfuron, flupyrsulfuron,
flupyrsulfuron-methyl-sodium,           foramsulfuron,    halosulfuron,
halosulfuron-methyl, imazosulfuron, mesosulfuron,
                                      27

    mesosulfuron-methyl,     nicosulfuron,   orthosulfamuron,
    oxasulfuron, primisulfuron, primisulfuron-methyl,
   propyrisulfuron,    pyrazosulfuron,     pyrazosulfuron-ethyl,
   rimsulfuron, sulfometuron, sulfometuron-methyl,
   sulfosulfuron,   trifloxysulfuron-sodium,       trifloxysulfuron,
   chlorsulfuron, cinosulfuron, ethametsulfuron,
   ethametsulfuron-methyl,      iodosulfuron,   iodosulfuron-methyl
   sodium, metsulfuron,     metsulfuron-methyl,     prosulfuron,
  thifensulfuron, thifensulfuron-methyl, triasulfuron,
  tribenuron, tribenuron-methyl, triflusulfuron,
  triflusulfuron-methyl, tritosulfuron, picolinafen,
  beflubutamid,   mesotrione,     sulcotrione,   tefuryltrione,
  tembotrione, isoxachlortole, isoxaflutole, benzofenap,
 pyrasulfotole, pyrazolynate, pyrazoxyfen, topramezone,
 flupoxam,    amicarbazone,    bencarbazone,   flucarbazone,
 flucarbazone-sodium, ipfencarbazone, propoxycarbazone,
 propoxycarbazone-sodium,       thiencarbazone,    thiencarbazone
 methyl,   cloransulam,    cloransulam-methyl,     diclosulam,
 florasulam, flumetsulam, metosulam, penoxsulam, pyroxsulam,
 imazamethabenz, imazamethabenz-methyl, imazamox, imazamox
ammonium, imazapic, imazapic-ammonium, imazapyr, imazapyr
ammonium,    imazaquin,   imazaquin-ammonium,     imazethapyr,
imazethapyr-ammonium,       clodinafop,   clodinafop-propargyl,
cyhalofop, cyhalofop-butyl, diclofop, diclofop-methyl,
fenoxaprop,    fenoxaprop-ethyl,     fenoxaprop-P,    fenoxaprop-P
                                   28

   ethyl,  fluazifop,  fluazifop-butyl,  fluazifop-P,   fluazifop
   P-butyl, haloxyfop, haloxyfop-methyl, haloxyfop-P,
   haloxyfop-P-methyl, metamifop, propaquizafop, quizalofop,
   quizalofop-ethyl, quizalofop-P, quizalofop-P-ethyl,
  alloxydim, clethodim, sethoxydim, tepraloxydim, tralkoxydim,
  pinoxaden, pyroxasulfone, glyphosate, glyphosate
  isopropylamine,   glyphosate-trimethylsulfonium,    glyphosate
  ammonium, glyphosate-diammonium, glyphosate-sodium,
  glyphosate-potassium,    glyphosate-guanidine,  glufosinate,
  glufosinate-ammonium,   glufosinate-P,  glufosinate-P-sodium,
 bialafos, anilofos, bensulide, butamifos, paraquat,
 paraquat-dichloride, diquat and diquat-dibromide
         Plant growth regulating agents:   hymexazol,
 paclobutrazol, uniconazole, uniconazole-P, inabenfide,
 prohexadione-calcium, 1-methylcyclopropene, trinexapac and
 gibberellins.
       Safeners:  benoxacor, cloquintocet, cloquintocet-mexyl,
 cyometrinil, cyprosulfamide, dichlormid, dicyclonon,
dietholate, fenchlorazole, fenchlorazole-ethyl, fenclorim,
flurazole, fluxofenim, furilazole, isoxadifen, isoxadifen
ethyl, mefenpyr, mefenpyr-diethyl, mephenate, naphthalic
anhydride and oxabetrinil.
Examples
                                29

          The present invention will be described below by way
   of examples,   but the present invention is    not limited to
   these examples.    In the following description, "ha" means
   hectare, that is, 10000 m 2
         First, evaluation criteria of insecticidal activity,
   herbicidal activity and phytotoxicity on crop shown in the
   following examples will be shown.
   [Insecticidal activity]
         For evaluating the insecticidal activity, life or
  death of an insect at investigation is determined, and a
  controlling'value is obtained by the following equation:
  Controlling value (%) = 100 x (1-T/C)
        Letters in the equation represent the following
 meanings.
 C: Number of insects at observation of non-treated section
 T: Number of insects at observation of treated-section
  [Herbicidal activity and phytotoxicity on crop]
        Evaluation of herbicidal activity is classified into
 0 to 100,   letting no or little    difference when the state of
germination or growth of a test weed at investigation is
compared with that of non-treatment to be "0", and letting
complete withering of a test weed or complete inhibition of
germination or growth to be "100".
       For evaluation of phytotoxicity on a crop, when
phytotoxicity is    hardly perceived,    it is represented by "no
                                  30

    damage", when slight phytotoxicity is perceived, it is
    represented by "slight",   when moderate phytotoxicity is
   perceived,   it  is represented by "moderate",      and when severe
   phytotoxicity is    perceived,   it   is represented by "severe".
   The "phytotoxicity" evaluated herein is a damage
   characteristic determined to be caused by the treated
   compound,   and is  clearly discriminated from a damage
   characteristic caused by a pest.
   Example 1
          Into a plastic cup having an internal diameter of 96
  millimeters and a height of 44 millimeters are placed 25
  microliters of a clothianidin suspension (suspension
  containing 600 g/L clothianidin, trade name: NipsIt INSIDE,
 manufactured by Valent USA) and 50 grains of cotton seeds.
 By shaking this plastic cup with a hand,         the clothianidin
 suspension is attached to the cotton seeds.
         Into a pot made of a plastic having an internal
 diameter of 177 millimeters and a height of 140 millimeters
 is packed a soil in which each of about 500 milligrams of
 seeds of Conyza canadensis, Amaranthus palmeri and
Chenopodium album are mixed.        A liquid of a flumioxazin
water dispersible granule (water dispersible granule
containing 51% of flumioxazin,         trade name: Valor SX,
manufactured by Valent USA)      diluted with water is     uniformly
sprayed on the soil surface of this pot with a sprayer,          so
                                  31

    that flumioxazin is     applied in   an amount of 50 or 75 g/ha.
    Fifteen days after spraying,      the cotton seeds are seeded at
    5 grains per pot.
           Fifteen days after seeding with the cotton seeds, a
   cotton leaf piece on which 20 larvae and 20 adults of Aphis
   gossypii inhabited is     placed in    the pot, and the whole
   plant is covered with a nylon cloth.
           Six days after release of Aphis gossypii, the
   insecticidal activity, herbicidal activity and
  phytotoxicity are determined, and high weed controlling
  activity    (>80)  and high Aphis gossypii control value      (>70)
  are obtained,     and the phytotoxicity on the cotton is     "no
  damage".
 Example 2
          Into a plastic cup having an internal diameter of 96
 millimeters and a height of 44 millimeters are placed 25
 microliters of a thiamethoxam preparation (preparation
 containing 600 g/L thiamethoxam,        trade name: Cruiser 5FS,
 manufactured by Syngenta) and 50 grains of cotton seeds.
 By shaking this plastic cup with a hand,         the thiamethoxam
preparation is attached to the cotton seeds.
         Into a pot made of a plastic having an internal
diameter of 177 millimeters and a height of 140 millimeters
is packed a soil in which each of about 500 milligrams of
seeds of Conyza canadensis, Amaranthus palmeri and
                                  32

    Chenopodium album are mixed.   A liquid of a flumioxazin
   water dispersible granule (water dispersible granule
   containing 51% of flumioxazin,    trade name: Valor SX,
   manufactured by Valent USA) diluted with water is uniformly
   sprayed on the soil surface of this pot with a sprayer, so
   that flumioxazin is applied in an amount of 50 or 75 g/ha.
   Fifteen days after spraying, the cotton seeds are seeded at
   5 grains per pot.
         Fifteen days after seeding with the cotton seeds, a
  cotton leaf piece on which 20 larvae and 20 adults of Aphis
  gossypii inhabited is placed in the pot, and the whole
  plant is covered with a nylon cloth.
         Six days after release of Aphis gossypii, the
  insecticidal activity, herbicidal activity and
 phytotoxicity are determined, and high weed controlling
 activity (>80)   and. high Aphis gossypii control value   (>70)
 are obtained, and the phytotoxicity on the cotton is "no
 damage".
 Example 3
        In combinations shown in Table 1 and Table 2, a
controlling effect against a weed and phytotoxicity on a
crop can be confirmed according to the aforementioned
criteria, by the following method.
       A soil is packed into a pot, a weed is seeded, and
the soil surface is uniformly treated with a PPO-inhibiting
                               33

  compound.  After 15 days,  cotton   seeds with the compound of
  the group (I) attached thereto are seeded.      This pot is
 placed in a greenhouse.    Fifteen days after seeding, the
 herbicidal activity against the weed is investigated.
 Table 1
 Combination   Compound of group  (I)    PPO-inhibiting compound
 1-1           Imidacloprid              Flumioxazin
 1-2          Clothianidin               Fomesafen
 1-3          Thiamethoxam               Fomesafen
 1-4          Imidacloprid               Fomesafen
 1-5          Clothianidin               Oxyfluorfen
 1-6          Thiamethoxam              Oxyfluorfen
 1-7          Imidacloprid              Oxyfluorfen
 1-8          Clothianidin              Saflufenacil
 1-9          Thiamethoxam              Saflufenacil
1-10          Imidacloprid              Saflufenacil
1-11          Clothianidin              Compound A
1-12          Thiamethoxam              Compound A
1-13          Imidacloprid              Compound A
1-14         Myclobutanil               Flumioxazin
1-15         Triadimenol                Flumioxazin
1-16         Difenoconazole             Flumioxazin
1-17         Prothioconazole            Flumioxazin
1-18         Metconazole                Flumioxazin
1-19         Tebuconazole               Flumioxazin
1-20         Triticonazole             Flumioxazin
                              34

    Table 2
   Combination    Compound of group  (I)  PPO-inhibiting compound
    1-21          Ipconazole              Flumioxazin
   1-22           Fluquinconazole         Flumioxazin
   1-23           Myclobutanil            Fomesafen
   1-24           Triadimenol             Fomesafen
   1-25           Difenoconazole          Fomesafen
   1-26           Prothioconazole         Fomesafen
   1-27          Metconazole              Fomesafen
   1-28           Tebuconazole            Fomesafen
   1-29          Triticonazole            Fomesafen
   1-30           Ipconezole              Fomesafen
   1-31          Fluquinconazole          Fomesafen
  1-32           Azoxystrobin            Flumioxazin
  ~1-33          Pyraclastrobin          Flumioxazin
  1-34           Trifloxystrobin         Flumioxazin
  1-35           Azoxystrobin            Fomesafen
  1-36           Pyraclostrobin          Fomesafen
  1-37           Trifloxystrobin         Fomesafen
  1-38          Metalaxyl                Flumioxazin
  1-39          Metalaxyl-M              Flumioxazin
  1-40          Metalaxyl                Fomesafen
  1-41          Metalaxyl-M              Fomesafen
 Example 4
         In combinations shown in Table 3 and Table 4, a
 controlling effect against a weed and phytotoxicity on a
 crop can be confirmed according to the aforementioned
 criteria, by the following method.
         The compound of the group  (I) is attached to each of
cotton seeds.      Then, the seeds are seeded on a cultivated
land.     Thirty days after seeding, in the state where the
main stem of cotton is lignified 15 cm from the ground
surface, the cultivated land is subjected to Post-directed
treatment with PPO-inhibiting compound.      Twenty eight days
                                 35

  after the treatment, the herbicidal activity against a weed
  is investigated.
  Table 3
 Combination   Compound of group (I)   PPO-inhibiting compound
 2-1           Clothianidin            Flumioxazin
 2-2           Thiamethoxam            Flumioxazin
 2-3           Imidacloprid            Flumioxazin
 2-4           Clothianidin           Fomesafen
 2-5           Thiamethoxam           Fomesafen
 2-6           Imidacloprid           Fomesafen
 2-7          Clothianidin            Oxyfluorfen
 2-8          Thiamethoxam            Oxyfluorfen
 2-9          Imidacloprid            Oxyfl-uorfen
 2-10         Clothianidin            Saflufenacil
2-11          Thiamethoxam            Saflufenacil
2-12          Imidacloprid           Saflufenacil
2-13          Clothianidin           Compound A
2-14          Thiamethoxam           Compound A
2-15          Imidacloprid           Compound A
2-16          Myclobutanil           Flumioxazin
2-17          Triadimenol            Flumioxazin
2-18          Difenoconazole         Flumioxazin
2-19          Prothioconazole        Flumioxazin
2-20         Metconazole             Flumioxazin
                             36

        Table 4
       Combination    Compound of group (I)        PPO-inhibiting compound
       2-21           Tebuconazole                 Flumioxazin
       2-22           Triticonazole                Flumioxazin
       2-23           Ipconazole                   Flumioxazin
       2-24           Fluquinconazole             Flumioxazin
       2-25          Myclobutanil                 Fomesafen
       2-26          Triadimenol                  Fomesafen
       2-27          Difenoconazole               Fomesafen
       2-28          Prothioconazole              Fomesafen
       2-29          Metconazole                  Fomesafen
      2-30           Tebuconazole                 Fomesafen
      2-31           Triticonazole                Fomesafen
      2-32           Ipconazole                   Fomesafen
      2-33           Fluquinconazole              Fomesafen
      2-34          Azoxystrobin                 Flumioxazin
      2-35           Pyraclostrobin              Flumioxazin
      2-36          Trifloxystrobin              Flumioxazin
      2-37         lAzoxystrobin                 Fomesafen
      2-38          Pyraclostrobin               Fomesafen
      2-39          Trifloxystrobin              Fomesafen
     2-40           Metalaxyl                    Flumioxazin
     2-41           Metalaxyl-M                  Flumioxazin
     2-42           Metalaxyl                    Fomesafen
     2-43           Metalaxyl-M                  Fomesafen
            According to the method of controlling a pest of the
     present invention,    a pest in   a field    of cotton can be
     effectively controlled.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication
(or information derived from it),       or to any matter which is
known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment
or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior
publication    (or information   derived from it)      or known matter
forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
endeavour to which this specification relates.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow,
unless the context requires otherwise,         the word "comprise'"
and .variations such as "comprises" and "comprising",          will
be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer
                                                                    or
step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion
                                                                    of
iny other integer or step or group of integers or
                                                            steps.
                                     37

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
      1.  A method of controlling a weed in a field of
cotton, comprising applying one or more PPO-inhibiting
compounds selected from the group consisting of
sulfentrazone, saflufenacil, and fomesafen
to a field before, at or after seeding with a seed of
cotton treated with one or more neonicotinoid compounds.
      2.  A method of controlling a pest in a field of
cotton, comprising steps of:
      treating a seed of cotton with one or more
neonicotinoid compounds, and
      treating a field before, at or after seeding with the
seed of cotton treated with one or more neonicotinoid
compounds, with one or more PPO-inhibiting compounds
selected from the group consisting of sulfentrazone,
saflufenacil, and fomesafen.
      3.  The method of controlling a pest according to
claim 1 or 2, wherein the neonicotinoid compound is one
selected from the group consisting of clothianidin,
thiamethoxam, imidacloprid, dinotefuran, nitenpyram,
acetamiprid and thiacloprid.
                             38

      4.   The method of controlling a pest according to
claim 1 or 2, wherein the neonicotinoid compound is
clothianidin or thiamethoxam.
      5.   The method of controlling a pest according to
claim 4, wherein the PPO-inhibiting compound is fomesafen.
      6.   The method of controlling a pest according to
claim 2,  comprising a step of treating the field before
seeding with the seed of cotton, with the PPO-inhibiting
compound.
      7.   The method of controlling a pest according to
claim 2,  comprising a step of treating the field to be
seeded, with the PPO-inhibiting compound simultaneously at
seeding with the seed of cotton.
      8.   The method of controlling a pest according to
claim 2,  comprising a step of treating the field after
seeding with the seed of cotton, with the PPO-inhibiting
compound.
      9.   The method of controlling a pest according to any
one of claims 2-8, wherein the pest is a weed, a harmful
arthropod, and/or a plant pathogen.
                              39

      10.  The method of controlling a pest according to
any one of claims 2-8, wherein the pest is a weed.
                             40

