H:\,rsntnvoven\NRPorfblDCC\RXS\5057223-1
                         do-9/04/2O13
Abstract
S1 P receptor modulators are administered following a dosage regimen providing a
positive benefit-risk profile.

C:Inte rw   JorbL'C\D)AR.
          nydN            692_ -1 :11
   Dosage Regimen of an S1 P Receptor Modulator
  This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, the entire
  contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
  The present invention relates to a dosage regimen of an S1P receptor modulator or
  agonist in the course of the treatment of patients suffering from an inflammatory or
  autoimmune disease or disorder, for example multiple sclerosis (MS).
  Multiple sclerosis is the chief cause of neurological disability in young adults and the most
  common demyelinating disorder of the central nervous system. Available therapies such
  as interferon-a and glatiramer acetate have modest efficacy and marginal effects on the
  progression of disability. These biological agents are administered parenterally and are
  associated, e.g., with injection site reactions and pyretic symptoms, such as flu-like
  sypmtoms. Therefore, there is a strong medical need for a safe and effective oral
  treatment of multiple sclerosis.
  Of those people with multiple sclerosis who receive treatment, a significant number
  continue to experience disease activity clinically or experience side effects that include flu
  like symptoms, immediate post-injection reactions and injection site reactions. As a result,
  a substantial population of patients are untreated, including many with active disease.
  These MS patients have either tried an existing therapy but discontinued due to
  intolerance, adverse effects, or perceived lack of efficacy or have not started any therapy
  because of their concern with adverse effects, fear of self-injection, fear of needles, or
  belief that currently available options are not effective enough to warrant trial. Thus, there
  is a significant unmet need for effective new therapies in MS, which limit or reduce the
  possible adverse events or side effects.
   SIP receptor modulators are compounds which signal as agonists at one or more
  sphingosinel -phosphate receptors, e.g. S1P1 to S1P5. Agonist binding to a SIP receptor
   may e.g. result in dissociation of intracellular heterotrimeric G-proteins into Go-GTP and
   Goy-GTP, and/or increased phosphorylation of the agonist-occupied receptor and
   activation of downstream signaling pathways/kinases.
   SIP receptor modulators are valuable compounds for the manufacture of medication for
  the treatment of various conditions in mammals, especially in human beings. For example,
   efficacy in transplantation has been demonstrated in rats (skin, heart, liver, small bowel),
   dogs (kidney), and monkeys (kidney) models. Due to their immune-modulating potency,
   SIP receptor modulators are also useful for the treatment of inflammatory and
   autoimmune diseases. Treating such diseases usually requires prolonged taking of
   medication, and maintaining the adequate drug regimen over time.

                                                 -2
Oral fingolimod is the first compound in the new class of therapeutics called sphingosine
 1-phosphate receptor modulators. Fingolimod Is believed to reduce the number of
lymphocytes circulating in the blood stream by reversibly trapping a proportion of them in
the lymph nodes. Consequently, the number of activated lymphocytes reaching the brain
is decreased, resulting in reduced inflammatory destruction. This is a new mechanism of
action for MS.
FTY720 efficacy in the treatment of multiple sclerosis has been shown In humans (e.g. as
described in "FTY720 therapy exerts differential effects on T cell subsets in multiple
sclerosis". Mehling M, et aL   1 . Neurology. 2008 Oct 14;71(16):1261-7; and '0ral fingolimod
(FTY720) for relapsing multiple sclerosis".Kappos L, Antel J, Comi G, Montalban X,
O'Connor P, Polman CH, Haas T, Kom AA, Karlsson G, Radue EW; FTY720 D2201 Study
Group. N Engi J Med. 2006 Sep 14;355(11):1124-40.).
Administration of a SIP receptor modulator, such as fingolimod may induce adverse
events, such as a transient reduction of the heart rate and cardiac conduction at treatment
initiation. In particular it has been described that administration of 1.25 mg of FTY720 may
induce a decrease in heart rate of approximately 8 beets/min ("FTY720: Placebo
Controlled Study of the Effect on Cardiac Rate and Rhythm in Healthy Patients", Robert
Schmouder, Denise Serra, Yibin Wang, John M. Kovark, John DiMarco, Thomas L. Hunt
and Marie-Claude Bastien. J. Clin. Pharmacol. 2006; 46; 895.).
Because of such a possible adverse event, administration of the compound to the patients
may have to be made under full and constant medical control, in order to check that the
cardiac rhythm is maintained at an acceptable level and no high degree atrioventricular
block occurs. Patients may have to stay in hospitals which complicate the treatment and
increase the costs of treatment. Occurrence of adverse events during a drug treatment
may induce patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization.
Such possible events may also cause the patients to interrupt their treatment, change the
recommended dosing regimen on their own or take the medication on an irregular basis,
without any medical support or recommendation for doing that. While it is paramount for
treating inflammatory or autoimmune diseases, such as for example multiple sclerosis,
that the adequate medication is taken over a long period of time, sometimes during the
whole life of the patient, and the adequate drug regimen Is kept over such a long period of
time.

                                                -3
Therefore there is a need to reduce or manage the possible adverse events which may be
generated by administration of such a S1 P receptor modulator, while administering a
dosage which is adequate to treat or prevent the disease for which the compound is
administered during the required period of treatment.
More specifically, there is a need to provide an efficient treatment for treating an
inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder, such as multiple sclerosis, for a large
population of multiple sclerosis patients, including patients who could be more exposed or
more sensitive to said possible adverse events, patients who were never treated or
diagnosed for an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder
There is furthermore a need to ameliorate patient compliance.
Brief Disclosure of the Invention
Surprisingly it has been found that by administering a SIP receptor modulator or agonist,
such as fingolimod, according to the specific dosage regimen or method of treatment of
the invention, it is possible to treat the patient efficiently while controlling, reducing or
abolishing the possible adverse events, e.g. side effects, which may be associated with
administration of such a compound,
A further benefit is that the dosing regimen and methods of treatment of the invention
permit to administer a SIP receptor modulator or agonist, such as fingolimod, to patients
who otherwise may have been reluctant or not could not have been instructed to take that
medication. In particular they permit to treat patients suffering from an inflammatory or
autoimmune disease or disorder, such as multiple sclerosis, for which the ratio risk/benefit
may otherwise be less favourable . Such patients are for example patients susceptible to
or suffering from one or more disease or disorders affecting the heart or heart rythme,
respiratory functions, eyes, hepatic functions. This also concerns patients that have
undergone an interruption or treatment holiday in the maintenance dosage regime e.g. a
holiday of greater than 10 days.
Furthermore the dosing regimen and methods of treatment of the invention is applicable
for patients who were already under treatment for an inflammatory or autoimmune or
disease, for example under treatment for multiple sclerosis, as well as patients who were
never treated or were not diagnosed for an inflammatory or autoimmune or disease before
taking a SIP receptor modulator or agonist.

                                               -4
The dosage regimen of the present invention is a regimen for a SIP receptor modulator or
agonist therapy, which enables administration of a therapeutic dosage range of the SIP
receptor to be achieved with controlled or minimal side effects, which could otherwise
have been possibly associated with 81P receptor modulator therapy.
Another benefit of the present invention is to provide an therapeutic regimen for an
Inflammatory or autoimmune or disease, such as multiple sclerosis, which can be
personalized, e.g. adapted to the specific profile of the patient to be treated and/or to the
state of the disease in this patient, in such as way that that the disease is treated (or the
disease severity is reduced), while the adverse events which could otherwise have been
associated with administering said SIP receptor modulator or agonist are controlled,
reduced, or abolished, For example, therapeutic regimen of the present invention may be
personalized in view of the other diseases or disorders the patient could be affected with,
the other medication he could be taken, e.g. depending of whether he is suffering from a
heart disease or disorder.
SIP receptor modulators or agonists
According to the invention, specific S1P receptor modulators of the Invention are 2-amino
2-tetradecyl-1,3-propanedlol. An example of SIP receptor modulator is fingolimod
(FTY720), i.e. 2-amino-2-[2-(4-octylphenyl) ethyl]propane-1,3-diol in free form or in a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt form, e.g. the hydrochloride, as shown:
                         HOJ     H
                        HN                                        -HCl
Another specific S1 P receptor modulator of the invention is the phosphorylated derivative
of FTY720, also referred to as fingollmod-phosphate, as shown:
                            OH
                       O= P-oH
                          H2N UN

                                               -5
Preferably, the SIP receptor modulator or agonist of the invention, e.g. fingolimod in free
form, in a pharmaceutically acceptable salt form or fingolimod-phosphate, is administered
orally.
Dosage Regimen
As previously stated, the present invention provides a new dosage regimen and method
for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder in a patient in need
thereof, comprising administering to said patient a S1P receptor modulator or agonist,
such as fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, In such a way that the disease is treated or the disease severity is
reduced, while the adverse events possibly associated with administration of said SIP
receptor modulator or agonist are controlled, limited, reduced or abolished. For example
there is provided a method for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder
in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering to said patient a SIP receptor
modulator or agonist, such fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a
pharmaceutlcally acceptable salt thereof, in such as way that the symptoms of the disease
are reduced or abolished while the adverse events possibly associated with administration
of said SIP receptor modulator or agonist are controlled, limited, reduced or abolished.
According to the invention there is provided a method for administering FTY720, a
phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, to a patient in
need thereof preferably refers to a method for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune
disease or disorder, limiting the symptoms associated thereof or the progression thereof,
e.g. multiple sclerosis, in a patient in need thereof. In particular it refers to a method for
treating RRMS, limiting the symptoms associated thereof or the progression thereof in a
patient in need thereof.
According to the present invention the terms "treatment" or "treat" refer to both
prophylactic or preventive treatment as well as curative or disease-modifying treatment,
including treatment of patients at risk of contracting the disease or disorder, or suspected
to have contracted the disease or disorder, as well as patients who are Ilil or have been
diagnosed as suffering from the disease or disorder.
Autoimmune diseases or disorders according to the invention are preferably chronic long
term diseases, e.g. multiple sclerosis (MS), for example relapsing remitting multiple

                                                -6
sclerosis (RRMS) or primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS), e.g. RRMS, MS takes
several forms, with new symptoms occurring either in discrete attacks (relapsing forms) or
slowly accumulating over time (progressive forms).
The dosing regimens and methods of treatment according to the present invention are
particularly adapted for multiple sclerosis, e.g. RRMS.
As herein defined, treating multiple sclerosis refers to, but is not limited to, reducing the
frequency of clinical exacerbations or delaying the accumulation of physical disability
induced by multiple sclerosis. It may also refer to limiting the symptoms of the disease.
As herein defined, symptoms or disorders associated with multiple sclerosis encompass
neurological symptoms, physical and cognitive disability and neuropsychiatric disorders.
As herein defined, adverse event refers to any adverse change in health that occurs to a
patient receiving a treatment or within a specified period of time after the treatment has
been completed. Controlling the adverse events refers to limiting the extension, outcome,
consequences or impact of such events in such a way that the patient's health is not a
risk, or the treatment can be continued without worsening the overall health of the patient.
The adverse events are not necessarily related to the medication itself, they may also be
related to the inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder for which the patient Is
treated or another disease or disorder that the patient is further affected with.
According to the invention reduction of the adverse events refers to the reduction of the
events, e.g. of side-effects, to a level that Is acceptable to the patient safety, e.g. which
does not require specific treatment and/or specific medical care, hospitalization or medical
monitoring. For example reduction of the adverse events refers to the reduction of the
events to a level that is acceptable for the patient compliance.
According to the invention limitation of the adverse events refers to limitation of the
number or occurrence of adverse events, e.g. of side-effects, in a patient, to a number or
occurrence which is acceptable to the patient, e.g. which does not require specific
treatment and/or specific medical care, hospitalization or medical monitoring. For example
limitation of the adverse events refers to limitation of the number or occurrence of adverse
events to a number or occurrence that is acceptable for the patient safety and/or
compliance.

                                                -7
The monitoring of possible adverse events may be done as described herein above. For
example it may be done by ophthalmic examination, dermatologic examination, pulmonary
function tests, chest X-ray and/or CT, Holter monitoring, and/or echocardiography. In a
specific embodiment of the invention, the monitoring and reporting of adverse events
comprises the monitoring and reporting of bradycardia, syncope or pre-syncope, serious
infectious, liver toxicity, and macular edema.
As herein defined, a patient treated with fingolimod (FTY720) refers to a patient receiving
fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof (i.e. fingolimod-phosphate) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune
disease or disorder according to the invention, e.g. MS, e.g. RRMS.
As herein defined, a patient In need of prescribing fingolimod refers to a patient suffering
from an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder according to the invention, e.g. a
MS patient.
Patients treated with fingolimod (FTY720) and the patients in need of prescribing
fingolimod may be patients who have never received treatment for an inflammatory or
autoimmune disease or disorder, such as patients who have never received a treatment
for treating or preventing MS, as well as patients who previously received one or more
treatment for an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder, for example who
previously received one or more treatment for MS.
The effectiveness of the SIP modulator of the invention in treating multiple sclerosis may
be evaluated by medical standards and criteria known to the skilled person. For example,
it can be evaluated through annual relapse rate of multiple sclerosis.
For example, the dosage of the S1P receptor modulator or agonist of the invention can be
considered as efficient for treating the disease or reducing the symptoms associated
thereof, e.g. for treating multiple sclerosis, when the relapse rate is decreased by more
than 45%, e.g. more than 50%, e.g. more then 60%.
In another embodiment effectiveness of the SIP receptor modulator or agonist of the
invention in treating multiple sclerosis is evaluated through the disability progression, e.g.
according to the Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS). The Kurtzke

 Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) is a method of quantifying disability in multiple
sclerosis. The EDSS quantifies disability in eight Functional Systems (FS) and allows
neurologists to assign a Functional System Score (FSS) in each of these. For example,
the dosage of the S1P receptor modulator or agonist of the invention can be considered as
efficient for treating the disease or reducing the symptoms associated thereof, e.g. for
treating multiple sclerosis, when progression of the patient disability is delayed by at least
25%, e.g. by at least 30%, e.g. by at least 32%.
The effectiveness of the dosing regimen of the invention may also be evaluated by
measuring brain lesions, e.g. by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (RMI) scans.
Monitoring
The present invention provides a dosing regimen and a method for treating an
inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder in a patient in need thereof, comprising
administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a SIP receptor
modulator or agonist, wherein said method comprises the steps of
        1)monitoring the patient during a specific period of time after the first administration
of said S1P receptor modulator or agonist, and
        ii) optionally interrupting the administration of said SIP receptor modulator or
agonist and/or modifying the treatment regimen thereof and/or administering a second
drug which mitigates said possible adverse events.
Such a dosing regimen is particularly adapted for administering fingolimod, e.g. in patient
suffering from multiple sclerosis.
 Furthermore there is provided a SIP receptor modulator or agonist , e.g. FTY720, a
phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the
treatment of an inflammatory or an autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple
sclerosis, wherein said treatment comprises the steps of
        i) monitoring the patient during a specific period of time after the first administration
of said S1 P receptor modulator or agonist, and
        ii) optionally interrupting the administration of said S1P receptor modulator or
agonist and/or modifying the treatment regimen thereof and/or administering a second
drug which mitigates said possible adverse events.

                                               -9
in a specific embodiment, the present invention provides FTY720, a phosphate derivative
thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. the hydrocloride salt of FTY720,
for use in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, wherein said treatment comprises the steps
of
        i) monitoring the patient during a specific period of time after the first administration
of FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
and
        ii) optionally interrupting the administration of FTY720, a phosphate derivative
thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and/or modifying the treatment
regimen thereof, and/or administering a -second drug which mitigates said possible
adverse events.
The present inventions further pertains to a S1P receptor modulator or agonist , e.g.
FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for
use in a method for treating an inflammatory or an autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g.
multiple sclerosis, wherein said method comprises the steps of
        i) monitoring the patient during a specific period of time after the first administration
of said S1P receptor modulator or agonist, and
        II) optionally interrupting the administration of said 81P receptor modulator or
agonist and/or modifying the treatment regimen thereof and/or administering a second
drug which mitigates said possible adverse events.
In a specific embodiment, the present invention pertains to FTY720, a phosphate
derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in a method for the
treatment of multiple sclerosis, wherein said treatment comprises the steps of
        i) monitoring the patient during a specific period of time after the first administration
of said S1 P receptor modulator or agonist, and
        ii) optionally interrupting the administration of said 81P receptor modulator or
agonist and/or modifying the treatment regimen thereof and/or administering a second
drug which mitigates said possible adverse events.
According to the invention, the action taken on step ii) depends on the results obtained
under step i).
When the SIP receptor modulator or agonist is selected from fingollmod (FTY720), a
phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, the step of

                                                -10
modifying the treatment regimen may consist of administering a daily dosage of the drug
that is lower than about 0.5 mg and then increasing the dosage up to a daily dosage of
about 0.5mg. The daily dosage of the drug may then be increased stepwise, e.g. by
titration. It may also consist of administering a daily dosage of the drug higher than 0.5 mg,
e.g. a daily dosage of about 1.0 mg or about 1.25mg.
In a specific embodiment of the invention, e.g. when the S1 P receptor modulator or
agonist is selected from fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, the step of modifying the treatment regimen may
consist of increasing the period of time between two consecutive administrations of the
medication.
According to the invention, there is provided a patient monitoring, i.e. a specific monitoring
of patients treated with a S1P receptor modulator or agonist, such as fingolimod (FTY720),
a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in order to
control, limit or abolish the possible adverse events, wherein said monitoring is performed
before and/or during administration of the medication.
The patient monitoring of the invention comprises
         a) monitoring     infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections, throughout
administering said S1P receptor modulator or agonist, andfor
         b) performing an ophthalmologic examination.
The patient monitoring may further comprise one or more steps of
         c) monitoring the heart rate of the patient at least during the first hours after the first
administration of said S1 P receptor modulator or agonist,
         d) observing the patient during the first hours after the first administration of said
S1P receptor modulator or agonist, to monitor the heart rate of the patient,
         e) performing liver function tests,
         f) performing dermatological examinations,
         g) performing pulmonary functions tests.
The patient monitoring may further comprise one or more steps of
         h) determining complete blood counting (CBC),
         i) lymphocytes countingand/or recording of blood key parameters,

                                                    -11
         j) monitoring and/or recording of vital signs, e.g. heart rate, blood pressure, e.g.
arterial blood pressure,
         k) monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders,
         I) monitoring and/or recording of other adverse events or side-effects.
The invention also provides a dosing regimen and a method of controlling, reducing, or
abolishing the possible adverse events associated with treating a patient suffering from an
inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder with a SIP receptor modulator or
agonist, comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of said
S1 P receptor modulator or agonist, wherein said method comprises i) a patient monitoring
as defined herein above, and
ii) optionally interrupting the administration of said SIP receptor modulator or agonist
and/or modifying the treatment regimen thereof.
In one embodiment of the invention, the patient monitoring of the invention may comprise
one or more of the following steps, optionally all the steps of,
-          complete blood counting (CBC),
-          lymphocytes counting,
-          analysis of liver enzymes,
-          monitoring and/or recording of vital signs, e.g. heart rate, blood pressure, e.g.
arterial blood pressure,
-          testing history of viral infection or viral serology, e.g. regarding chickenpox,
-          monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
-          dermatological examinations,
-          ophihalmologic examinations,
-          examinations of pulmonary function,
-          monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders,
-          monitoring and/or recording of blood key parameters,
-          monitoring and/or recording of liver function tests,
-          monitoring and/or recording of other adverse events or side-effects.
Preferably, the patient monitoring of the invention comprises one or more of the following
steps, optionally all the steps of;

                                                    -12
- complete blood counting (CBC),
- analysis of liver enzymes,
- ophthalmologic examinations, and
- testing history of viral infection or viral serology, e.g. regarding chickenpox,
-  monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infection.
  The patient monitoring of the invention may further comprise
- establishing an electrocardiogram (ECG),            e.g. at starting administration with the
  medication, and/or
- vaccinate the patient before starting administration, e.g. against varicella zoster virus
   (VZV).
  As herein defined, the patient monitoring of the invention may comprise or more of the
  above described monitoring steps.
  In one embodiment of the invention, the patient monitoring comprises the steps of
  -   monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
  -      performing ophthalmologic examinations,
  and optionally further comprises the steps of
  -      monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders for specific category of patients,
  and/or
  -      performing dermatological examinations.
  In another embodiment of the invention, the patient monitoring comprises the steps of
  -       monitoring and/or recording of Infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
  -       ophthalmologic examinations,
  -       monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders, e.g. for specific category of
  patients,
  -       liver function tests;
  and optionally further comprises the steps of
  -       dermatological examinations.
  In yet a further embodiment of the invention, the patient monitoring comprises the steps of

                                              -13
     - monitoring the heart rate of the patient,
     - monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
     - performing ophthalmologic examinations,
and optionally further comprises the steps of
     - performing dermatological examinations.
In yet another embodiment of the invention, the patient monitoring comprises the steps of
     - monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
     - performing an ophthalmologic examination within the first 1 to 10 after starting
administration,
     - observing patients for at least 6 hours after the first dose administration,
and optionally further comprises the steps of
     - dermatological examinations.
The patient monitoring may further comprise a step of monitoring and/or recording of liver
function tests in case patients develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction.
In a preferred embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method of prescribing
fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, to a patient in need thereof, in such a way as to limit the possible adverse events
before of during administration of fingolimod, wherein said method comprises the patient
monitoring as herein above described.
For example the method of prescribing fingolimod may comprise one or more of the
following steps:
        - performing lymphocyte counting,
        - monitoring and/or recording of vital signs, e.g. blood pressure, e.g. arterial blood
pressure,
        - monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
        - performing dermatological examinations,
        - performing ophthalmologic examinations,
        - performing examinations of pulmonary function,
        - monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders,
        - monitoring and/or recording of blood key parameters, e.g. level of serum ALT,
        - performing liver function tests,

                                                -14
         - monitoring and/or recording of other adverse events or side-effects, and
wherein each of said steps is performed for a specific period of time before and/or during
the period of administering the drug.
The specific and regular monitoring of the treated patients may consist of one or more of
the following steps
         -  performing lymphocyte counting,
         - monitoring and/or recording of vital signs, e.g. blood pressure, e.g. arterial blood
pressure,
         - monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
         - performing dermatological examinations,
         - performing ophthalmologic examinations,
         - performing examinations of pulmonary function,
         - monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders,
         - monitoring and/or recording of blood key parameters, e.g. level of serum ALT,
         - performing liver function tests,
         - monitoring and/or recording of other adverse events or side-effects, and
wherein said steps are performed for a specific period of time before and/or during the
period of administering the drug.
Each step may be performed as further explained below.
Preferably, the patient monitoring may consist of one or more of the following steps:
        - monitoring and/or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections,
during FTY720 therapy,
        - ophthalmologic examinations as herein defined,
         - monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders for specific category of patients,
         - liver function tests in case patients develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic
dysfunction,
and optionally further comprises the steps of
        - dermatological examinations.

                                                 -15
The different steps the patient monitoring of the invention are performed at a specific
period of time after administration of the first dose.
These steps can be performed as described herein.
In a specific embodiment of the invention, the treated patients are monitored under
supervision of medical doctors for a specific period of time after the first dose
administration, for the first I to 10 hours after the first administration of the S1P receptor
modulator or agonist, e.g. fingollmod ,a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, for at least 6 hours after the first dose administration.
According to the invention, one or more of these steps, e.g. monitoring and/or recording of
cardiac disorders, are performed at least 4 hours after the first dose administration, e.g. at
least for 6 hours after the first dose administration, or at least 8 hours after the first dose
administration, e.g. 3 to 8 hours after the first dose administration, e.g. 4 to 6 hours after
the first dose administration, e.g. 4 to 6 hours after the first dose administration. Preferably
monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders are performed about 6 hours after the first
dose administration The step of monitoring and/or recording of cardiac disorders may
consist of observing patients during that period of time after the first dose administration,
e.g. during at least 4 hours after the first dose administration, e.g. at least for 6 hours after
the first dose administration, or at least 8 hours after the first dose administration.
According to the invention, the cardiac disorders which are monitored and/or recorded
comprise but are not limited to bradycardia and high-grade AV block.
According to the invention, the infections which are recorded or monitored are for example
viral infections, e.g. varicella zoster virus (VZV), influenza viral infection, herpes viral
infection, lower respiratory tract infection, e.g. bronchitis and pneumonia.
In an embodiment of the invention, the monitoring of infections or infestations is performed
within the first three months after the first dose administration, e.g. within the first two
months after the first dose administration. In another embodiment of the invention, the
monitoring of Infections or infestations is performed throughout administration of the
medication.

                                               -16
Prior to starting administering the S1P receptor modulator or agonist, the patient may be
tested for history of Infections, e.g. viral Infection, in particular chickenpox, In case the
searched serology is negative, the patient may be vaccinated, e.g. against varicella zoster
virus or influenza virus.
The monitoring or recording of infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections, may be
performed with medical techniques available, for example through complete blood
counting (CBC) and/or lymphocytes counting.
According to the invention, the ophthalmologic examination preferably comprises the
checking and/or monitoring of disturbances in visual acuity, e.g. appearance of macular
edema.
In a specific embodiment of the invention, eye examinations include at least one of eye
history, visual acuity, dilated ophthalmoscopy, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT),
evaluation of the fundus. Such examinations are preferably performed by an
ophthalmologist.
According to the invention, ophthalmologic examination may be performed after initiating
the administration with S1P receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. after commencing FTY720
therapy, e.g. within the first I to 12 months, e.g. 2 to 10 months, e.g. 2 to 6 months, e.g. 2
to 5 months, e.g. 3 to 4 months. Additional ophthalmologic examinations may be
performed as needed based on patient symptoms, e.g. at intervals determined by the
ophthalmologist.
According to the invention, the ophthalmologic examination may comprising the steps of
        1)    Identifying the eye diseases history of the patient to be treated before
commencing the treatment with FTY720,
        2) having ophthalmologic examinations performed as herein above mentioned, e.g.
3 to 4 months after commencing the treatment with FTY720, preferably by an
ophthalmologist, and optionally
        3) having additional ophthalmologic examinations performed based on patient
symptoms, e.g. at intervals determined by the ophthalmologist.
Ophthalmologic examination may also be performed before starting the administration with
SIP receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. before starting FTY720 therapy. This embodiment

                                                -17
 is particularly adapted for specific patients categories, for example in case of patients who
 have an eyes disease or disorder, and/or history of diabetes or uveitis.
According to the invention, the dermatological examination may comprise the checking of
appearance e.g. of neoplasms, skin malignancies, melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma,
basal cell carcinoma. Dermatological screening may be performed prior to, or shortly after
initiation of therapy. In a specific embodiment of the invention, dermatological screenings
are performed annually In patient receiving the S1 P receptor modulator or agonist, eg.
FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
Dermatological screening may be performed by a physician, e.g. a dermatologist. In
another embodiments, such screening is performed more frequently, e.g. by the patient
himself.
According to the invention, the examinations of pulmonary function may be performed by
spirometry, pulmonary function tests, e.g. FEV1, FVC, FEF25-75%, DLCO, diffusion
capacity for carbon monoxide, or chest high resolution computed tomography (HRCT).
In a specific embodiment of the invention the pulmonary function test (PFT) is performed a
few hours to a few days after the first administration, for example at the day of the first
administration, for example from 2 to 12 hours after the first drug administration, for
example from 2 to 8 hours after the first drug administration, for example from 2 to 6 hours
after the first administration, for example at 6-hour after the first administration, A second
PFT may be performed a few days after the first administration, for example from 2 to 10
days after the first drug administration, for example from 3 to 8 days first drug
administration, for example abut a week after the first drug administration,
In a specific embodiment of the invention the level of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, is
evaluated at initiation of therapy and optionally periodically thereafter, Continuous
evaluation is particularly adapted in case of patients who develop symptoms suggestive of
hepatic dysfunction.
According to the invention, the liver function tests may be performed for specific category
of patients, e.g. patients who develop symptoms suggestive of hepatic dysfunction, e.g.
nausea, vomitting, abdominal pain, anorexia, or jaundice.

                                                  -18
According to the invention, monitoring and/or recording of liver function tests may
 comprise any one of the steps of
         1) identifying the level of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, in the patient to be treated
 before the first administration of the S1P receptor modulator or agonist , e.g. FTY720, a
 phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and
administering the first dose only if alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level is not more than 2
times the upper limit of the normal range (ULN),
         2) identifying the level of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, in the patient under
therapy, and discontinue the therapy in patients experiencing jaundice or elevation of liver
enzyme is more than 5 times the upper limit of the normal range (ULN).
The patient monitoring of the invention may comprise a step of observing the patient for
the first 1 to 10 hours after the first administration of the S1P receptor modulator or agonist
, e.g. fingolimod , a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, e.g. the first 2 to 8 hours after the first administration, e.g. the first 3 to 9 hours
after the first administration, eg. the first 2 to 8 hours after the first administration, e.g. the
first 4 to 7 hours after the first administration, e.g. the first 6 hours, e.g. the first hours,
e.g. the first 4 hours after the first administration of said S1P receptor modulator or agonist
, e.g. fingollmod , a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof. For example, the patient monitoring of the invention may comprise a step of
observing the patient at least 2 hours after the first administration of said S1P receptor
modulator or agonist , e.g. fingolimod , a phosphate derivative thereof or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. at least 4 hours after the first administration,
e.g. at least 6 hours after the first administration.
According to the present invention, there is provided a method for treating an inflammatory
or autoimmune disease or disorder In a patient in need thereof, comprising administering
to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of SIP receptor modulator or agonist,
wherein specific parameters of the patient are checked before initiating said treatment,
and if necessary, the treatment regimen is adapted and/or a second drug which mitigates
the adverse events which could possibly occur.
The invention further pertains to a S1P receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. FTY720, a
phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in a
method of treating an inflammatory or an autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple

    WO 2011/041146                                                              PCT/US2010/049441
                                                  -19
   sclerosis, wherein said method comprises the steps of checking specific parameters of the
   patient before Initiating said treatment, and If necessary adapting the treatment regimen
   thereof and/or administering a second drug which mitigates the adverse events which
   could possibly occur,
   Said parameters are selected from signs of infections or infestations (e.g. viral infections),
   visual acuity, presence of eye disease, liver enzymes, blood pressure, blood analysis (e.g.
   complete blood count), , electrocardiogram (ECG), pulmonary function, presence of skin
   disease or disorder, and liver function .
   In a specific embodiment, these parameters are selected from signs of infections or
   infestations (e.g. viral infections), visual acuity, liver enzymes and blood pressure, and
   optionally heart rate.
   For example, a ECG is performed before initiating administration with said SIP receptor
   modulator or agonist.
   These parameters may also be checked throughout the treatment with said S1P receptor
   modulator or agonist.
   In a specific embodiment of the invention there is provided
1- a method for administering a SiP receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. fingolimod, a
   phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in a patient in
   need thereof, comprising the steps of
a. ) identifying the eye diseases history of the patient to be treated before commencing the
   treatment with said S1 P receptor modulator or agonist,
b. ) having ophthalmologic examinations performed as herein above mentioned, e.g. 3 to 4
   months after commencing the treatment with said S1 P receptor modulator or agonist,
   preferably by an ophthalmologist, and optionally
c. ) having additional ophthalmologic examinations performed based on patient symptoms,
   e.g. at intervals determined by the ophthalmologist.
2- A method for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder (for example
   multiple sclerosis), and limiting the symptoms associated thereof or reducing the severity
   of the disease, In a patient in need thereof, comprising the steps a.), b.) and c.) as defined
   above.

                                                  -20
3- a SIP receptor modulator or agonist , e.g. FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in a method for treating an inflammatory
   or an autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein said method
   comprises the steps a.), b.) and c.) as defined above.
4- a S1P receptor modulator or agonist , e.g. FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the treatment of an inflammatory or an
   autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein said treatment compHses
   the steps a.), b.) and c.) as defined above.
5- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.
   the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use in a method for the treatment of multiple
   sclerosis, wherein said treatment compHses the steps of
   a') identifying the eye diseases history of the patient to be treated before commencing the
   treatment with FTY720, phosphate derivative or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
a. ) having ophthalmologic examinations performed as herein above mentioned, e.g. 3 to 4
   months after commencing the treatment with FTY720, phosphate derivative or
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably by an ophthalmologist, and optionally
b. ) having additional ophthalmologic examinations performed based on patient symptoms,
   e.g. at intervals determined by the ophthalmologist.
6- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.
   the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, wherein
   said treatment comprises the steps a'.), b'.) and c'.) as defined above.
   In a specific embodiment of the invention there is provided
7- A method for administering a SIP receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. fingolimod, a
   phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in a patient in
   need thereof, comprising the steps of
   d) identifying the level of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, in the patient to be treated before
   the first administration of said S1P receptor modulator or agonist , and administering the
   first dose only if ALT level is not > 2x ULN, and
   e) identifying the level of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, in the patient under therapy, and
   discontinue the therapy in patients experiencing jaundice or elevation of liver enzyme >5x
    ULN.
8- A method for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder (for example
    multiple sclerosis), and limiting the symptoms associated thereof or reducing the severity

                                                    -21
    of the disease, in a patient in need thereof, comprising the steps d.), and e.) as defined
    above.
9- A S1P receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in a method for treating an Inflammatory
    or an autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein said method
    comprises the steps d.), and e.) as defined above.
10- A SIP receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the treatment of an inflammatory or an
    autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein said treatment comprises
    the steps d.), and e.) as defined above.
11- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
    e.g. the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use In a method for the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis, wherein said method comprises the steps of
    d') identifying the level of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, in the patient to be treated before
    the first administration of FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically
    acceptable salt thereof, and administering the first dose only if ALT level is not > 2x ULN,
    and
    e' ) identifying the level of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, in the patient under therapy, and
    discontinue the therapy in patients experiencing jaundice or elevation of liver enzyme >5x
    ULN
12- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.
    the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, wherein
    said treatment comprises the steps d'.), and e'.) as defined above.
    In yet another embodiment of the invention there is provided
13-A method for administering a SIP receptor modulator or agonist , e.g. FTY720, a
    phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in a patient in
    need thereof and receiving concomitant beta-blocker therapy, comprising the steps of
            f) measuring heart rate and/or blood pressure of the patient to be treated before
    commencing the treatment with said SIP receptor modulator or agonist,
            g) either measuring heart rate every 3 to 5 hour, e.g. every four hour, for at least 6
    hour hereafter, and/or perform an ECG 3 to 6 hours, e.g. 4 to 6 hours, post-dose, and
             h) administering an adequate treatment if bradyarrhythmia-related symptom is
    seen under step g), e.g. atropine or isoprenaline.

                                                    -22
     In one embodiment, that method refers to a method for administering FTY720, a
     phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. the
     hydrochloride salt of FTY720, in a patient affected by multiple sclerosis.
14-A method for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder (for example
    multiple sclerosis), and limiting the symptoms associated thereof or reducing the severity
    of the disease, in a patient in need thereof, comprising the steps f.), g. ) and h.) as defined
    above.
15-A SIP receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in a method for treating an inflammatory
    or an autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein said method
    comprises the steps f.), g.) and h.) as defined above.
16- A SIP receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the treatment of an inflammatory or an
    autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein said treatment comprises
    the steps f.), g. ) and h.) as defined above.
17- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.
    the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use in a method for the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis, wherein said method comprises the steps of
    f' ) measuring heart rate and/or blood pressure of the patient to be treated before
    commencing the treatment with FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
    pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
    g' ) either measuring heart rate every 3 to 5 hour, e.g. every four hour, for at least 6 hour
    hereafter, and/or perform an ECG 3 to 6 hours, e.g. 4 to 6 hours, post-dose, and
    h' ) administering an adequate treatment if bradyarrhythmia-related symptom is seen
    under step g), e.g. atropine or isoprenaline.
18- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.
    the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, wherein
    said treatment comprises the steps of f'.), g'. ) and h'.) as defined above.
    In yet another embodiment of the invention there is provided

                                                     -23
 19-A method for administering a SIP receptor modulator or agonist , e.g. FTY720 , a
     phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in a patient in
     need thereof, comprising the steps of
     I) observing the patient after the first dose administration for an observing period as
     defined hereinabove, eg. for at least 6 hours
    j) measuring heart rate of the patient after this period,
     k) either releasing the patient if the if the Is > 40 bpm, or of 40-60 bpm e.g. in case this
    value is not the lowest heart rate measured during the 6-hour observation period; or
     maintaining the patient in an appropriate setting.
    Such a method is particularly adapted to patients with low resting heart rate (e.g. lower
    than 50) or those taking beta blockers, or having high grade atrio-ventricular (AV) block or
    sick-sinus syndrome.
     In a specific embodiment, that method refers to a method for administering FTY720, a
    phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. the
    hydrochloride salt of FTY720, in a patient affected by multiple sclerosis.
    The present invention also provides
20- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.
    the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, wherein
    said treatment comprises the steps i.), j. ) and k.) as defined above.
21- FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g.
    the hydrochloride salt of FTY720, for use in a method of treating multiple sclerosis,
    wherein said method comprises the steps i), j. ) and k.) as defined above.
    In specific cases, e.g. when patients experiencing symptomatic events associated with
    braddyarrythmla not resolved by the end of the 6 hour observation, day 2 dose may also
    be performed with an observation period like the first administration, e.g. as described
    above.
    An observation period as defined hereinabove, e.g. 6 hour observation, may also be
    performed in case of a patient restarting the SIP receptor modulator or agonist , e.g.
    FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
    after a drug Interruption of more than 4 days, e.g. more than 6 days, e.g. more than 8

                                               -24
 days, e.g. more than 10 days, e.g. more than 12 days, e.g. more than 14 days, e.g. more
than 18 days, e.g. more than 21 days.
 In another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method for administering
 FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, to a
patient in need thereof while controlling, limiting or abolishing the possible adverse events
associated or in relation to such an administering, wherein the patients at possible risk of
showing such events are identified before administering the drug and specific and regular
monitoring of the treated patients Isperformed, e.g. by an adequate physician.
The patients at possibly increased risk may be patients selected from patients who have
eyes diseases or disorders; patients who show a high ALT level, patients who have
hepatic dysfunction, patients who have hypertension; and patients who have heart failure
or arrythmias. It may also concem patient affected by asthma, for example moderate
asthma and/or diabetic patients.
Inanother embodiment, it can be pregnant women.
As herein defined, an eyes disease or disorder refers to a disease or disorder impacting
eyes, e.g, uveitis, diabetes.
Patients who show a high ALT level refers to patients who show an ALT level of, or
superior to, 2 times than ULN, e.g. before initiating FTY720 treatment)
Patients who have heart disorders refers to one or more disorders selected from high
grade AV block, sick sinus syndrome, ischeamic heart disease, congestive heart failure,
and arrhythmia. For example, this concerns patients suffereing from or at risk of
bradyarrhythmia, patients with high grade atrio-ventricular blocks or sick sinus syndrome,
patients with a history of syncopal episodes, or patients under beta blockers or anti
arrhythmic treatment, such as patients under anti-arrhythmic drugs.
According to the invention, there Is provided a specific monitoring of patients treated with a
S1 P receptor modulator or agonist , e.g. FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein said patients are suffering from an

                                                  -25
 inflammatory or an autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, comprising
 any ones of the following steps of:
           i) observation period, e.g. at least 6 hour, e.g. 4 to 6 hours, during which or at the
 end of which heart rate is checked, as defined herein,
           il)annual skin examination after first dose administration, as defined herein,
          iii) regular review of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, as defined herein,
          iv) ophthalmologic examinations 2 to 12 months, e.g. 3 to 4 months, after first dose
 administration, as defined herein,
         v) regular checking of patient visual function, as defined herein.
There is further provided method of administering a S1P receptor modulator or agonist,
 e.g. fingolimod In the form of FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, to patients suffering from an inflammatory or an
autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, comprising
a) performing any ones of the following steps of:
         i) observation period, e.g. at least 6 hour, e.g. 4 to 6 hours, during which or at the
end of which heart rate is checked, as defined herein,
         ii) annual skin examination after first dose administration, as defined herein,
         iii) regular review of liver enzyme, e.g. serum ALT, as defined herein,
         iv) ophthalmologic examinations 3 to 4 months after first dose administration, as
defined herein,
         v) regular checking of patient visual function, as defined herein;
and
b) if required, interrupting fingolimod administration based upon the results of one of more
of the above steps or changing the treatment regimen and/or administering a second drug.
Step b) may correspond to appearance of adverse events. The second drug may be a
drug which mitigates said possible adverse events.
Interrupting      fingolimod   administration,   changing     the treatment     regimen   and/or
administering a second drug, may occur in case of any of the following conditions:
bradycardia or atrioventricular conduction abnormalities, macular edema or other visual

                                                  -26
 disturbance, skin cancer, altered liver functions or liver injury, infections or hypertension.
 Duration of the interruption is defined by the physician.
 Interrupting    fingolimod    administration,   changing      the treatment   regimen   and/or
 administering a second drug, may also occur in case the lymphocyte count of the patient
 becomes abnormally low, or becomes lower than 200/mL.
 For example, step a) may comprise one or more steps of
          i) monitoring the heart rate of the patient,
         ii) monitoring infections or infestations, e.g. viral infections, and
         lii) performing ophthalmologic examination within the first 1 to 10 after starting
 administration.
Therapeutic dosages
 In a preferred embodiment of the invention the methods for administering FTY720, a
phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof as defined
herein above, in particular the methods for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune
disease or disorder, limiting the symptoms associated thereof or the progression thereof,
e.g. multiple sclerosis, in a patient In need thereof comprise administering a daily dosage
of FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
e.g. FTY720 hydrochloride, of not more than 0.5 mg, e.g. of about 0.5mg.
According to the invention there is provided a compound selected from fingolimod
(FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
e.g. fingolimod hydrochloride, for use in          treating or preventing an inflammatory or
autoimmune disease, whereby said compound is administered in such a way to a patient
that the adverse events possibly associated with administration of said compound are
controlled, limited, reduced or abolished. For example, the daily dosage of fingolimod
(FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
e.g. fingolimod hydrocholoride, does not exceed 0.5mg, e.g. is of about 0.5 mg.
in a specific embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for treating multiple
sclerosis, controlling or limiting the symptoms associated thereof or reducing the severity
of said disease in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering a daily dosage of
fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt

                                               -27
thereof, e.g. fingolimod hydrocholoride, wherein said daily dosage does not exceed 0.5mg,
e.g. is of about 0.5 mg, and wherein the patient is further affected by asthma (for example
moderate asthma), by a disease or disorder impacting eyes or has an history of eyes
diseases or disorders (for example is affected by uveitis or diabetes), show high-grade AV
block, sick sinus syndrome, hepatic dysfunction or hypertension.
In a further embodiment of the Invention there is provided a method for treating multiple
sclerosis, controlling or limiting the symptoms associated thereof or reducing the severity
of said disease in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering a daily ,dosage of
fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, e.g. fingolimod hydrocholoride, wherein said daily dosage does not exceed 0.5mg,
e.g. is of about 0.5 mg, and wherein the patient is pregnant.
In yet a further embodiment of the invention there is provided a method for treating
multiple sclerosis, limiting the symptoms associated thereof or reducing the severity of
said disease in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering a daily dosage of
fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, e.g. fingolimod hydrocholoride, wherein said daily dosage does not exceed 0.5mg,
e.g. is of about 0.5 mg, and wherein the patient is a MS patients who has never received
treatment for MS, e.g. de novo patient,
According to the invention, adopting the treatment regimen may consist of decreasing the
dosage, or increasing the time between two consecutive administrations of the SIP
receptor modulator or agonist, e.g.       fingolimod, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. For example it may consist of administering
0,25mg of fingolimod, a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, two times a day. It may also consist of Increasing stepwise the dosage of the drug
during the first period of administration up to a daily dosage of 0.5mg or 1.25 mg, e.g.
adopting a stepwise administration, e.g. a titration.
The present invention pertains to a method for treating multiple sclerosis comprising
         (a)     administering a varied dose of a drug selected from the group consisting of
fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof in a patient in need thereof,
         (b)     monitoring adverse events occurring in said patient,

                                              -28
        (c)     monitoring reduction or abolition of symptoms associated with multiple
sclerosis, and
        (d)     determining optimal dose for said patient
The daily dose of the drug may be not exceeding 0.5mg.
In another embodiment, the daily dose of the drug is above 0.5mg, e.g. is about 1.00mg,
e.g. about 1.25mg, e.g. about 1.5mg.
There is also provided a SiP receptor modulator or agonist, e.g. FTY720, a phosphate
derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in a method for
treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein said
method comprises
        (a)     administering a varied dose of said SIP receptor modulator or agonist in a
patient in need thereof,
        (b)     monitoring adverse events occurring in said patient,
        (c)     monitoring reduction or abolition of symptoms associated with said
inflammatory or autoimmune disease, and
        (d)     determining optimal dose for said patient.
This method is particularly adapted for FTY720, a phosphate derivative thereof or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. FTY720 hydrochloride, for treating multiple
sclerosis.
When the S1P receptor modulator or agonist is selected from FTY720, a phosphate
derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. is FTY720
hydrochloride, and the disease is multiple sclerosis, the daily dose of the drug may not be
exceeding 0.5mg.
In another embodiment, the S1 P receptor modulator or agonist is selected from FTY720, a
phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. FTY720
hydrochloride, and the daily dose is exceeding 0,5mg, e.g. is about 1.00mg, e.g. about
1.25mg, e.g. about 1.5mg.
In yet a further embodiment of the invention, there is provided a personalized method for
treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, in a
patient in need thereof comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective
amount of a S1 P receptor modulator or agonist,
wherein said method comprises
        (a)     administering a varied dose of said drug to the patient,
        (b)     monitoring adverse events occurring in said patient,

                                               -29
        (c)     monitoring reduction or abolition of symptoms associated with multiple
sclerosis, and
        (d)     determining optimal dose for said patient,
wherein said regimen is adapted for treating said disease or disorder and controlling,
reducing, or abolishing the possible adverse events associated with administering said
S1 P receptor modulator or agonist,
The steps(a) to (d) above may also be used in a method for determining a personalized
therapeutic treatment regimen of a drug selected from the group consisting of fingolimod
(FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof , in
a patient suffering from an inflammatory or autoimmune disease, e.g. multiple sclerosis.
The present invention also pertains a compound selected from FTY720, a phosphate
derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. FTY720
hydrochloride, for use in a method for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or
disorder in a patient in need thereof, wherein said method is personalized, e.g. is adapted
for treating said disease or disorder to the specific profile of the patient in such a way that
the adverse events associated with administering said SIP receptor modulator or agonist
are controlled, reduced, or abolished. In such a case, the patient to be treated my be
selected from patients who have never received treatment for that disease or disorder,
patients suffering or at risk of heart failure or arrythmias, patients affected by asthma,
patients who have eyes diseases or disorders, hepatic dysfunction or hypertension.
The present invention provides for a compound selected from FTY720, a phosphate
derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. FTY720
hydrochloride, for use in treating patients suffering from an inflammatory or an
autoimmune disease or disorder, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein the compound is
administered through the administration pattern defined above.
The present invention also provides for a compound selected from FTY720, a phosphate
derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. FTY720
hydrochloride, for use in treating patients suffering from an inflammatory or an or disorder
disease, e.g. multiple sclerosis, wherein the compound is administered through the patient
monitoring defined above.
Combination

                                               -30
In another embodiment of the invention, the S1P receptor modulator, e.g. fingolimod
(FTY720), a phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
e.g. fingolimod hydrochloride, is administered together with a second drug which mitigates
the possible adverse event associated with administration of fingolimod.
Such a second drug may be administered only in the event that an adverse event, e.g. a
side-effect, occurs or increases In intensity or frequency to a level which is not acceptable
anymore, e.g. as hereinabove described.
The second drug may be selected from the group consisting of drugs which treat or
prevent macular edema, anti-cancer agents (e.g. chemotherapeutic agents), anti-infection
agents, anti-hypertensive drugs, anti-bradychardia agents, and mixture thereof.
Examples of second drug include, but are not limited to, calcium channel blocker (e.g.
diltiazem), atenolol, valsartan,
When the SIP receptor modulator or agonist of the invention, e.g. fingolimod (FTY720), a
phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. fingolimod
hydrochloride, is administered together with a second drug which mitigates the possible
adverse event associated with administration of fingolimod, the daily dosage of said S1P
receptor modulator or agonist may be above 0.5mg, e.g. may be about 1.00mg, e.g. about
1.25mg, e.g. about 1.5mg.
For example there is provided a combination, e.g. a kit, containing a SIP receptor
modulator or agonist of the Invention, e.g, fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate derivative
thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. fingolimod hydrocholoride, and
a second drug which is selected from the group consisting of anti-cancer agents, anti
Infection agents, anti-microbial agents, anti-viral therapy, and anti-hypertensive drugs,
whereby the dosage of said S1P receptor modulator or agonist is above 0.5 mg, e.g. is
about 1.25mg.
The invention also provides a specific dosage regimen of FTY720 for treating an
inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder, limiting the symptoms associated thereof
or the progression thereof, e.g. multiple sclerosis, in a patient in need thereof, comprising
administering to said patient a daily dosage of fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate

                                                   -31
     derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which leads to a reduction
     of peripheral lymphocyte count of about 70 to 75%, e.g. of about 73%, 75% or 76%.
     In another embodiment the invention provides a specific dosage regimen of FTY720 for
     treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder, limiting the symptoms
     associated thereof or the progression thereof, e.g. multiple sclerosis, in a patient in need
     thereof, comprising administering to said patient a daily dosage of fingolimod (FTY720), a
     phosphate derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, which leads to
     a reduction of peripheral lymphocyte count to a level low enough to obtain the therapeutic
     effect on the disease while controlling, limiting or abolishing the incidence of infections.
     Preferably this daily dosage is not more than 0.5 mg of fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate
     derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, e.g. of the hydrochloride
     salt thereof
     Utility of the dosage regimen of the invention in treating diseases and conditions as
     hereinabove specified may be demonstrated in standard animal or clinical tests, e.g. in
    accordance with the methods described hereinafter.
Example 1:
     Study: Two different daily dosages of fingolimod (0.5 mg and 1.25 mg) have been orally
    administered to patients with Relapsing-remitting Multiple Sclerosis during 24-month
     1292 patients with RRMS from 172 centers in 18 countries are randomized to receive oral
    fingolimod, in a dose of 0.5 mg/day or 1.25 mg/day, or interferon betal-a 30 pg
    intramuscularly once a week. Patients randomized to fingolimod receive placebo injections
    once a week, and those randomized to interferon betal-a receive a placebo pill once a
    day.
    The patients are seen clinically every month for 3 months and every 3 months thereafter.
    The Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) is performed every 3 months, the MS
    Functional Composite (MSFC) every 6 months, and MRI annually. Monitoring by
    ophthalmic examination, dermatologic examination, pulmonary function tests, chest X-ray
    and/or CT, Holter monitoring, and echocardiography are performed.

                                                 -32
 Participants who completed 1 year on treatment are offered an optional extension phase.
Those randomized to fingolimod continue on their assigned dose, and those in the
interferon betal -a group are randomized to the 2 fingolimod doses.
Results:
There are reduced relapses in both fingolimod groups compared with interferon betal-a.
For the lower dose, there is a 52% reduction in relapses vs interferon beta1 -a, and a 38%
reduction with the higher dose. Results in both fingolimod groups are highly statistically
significant vs interferon betal-a, but not statistically different from each other.
End Point        Interfero       Fingolimod        P            Fingolimod        P
                 n betal-a       0.5 mglday                     1.25 mg/day
Annualized       0.33            0.16              <            0.20              < .0001
relapse                                            .0001
rate
The proportion of relapse-free patients is 83% with fingolimod vs 69% in the interferon
betal-a group.
 MRI lesion activity shows a reduction in both fingolimod groups in the number of new or
newly enlarging T2 lesions and the number of gadolinium-enhancing T1 lesions at month
12.
Observed adverse events include bradycardia and atrioventricular (AV) block, and
Infections, Including 3 herpes viral infections.
Type                     Interferon       Fingolimod 0.5          Fingolimod
                         betal -a, n      mg/d, n (%)             1.25 mg/day,
                         (%)                                      n (%)
Basal-cell               1 (0.2)          3(0.7)                 2(0.5)
carcinoma
Squamous-cell            1 (0.2)          0
carcinoma
Malignant                0                3(0.7)                 0

                                                     -33
    melanoma
    Breast cancer             0                 2(0.5)                 2(0.5)
Example 2:
    Patients with moderate asthma are divided into 3 dosing cohorts of 12 patients each. In
    each cohort, the 12 patients are randomized to FTY720 (0.5mg, 1.25mg, and 2.5mg In
    cohorts 1, 2, and 3 respectively) or placebo In a 3:1 ratio resulting in 9 patients treated with
    FTY720 at each dose level and 9 patients treated with placebo.
    The study consists of a screening period of between 12 and 26 days, baseline and a 10
    day treatment period followed by a study completion evaluation (performed 1-7 days after
    the last dose).
    Two screening visits are performed, the initial Screening visit and a second visit at Day -7
    (+/- 1 day). The initial screening visit (Visit 1) is used to start pulmonary function test (PFT)
    monitoring to assess eligibility for the study and to obtain relevant background information
    and informed consent. The PFT is performed at a clock time similar to the 6-hour post
    dose timepoint on Day 1. On Day -7 a PFT is again performed at the specified time. Short
    acting 02 agonist use prior to treatment with study medication is also recorded in this 14
    day period.
    Patients return to the clinic one or 2 days prior to dosing for baseline assessments. PFT
    profiling is assessed at 7 time points during the visit and routine baseline evaluations are
    performed. On Day 1, patients are randomized in a 3:1 ratio to FTY720 or placebo and
    PFT profiling is assessed at 8 time points (namely pre-dose, then at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 12
    hours post-dose). PFT assessments are also performed on Days 2, 3, 7 (all single time
    points assessed at approximately the same clock time as the 6 hours post-dose PFT on
    Day 1) and Day 10 (7 time points, namely pre-dose and then at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 hours
    post-dose). On each of the days when PFT assessments are performed, a reversibility test
    follows the last PFT assessment of the day. Short-acting p2 agonist use is also recorded
    throughout the treatment period up to and Including Day 11 (24hours post last dose).

                                                  -34
 Blood samples are collected on Day 1 at pre-dose and at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, and 24h
post-dose, on Days 2, 3 and 7 at 6 hours post-dose and on Day 10 at pre-dose and at 1,
2, 4, and 6h post-dose.
Safety assessments include physical examinations, ECGs, vital signs, spirometry
assessments, standard clinical laboratory evaluations (hematology, blood chemistry,
urinalysis), adverse event and serious adverse event monitoring.
Only one half of each treatment cohort, a maximum of 6 patients, is allowed to start
treatment on any given day for safety reasons. At least 1 day (24 hours) separates the
initial dosing of the first group of patients from the dosing of the second group (and at least
1 further day separates the second group from any subsequent groups required to
complete each cohort).
The magnitude and time course of the effect of FTY720 on FEVI and other pulmonary
function tests (FVC, FEF25-75%, and FEV1/FVC) is measured.
Results:
The magnitude of the bronchoconstriction is primarily assessed by the baseline-adjusted
FEV1 AUCO-6h on Day 1. This primary PD variable is defined as the ratio of the AUEC
FEV over the 6-hour PFT profile on Day 1 divided by the same variable at baseline (Day
-1).
This primary PD variable is analyzed on the log-scale by means of a linear model adjusted
for the (log-transformed) baseline FEV1 AUCO-6h and the treatment group as fixed effects.
The geometric mean baseline-adjusted FEV1 AUCO-6h is obtained from the model for
each treatment group; the geometric mean ratio between each FTY720 group and placebo
is also obtained along with its 95% Cl, and is back-transformed to obtain the geometric
mean percent change from placebo and its 95% Cl,
Additional PD variables are calculated: baseline-adjusted FEV1 AUCO-6h on Day 10 and
baseline-adjusted FEV 1 Emax1 -6h on Days 1 and 10. The Emax variables are defined as
the ratio between Day 1 (or Day 10) and Day -1 regarding the minimum from 6
assessments scheduled at 1 to 6 hours post dose. Those variables are defined for FEV 1
as well as for the other PFT parameters (FVC, FEF 25 .76s, and FEV1/FVC) and are
analyzed using the same model as for the primary PD endpoint.
The time-course of the PFT parameters is explored on Day 1 over the 12-hour profile and
on Day 10 over the 6-hour profile. The percent change from time-matched baseline in
FEV 1, FVC, FEF 2 5.75%, and FEVI/FVC is summarized by means of descriptive statistics at

H:\rxMncnvovcnNRrortbIDCCRXS\5057223L.dc-9/O4/2013
                                                   -35
   each visit/time point. The log-transformed ratio from time-match baseline is analyzed,
   separately at each post-baseline visit/time point, by means of a linear model adjusted for
   the time-matched log-transformed baseline value and the treatment group as fixed effect.
   For each FTY720 group, the estimate for the mean treatment difference versus placebo
   and its 95% Cl are obtained from the model and are back-transformed to obtain the
   geometric mean percent change from placebo and its 95% Cl. No adjustment was made
  to the P values for multiple testing.
  The results show that at a daily dosage of 0.5mg FTY720 is safe and well tolerated in
   patients with moderate asthma.
  The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
 to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
  admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from
  it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour
  to which this specification relates.
 Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
  otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
 be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
 but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

H:\ \Iterwoven\NRPotbl\DCC\RXS\5057223_i.doc-9/04/20 l3
                                                        -36
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. A method for treating an inflammatory or autoimmune disease or disorder in a patient
       in need thereof, comprising administering a S1P receptor modulator or agonist, said
       administration comprising the steps of
       i) monitoring viral infections or infestations before the first administration and
                     throughout the administration,
       ii) observing the patient for the 1 to 10 hours after the first administration of said S1P
                     receptor modulator or agonist to monitor the heart rate of the patient,
       iii) performing an ophthalmologic examination, within the first 1 to 12 months after
                     starting drug administration,
        wherein the S1 P receptor modulator or agonist is fingolimod (FTY720), a phosphate
        derivative thereof or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2. Method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of vaccinating the patient
       before the first administration, e.g. against varicella zoster virus.
3. Method according to claim 1 or 2 further comprising the step of performing complete
       blood counting (CBC) and/or lymphocytes counting before the first administration.
4. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the ophthalmologic
       examination is performed 3 to 4 months after starting administration.
5. Method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the disease is multiple
       sclerosis.
6. A method according to claim 1 substantially as hereinbefore described with reference
      to the Examples.

