                                          ABSTRACT
The current invention is directed to a computer-implemented method for providing a lens
shape for an ophthalmic lens. Further, there is provided a method for angular smoothing
of a surface determined by carrier lines radially outwards of a prescription zone bordered
by a first boundary line. Further, there is provided an ophthalmic lens, in particular a
spectacle lens. Further, a method for minimizing the difference in thickness between two
ophthalmic lenses for the same spectacles. A computer program product and a machine
readable storage medium are provided as well. (Fig. 2)

                  2/12
                                       26
                10     28
                                           18
               12                        I
                              C----20
                               x
                                           22
   31 30                              24
            37
           377
33    38
         0             Fig. 2

                                                 1
                                  TITLE OF THE INVENTION
                     Method for designing a lens shape and spectacle lens
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         [0001]     This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
number <removed-apn>, the entire contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein
by reference.
         [0002]     The current invention is directed towards a computer-implemented
method for providing a lens shape for an ophthalmic lens; a method for angular smoothing
of a surface determined by carrier lines radially outwards of a prescription zone bordered
by a first boundary line; a method for manufacturing an ophthalmic lens; an uncut finished
spectacle lens for manufacturing an ophthalmic lens, in particular a spectacle lens, a
computer program product and a machine readable storage medium.
         [0003]     In recent years, the number of so-called individually designed spectacle
lenses has been significantly increasing. These individually designed spectacle lenses
take into account a number of individual parameters of an intended wearer. This leads
towards more and more lenses being designed with "free form surfaces", i.e. surfaces that
do not inhibit any symmetry any more or are not restricted by any symmetry requirements.
A full surface profile is determined, for example by providing sagitta for each surface over
the whole area, and forwarded to a manufacturing site, for example for grinding, polishing,
coating and/or edging.
         [0004]     Prescription sunglasses for large wrapped frames suffer from cosmetic
limitations for stronger prescriptions, and the delivery ranges are limited due to the
thickness limitations of the puck, i.e. the uncut finished spectacle lens. This is particularly
a problem for the myopic prescriptions, where the temporal edge thickness can get quite
high for fairly moderate minus prescriptions, e.g., sphere powers smaller than -2.00
diopters may give maximum edge thickness of larger than 5 mm in large frames. It is also

                                                  2
a problem for the higher plus prescriptions where the need to have a certain minimum
edge thickness may lead to high values of center thickness. Furthermore, in some of the
semi-rimless styles of wrapped frames (e.g., the so-called "blade frames") any differences
in the thickness profiles in the two lenses making a pair become quite obvious and are
considered undesirable by wearers wishing to see their eyewear more symmetrical. A
known solution to this problem has been to use spherical or toric shaped carrier surfaces
that had a step change in slope and curvature across the boundary between the central
prescription zone and peripheral temporal zone. This approach required a two-pass
surfacing process and was not compatible with the free-form soft pad polishing tools being
used by the lens surfacing industry currently.
         [0005]     Early attempts to introduce a blended carrier based on the disclosures of
document WO 97/35224 were not well tolerated by wearers and were abandoned. There
was no provision for edge thickness difference reduction between a pair of lenses for the
two eyes, and this method was not flexible enough to lend itself to such application. Unlike
WO 97/35224, the carrier surface needs to be applied to both single vision and
progressive lens surfaces.
         [0006]     Further reference is made to US patent application US 2015/0338680
Al of the same applicant and published on November 26, 2015, showing a computer
implemented method for providing a modified lens shape for an uncut lens blank.
         [0007]     Further documents related to lens design are WO 03/050596 Al, WO
04/029694 Al; US 2007/008488 A; US 2005/206840 A; US 2005/225719 A; US
2006/274258 A; US 2008/024719 A; US 2008/284978 A; WO 08/135178 Al; US
2012/008089 A; US 2010/296048 A; US 2011/134388 A; US 7,070,274 B2; US 7,445,333
B2; US 7,527,376 B2; US 8,002,404 B2; US 8,118,425 B2; US 8,449,111; US 4,561,736
A and US 2013/107205 A.
         [0008]     The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the
like is included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the
present invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters

                                                 3
formed part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant
to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this
application.
         [0009]    Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the word
"comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not
intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                           BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0010]    According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a computer
implemented method for providing a lens shape for an ophthalmic lens, comprising the
following steps:
            a)     providing a predetermined lens shape of an ophthalmic lens having a
front surface and a back surface, wherein the predetermined lens shape comprises a
predetermined shape of the front surface and a predetermined shape of the back surface
within a prescription zone of the back surface bordered by a first boundary line, such that
the ophthalmic lens satisfies predetermined optical properties within the prescription zone;
            b)     determining a carrier point on the back surface within the prescription
zone and a plurality of carrier lines each extending from the carrier point into a respective
direction;
            c)     determining a transition zone of the back surface, wherein the transition
zone extends radially outwards from the first boundary line towards the outer edge of the
ophthalmic lens and ends at a second boundary line bordering the transition zone radially
outwards;
            d)     for each carrier line, setting a desired constant curvature gradient in the
transition zone;
            e)     for each carrier line, determining a curvature profile of the back surface
between the first boundary line and an outer edge of the ophthalmic lens along the carrier
line, and wherein the curvature profile in the transition zone is determined based on the
respective desired constant curvature gradient; and
            wherein the method comprises a further step of angular smoothing of the back
surface radially outwards of the first boundary line.

                                                   4
         [0011]      In particular, the predetermined lens shape may comprise a
predetermined shape of the whole front surface. In particular, there plurality of carrier lines
may comprise 4 carrier lines, more preferably 8 carrier lines and even more preferably 18
carrier lines. In particular, the constant curvature gradient in the transition zone is in the
direction of the respective carrier line. Further, in particular, curvature profile of the back
surface between the first boundary line and an outer edge of the ophthalmic lens along
the carrier line is in the direction of the carrier line. In particular, a curvature along the
carrier line between the second boundary line and the outer edge is essentially constant,
in particular constant, and equals the curvature along the carrier line in the transition zone
at the second boundary line.
         [0012]      The desired constant curvature gradient may be the same for each
carrier line. However, step d) does not need to be conducted for all carrier lines before
step e) is started for one of the carrier lines. The steps d) and e) may be completed for
one carrier line and subsequently conducted for a further carrier line. The desired constant
curvature gradient may be different for different carrier lines. The desired constant
curvature gradient may be individually or independently set for each carrier line. However,
steps d) and e) may also be conducted simultaneously for different carrier lines. In
general, steps d) and e) may also be defined as a single step. The single step may
comprise, for each carrier line, setting a desired constant curvature gradient in the
transition zone, in particular wherein the desired constant curvature gradient is different
from zero, and determining a curvature profile of the back surface between the first
boundary line and an outer edge of the ophthalmic lens along the carrier line, and wherein
the curvature profile in the transition zone is determined based on the respective desired
constant curvature gradient.
         [0013]      Further, according to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided
a method for providing a smoothed extension surface from a plurality of carrier lines
extending radially outwards of a prescription zone of an ophthalmic lens, the method
comprising the following steps:
            1)       providing a plurality of carrier lines each extending from a carrier point in
the prescription zone into a respective direction, wherein a curvature profile of the surface

                                                    5
along each carrier line radially outwards of the prescription zone is provided by a cubic
spline;
             II)    forming a set of mathematical representations, each approximating
corresponding spline coefficients for all carrier line directions.
         [0014]     Further, according to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a
method for providing a surface determined by carrier lines radially outwards of a
prescription zone of an ophthalmic lens, the prescription zone bordered by a first
boundary line, the method comprising the following steps:
            i)      providing a plurality of carrier lines each extending from a carrier point in
the prescription zone into a respective direction, wherein a curvature profile of the surface
in a direction along each carrier line radially outwards of the prescription zone has at least
one section, wherein the curvature profiles of corresponding sections of each carrier line
are provided by respective polynomials,
            ii)     forming a series of coefficient values of corresponding coefficients of the
polynomials of each carrier line, and
            iii)    determining, for each corresponding coefficient, a first mathematical
representation approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a first set of
mathematical representations each dependent on an angle around the carrier point.
         [0015]     In particular, the first set of mathematical representations may be
obtained so that it describes any carrier line or carrier line profile in a radial direction for a
given angle. The angle around the carrier point may also be defined as the angle in the
tangential direction. The carrier lines extend into the radial direction. In particular, in any
aspect of the invention and in any refinement, the mathematical representations may be a
Fourier series at least of second, third or fourth order. In particular, the first order of the
first Fourier series and/or the second order of the second Fourier series may be at least
order 2 or order 3 or order 4.
         [0016]     Further, according to a fourth aspect of the invention, there is provided a
method for manufacturing an ophthalmic lens, comprising the steps of providing a lens
shape for an ophthalmic lens according to the first aspect of the invention or one of its

                                                 6
refinements or according to the third aspect of the invention or one of its refinements, and
manufacturing the ophthalmic lens according to the lens shape.
         [0017]     Further, according to a fifth aspect of the invention, there is provided an
ophthalmic lens, comprising a front surface and a back surface, wherein the front surface
is a convex rotationally symmetric surface, and wherein the back surface comprises a
prescription zone which is asymmetric, a margin portion and a transition zone located
between the prescription zone and the margin portion, and wherein a curvature gradient of
the back surface along a straight line emanating from a point on the back surface is
constant within the transition zone. In particular, the transition zone may have the same
length along any straight line emanating from the point. In particular, the length is
measured parallel to a plane tangential to the point of the back surface or the carrier point.
Instead of the prescription zone being "asymmetric", the prescription zone may also be
defined as having no point symmetry or line symmetry. In particular, a curvature in the
direction of the straight line along the straight line the margin portion is essentially
constant, in particular constant. Further the essentially constant curvature, in particular
constant curvature, may equal the curvature in the direction of the straight line along the
carrier line in the transition zone at the margin portion or at boundary to the margin
portion.
         [0018]     In particular, according to all aspects of the invention and in every
refinement, the ophthalmic lens may be a finished lens or finished spectacle lens, in
particular for manufacturing a spectacle lens. A "finished lens" or "finished spectacle lens"
is a lens of which both sides have their final optical surface and which may be either
edged or uncut. In particular, the ophthalmic lens may be an uncut finished spectacle lens
for manufacturing a spectacle lens.
         [0019]     Further, according to a sixth aspect of the invention, there is provided a
method for minimizing the difference in thickness between two ophthalmic lenses for the
same spectacles, comprising the following steps:
            A) providing, for each ophthalmic lens, an original lens shape satisfying
predetermined optical properties over the complete back surface and a modified lens
shape having a front surface and a back surface, wherein the modified lens shape

                                                  7
comprises a predetermined shape of the front surface and a predetermined shape of the
back surface within a prescription zone of the back surface bordered by a first boundary
line, such that the ophthalmic lens satisfies the predetermined optical properties within the
prescription zone, and an extension of the back surface radially outwards of the
prescription zone by carrier lines;
            B) adapting the modified lens shape of the ophthalmic lens having a smaller
maximum thickness by replacing the back surface by a combination of the original lens
shape and the modified lens shape according to
                                     CS  = OS + A -(MS - oS)
                wherein CS is the sagittal height of the combined back surface, OS is the
sagittal height of the back surface of the original lens shape, MS is the sagittal height of
the back surface of the modified lens shape and A is a value from and including 0 to and
including 1, and
            C)  optimizing A so that the difference in thickness between the two ophthalmic
lenses is minimized.
        [0020]      In particular, the sagittal height of CS, the sagittal height of OS and the
sagittal height of MS are each determined within the same reference system. In particular,
the thickness may be a maximum edge thickness, in particular along a frame line. In
particular, the two ophthalmic lenses may be minus lenses or minus power lenses.
        [0021]      According to a seventh aspect, there is provided a, in particular non
transitory, computer program product comprising program code for carrying out the steps
of a method according to the first aspect of the invention or one of its refinements or the
third aspect of the invention or one of its refinements or the sixth aspect of the invention or
one of its refinements, in particular when the computer program product is run on a data
processing device.
        [0022]      According to an eighth aspect, there is provided a, in particular non
transitory, machine readable storage medium having stored thereon a computer program

                                                  8
comprising program code for carrying out the steps of a method according to the first
aspect of the invention or one of its refinements or the third aspect of the invention or one
of its refinements or the sixth aspect of the invention or one of its refinements, in particular
when the computer program or the program code is run on a data processing device..
         [0023]     Further, according to a ninth aspect of the invention, there is provided a
method for constructing a surface determined by carrier lines radially outwards of a
prescription zone of an ophthalmic lens, the method comprising the following steps:
            aa)     providing a plurality of carrier lines each extending from a carrier point in
the prescription zone into a respective direction, wherein a curvature profile of the surface
along each carrier line radially outwards of the prescription zone is provided by a cubic
spline;
            bb)    forming a first set of mathematical representations each approximating
corresponding coefficients of a first spline for all carrier line directions,
            cc)    forming a second set of mathematical representations each
approximating corresponding coefficients of a second spline for all carrier line directions,
and
            dd)    determining a third spline sufficient to determine a surface height at any
radial location within the range of the carrier lines for any specified carrier line direction by
a weighted average of the first spline and second spline for that direction, where the
weighting function is a specified polynomial function of the radial distance from the first
boundary.
         [0024]     In other words, this invention proposes introducing a blended cosmetic
carrier in the peripheral areas of the lens which are seldom used for foveal vision while
retaining the optimized optical design in the central region or prescription zone of the lens.
The carrier surface may blend smoothly into the prescription zone and may be selected to
have an approximately constant maximum radial power gradient of moderate magnitude
that was found to be acceptable by most wearers. The selected radial power gradient of
the carrier surface may be different in the pair of lenses for the two eyes to minimize the
maximum temporal edge thickness difference between the lenses of the pair. To this end,
a portion of an optically optimized free-form lens surface is replaced by a cosmetic
extension having a constant or nearly constant rate of change (ROC) of tangential

                                                  9
curvature in the radial directions, for example over the ring bounded by radii Ri, which is
the first boundary line, and Root, which is the second boundary line, centered on
coordinates (x,, yo) and an approximately constant tangential curvature outside the radius
Root. The coordinates (x,, yo) designate a carrier point, in particular on the back surface.
The extension is smoothly blended with the central portion or prescription zone at the
radius Ri, circle to ensure continuity of surface heights, slopes and curvatures at the Ri,
boundary. The center of the ring defining the carrier or carrier point is preferably
decentered in the nasal direction relative to the prism reference point (PRP) to limit the
presence of the carrier extension to the temporal side of the edged and fitted lens. The
extent of the ring and the ROC of curvature in the carrier zone or transition zone may
depend on the amount of lens thickness reduction required to achieve a cosmetically
acceptable maximum edge thickness of the lens in the frame for the minus lenses or the
center thickness for the plus lenses or plus power lenses, which will usually be dictated by
the prescription or predetermined optical properties. For example, the width of the
transition zone may range from 10 mm to 20 mm, and the gradient of curvature may vary
from 0.05 to 1.0 diopters per mm (D/mm), preferably from 0.05 to 0.5 D/mm, more
preferably from 0.05 to 0.25 D/mm. Usually, the sign of the radial gradients will be
negative for the minus powered lenses and positive for the plus powered lenses aiming to
reduce their center thickness.
         [0025]     In particular, the carrier extension may be calculated in the following
way:
        " For a predetermined number, for example 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 180, 256, 360 or
           512, of equally spaced radial directions initial radial extensions or carrier lines are
           computed, each aiming to provide the required curvature profile.
        " In each of these directions the predetermined width from an inner radius (Ri,) to
           an outer radius (Root) may be divided into equal steps, in particular each step is
           not larger than 1 mm, preferably not larger than 0.5 mm. In general, the steps
           may also be chosen not to be of equal length.

                                      10
The height, Z, and slope dZ/dR is determined, and may be temporarily stored, for
the endpoints of each step as follows:
     -  The height and 1 st and 2 nd derivatives of the prescription zone are
        computed at R along the respective carrier line.
     -  A cubic polynomial P(R) is determined, for example by an iterative
        calculation, such that the P, dP/dR and d2 P/dR2 , P and its first and
        second derivates in the radial direction, all match the prescription zone
        at Ri, and such that the curvature at the end of the first step is changed
        by the required amount. The required amount is the change of curvature
        that would have occurred at the end of the respective step with a
        constant curvature gradient. This provides the values of Z and dZ/dR at
        the end of the step as well as P, dP/dR and d 2 P/dR 2 for the start of the
        next step.
     -  This process is repeated for each step.
     -  It may happen that the required curvature change is achieved within a
        single step with the variation in curvature along the step becoming very
        non-linear. This condition may be detected by checking the curvature of
        P(R) at the midpoint of the step. If the condition is detected, then from
        that point on, until Root is reached, P(R) from the previous step may be
        continued unchanged for that particular direction.
     -  When this process reaches Root the coefficients of the quartic expansion
        of a circular continuation are computed, and may be temporarily stored.
     -  Optionally, the basic procedure for evaluating the extension may be by
        cubic interpolation within a step between Ri, and Root using the values of
        Z and dZ/dR at each end of the step, or by evaluation of the quartic
        polynomial beyond Rot.

                                                 11
                -   Optionally, to provide angular smoothing the coefficients determined for
                    each of the radial directions may not be used directly. Instead, for each
                    coefficient a Fourier series may be constructed. The corresponding
                    coefficient for a general direction is then determined by evaluating its
                    Fourier series. In this, a pair of Fourier series may be constructed for
                    each coefficient, one of high order, for example order 16, and another of
                    low order, for example of order 4. The high order is required to achieve
                    a good match between the inner surface at Ri, and the start of the
                    extension. The low order is needed to provide the degree of angular
                    smoothing typically needed for a complex progressive surface. The final
                    extension surface may then be defined by a blend of the high-order and
                    low order forms of the extension:
                        -    Z =  Z2(A,R)+ W(R)- (Z(A,R)-Z        2 (A,R)) for Ri,<=R< Ri, +delta;
                            wherein Z, is the Fourier series of low order at angle A and radial
                            distance R from the carrier point, wherein Z2 is the Fourier series
                             of high order at angle A and radial distance R from the carrier
                             point, and
                        -   Z = Z, for Rom1 >= R >= Ri, + delta;
        where W(R) is the quintic polynomial W(R) = 10 - t3 -15 - t 4 + 6 t 5 , wherein
             (R - R)
         t=            , with RD being Ri, and delta being the width of the blending zone.
              delta
         [0026]     This provides a smooth transition from the high order form of the
extension at Ri, or the first boundary line to the low order form at Ri, plus delta. The width
of this blending zone, delta, may be 0.6 times Ri, This was found to work well in practice.
An additional refinement may be to have the extension constructed in a coordinate system
that is aligned to the tangent plane to the initial surface at (x,, y.).

                                                12
         [0027]    Therefore, in the method for providing a lens shape for an ophthalmic
lens according to the first aspect, the transition zone is predetermined between the first
boundary line or inner radius and the second boundary line or outer radius. In an
embodiment, the transition zone may be predetermined with a constant width. Within that
transition zone, a constant curvature gradient is developed by the method. This provides
for the advantages efficacy in achieving the objectives, visual comfort and simplicity in
implementation. Further, the carrier extensions can be found in a forward only manner via
the predetermined length and constant curvature gradient in the transition zone. In
particular via a stepwise development starting at the first boundary line towards the
second boundary line, a function describing each carrier extension can be found in a
reliable manner. This may also provide for a stable method leading to a workable solution
but also may avoid the need for further optimization routines once the optical properties
for the prescription zone have been predetermined.
         [0028]     By the method for angular smoothing of the surface determined by
carrier lines radially outwards of a prescription zone according to the third aspect, the
general description of the carrier lines in angle and radial distance from a carrier point can
be found. Hence, a generally applicable function will be found that provides for a carrier
line extension in any given angular direction. This is done by describing the carrier lines in
a certain direction via corresponding polynomials. Preferably, these polynomials are of the
same order and of the same type of polynomial. By this, corresponding coefficients exist
in every polynomial. Corresponding coefficients can now be put in a series in the angular
direction and that series can be described by the Fourier series. By using a proper order
of the Fourier series, flattening or smoothing of the polynomials can be found. Hence, for
each coefficient of the polynomials describing the carrier extension in the transition zone,
the Fourier series can be found dependent on the angle. This can be done for the
transition zone being described by a single polynomial, for example cubic polynomial only,
meaning that the transition zone only has one section. However, in case of the stepwise
approach according to refinements of the first aspect of the invention, the transition zone
can also comprise more than one section each described by a corresponding polynomial
and corresponding coefficients for each carrier line in each direction. Hence, this can also
be applied for more than one section in case corresponding sections are described by
corresponding polynomials in each angular direction. Further, the polynomials or the

                                               13
profile function outside of the prescription zone should be two times continuously
differentiable in the radial direction.
         [0029]     Consequently, this leads to a method of manufacturing according to the
fourth aspect of the invention and an uncut finished spectacle lens according to the fifth
aspect of the invention that embody corresponding advantages.
         [0030]     A method for minimizing the difference in thickness between two
ophthalmic lenses for same spectacles according to the sixth embodiment provides for a
stable and simple optimization to adapt a lens shape of a lens so as to minimize a
measure of the thickness difference between two ophthalmic lenses for the same
spectacles. In particular, this is not achieved by replacing the back surface outside of the
prescription zone by carrier extensions but, starting from the full description of the back
surface satisfying predetermined optical properties, only a fraction of a difference between
modified lens shapes, that for example could have been achieved via the methods
according to the first aspect of the invention or one of its refinements or the second aspect
of the invention or the third aspect of the invention or one of its refinements, is applied.
This may be useful to provide both ophthalmic lenses with corresponding aesthetical
appearances.
         [0031]     Thus, the computer program product according to the seventh aspect of
the machine readable storage medium according to the eighth aspect embody the same
advantages as the methods according to the first, second and fifth aspects of the
invention.
         [0032]     The term "uncut finished spectacle lens" according to the current
application is intended to mean a lens blank having two surfaces, i.e. the front surface and
the back surface, which both have their final shape prior to edging. This corresponds to
section 8.4.7 of the standard DIN EN ISO 13666: 1998-11 of the DIN Deutschen Institut
fOr Normung e.V. Also, the term "uncut lens" according to 8.4.7 of the standard DIN EN
ISO 13666: 1998-11 of the DIN Deutschen Institut fOr Normung e.V. may be used. A
coating may be applied to none, one or both of the surfaces. It may have a circular or

                                                14
elliptical shape. In case of a circular lens blank, the diameter may be at least 60 mm, in
particular from 60 mm to and including 90 mm. In case of an elliptical lens blank, the
smallest diameter may be at least 60 mm, in particular from 60 mm to and including 90
mm.
          [0033]    A "meridian" is intended according to 5.7.1 of DIN EN ISO 13666 to
mean any plane which contains the center of curvature of such a surface.
          [0034]    In the context of the present application, a "visual point" is in this case
intended to mean the point on the back surface of the spectacle lens at which the line of
sight intersects the back surface of the spectacle lens, when the eye assumes a relaxed
position. This is also referred to as "primary position" according to No 5.31 of the standard
DIN EN ISO 13666, i.e. a position of the eye relative to the body for the case in which the
eyes look straight in a fixation direction at an object which lies at eye level. The position of
the fitting point may be placed and readable as a marking in the uncut finished spectacle
lens.
          [0035]    In the case of decentration according to No 5.23 in the standard DIN EN
ISO 13666 of the spectacle lens, the required centration point is different from the boxed
center in the form of the edged spectacle lens, compare No 5.23 for "decentration" with
No 5.24 "centration point" in the standard DIN EN ISO 13666. In particular, the cross
sectional plane may then comprise the "fitting point" according to No 5.24 of the standard
DIN EN ISO 13666, i.e. the point on the front surface of the spectacle lens or of the uncut
finished spectacle lens which, according to the stipulation of the manufacturer, is to be
used as a reference point for positioning the lens in front of the eye. The position of the
fitting point is generally placed and readable as a marking in the uncut finished spectacle
lens.
          [0036]    The terms "front surface" and "back surface" in the context of the present
application correspond to those of the standard DIN EN ISO 13666: 1998-11 of the DIN
Deutschen Institut fOr Normung e.V.. According to No 5.8 of the standard DIN EN ISO
13666, the term "front surface" is intended to mean the surface of the spectacle lens

                                                 15
which is intended to face away from the eye in the spectacles. According to No 5.9 of the
standard DIN EN ISO 13666, the term "back surface" is intended to mean the surface of a
spectacle lens which is intended to face towards the eye in the spectacles. However, the
term "front surface" and "back surface" could also be exchanged by "first surface" and
"second surface", respectively.
         [0037]     A "prescription" is commonly known as the optical values to be fulfilled
by an optical design to correct for the aberrations of the human eye of the wearer. In
particular, the prescription can provide sphere cylinder and axis values or equivalent
parameters. Further, an addition, i.e. a difference between the near and the far portion of
the lens can be prescribed as well as certain prismatic powers along an associated axis.
         [0038]     The "carrier point" on the back surface is the point from which the carrier
lines, in particular straight carrier lines, emanate. It can be any point on the back surface
of the lens. However, preferably it is the point within the surface area within first the
boundary line, i.e. the prescription zone. In examples, the carrier point can be the visual
point and/or the geometrical center of the uncut finished spectacle lens. In particular, the
carrier point may be decentered 10 mm nasally from the prism reference point. In
particular, the decentration may be determined within a design reference plane or
determined projected into a plane parallel or identical to the tangential plane of the
geometric center of the back surface of the respective lens. The prism reference point
may be the point on the front surface stipulated by the manufacturer at which the prismatic
effect of the finished lens is determined.
         [0039]     The "first boundary line" determines the outer boundary of the back
surface area to be preserved or of the prescription zone. The boundary line is not a
straight line. The boundary line may be a section of a circle but does not necessarily need
to be a section of a circle. It is a curve that encloses the prescription zone, i.e. the back
surface area to be preserved. It may be a closed line. However, it can also start and end
on the outer edge of the uncut finished spectacle lens, i.e. such that the enclosed surface
area is "open" radially outwards. In particular, it may cover only one side of the lens area,
for example the temporal side. The line may be a circle or have a different shape, for

                                                16
example a shape corresponding to a frame into which the ophthalmic lens is to be
inserted.
        [0040]      Hence, the "prescription zone" is to be understood as the surface area of
the back surface which is preserved and satisfies desired optical properties, e.g. the
prescription. The carrier lines then extend radially outwards from that prescription zone.
As an alternative to "prescription zone", the term "optical zone" can be used.
        [0041]      A "curvature profile" means the profile or development of the curvature
of the surface in a particular direction. In particular, it may be the curvature profile of the
back surface along a carrier line, i.e. in the direction of a carrier line.
        [0042]      A "carrier line" as previously explained may be a carrier line running at a
certain angle and emanating from the carrier point. In particular, it can be a straight carrier
line projected into a suitably oriented plane, for example a plane tangential to the
geometric center of the back surface of the lens. The geometric center may be defined as
the intersection of the horizontal and vertical centerlines of the shape of the lens, in
particular of the ophthalmic lens or the uncut finished lens blank. For example, in case the
carrier point is the geometrical center of the uncut finished spectacle lens, the angle would
develop around the geometrical center line of the lens. In case the carrier point is not the
geometrical center, a corresponding line parallel to the geometrical center line could be
defined through the carrier point.
        [0043]      A "thickness requirement" for the ophthalmic lens is a condition or
boundary condition. For example, the thickness requirement may be a value set for the
smallest thickness of the outer edge of uncut finished spectacle lens along its periphery.
This applies to plus lenses or plus power lenses, in particular. As a further example, the
thickness requirement may be a minimum thickness of the outer edge of uncut finished
spectacle lens along its periphery. Hence, a value for the smallest thickness of the outer
edge of uncut finished spectacle lens along its periphery has to be equal or larger than the
minimum thickness. Further, it may be a maximum thickness along a frame line, i.e. the
outer edge of the edged lens, This applies to minus lenses, in particular.

                                                 17
        [0044]      In a refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, a curvature along the carrier line between the second boundary line and the
outer edge is essentially constant, in particular constant. The curvature between the
second boundary line and the outer edge may equal the curvature along the carrier line in
the transition zone at the second boundary line.
        [0045]      The curvature along the carrier line is the curvature in the direction of the
respective carrier line. A constant curvature may be achieved for example, by continuing
the carrier line as a circular arc or circular arc section beyond the second boundary line
towards the outer edge. In case the curvature shall be zero, continuing the carrier line as
a straight line would also be possible in theory. An essentially constant curvature between
the second boundary line and the outer edge may also be constructed via a quartic
expansion or quartic polynomial of a circular extension.
        [0046]      In a refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the desired constant curvature gradient is set based on the curvature of the
prescription zone at the first boundary line and a boundary condition for the curvature
within the transition zone. In particular, the curvature gradient may be set based on a
desired thickness reduction or desired thickness requirement of the ophthalmic lens along
the carrier line.
        [0047]      By this, a constant curvature gradient can be found that fits the desired
needs. In general, the constant curvature gradient may be the same for each carrier line.
Alternatively, the constant curvature gradient may be different for different carrier lines.
The constant curvature gradient may be set individually for each carrier line. In other
words, the constant curvature gradient may vary with angle. A boundary condition for the
curvature within the transition zone may be zero and/or curvature of the front surface in
the same reference system. Of course, other curvatures may be set. Further, the
curvature gradient may be set so as to achieve a desired thickness reduction or a desired
thickness at a specific point along the carrier line, for example the second boundary line or
at an outer edge of the ophthalmic lens. In particular, in case of minus lenses, the
boundary condition may be that the curvature and/or slope of the back surface shall not
become smaller than the curvature and/or slope of the front surface within the same

                                                 18
reference system. This means that by that boundary condition, the lens might not become
too thin radially outwards Further, by setting a boundary condition to zero, it would be
avoided that the sign of the curvature would change.
        [0048]     According to a further refinement of the method according to the first
aspect, the desired constant curvature gradient may be set based on the curvature of the
prescription zone at the first boundary line and the curvature target to be reached at the
second boundary line, and wherein the curvature target is zero and/or a curvature of the
front surface. In particular, the curvature of the front surface is determined in the same
coordinate system or reference system as the curvature of the back surface. Further in
particular, the front surface is a spherical surface.
        [0049]      By this, provided the curvature of the prescription zone at the first
boundary line and the curvature target being zero or the curvature of the front surface
within the same reference system at the second boundary line, the start and end points for
the curvature along the carrier line through the transition zone are set. Given the width or
length, in particular constant length, of the transition zone, the constant curvature gradient
or desired constant curvature gradient can be determined in a straight forward manner.
        [0050]      In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect, the
curvature gradient is set to be negative in case the ophthalmic lens is a minus lens or
minus power lens and the curvature gradient is set to be positive in case the ophthalmic
lens is a plus lens or plus power lens.
        [0051]      Of course, this may be dependent on the reference system chosen. In
case a plane tangential to the vertex point of the front surface, in particular a spherical
front surface, or a plane tangential to the back surface at the geometric center of the back
surface of the lens is chosen as a zero plane, curvature of the front surface could be
chosen to be positive. Then, the curvature gradient being set negative in case of a minus
lens would lead to the curvature of the back surface decreasing and the back surface
bending "back" towards the zero plane, for example until a curvature of zero is met, i.e.

                                                 19
the back surface is not bent anymore but runs straight from a certain point radially
outwards.
         [0052]     In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the curvature profile is determined by determining a cubic spline from the first
boundary line to the second boundary line, wherein the cubic spline is comprised of a
plurality of sections each described by a cubic polynomial, and wherein the cubical
polynomials are determined section-wise from the inner boundary line to the outer
boundary line. This may be done such that a sagittal height, a slope and a curvature of the
back surface along the carrier line are continuous and the curvature along the carrier line
changes over each section resulting in an approximate and constant curvature gradient
over the transition zone. In particular, by setting a constant length for the sections, the
curvature along the carrier line may change over each section by the same amount.
         [0053]    This way, the desired constant curvature gradient can be achieved over
the transition zone by using a cubic spline comprised of a plurality of sections each
described by a cubic polynomial. The stepwise development takes place from the first
boundary line to the second boundary line. The cubic spline is a polynomial of third order
meaning that four parameters are available for constructing a respective polynomial. The
sagittal height, the first derivate or slope and the second derivate or curvature in the radial
direction at the start of the carrier line and the first boundary line already determine three
of these parameters. Hence, a fourth parameter remains for designing the curvature
gradient over the transition zone. By knowing the target curvature at the second or outer
boundary line, it is possible to predict in advance the curvature at the end of each step
that should be reached to find an approximate constant curvature gradient over the
complete transition zone. Hence, the target curvature for the end of each step is known as
well and is used to set the fourth parameter of the cubic polynomial for each step. This
again leads to the starting conditions for the next step and so on. By this, using cubic
splines and the stepwise development, an approximate constant curvature gradient can
be developed starting from the first boundary line towards the second boundary line.
         [0054]     In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the curvature profile is determined by determining a cubic spline from the first

                                                20
boundary line to the second boundary line, wherein the cubic spline is comprised of a
plurality of sections each described by a cubic polynomial, and wherein the cubic
polynomials are determined section-wise from the inner boundary line to the outer
boundary line such that a sagittal height, a slope and a curvature of the back surface
along the carrier line are continuous and the curvature gradient is reset to the desired
constant curvature gradient for each polynomial at the radially inwards end of each
section.
         [0055]    This way, it is not the curvature target at the end of each step that is
used to define the cubic polynomial for each step. Instead, the curvature gradient may be
reset to the desired constant curvature gradient at the start of each section. Particular in
case relatively small steps are chosen, this can also serve to find an approximate constant
curvature gradient over the transition zone via a cubic spline comprised of cubic
polynomials. The smaller the steps are chosen, the better the constant curvature gradient
may be approximated.
         [0056]     In a further refinement, a length of the transition zone along each carrier
line is constant resulting in a second boundary line bordering the transition zone radially
outwards and the second boundary line being radially offset from the first boundary line by
the length.
         [0057]     In this refinement, a constant length is set for the transition zone along
each zone. However, this is just one possible embodiment. The length of the transition
zone may also be determined independently for each carrier line. The length of the
transition zone may be different for each carrier line.
         [0058]     In a further refinement of the method of the first aspect of the invention,
the length of the transition zone is within a range of at least 10 mm up to and including
20 mm. In particular in may be 10 mm, 15 mm or 17.5 mm.
         [0059]     In a further refinement of any aspect of the invention, the constant
curvature gradient may have a magnitude in the range from and including 0.05

                                               21
diopters/mm to and including 1.5 diopters/mm, in particular it may be 1.2 diopters/mm. In
particular, the constant curvature gradient may have a magnitude different from zero. In
particular, the constant curvature gradient has a magnitude in a range from and including
0.05 diopters/mm to and including 1.0 diopters/mm with a length of the transition zone
being more than 12 mm. The constant curvature gradient may have a magnitude in a
range from and including 1.0 diopters/mm to and including 1.5 diopters/mm with a length
of the transition zone being less than or equal to 12 mm. For an even shorter length of the
transition zone, the constant curvature gradient may be larger than 1.5 diopters/mm, for
example 4 diopters/mm or even 5 diopters/mm.
         [0060]    These parameters have been found to provide for aesthetically pleasant
ophthalmic lenses with good peripheral vision and dynamic vision performance in
common prescription ranges.
         [0061]    In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the length of each section is within the range of at least and including 0.5 mm
up to and including 2 mm. In particular, the length of each section may be 1 mm.
         [0062]    This has been found to be a sufficiently short interval to provide for the
approximately constant curvature gradient. Generally, the length of each section may be
constant, i.e. each section along a respective carrier line may have the same length.
Further, the length may be constant for all carrier lines. However, alternatively, the length
may be set independently or differently for each carrier line. This way, for example, the
number of sections may be kept constant between different carrier lines even in case the
length of the transition zone varies.
         [0063]    In the further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of
the invention, the method further comprises a step of checking, for each carrier line,
whether a thickness of the spectacle lens at an outer edge and/or at an intended frame
line along with the ophthalmic lenses to be edged is above a predefined threshold or
satisfies a predetermined thickness requirement and, if not, changing, in particular
reducing or increasing, the magnitude of the desired constant curvature gradient. Hence,

                                                22
in case for whatever reasons, the thickness of the lens according to the acquired lens
design should be too small, the magnitude of the desired constant curvature gradient
could be reduced in case of a minus lens or minus power lens and could be increased in
case of a plus lens or plus power lens. Then, the method could be conducted again to
provide for a proper lens design. By such a check for each carrier line, non-workable
solutions or results providing for too small thicknesses can be avoided.
         [0064]     According to a further refinement of the method according to the first
aspect of the invention, the ophthalmic lens is an uncut finished spectacle lens.
         [0065]     Such uncut finished spectacle lens is larger than the finally edged
ophthalmic lens for the spectacles and the uncut finished spectacle lens may be of circular
or elliptical shape. The intended frame line along which an ophthalmic lens shall be edged
may be known in advance and, therefore, the carrier point may be placed
correspondingly.
         [0066]     According to a further refinement of the method according to the first
aspect of the invention, the curvature profile of the predetermined lens shape of the back
surface is preserved within the first boundary line.
         [0067]     By this, the predetermined optical properties are maintained within the
prescription zone.
         [0068]     According to a further refinement of the method according to the first
aspect of the invention, at least the sagittal height of the prescription zone of the back
surface transitions continuously at the first boundary line into each carrier line. Preferably,
further a slope of the prescription zone of the back surface in the direction along the
carrier line's transitions continuously at the first boundary line into each carrier line. Even
more preferably, further a curvature of the prescription zone of the back surface in the
direction along the carrier line transitions continuously at the first boundary line into each
carrier line.

                                                  23
         [0069]     The back surface may be continuous at the first boundary line for each
carrier line. Preferably, for each carrier line, the back surface is continuously differentiable
in the radial direction, in the direction of the carrier line, at the first boundary line. Even
more preferably, for each carrier line the back surface is twice or two times continuously
differentiable in the radial direction, i.e. in the direction of the carrier line, at the first
boundary line. The sagittal height and the first derivate of the back surface in the radial
direction along the carrier line may be continuous at the first boundary line. The second
derivate of the back surface in the radial direction along the carrier line may be continuous
as well. No jumps or kinks may be provided within the back surface. The curvature may
be continuous. However, a jump, in particular a slight jump, in curvature may be allowed
at the first boundary line.
         [0070]     According to a further refinement of the method according to the first
aspect of the invention, the length is to be measured within a plane parallel to a tangential
plane in the carrier point of the back surface. It may also be measured within a plane
parallel to or identical to a plane tangential to the geometric center of the back surface of
the lens or a plane tangential to the back surface at the geometric center of the back
surface of the lens.
         [0071]     By this, a length or width, in particular a constant length or constant
width, of the transition zone of the back surface between the first and the second
boundary lines in the radial direction can be set.
         [0072]     According to a further refinement of the method according to the first
aspect of the invention, the carrier point is offset nasally from a prism reference point of
the ophthalmic lens.
         [0073]     That way, the nasal portion of the lenses inside the frame comprise the
prescription zone with good optical properties. Outwards towards the temple side of the
ophthalmic lenses, the prescription zone is smoothly blended into the margin zone.

                                               24
         [0074]    According to a further refinement of the method according to the first
aspect of the invention, the first boundary line is circular and the second boundary line
circular.
         [0075]    Such circular boundary lines have been found to simplify the
determination steps. In this refinement, the first boundary line and the second boundary
have the same center point which is the carrier point. In particular, the circles can have a
radius large enough so that the boundary lines extent on the temple side of the carrier
point over the ophthalmic lens and are not present on the nasal side of the design
reference. However, other contours of the boundary lines can be chosen, for example
corresponding to an intended frame line.
         [0076]    In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the curvature profile along each carrier line radially outwards of the second
boundary line is determined via or as a circular arc or circular arc section.
         [0077]    This way, the carrier line may be continued with a constant curvature. A
single quartic polynomial may also be determined to provide for an essentially constant
curvature and an essentially circular extension of the carrier line. In particular, the
curvature, slope and sagittal height in the transition zone at the second boundary line may
be extended continuously outwards through the margin zone. The quartic polynomial is
determined correspondingly. In case the curvature beyond the second boundary line
needs not to be constant, a quadratic polynomial may be used. By requiring the same
sagittal height and continuous first and second derivates of the carrier line at the second
boundary line, a quadratic polynomial would already be determined.
         [0078]    In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, a method comprises a further step of angular smoothing of the back surface
radially outwards of the first boundary line.
         [0079]    By this, a complete description of the back surface radially outwards of
the first boundary line may be found. Further, differences between sagittal height of

                                                 25
adjacent carrier lines may be flattened out to provide for a smoother curvature profile
radially outwards of the first boundary line.
         [0080]      In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, a further step of angular smoothing of the back surface radially outwards of the
first boundary lines is conducted by flattening a profile of the curvature of the prescription
zone, which curvature is in the direction of the carrier lines, along the first boundary line
via, in particular approximation by, a polynomial or a spline function or a Fourier series to
obtain a flattened curvature profile, and wherein the flattened curvature profile is used as
a starting curvature value for each carrier line.
         [0081]      By using this flattened curvature profile as radially inward starting
curvature values for each carrier line, discontinuities may be present at the first boundary
line in the transition from the prescription zone to the carrier lines. However, when
transferring this lens design towards manufacturing, these discontinuities may be
overcome when the final manufacturing parameters are determined for the processing
tools. Usually, during manufacturing, bicubic splines are used to provide processing
parameters for the manufacturing tools. These bicubic splines are set in a rectangular grid
of x and y coordinates. At the intersection points of that grid, which is usually spaced at 1
mm intervals, the sagittal heights are submitted via the determined lens design. Further,
the first derivates in the x and/or y direction may be provided along the outer
circumference of the grid. The space between the intersection points of the grid are then
interpolated via a bicubic spline. However, that bicubic spline may then compensate for
the discontinuities that may occur due to the enforced flattening of the curvature profile
along the first boundary line.
         [0082]      However, this quite robust approach by flattening the curvature profile
along the first boundary line may already provide sufficient results as it flattens the
surfaces of the transition zone and margin portion already at its "root" at the first boundary
line. However, in general it has to be noted that no full surface description of the lens
design in the margin portion and the transition zone is needed radially outwards of the
prescription zone necessarily. As laid out above, for manufacturing, only sagittal heights at
the intersection points of the manufacturing grid and the first derivate along the outer

                                                26
circumference are needed. In case the carrier lines are determined in a relatively narrow
pattern or in a pattern that ensures that the carrier lines extend so that they would
intersect with intersection points of the manufacturing grid, the sagittal height necessary
for the input into the manufacturing tools would already been known.
         [0083]     In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the method further comprises the following steps to provide for angular
smoothing of the back surface radially outwards of the first boundary line:
            i)      forming a series of coefficient values of corresponding coefficients of a
respective function describing each carrier line in the transition zone, in particular of the
cubic polynomials of each carrier line,
            ii)     determining, for each corresponding coefficient, a first Fourier series of a
first order approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a first set of Fourier
series each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the first set of Fourier series
describing any carrier line in a radial direction for a given angle.
         [0084]     By this, a general description of the carrier lines for any given angle is
provided. Further, via the definite Fourier series of a predetermined order, that description
is smoothed in the angular direction. In this refinement, the Fourier series may have any
order deemed to be satisfacotry. In particular, the smoothing depends on the order of the
Fourier series. The higher the order of the Fourier series, the more accurate the
approximation provided.
         [0085]     In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the method comprises the further steps of:
            iii)         determining, for each coefficient, a second Fourier series of a
second order approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a second set of
Fourier series each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the second set of
Fourier series describing any carrier line in a radial direction for given angle, wherein the
second order is higher than the first order, and wherein the second set of Fourier series is
applied at the first boundary line, and
            iv)          blending the second set of Fourier series into the first set of Fourier
series radially outwards over a blending zone.

                                                  27
          [0086]     By this, the smoothing can be further blended from the first boundary
line, i.e. at the prescription zone, towards the second boundary line, i.e. at the end of the
transition zone and towards the margin portion. At the first boundary line, a Fourier series
of high order is used that does not provide for a much smoothing and describes the series
of the coefficient values of the polynomial series close to their original values previously
determined. The Fourier series of low order provides for greater smoothing. Over the
transition zone, the Fourier series are then blended from the high order Fourier series
towards the low order Fourier series.
          [0087]     In a further refinement of the method according to the first aspect of the
invention, the step of blending is conducted via the following formula:
                                Z  =  Z 2 (A,R)+W(R)- (Z(A,     R)- Z 2 (A,R)),
             wherein Z is the resulting sagittal height, A is the angle around the carrier point,
R is the radial distance from the carrier point, Z1 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the angle A
and the radial distance R based on the first set of Fourier series, and Z2(A,R) is the
sagittal height at the angle and the radial distance based on the second set of Fourier
series, and wherein W(R) is a quintic blending polynomial, in particular wherein
                                          W(R)= 10 -t3 - 15 - t4 +6 -t5,
             wherein t =d(R- RD) , and wherein RD is the radial distance between the first
boundary line and the carrier point at the angle A, and wherein delta is the width of the
blending zone, in particular wherein delta is 0.6 times the radial distance between the first
boundary line and the carrier point at the angle A.
          [0088]     This way, it was found that a satisfactory blending from the definite high
order Fourier series towards the definite order Fourier series can be provided. The quintic
blending polynomial has been chosen since it provides for a smooth transition from the
definite high order Fourier series towards the definite low order Fourier series. In

                                                28
particular, that polynomial provides a value for t of zero in case R is equal to RD, i.e. at
the first boundary line. Therefore, W(O) = 0, W'(0) = 0, and W"(0) = 0. Further, for R = R +
delta, t is 1 and W becomes 1 as well. However, W'(t=1) = 0 and W"(t=1) = 0 as well. This
provides for a smooth transition between the Fourier series of high and low order.
         [0089]     In a further refinement of a method according to the third aspect of the
invention, the method comprises the further steps of:
            iv)     determining, for each coefficient, a second mathematical representation
approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a second set of mathematical
representations each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the second set of
mathematical representations describing any carrier line in a radial direction for given
angle, and wherein the second set of mathematical representations is applied at the first
boundary line,
            v)      blending the second set of mathematical representations into the first set
of mathematical representations radially outwards over a blending zone, in particular so
that only the first set of mathematical representations is applied beyond the blending
zone.
         [0090]     Hence, similar advantages can be achieved in the method according to
the third aspect of the invention.
         [0091]     In a further refinement of the method according to the third aspect of the
invention, the step of blending is conducted via the following formula:
                               Z = Z 2 (A,R)+W(R)-(Z(A,      R)- Z 2( A,R)),
            wherein Z is the resulting sagittal height, A is the angle around the carrier point,
R is the radial distance from the carrier point, Z1 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the angle A
and the radial distance R based on the first set of mathematical representations, and
Z2(A,R) is the sagittal height at the angle A and the radial distance R based on the second
set of mathematical representations, and wherein W(R) is a quintic blending polynomial, in
particular wherein

                                                29
                                                   3
                                       W(R)= 10-t    -15 -t 4 +6 -t 5 ,
            wherein t =
                         (R - R)    , and wherein RD is the radial distance between the first
                           delta
boundary line and the carrier point at the angle A, and wherein delta is the width of the
blending zone, wherein delta is 0.6 times radial distance between the first boundary line
and the carrier point at the angle A.
         [0092]    Again, smooth blending can be provided by this from the first
mathematical representation towards the second mathematical representation.
         [0093]    In particular, the above methods and teachings can be applied for minus
lenses or minus power lenses, in particular in case of sports spectacles. In particular, the
teachings may be applied for lenses having a curvature of the front surface of 6 to 9
diopters at a refractive index of 1.53.
         [0094]    As well, in a refinement of the ophthalmic lens, in particular the uncut
finished spectacle lens, according to the fifth aspect of the invention, the transition zone
has the same length along any straight line emanating from the point. In particular, the
length is measured parallel to a plane tangential to the point of the back surface or
tangential to the back surface at the point of the back surface.
         [0095]    In a further refinement of the ophthalmic lens, in particular the uncut
finished spectacle lens, according to the fifth aspect of the invention, the length of the
transition zone is within a range of at least 10 mm up to and including 20 mm, in particular
10 mm, 15 mm or 17.5 mm.
         [0096]    Finally, according to a tenth aspect of the invention, there is provided a
computer-implemented method for providing a lens shape for an ophthalmic lens,
comprising the following steps:
         a)        providing a predetermined lens shape of an ophthalmic lens, having a
front surface and a back surface, wherein the predetermined lens shape comprises a

                                                30
predetermined shape of the front surface and a predetermined shape of the back surface
within a prescription zone of the back surface bordered by a first boundary line, such that
the ophthalmic lens satisfies predetermined optical properties within the prescription zone;
         b)        determining a carrier point on the back surface within the prescription
zone and a plurality of carrier lines each extending from the carrier point into a respective
direction;
         c)        determining a transition zone of the back surface, wherein the transition
zone extends radially outwards from the first boundary line towards the outer edge of the
ophthalmic lens and ends at a second boundary line bordering the transition zone radially
outwards;
         d)        for each carrier line, setting a desired constant curvature gradient in the
transition zone;
         e)        for each carrier line, determining a curvature profile of the back surface
between the first boundary line and an outer edge the ophthalmic lens along the carrier
line, and wherein the curvature profile in the transition zone is determined based on the
respective desired constant curvature gradient;
         wherein the method further comprises the following steps to provide for angular
smoothing of the back surface radially outwards of the first boundary line:
         i)        forming a series of coefficient values of corresponding coefficients of a
respective function describing each carrier line in the transition zone, in particular of the
cubic polynomials of each carrier line,
         ii)       determining, for each corresponding coefficient, a first mathematical
representation approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a first set of
mathematical representations each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the
first set of mathematical representations describing any carrier line in a radial direction for
given angle.
         [0097]    It is to be understood that the features mentioned above and those yet to
be explained below may be used not only in the combination respectively indicated, but
also in other combinations or separately, without departing from the scope of the present
invention.

                                             31
          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING
       [0098]    Embodiments of the invention are represented in the drawing and will be
explained in more detail in the description below.
       Fig. 1    shows an embodiment of a method for providing a lens shape for an
                 ophthalmic lens,
       Fig. 2    shows a simplified diagram showing and illustrating an embodiment of
                 the different steps of the method in Fig. 1,
       Fig. 3    shows a further general simplified diagram showing and illustrating the
                 different steps of the method for plus lenses and for minus lenses,
       Fig. 4    shows an embodiment of an ophthalmic lens, in particular an uncut
                 finished spectacle lens,
       Fig. 5    shows the uncut finished spectacle lens of Fig. 4 along a section line X
                 X,
       Fig. 6    shows another embodiment of an ophthalmic lens, in particular an uncut
                 finished spectacle lens,
       Fig. 7    shows the embodiment of Fig. 6 and the different zones of the design,
       Fig. 8    shows an example of the development of the curvature in a radial
                 direction at a certain angle of the embodiment in Figs. 6 and 7,
       Fig. 9a   shows another embodiment of an ophthalmic lens, in particular an uncut
                 finished spectacle lens,

                                               32
        Fig. 9b    shows an example of the development of the curvature in a radial
                   direction at a 180 degree meridian of the embodiment in Fig, 9a,
        Fig. 9c    shows an example of the development of the thickness in a radial
                   direction at a 180 degree meridian of the embodiment in Fig, 9a,
        Fig. 10a   shows surface and optical astigmatism in an example minus lens
                   provided according to the method for angular smoothing of a surface
                   determined by carrier lines,
        Fig. 1Ob shows surface and optical astigmatism in an example plus lens provided
                   according to the method for angular smoothing of a surface determined
                   by carrier lines,Fig. 11    shows an embodiment of a method for
                   angular smoothing of a surface determined by carrier lines,
        Fig. 12    shows an embodiment of a method for minimizing the difference in
                   thickness between two ophthalmic lenses for the same spectacles, and
        Fig. 13    shows a block diagram of a embodiment of a manufacturing method.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        [0099]     Fig. 1 shows an embodiment of the method according to the first aspect
of the invention. The method is generally designated by reference numeral 100.
        [00100]    The conduction of the method, in the following, is explained viewing both
Figs. 1 and 2.
        [00101]    At first, a step 102 is conducted of providing a predetermined lens shape
10 of an ophthalmic lens, in particular an uncut finished spectacle lens, having a front
surface and a back surface, wherein the predetermined lens shape comprises a
predetermined shape of the front surface and a predetermined shape of the back surface

                                                 33
within a prescription zone of the back surface bordered by a first boundary line, such that
the ophthalmic lens satisfies predetermined optical properties within the prescription zone.
         [00102]    In Fig. 2, the uncut finished spectacle lens 10 is schematically shown
with a view on the back surface in the upper left. The method 100 then follows the arrows
to the bottom line. The uncut finished spectacle lens has a periphery or outer edge 16 of
the ophthalmic lens, which may be an uncut finished spectacle lens. For example, a
minimum eye rotation angle 12 that shall be preserved concerning the optical properties of
the back surface may be provided, however, that is not necessary. Further, a carrier point
or design reference point is determined on the back surface. Just as an example, the
carrier point may be the geometrical center of the ophthalmic lens. The carrier point may
also be at or behind the fitting cross of the ophthalmic lens. The carrier point may also be
shifted nasally. Just as an example, when viewed in a direction corresponding to that of a
standard boxed system the carrier point may be shifted nasally from the prism reference
point, in particular by 10 mm. The plane in which the nasal shift is measured may
alternatively be defined as a plane tangential to the geometric center of the back surface
of the lens. The periphery of the uncut finished spectacle lens may have the form of a
circle or an ellipse.
         [00103]    Then, in a step 104, a first boundary line 18 is determined. In particular,
a curvature profile of the original shape of the back surface is to be preserved within the
first boundary line 18. Further in particular, the carrier point 14 is set on the back surface,
in the given example in the geometrical center, and a first boundary line 18 on the back
surface is determined, in particular when a curvature profile of the original shape of the
back surface is to be preserved within the first boundary line 18. Hence, as shown in the
upper right to Fig. 2, the first boundary line 18 will usually be drawn to enclose the
intended minimum eye rotation angle 12. The first boundary line 18 encloses a domain of
transition points at the back surface of rays for the viewing eye. More exactly the points of
this domain refer to all rays for a viewing angle of the eye of up to 12 degree. The shape
of the boundary line may be chosen to be identical to the shape of the frame into which
the final lens is to be inserted. However, it may also be a circle as shown in further
examples. Within the first boundary line 18, the curvature profile of the original lens shape
10 is to be preserved. The rest of the original lens shape of the back surface can be

                                                34
considered cut off. Hence, only a dashed line 26 of the original periphery is shown. The
lens shape will now be determined by adding carrier lines or carrier curves extending
radially outwards from the prescription zone 20. In a transition portion or transition zone
24, a desired constant curvature gradient is set in later step 108 for each carrier line so
that the curvature will transition from the curvature of the preserved lens shape within
boundary line 18 towards a constant curvature in the margin portion 28. Hence, a second
boundary line 22 can be considered to be the outer boundary of the transition zone 24
with the boundary line 18 being the inner boundary line of the transition zone 24. Hence,
in step 106, there is determined a carrier point on the back surface within the prescription
zone and a plurality of carrier lines each extending from the carrier point straight into a
respective radial direction. Each straight carrier line 30 to 37 runs in a different angle (p.
As in the given example the periphery of the uncut finished spectacle lens 10 has the form
of a circle, each carrier line runs in a plane that cuts through the full diameter of this circle.
As in the given example the front surface has a spherical shape, and the carrier point 14
as in the geometrical center, each carrier line 30 to 37 runs in a meridian of the front
surface. In the provided example, eight carrier lines are used so that a separation angle (p
between them is 45 degrees. However, any different number of carrier lines could be
used, for example 128, 180 or 360.
         [00104]   However, the transition zone 24, the margin portion 28 and that outer
boundary line 22 are fixedly determined by a constant width of transition zone 24 or length
of the transition zone along each carrier line. Each carrier line extends straight from the
carrier point radially outwards.
         [00105]   In a next step 108, for each carrier line, a desired constant curvature
gradient in the transition zone is set. This constant curvature gradient is in the direction of
the respective carrier line.
         [00106]   In step 110, for each carrier line, a curvature profile of the back surface
between the first boundary line and an outer edge the lens blank along the carrier line is
determined, wherein a curvature along the carrier line between the second boundary line
and the outer edge is constant and equals the curvature along the carrier line in the
transition zone at the second boundary line, and wherein the curvature profile in the

                                                 35
transition zone is determined based on the respective desired constant curvature gradient.
In Fig. 2, a mere resulting example surface is shown in the picture in the middle right.
         [00107]    On the first boundary line 18, the curvature of the new curvature profile
within the plane of the straight carrier line, i.e. in the given example the tangential or radial
curvature, equals the curvature of the optically preserved surface area of the original lens
shape 10 within the boundary line 18. That means that curvatures inside and outside the
boundary line equal each other approaching the boundary line 18. Hence, the curvature
along the first boundary line 18 is preferably determined to be continuous. That means
preferably no kink is provided at the boundary line 18.
         [00108]    The curvature profile of the predetermined shape within the boundary
line 18 is fixed with the new curvature profiles outside the boundary line 18 attached to it.
In the straight view in the back surface, hence in this stage the determined and fixed back
surface profile looks like a "spider" with the optically preserved curvature profile within the
boundary line 18 being the body and each new curvature profile along a carrier line
forming one leg. This description of the back surface may already be sufficient for
manufacturing the ophthalmic lens.
         [00109]    However, in an optional further step, for subsequent manufacturing and
to provide for angular smoothing, a complete description of the back surface may be
provided. Hence, the method may further comprise steps to provide for angular smoothing
of the back surface radially outwards of the first boundary line. First, a series of coefficient
values of corresponding coefficients of a respective function describing each carrier line in
the transition zone may be formed, in particular of the cubic polynomials of each carrier
line. Then, for each corresponding coefficient, a first Fourier series of a first order
approximating the series of coefficient values may be determined to obtain a first set of
Fourier series each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the first set of Fourier
series describing any carrier line in a radial direction for given angle. Even further, for
each coefficient, a second Fourier series of a second order approximating the series of
coefficient values may be determined, to obtain a second set of Fourier series each
dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the second set of Fourier series
describing any carrier line in a radial direction for given angle, wherein the second order is

                                                36
higher than the first order, and wherein the second set of Fourier series is applied at the
first boundary line. Then, the second set of Fourier series may be blended into the first set
of Fourier series radially outwards over a blending zone, in particular so that only the first
set of Fourier series is applied beyond the blending zone. In particular, blending may be
conducted via the following formulaZ = Z 2 (A,R)+ W(R). (Z(A,R)- Z2 (A,R)), wherein Z
is the resulting sagittal height, A is the angle around the carrier point, R is the radial
distance from the carrier point, Z1 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the angle A and the radial
distance R based on the first set of Fourier series, and Z2 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the
angle and the radial distance based on the second set of Fourier series, and wherein
W(R) is a quintic blending polynomial, in particular wherein W(R)=10-t' - 15 -t4 + 6 -t 5 ,
               (R - RD)
wherein t =              , and wherein RD is the radial distance between the first boundary
                 delta
line and the carrier point at the angle A, and wherein delta is the width of the blending
zone, in particular wherein delta is 0.6 times the radial distance between the first boundary
line and the carrier point at the angle A.
         [00110]    For minus-lenses, the method could then already end here. However, it
may be necessary to further readjust the sagittal height of the fixed curvature profile within
the boundary line in case of a plus lens. In case the reduced lens thickness should be
considered significant so that, due to the reduced thickness and the conditions of a real
lens, the optical properties within the boundary line 18 may be deteriorated, an
optimization step may be conducted that starts on the original lens shape of the back
surface and readjusts it to restore the optical properties of the original lens shape.
         [00111]    Fig. 3 shows further simplified illustrations to generally show the
development of the lens shape through the method. Fig. 3 is generally independent of Fig.
2. In the left column, the development of a shape of a plus lens is shown. In the right
column, the development of a shape of a minus lens is shown.
         [00112]    Concerning the plus lens, from top to bottom, a predetermined lens
shape 10 of an uncut finished spectacle lens 60 having a front surface 70 and a back
surface 72 is provided, wherein the predetermined lens shape 10 comprises an

                                             37
predetermined shape of the front surface 70 and an predetermined shape of the back
surface 72 of the uncut finished spectacle lens 60, such that the uncut finished spectacle
lens 60 satisfies predetermined optical properties. Then, a first boundary line 18 on the
back surface 72 is determined, wherein a curvature profile 20 of the predetermined shape
of the back surface 72 is to be preserved within the first boundary line 18. Then, a carrier
extension 38 of the back surface 72 between the first boundary line 18 and an outer edge
16 of the uncut finished spectacle lens 60 is determined, wherein a curvature of the carrier
extension 38 at the first boundary line 18 may equal the boundary curvature. In case of
the plus lens, the predetermined lens shape 10 provides for a positive focal power. Hence,
a lens shape 40 of the uncut finished spectacle lens 60 is determined, wherein the
modified lens shape 40 comprises the predetermined shape of the front surface 70, and a
modified shape of the back surface 72. This leads to the new curvature profile of the back
surface being determined which then may be moved towards the front surface until a
thickness requirement is fulfilled.
         [00113]   Concerning the minus lens, from top to bottom, an predetermined lens
shape 10 of an uncut finished spectacle lens 60 having a front surface 70 and a back
surface 72 is provided, wherein the predetermined lens shape 10 comprises an
predetermined shape of the front surface 70 and an predetermined shape of the back
surface 72 of the uncut finished spectacle lens 60, such that the uncut finished spectacle
lens 60 satisfies predetermined optical properties within the prescription zone. Then, a
first boundary line 18 on the back surface 72 is determined, wherein a curvature profile of
the predetermined shape of the back surface 72 is to be preserved within the first
boundary line 18. Then, a new curvature profile 38 of the back surface 72 between the
first boundary line 18 and an outer edge 16 of the uncut finished spectacle lens 60 is
determined, wherein a curvature of the new curvature profile 38 at the first boundary line
18 may equal the boundary curvature. In case of the minus lens, the predetermined lens
shape 10 provides for a negative focal power. A sagittal height of the fixed curvature
profile of the predetermined lens shape 10 of the back surface 72 within the first boundary
line 18 is maintained or preserved. Hence, the thickness of the modified shape is reduced.
Hence, a modified lens shape 40 of the uncut finished spectacle lens 60 is determined,
wherein the modified lens shape 40 comprises the predetermined shape of the front

                                                38
surface 70, and a modified shape of the back surface 72 with carrier extensions. This
leads to the new curvature profile of the back surface being determined.
          [00114]   Fig. 4 shows an uncut finished spectacle lens or ophthalmic lens 60. It
has a periphery or outer edge 16 which can be circular or elliptical, in the example of Fig.
4 it is circular. The carrier point can then be the geometrical center 14 as explained above.
On the back surface shown in Fig. 4, the first boundary line 18 covers a preserved area 62
which is surface area of the back surface within the first boundary line 18 which has a
free-form surface, i.e. a surface curvature profile that has no symmetries. It is neither point
nor plane nor rotationally symmetric. Between a margin portion 66 and the prescription
zone 20, there is a transition zone 64 having a length or width 68. The length or width of
the transition zone is set to be constant, i.e. the length is the same in any radial direction
from carrier point 14.
          [00115]   Fig. 5 shows a section along line X-X in Fig. 4. A front surface of the
uncut finished spectacle lens is spherical. Hence, it is rotationally symmetric with respect
to the geometrical center and has a single curvature. The back surface is designated with
reference numeral 72. The first boundary line 18 is chosen so that the minimum eye
rotation angle 12 is within the boundary line 18. In other words, the first boundary line 18
is chosen so that for all rays through the eye for a viewing angle of the eye of less or
equal 12 degree the corresponding intersection points of the rays through the back
surface are within the boundary line 18. The eye 74 may be determined with its center of
rotation according to the standard eye used for calculations. The ophthalmic lens 60
comprises a front surface and a back surface, wherein the front surface is a convex
rotationally symmetric surface, and wherein the back surface comprises a prescription
zone which is asymmetric, a margin portion and a transition zone located between the
prescription zone and the margin portion, and wherein a curvature gradient of the back
surface along a straight line emanating from a point on the back surface is constant within
the transition zone, and wherein the transition zone has the same length along any
straight line emanating from the point, in particular wherein the length is measured parallel
to a plane tangential to a vertex point of the front surface or a plane tangential to the back
surface at the geometric center of the back surface of the lens.

                                                39
         [00116]   With reference to Figs. 6 to 8, further principles of the determination of
the carrier lines within the transition zone are described.
         [00117]   In general, it may be started with the back surface of the ophthalmic
lens, a frame outline 19, and the location of a fitting cross 15. First, the radius and center
of the inner boundary line 18 may be determined. It may be provided that the first
boundary line 18 does not intersect the frame line 19 on the nasal side as shown in Fig. 6.
A distance 13 to the first boundary line 18 may be measured from the fitting cross 15
along the 180 meridian. A center and radius of a circle describing the inner boundary line
18 may be determined to satisfy a distance requirement to the inner boundary from the
fitting cross and should not intersect the frame line 19 on the nasal side.
         [00118]   Once the first boundary line 18 is defined the change to the surface in
the transition zone 64 has to be determined and applied. Then from the second boundary
line 22 of the transition zone 64 until at least the edge of the frame the radial curvature
should be held constant. This circular extension can continue to the edge of the uncut
finished spectacle lens. Fig. 7 shows the relevant regions and boundaries.
         [00119]   A general approach to providing the desired constant curvature gradient
is to construct a piece-wise cubic polynomial for the transition zone, rather than a single
global single cubic polynomial. This removes the difficulty of achieving the desired
gradient, and can be determined directly. The one-dimensional curvature is given by
                                         C =        ""
                                                 + Z2) 3 / 2
                                             (1--Z)
where Z,, and Z., are the first and second derivatives of the surface height in the
direction of the respective carrier line. Then the gradient G is just the derivate of C

                                                 40
                                         Z""        -    3ZZ.
                              G=
                                    (1  + z2)3/2      (1+Z2)s/2
       [00120]   For the initial condition one can use the slope S, curvature C, and
gradient G, and set Z to zero. The corresponding value of the optical zone at the first
boundary line may be used as an alternative. Then for the first interval it is
                                Z = a. + box + cOx 2 + dox 3
where
                           a. = o,b. = s,c0 = C(1+ bo 2)3/2/2
       [00121]   Further, in the first interval
                              Z,= bo, Zx= 2c,Z.=                6do
       [00122]   So the equation for G becomes
                                          6do            12boco
                                  G=(1   + b2)3/2     (1 + b2)s/2
or
                       do = (G(1 + b2)3/ 2 + 12bc /(1 + b ))/6

                                                      41
        [00123]     Now, the carrier line function can be developed in small steps. So if in
general it is written for the ith interval
                                                                    3
                                  Zi = a, + bAx + c1 Ax 2 + diAx
where Ax = x - x,, then
                                a,+1 = a, + b Ax + cjAx 2 + diAx 3
                                    bf+ = b, + 2cgAx + 3dAx 2
                                           ci1 = ci + 3d1 Ax
                    df+1 e (G(1 + b2        ') 3 / 2 + 12bi 1 cl/(1 + b 2))/6
        [00124]     This may be solved by numerical integration. The idea being that the
output series would be represented by a standard cubic spline. Past the end and radially
outwards of the transition zone the curvature gradient may be set to zero, which produces
a constant curvature function past the second boundary line. Optionally, if the slope of the
function exceeds a boundary value, the function may be extended with a quadratic
polynomial past that point, to prevent the curve from becoming too step.
        [00125]     Fig. 8 shows the one-dimensional curvature for a carrier line that starts
at 13 diopters with a gradient of -4 diopters / mm over a length of 5 mm. The function is a
cubic spline made from 1 mm steps of the numerically integrated function. The final
curvature after the transition zone is about -6.97 diopters.

                                                   42
         [00126]    Fig. 9a to 9c show a simple example of an ophthalmic lens 60 which
may be an uncut finished spectacle lens. This example is intended to be a simple single
vision example of the carrier extension. The lens prescription is -5 diopters, the front
surface is a 3.5 diopter in refractive index 1.530 sphere, the material index is 1.586, and
the back surface at the geometric center is 8.02 diopters in index 1.530. In general,
throughout the application, the curvatures in diopters are given with a refractive index of
1.53 as a reference value and independent of the refractive index of the material actually
used. Hence, in case a curvature is given in diopters, the corresponding curvature in
                                    1.53-1
radius can be calculated by r =         -      . This will provide for the radius in meters. This
                                   diopters
recalculation is well known to persons skilled in the art with a known refractive index which
is 1.53 throughout the application. The full diameter of the blank shown is 80 mm. The
first boundary line 18 is an inner radius of the extension Ri is 25 mm, and the second
boundary line 22 is an outer radius Ro   0 t is 35 mm. The center of the circular extension
boundaries are displaced by 10 mm to the nasal side of the geometric center of the lens
blank. The gradient of the tangential curvature in the ring between R1." and Rm, is -0.8
diopters/mm. This gradient takes the tangential curvature from just over eight diopter at
the inner boundary down to just over zero diopters at the outer boundary. The thickness
of the lens normal to the front surface at the temporal edge of the blank would be about 8
mm without the extension; with the carrier extension that is redcued to under 5.0 mm.
         [00127]    The example in Fig. 10a illustrates an implementation of the carrier
extension on a single progressive lens design having distance prescription of -3.00
diopters with addition power of +2.50 diopters. The center of the carrier extension ring (x,
yo) is at (10,0), decentered 10mm nasally from the prism reference point. The inner radius
of the first boundary line is 25 mm and the outer radius of the second boundary line is 40
mm. The rate of change of curvature variation or curvature gradient in the ring is fixed to
0.25 D/mm. The contour plots in Fig. 10a illustrate the surface astigmatism and the
residual optical astigmatism with the frame outline overlayed. The frame box dimensions
are 64 x 36 mm, bridge width 18 mm, pantoscopic tilt is 5*, frame wrap angle 150, wearer
monocular pupil distance is 32 mm, fitting height of 21 mm. The thick ring shows the
location of the first boundary line.

                                                 43
         [00128]    The example in Fig. 1Ob illustrates an implementation of the carrier
extension on a single progressive lens design having distance prescription of +3.00
diopters with addition power of +2.50 diopters. The center of the carrier extension ring (xo,
yo) is at (10,0), decentered 10 mm nasally from the prism reference point. The inner radius
of the first boundary line is 25 mm and the outer radius of the second boundary line is 40
mm. The rate of change of curvature variation or the curvature gradient in the ring is fixed
to -0.507 D/mm. The contour plots in Fig. 1Ob illustrate the surface astigmatism and the
residual optical astigmatism with the frame outline overlayed. The frame box dimensions
are 64 x 36 mm, bridge width 18 mm, pantoscopic tilt is 50, frame wrap angle 150, wearer
monocular pupil distance is 32 mm, fitting height of 21 mm. The thick ring shows the
location of the first boundary line. The center thickness of this lens is 4.21 mm and the
edge thickness around the perimeter of the frame shown in Figure 1Ob varies from 1.0
mm to 3.5 mm. For comparison, the same lens without the carrier curve is shown. It has
the center thickness of 7.21 mm, while the edge thickness around the perimeter of the
same size and shape frame varies from 1.0 mm to 6.5 mm. The carrier curve had the
effect of reducing the center thickness by 3 mm, as well as reducing the maximum edge
thickness by the same amount with a much more uniform edge thickness profile.
         [00129]    In Fig. 11, a method 150 for angular smoothing of a surface determined
by carrier lines radially outwards of a prescription zone bordered by a first boundary line.
         [00130]    In step 152, a plurality of carrier lines each extending from a carrier point
in the prescription zone, in particular straight, into a respective radial direction may be
provided, wherein a curvature profile of the surface in a direction along each carrier line
radially outwards of the prescription zone has at least one section, wherein the curvature
profiles of corresponding sections of each carrier line are provided by corresponding
polynomials,
         [00131]    In step 154, a series of coefficient values of corresponding coefficients of
the polynomials of each carrier line may be formed.

                                                 44
         [00132]    In step 156, for each corresponding coefficient, a first Fourier series of a
first order approximating the series of coefficient values may be determined to obtain a
first set of Fourier series each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the first set
of Fourier series describing any carrier line in a radial direction for a given angle.
         [00133]    In further refinements, for each coefficient, a second Fourier series of a
second order approximating the series of coefficient values may be determined to obtain a
second set of Fourier series each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the
second set of Fourier series describing any carrier line in a radial direction for given angle,
wherein the second order is higher than the first order, and wherein the second set of
Fourier series is applied at the first boundary line. The second set of Fourier series may
then be blended into the first set of Fourier series radially outwards over a blending zone,
in particular so that only the first set of Fourier series is applied beyond the blending zone.
         [00134]    In particular, blending may be conducted via the following formula:
                            Z = Z2(A,R)+W(R)- (Z(A,         R)- Z 2( A,R)),
wherein Z is the resulting sagittal height, A is the angle around the carrier point, R is the
radial distance from the carrier point, Z1 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the angle A and the
radial distance R based on the first set of Fourier series, and Z2 (A,R) is the sagittal height
at the angle A and the radial distance R based on the second set of Fourier series, and
wherein W(R) is a quintic blending polynomial, in particular wherein
                                    W(R)=10 -t3 -15    .t 4 +6 -t5 ,
              (R - RD)
wherein t =              , and wherein RD is the radial distance between the first boundary
                delta
line and the carrier point at the angle A, and wherein delta is the width of the blending
zone, in particular wherein delta is 0.6 times radial distance between the first boundary
line and the carrier point at the angle A.

                                               45
        [00135]    In Fig. 12, a method 200 for minimizing the difference in thickness
between two ophthalmic lenses for the same spectacles is shown. It comprises providing
202, for each ophthalmic lens, an original lens shape satisfying predetermined optical
properties over the complete back surface and a modified lens shape having a front
surface and a back surface, wherein the modified lens shape comprises a predetermined
shape of the front surface and a predetermined shape of the back surface within a
prescription zone of the back surface bordered by a first boundary line, such that the
ophthalmic lens satisfies the predetermined optical properties within the prescription zone,
and an extension of the back surface radially outwards of the prescription zone by carrier
lines.
        [00136]    Then, in step 204, the modified lens shape of the ophthalmic lens having
a smaller maximum thickness is adapted by replacing the back surface by a combination
of the original lens shape and the modified lens shape according to
                                    CS = OS + A -(MS - oS)
wherein CS is the sagittal height of the combined back surface, OS is the sagittal height of
the back surface of the original lens shape, MS is the sagittal height of the back surface of
the modified lens shape and A is a value from and including 0 to and including 1.
        [00137]    Then, in step 206, parameter A may be optimized so that the difference
in thickness between the two ophthalmic lenses is minimized.
        [00138]     In practice, carriers extensions could be applied for both lenses of the
spectacle frame if for either lens the edge thickness exceeds, for example, 5 mm at any
point outside the first boundary line or outside the frame line or frame boundary .When
carrier lines have been determined for minus lenses, then the maximum edge thickness
may be determined for both lenses. If the difference is greater than a specified threshold
(e.g., 1 mm), then, to balance the edge thickness of the lenses for the right and left eyes,
the extension for the thinner lens is modified as explained above.

                                              46
        [00139]    The determination may result in lens edge thicknesses maps for a pair of
lenses having very different prescriptions in the right and left eyes, e.g. right eye -4.00
diopters sphere, left eye: -2.00 diopters sphere/ -2.00 diopters cylinder at 1500 and +2.50
diopters addition with maximum temporal edge thickness balancing may result in both
lenses having a maximum temporal edge thickness of 7.55 mm.
        [00140]    Finally, Fig. 13 shows a method for manufacturing generally designated
by reference numeral 300. After the start, a method 100 according to the first aspect
and/or a method 150 according to the third aspect is conducted in step 302. Afterwards,
based on the modified lens shape, a manufacturing step 304 would take place that
manufactures the uncut finished spectacle lens 60. Subsequently, the uncut finished
spectacle lens 60 could be further processed, in particular in an edging process that cuts
the lens out of the uncut finished spectacle lens towards its final shape that in particular
may then be shipped towards an ophthalmic dispenser. The method may then end.

                                            47
                                         CLAIMS
1. A computer-implemented method for providing a lens shape for an ophthalmic
   lens, comprising the following steps:
   a)      providing a predetermined lens shape of an ophthalmic lens, having a front
           surface and a back surface, wherein the predetermined lens shape
           comprises a predetermined shape of the front surface and a predetermined
           shape of the back surface within a prescription zone of the back surface
           bordered by a first boundary line, such that the ophthalmic lens satisfies
           predetermined optical properties within the prescription zone;
   b)      determining a carrier point on the back surface within the prescription zone
           and a plurality of carrier lines each extending from the carrier point into a
           respective direction;
   c)      determining a transition zone of the back surface, wherein the transition
           zone extends radially outwards from the first boundary line towards the
           outer edge of the ophthalmic lens and ends at a second boundary line
           bordering the transition zone radially outwards;
   d)      for each carrier line, setting a desired constant curvature gradient in the
           transition zone;
   e)      for each carrier line, determining a curvature profile of the back surface
           between the first boundary line and an outer edge the ophthalmic lens
           along the carrier line, and wherein the curvature profile in the transition
           zone is determined based on the respective desired constant curvature
           gradient; and
   wherein the method comprises a further step of angular smoothing of the back
   surface radially outwards of the first boundary line.

                                          48
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein a curvature along the carrier line
   between the second boundary line and the outer edge is essentially constant, and
   equals the curvature along the carrier line in the transition zone at the second
   boundary line.
3. The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the desired constant
   curvature gradient is set based on the curvature of the prescription zone at the first
   boundary line and a boundary condition for the curvature within the transition zone.
4. The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the desired constant
   curvature gradient is set based on the curvature of the prescription zone at the first
   boundary line and a curvature target to be reached at the second boundary line,
   and wherein the curvature target is zero and/or a curvature of the front surface.
5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the curvature gradient
   is set to be negative in case the ophthalmic lens is a minus lens and the curvature
   gradient is set to be positive in case the ophthalmic lens is a plus lens.
6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the curvature profile is
   determined by determining a cubic spline from the first boundary line to the second
   boundary line, wherein the cubic spline is comprised of a plurality of sections each
   described by a cubic polynomial, and wherein the cubical polynomials are
   determined section-wise from the first boundary line to the second boundary line.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the curvature profile is
   determined by determining a cubic spline from the first boundary line to the second
   boundary line, wherein the cubic spline is comprised of a plurality of sections each
   described by a cubical polynomial, and wherein the cubical polynomials are
   determined section-wise from the first boundary line to the second boundary line
   such that a sagittal height, a slope and a curvature of the back surface along the
   carrier line are continuous and the curvature gradient is reset to the desired

                                           49
    constant curvature gradient for each polynomial at the radially inwards end of each
    section.
8.  The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein a length of the transition zone
    along each carrier line is constant resulting in the second boundary line bordering
    the transition zone radially outwards and the second boundary line being radially
    offset from the first boundary line by the length.
9.  The method according to claim 8, wherein the length of the transition zone is within
    a range of at least 10 mm up to and including 20 mm.
10. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the constant curvature
    gradient has a magnitude in range from and including 0.05 diopters/mm to and
    including 1.5 diopters/mm.
11. The method according to any one of claims 6 to 10, wherein the length of each
    section is within a range of at least 0.5 mm up to and including 2 mm.
12. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the method comprises
    a further step of checking, for each carrier line, whether a thickness of the
    ophthalmic lens at an outer edge and/or at an intended frame line along which the
    ophthalmic lens is to be edged is above a predefined threshold and, if not,
    changing the magnitude of the desired constant curvature gradient.
13. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the ophthalmic lens is
    an uncut finished spectacle lens.
14. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein a curvature profile of
    the predetermined lens shape of the back surface is preserved within the first
    boundary line.

                                            50
15. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein at least a sagittal
    height of the prescription zone of the back surface transitions continuously at the
    first boundary line into each carrier line, preferably wherein further a slope of the
    prescription zone of the back surface in the direction along the carrier lines
    transitions continuously at the first boundary line into each carrier line, more
    preferably wherein further a curvature of the prescription zone of the back surface
    in the direction along the carrier lines transitions continuously at the first boundary
    line into each carrier line.
16. The method according to any one of claims 8 to 15, wherein the length is to be
    measured within a plane parallel to a tangential plane in the carrier point of the
    back surface.
17. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the carrier point is
    offset nasally from a prism reference point of the ophthalmic lens.
18. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the first boundary line
    is circular and the second boundary line is circular.
19. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the curvature profile
    along each carrier line radially outwards of the second boundary line is determined
    via a circular arc.
20. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the further step of
    angular smoothing of the back surface radially outwards of the first boundary line is
    conducted by flattening a profile of the curvature of the prescription zone in the
    direction of the carrier lines along the first boundary line via approximation by a
    polynomial or a spline function or a Fourier series to obtain a flattened curvature
    profile, and wherein the flattened curvature profile is used as a radially inward
    starting curvature value for each carrier line.

                                             51
21. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein the method further
    comprises the following steps to provide for angular smoothing of the back surface
    radially outwards of the first boundary line:
    i)       forming a series of coefficient values of corresponding coefficients of a
             respective function describing each carrier line in the transition zone, in
             particular of the cubic polynomials of each carrier line, and
    ii)      determining, for each corresponding coefficient, a first Fourier series of a
             first order approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a first set
             of Fourier series each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the
             first set of Fourier series describing any carrier line in a radial direction for
             given angle.
22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the method comprises the further
    steps of:
    iii)     determining, for each coefficient, a second Fourier series of a second order
             approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a second set of
             Fourier series each dependent on an angle around the carrier point, the
             second set of Fourier series describing any carrier line in a radial direction
             for given angle, wherein the second order is higher than the first order, and
             wherein the second set of Fourier series is applied at the first boundary
             line, and
    iv)      blending the second set of Fourier series into the first set of Fourier series
             radially outwards over a blending zone.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein the step of blending is conducted via
    the following formula:

                                             52
                       Z=   Z2 (A, R)+W(R)-    (Z1(A,R)- Z2 (A,  R))
    wherein Z is the resulting sagittal height, A is the angle around the carrier point, R
    is the radial distance from the carrier point, Z1 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the
    angle A and the radial distance R based on the first set of Fourier series, and
    Z2 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the angle and the radial distance based on the
    second set of Fourier series, and wherein W(R) is a quintic blending polynomial,
    wherein
                               W(R)= 10-t' - 15   .t 4 +6 t5
    wherein t =
                  (Rdela,
                     -RD)
                              and wherein RD is the radial distance between the first
                    delta
    boundary line and the carrier point at the angle A, and wherein delta is the width of
    the blending zone, wherein delta is 0.6 times the radial distance between the first
    boundary line and the carrier point at the angle A.
24. A computer-implemented method for providing a lens shape for an ophthalmic
    lens, comprising the following steps:
    a)      providing a predetermined lens shape of an ophthalmic lens, having a front
            surface and a back surface, wherein the predetermined lens shape
            comprises a predetermined shape of the front surface and a predetermined
            shape of the back surface within a prescription zone of the back surface
            bordered by a first boundary line, such that the ophthalmic lens satisfies
            predetermined optical properties within the prescription zone;
    b)      determining a carrier point on the back surface within the prescription zone
            and a plurality of carrier lines each extending from the carrier point into a
             respective direction;

                                            53
    c)      determining a transition zone of the back surface, wherein the transition
            zone extends radially outwards from the first boundary line towards the
            outer edge of the ophthalmic lens and ends at a second boundary line
            bordering the transition zone radially outwards;
    d)      for each carrier line, setting a desired constant curvature gradient in the
            transition zone;
    e)      for each carrier line, determining a curvature profile of the back surface
            between the first boundary line and an outer edge the ophthalmic lens
            along the carrier line, and wherein the curvature profile in the transition
            zone is determined based on the respective desired constant curvature
            gradient;
    wherein the method further comprises the following steps to provide for angular
    smoothing of the back surface radially outwards of the first boundary line:
    i)      forming a series of coefficient values of corresponding coefficients of a
            respective function describing each carrier line in the transition zone, in
            particular of the cubic polynomials of each carrier line,
    ii)     determining, for each corresponding coefficient, a first mathematical
            representation approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a
            first set of mathematical representations each dependent on an angle
            around the carrier point, the first set of mathematical representations
            describing any carrier line in a radial direction for given angle.
25. A method for providing a smoothed extension surface from a plurality of carrier
    lines extending radially outwards of a prescription zone of an ophthalmic lens, the
    method comprising the following steps:

                                              54
I)  providing a plurality of carrier lines each extending from a carrier point in the
    prescription zone into a respective direction, wherein a curvature profile of the
    surface along each carrier line radially outwards of the prescription zone is
    provided by a cubic spline;
II) forming a set of mathematical representations each approximating corresponding
    spline coefficients for all carrier line directions.
26. A method for constructing a surface determined by carrier lines radially outwards
    of a prescription zone of an ophthalmic lens, the method comprising the following
    steps:
    aa)     providing a plurality of carrier lines each extending from a carrier point in
            the prescription zone into a respective direction, wherein a curvature profile
            of the surface along each carrier line radially outwards of the prescription
            zone is provided by a cubic spline;
    bb)     forming a first set of mathematical representations each approximating
            corresponding coefficients of a first spline for all carrier line directions,
    cc)     forming a second set of mathematical representations each approximating
            corresponding coefficients of a second spline for all carrier line directions,
    dd)     determining a third spline sufficient to determine a surface height at any
            radial location within the range of the carrier lines for any specified carrier
            line direction by a weighted average of the first spline and second spline for
            that direction, where the weighting function is a specified polynomial
            function of the radial distance from the first boundary.
27. A method for providing a surface determined by carrier lines radially outwards of a
    prescription zone of an ophthalmic lens, the prescription zone bordered by a first
    boundary line, the method comprising the following steps:

                                              55
    i)       providing a plurality of carrier lines each extending from a carrier point in
             the prescription zone into a respective direction, wherein a curvature profile
             of the surface in a direction along each carrier line radially outwards of the
             prescription zone has at least one section, wherein the curvature profiles of
             corresponding sections of each carrier line are provided by respective
             polynomials,
    ii)      forming a series of coefficient values of corresponding coefficients of the
             polynomials of each carrier line, and
    iii)     determining, for each corresponding coefficient, a first mathematical
             representation approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a
             first set of mathematical representations each dependent on an angle
             around the carrier point.
28. The method according to claim 27, characterized in that the method comprises the
    further steps of:
    iv)      determining, for each coefficient, a second mathematical representation
             approximating the series of coefficient values, to obtain a second set of
             mathematical representations each dependent on an angle around the
             carrier point, the second set of mathematical representations describing
             any carrier line in a radial direction for given angle, and wherein the second
             set of mathematical representations is applied at the first boundary line,
    v)       blending the second set of mathematical representations into the first set of
             mathematical representations radially outwards over a blending zone, so
             that only the first set of mathematical representations is applied beyond the
             blending zone.
29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the step of blending is conducted via
    the following formula:

                                           56
                       Z=   Z2 (A,R)+W(R)- (Z1(A,R)- Z2 (A,      R))
    wherein Z is the resulting sagittal height, A is the angle around the carrier point, R
    is the radial distance from the carrier point, Z1 (A,R) is the sagittal height at the
    angle A and the radial distance R based on the first set of mathematical
    representations, and Z2(A,R) is the sagittal height at the angle A and the radial
    distance R based on the second set of mathematical representations, and wherein
    W(R) is a quintic blending polynomial, wherein
                                  W(R)=10 t - 15 -t4 +6 - t5 ,
    wherein t = (R - d),      and wherein RD is the radial distance between the first
                    delta
    boundary line and the carrier point at the angle A, and wherein delta is the width of
    the blending zone, wherein delta is 0.6 times radial distance between the first
    boundary line and the carrier point at the angle A.
30. A method for manufacturing an ophthalmic lens, comprising the steps of providing
    a lens shape for an ophthalmic lens according to any one of claims 1 to 29, and
    manufacturing the ophthalmic lens according to the lens shape.
31. A method for minimizing the difference in thickness between two ophthalmic
    lenses for the same spectacles, comprising the following steps:
    A)       providing, for each ophthalmic lens, an original lens shape satisfying
    predetermined optical properties over the complete back surface and a modified
    lens shape having a front surface and a back surface, wherein the modified lens
    shape comprises a predetermined shape of the front surface and a predetermined
    shape of the back surface within a prescription zone of the back surface bordered
    by a first boundary line, such that the ophthalmic lens satisfies the predetermined

                                           57
    optical properties within the prescription zone, and an extension of the back
    surface radially outwards of the prescription zone by carrier lines;
    B)      adapting the modified lens shape of the ophthalmic lens having a smaller
    maximum thickness by replacing the back surface by a combination of the original
    lens shape and the modified lens shape according to
                                CS =OS+ A -(MS -OS)
    wherein CS is the sagittal height of the combined back surface, OS is the sagittal
    height of the back surface of the original lens shape, MS is the sagittal height of
    the back surface of the modified lens shape and A is a value from and including 0
    to and including 1, and
    C)      optimizing A so that the difference in thickness between the two ophthalmic
    lenses is minimized.
32. A computer program product comprising program code for carrying out the steps of
    a method according to any one of claims 1 to 29 or according to claim 31, when
    the computer program product is run on a data processing device.
33. A machine readable storage medium having stored thereon a computer program
    comprising program code for carrying out the steps of a method according to any
    one of claims 1 to 29 or according to claim 31, when the computer program or the
    program code is run on a data processing device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
