   Abstract:
 5 The present invention provides a method for controlling a robotic device,
   comprising the steps of, receiving at a computing device at least one command
   arranged to effect an operation on the robotic device, reviewing the command
   to determine whether the command is suitable for execution, wherein the
   command is provided to the device only if the command is suitable for
10 execution.
                                                             9656233_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3 3/11/17

                                                   1
             A SYSTEM, METHOD, COMPUTER PROGRAM AND DATA SIGNAL FOR THE
            REGISTRATION, MONITORING AND CONTROL OF MACHINES AND DEVICES
Technical Field
[0001] The present invention relates to a system, method, computer program and data signal
for the registration, monitoring and control of machines and devices. Embodiments of the
invention find specific, but not exclusive, use in the registration, monitoring and control of robotic
devices, autonomous vehicles, "smart" devices, and other programmable and computer
controlled devices.
Background Art
[0002] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement or
admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general knowledge
as at the priority date of the application.
[0003] Science fiction predicted the eventual development of robotic devices and "smart"
devices which are arranged to autonomously perform one or more functions. In the past, due to
limitations in computing power and the ability to create reliable, cost-effective electronics,
robotic devices have largely been used in very specialized applications (such as in
manufacturing applications) or as "show-pieces" (e.g. the development of ASIMO, a humanoid
robot developed by Honda Corporation).
[0004] However, the explosion in and frenzied development of telecommunications and
computing technology (such as the development of cell phone technology, the Internet, wireless
Internet, the release of Global Positioning System technology for consumer use and
miniaturised computing technology) now provides a platform for the development and creation
of consumer robots.
[0005] For example, robot vacuum cleaners, small remote controlled robotic devices
(e.g. helicopters and multicopters) and the more recent development of autonomous
'self-driving' vehicles are examples of practical and increasingly accessible robots and smart
devices available to average consumers.
[0006] It is against this background that embodiments of the present invention have been
developed.
Summary of Invention
[0007] In a first aspect, the present invention provides system for controlling at least one
robotic device, comprising a computing device capable of communication with at least one
robotic device and arranged to receive at least one command from a command module, the
command being arranged to contain at least one instruction which is arranged to effect an
operation on the robotic device and identification information to identify the at least one robotic
device, wherein the computing device includes a processor and a database, the processor
being arranged to receive the command and review the command against information in the
database to determine whether the command is suitable for execution by the at least one
robotic device, wherein the command is provided to the robotic device if the command is
suitable for execution.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                      2
[0008] In one embodiment, the processor determines whether the command is associated
with at least one authorisation code.
[0009] In one embodiment, the at least one authorisation code is received independently of
the at least one command.
[0010] In one embodiment, the processor determines whether the command is one of a
predetermined set of commands by accessing a set of predetermined commands stored in the
database.
[0011] In one embodiment, wherein at least one of the at least one command, the
authorisation code and the identification code is encrypted.
[0012] In one embodiment, the processor decrypts the at least one of the at least one
command, the authorisation code and the identification code prior to reviewing the command to
determine whether the command is suitable for execution.
[0013] In one embodiment, at least one of the at least one command, the authorisation code
and the identification code includes a checksum, wherein the checksum is utilised to determine
the correctness of the at least one command, the authorisation code and the identification code.
[0014]          In one embodiment, the robotic device is a programmable device.
[0015] In one embodiment, the robotic device includes at least one processor arranged to
receive and execute the at least one command.
[0016] In one embodiment, the robotic device is capable of performing at least one physical
function.
[0017] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a system for controlling a robotic
device, comprising a computing device capable of receiving at least one instruction, a processor
capable of generating a command based on the at least one instruction, wherein the command
is communicated via the computing device to initiate a response based on the at least one
generated command.
[0018] In one embodiment, the processor requests further information to further assess the
instruction, prior to initiating a response.
[0019] In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method for controlling a robotic
device, comprising the steps of, receiving at a computing device at least one command
arranged to effect an operation on the robotic device, reviewing the command to determine
whether the command is suitable for execution, wherein the command is provided to the device
only if the command is suitable for execution.
[0020] In one embodiment, the step of reviewing the command includes the step of
determining whether the command is associated with at least one authorisation code.
[0021] In one embodiment, the at least one authorisation code is received independently of
the at least one command.
[0022] In one embodiment, the step of reviewing the command includes the further step of
determining whether the command is one of a predetermined set of commands.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                     3
[0023] In one embodiment, the invention provides the further step of the computing device
receiving at least one identification code arranged to identify the robotic device.
[0024] In one embodiment, the invention provides the further step of receiving the
identification code with the at least one command.
[0025] In one embodiment, at least one of the at least one command, the authorisation code
and the identification code is encrypted.
[0026] In one embodiment, the invention provides the further step of decrypting the at least
one of the at least one command, the authorisation code and the identification code prior to
reviewing the command to determine whether the command is suitable for execution.
[0027] In one embodiment, at least one of the at least one command, the authorisation code
and the identification code includes a checksum, wherein the checksum is utilised to determine
the correctness of the at least one command, the authorisation code and the identification code.
[0028] In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a system for controlling a robotic
device, comprising a computing device in communication with the robotic device and arranged
to receive at least one command which is arranged to effect an operation on the robotic device,
wherein the computing device reviews the command to determine whether the command is
suitable for execution, and the command is provided to the device only if the command is
suitable for execution.
[0029] In a fifth aspect, the present invention provides a computer program including at least
one command, which, when executed on a computing system, is arranged to perform the
method steps in accordance with the third aspect of the invention.
[0030] In one embodiment, the invention provides a computer readable medium incorporating
a computer program in accordance with the fifth aspect of the invention.
[0031] In a sixth aspect, the present invention provides a data signal encoding at least one
command and being arranged to be receivable by at least one computing device, wherein,
when the encoded command is executed on the computing system, the computing system
performs the method steps in accordance with the third aspect of the invention.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0032] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following
description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof. This description is included solely for
the purposes of exemplifying the present invention. It should not be understood as a restriction
on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the invention as set out above. The
description will be made with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
                Figure 1 is an example computing system which is capable of operating a device,
system, method and/or computer program in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
                Figures 2 and 2a are example systems in accordance with an embodiment of the
invention;
                Figure 3 is an example of a server module, including software/hardware modules and
databases, arranged to implement an embodiment of the present invention;
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                       4
                Figure 4 is a flowchart depicting a computer implemented registration process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 5 is a flowchart depicting a computer implemented clearance process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figures 5a to 5d are computer implemented processes in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 6 is a flowchart depicting a computer implemented profile creation process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 7 is a flowchart depicting a computer implemented profile update process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figures 7a to 7c are diagrams illustrating a computer implemented process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 8 is a diagram depicting a computer implemented system indicating process
flows with regard to excluding, ghosting and shrouding processes in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 9 is a stylised diagram depicting a series of computer implemented process
flows with regard to excluding, ghosting and shrouding processes in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention;
                Figures 9a to 9c are diagrams illustrating a computer implemented process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 10 is flowchart depicting a computer implemented process for creating an
exclusion, shrouding or ghosting zone in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 11 is a flowchart depicting a computer implemented privacy constraints process
in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figures 11a to 11k are diagrams illustrating a computer implemented process in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
                Figure 12 is a flowchart depicting a computer implemented sense/scan process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figure 13 is a flowchart depicting a computer implemented seizure process in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
                Figures 14 and 15 are stylised diagrams depicting a computer implemented
identification process in accordance with an embodiment of the invention; and
                Figure 16 is a diagram illustrating another example of a computer implemented
identification process in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
Description of Embodiments
General Overview
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  5
[0033] The present invention relates generally to a system, method, computer program and
data signal for the registration, monitoring and control of machines and devices. In particular,
embodiments of the invention relate to the registration, monitoring and control of robotic
devices, autonomous vehicles, "smart" devices, and other programmable and computer
controlled devices.
[0034] In more detail, one aspect of the embodiments described herein provides a method for
controlling a robotic device. The method comprises the steps of, receiving at a computing
device at least one command arranged to effect an operation on the robotic device. When the
command is received, it is reviewed to determine whether the command is suitable for execution
and is directed to the correct robotic device. The command is only provided to the device if the
command is suitable for execution and directed to the correct robotic device.
[0035] In other words, one broad aspect of the embodiments described herein provides a
system for controlling and monitoring the commands issued to autonomous or "smart" devices.
Such a system is particularly useful for situations where the autonomous or smart devices are to
be operated in a public space, where inappropriate operation of such devices may pose safety,
security and financial risks to other members of the public.
[0036] One embodiment of the method is codified in a computing system, such as the
computing system shown at Figure 1.
[0037] In Figure 1 there is shown a schematic diagram of a computing system, which in this
embodiment is a server 100 suitable for use with an embodiment of the present invention. The
server 100 may be used to execute application and/or system services such as a system and
method for facilitating the controlling, monitoring and issuing of commands in accordance with
an embodiment of the present invention.
[0038] With reference to Figure 1, the server 100 may comprise suitable components
necessary to receive, store and execute appropriate computer instructions. The components
may include a processor 102, read only memory (ROM) 104, random access memory (RAM)
106, an input/output devices such as disc drives 108, remote or connected input devices 110
(such as a mobile computing device, a smartphone or a 'desktop' personal computer), and one
or more communications link(s) 114.
[0039] The server 100 includes instructions that may be installed in ROM 104, RAM 106 or
disc drives 112 and may be executed by the processor 102. There may be provided a plurality
of communication links 114 which may variously connect to one or more computing devices 110
such as servers, personal computers, terminals, wireless or handheld computing devices, or
mobile communication devices such as a mobile (cell) telephone. At least one of a plurality of
communications links 114 may be connected to an external computing network through a
telecommunications network.
[0040] In one particular embodiment the device may include a database 116 which may reside
on the storage device 112. It will be understood that the database may reside on any suitable
storage device, which may encompass solid state drives, hard disc drives, optical drives or
magnetic tape drives. The database 116 may reside on a single physical storage device or may
be spread across multiple storage devices.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  6
[0041] The server 100 includes a suitable operating system 118 which may also reside on a
storage device or in the ROM of the server 100. The operating system is arranged to interact
with the database and with one or more computer programs to cause the server to carry out the
steps, functions and/or procedures in accordance with the embodiments of the invention
described herein.
[0042] Broadly, the invention relates to a computing method and system arranged to interact
with one or more remote devices via a communications network. The remote devices may take
the form of computing devices as described above, but may also take the form of robotic
devices, as will be described in more detail later.
[0043] The system, in one embodiment, utilises a server including a database arranged to
contain biometric or other identifying information regarding one or more entities. The database
is arranged to receive the information via the communications network from the one or more
remote devices and to subsequently communicate information to one or more remote robotic
devices.
[0044] Figure 2a illustrates a Service Orientation Architecture suitable for use with an
embodiment of the invention.
[0045] Other aspects of the broad inventive concept relate to a corresponding method,
computer program, computer readable media and data signal. The method facilitates the
transfer of commands regarding the desired instructions to be sent to an autonomous or "smart"
device (also referred to as a "robot" device) between one or more remote devices and a
centralized database. The centralized database receives a request to provide the command to
the one or more remote devices, and forwards the information via a communications network to
the one or more remote robotic devices.
Initial Interaction with the System
[0046] For a user to interact with the system in one embodiment, it is necessary for the user to
identify themselves and register with the system. This is achieved through a registration
process that is analogous to many other consumer product registration processes, such as the
registering of a vehicle.
[0047] Preferably, a user may be required to prove or verify their identity by undertaking an
identification check.
[0048] In one embodiment, prospective users ('prospective registrants') are required to set up
a "profile account" or obtain an "eLicence". For the purpose of the broader invention described
herein, a "profile account" or "eLicence" is any type of digital and/or electronic identifying means
utilised to verify the identity of a user. In a co-pending application filed by Digital (ID)entity
Limited, a Hong Kong company, novel and inventive embodiments of eLicence and Profile
Accounts are described in more detail and are incorporated herein by reference.
[0049] The user uses their eLicence or Profile Account (along with other identifying
information, such as a password) to connect or log-in a device (such as device 110) to a registry
server such as server cluster 100a (Figure 2) or registry server 300 (Figure 3) via a
communications network. This connection and the entering of the code allow the prospective
user to interact with the server cluster 100a.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                   7
[0050] Once the user is registered with the system, the user then registers their robotic device.
As with a vehicle or boating license, the user, preferably, only has one license, but is able to
register a plurality of robotic devices, as the user may have more than one robotic device.
Command and Control System
[0051] Each robotic device includes an internal secure computing device which is arranged to
validate, authenticate and execute commands which are generated either from/by the robotic
device itself or by external parties.
[0052] That is, each robotic device includes an internal "logic" where, before an action is taken
(whether physical or otherwise), the robotic device firstly receives an "Intention". The Intention
must then be Validated against some internal logic or rules (i.e. a policy). Once the Intention is
Validated, the Intention can then be Communicated to the relevant section of the robotic device
and consequently Approved.
[0053] The Command and Control (CC) structure is now described in more detail with
reference to Figure 2. In Figure 2, any reference to a server, computing system, computer or
other computing device refers to a server with capabilities analogous to the server 100 of
Figure 1.
[0054] Referring now to Figure 2 there is shown a series of interconnected servers (a server
cluster) generally denoted by 100a. A user 102a can interact with the server cluster 100a via
their client device 104a or their mobile client device 106a.
[0055] When a robotic device 108a receives or generates a request (intention), the request
originates from an "intention" application 110a. The intention application passes the intention
request from the intentions application 110a to a validation controller (not shown). The
validation controller ensures the robotic device and software have not been tampered with. The
validation controller also ensures that all the physical components of the robotic device are in
working order and approved for use within policy guidelines.
[0056] The request is then encrypted and transferred over a secure protocol (Virtual Private
Network (VPN) connection 112a) to the server cluster 100a. All data packets are encrypted
before transmission using key pair authentication or any other suitable encryption methodology,
as may be required.
[0057] Once connected the robotic device establishes a secure Virtual Private Network (VPN)
tunnel over a public communications mesh such as a mobile telecommunications network 114a,
which may utilise a 3G (3 rd Generation GSM standard) and/or 4G (4 1h Generation GSM
standard) cellular network standard.
[0058] All communication to the server cluster 100a is via a secure firewall service 116a that
limits VPN endpoints and ports that are available within the VPN. An appropriate standard,
such as Secure Socket Layer (SSL) is utilised for the tunnel.
[0059] Once packets sent by the intention application (via the communications manager
application) are encrypted and the VPN communication is secured and passes through the
firewall, the robotic device authenticates to establish a connection with the CC system (i.e. the
server cluster 100a). In the embodiment described herein, an authentication server 118a is
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                   8
utilised to authenticate the robotic device, through the exchange of certificates, although it will
be understood that other authentication methods or systems may be utilised.
[0060] The CC system 100a further includes an application platform 120a that manages
communication, requests, manifest distribution and ultimately the control of the robotic device.
In the context of the embodiment described herein, no action can be executed by the robotic
device without first passing through the application platform 120a.
[0061] The application platform 120a interfaces with a policy engine 120b as the capabilities
and allowed actions of each registered robotic device are stored as policies within the system
100a. The policy engine 120b allows each robotic device to be controlled uniquely as required
by law, device capabilities and end user requirements. Policies are transmitted to the robotic
device via the server cluster 100a as a base set of guidelines that cannot be breached. The
workings of the application platform and the policy engine are described in more detail below.
[0062] The CC system is also responsible for recording an audit trail of all actions taken and
all data received from the end device. This includes data such as the make and model of the
robotic device, the capabilities of the device, flight manifests (where the robotic device is
capable of flight), previous approvals for flight or movement, GPS movement and position data,
including associated times and dates, instrument metrics, etc. Such information is stored in the
Data Archive 122a, so that it may be accessed if necessary for auditing purposes.
[0063] A website 124a is provided as an interface to administer the application logic and all
associated data/metadata.         This includes information such as updating device policies,
capabilities manifests, and other services, including, special services such as "ghosting" and
"shrouding" (which are described in more detail below).
[0064] A fast, high Input/Output (10) data retention service 126a caches incoming data feeds
from the robotic device. Once cached the data is subsequently moved to the Data Archive 122a
where it can be data mined as required for auditing purposes.
[0065] Returning to end users 102a, a web interface provides access from both a client device
104a and a mobile client device 106a. Through these interfaces the end user is able to
securely instruct a robotic device to take actions, receive feedback on the status of the device
and track results. All communication into the client device 104a and mobile client device 106a
are secured via standard secure web protocols and firewall access 128a.
[0066] Once a connection is established the consumer may authenticate against the platform
using password or biometric exchange to prove their identity, as previously described (i.e. using
a "Profile Account" or "eLicence"). Depending on policies set by the end user and the platform
the authentication can be more or less strict as required.
[0067] All end user (customer) data is secured and protected within a series of databases
generally denoted by computing system 130a. In one embodiment, users may be required to
pay for use of some services provided by the server cluster 100a. In such an embodiment, end
users can carry out purchases or cash transactions via a standard, secure payment gateway
132a. This service is in the form of a shopping cart style interface with account management.
[0068] The end user interacts with the web application to execute robotic device commands
and receive feedback. This application provides a series of interfaces and logic for robotic
device administration.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                  9
[0069] At no time does the end user have direct access to a robotic device. While an end user
would provide a series of policies about their robotic device and what they wish the device to do
in certain instances these policies are not applied directly, but are vetted by the policy engine.
[0070] That is, all policies are exchanged and validated with the policy engine 120b to ensure
that server cluster 100a has ultimate control of the device. As such, the server cluster 100a
utilizes a "Command and Control" type structure to control the movement and action of robotic
devices, to prevent unauthorised or illegal use.
Internal Robotic Device Validation
[0071] Each robotic device is capable of performing a predefined set of actions (physical or
otherwise) and each action in the set of actions are associated with one or more instructions.
Taken together, these allowable actions and associated instructions form the "policy" for the
robotic device.
[0072] For example, a robotic drone (pilotless flying device) may be capable of flying in any
direction, but may be limited to flying only in certain predefined air space, due to privacy,
security or safety reasons.
[0073] One set of instructions necessary for the robotic device to be allowed to perform a
command would be to undertake a diagnostic test each time the robotic device is activated.
[0074] The system would include a range of 'tests', beginning with regular (e.g. fixed date)
tests. However, as problems can occur between regular checks (e.g. consumers may
unintentionally or unknowingly damage their robots), it will be understood that diagnostic tests
may also occur at random time intervals.
[0075] In addition to performing tests, test data can be gathered and in one embodiment, test
data is communicated to the server cluster 100a as shown in Figure 2.
[0076]         An example of the types of data collected during tests is described below:
[0077] The system's approved diagnostic tests are undertaken (completed) by an object or
component written for the express purpose of performing one or more of the following
operations:
                1.               identifying the robot, not limited to, for example:
                                  1.1.     make, model, type;
                                  1.2.     history, e.g. relevant dates/times, test results;
                                  1.3.     registered owner(s)/user(s);
                                  1.4.     possession of valid user security and protection mechanisms,
                                           e.g. biometric user locks;
                                  1.5.     whether the device is currently registered, and will remain registered
                                           during the course of its (pending) assignment and/or function;
                                  1.6.     hardware, software and capabilities, not limited to: functional
                                           specifications, valid 'default failure', 'seizure', 'r endezvous' and
                                           'privacy' (e.g. software) protocols;
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                  10
                                  1.7.      that the device is approved to be used or operated as per the user's
                                            requested assignment or 'restricted' function, and that the assignment
                                            or function application (i.e. robot 'app') itself is approved, including
                                            passing any Digital Rights Management System;
                2.               identifying the user or controller of the robot-particularly, that the robot is
                                 associated with and receiving assignment or function instructions from a user
                                 that possesses a valid account and up-to-date profiles and may further confirm
                                  if, and require that, the user or controller is also listed as an approved party to
                                  use or control this specific robot (not limited to, biometric authentication);
                3.               analysing and confirming if the robot's hardware and software are intact and
                                 remain untampered (e.g. not 'rooted', jailbroken' or h acked);
                4.               locating and identifying problems with or within the hardware, software,
                                 capabilities or any combination thereof in the robot's system, or the network of
                                 systems the robot may intend or be required to operate in or with;
                5.               carrying out performance or function tests to verify upheld originally approved
                                 operational proficiency, for example:
                                 5.1.       it has or will have the capabilities and functional capacity (not limited
                                            to    available    fuel   or     energy      charge,    payload     weight
                                            constraints/capacity) to acceptably complete its assignment or
                                            restricted function;
                                 5.2.       its current performance would satisfy operational requirements
                                            required or anticipated for and during the requested assignment or
                                            function;
                6.               confirming that the robot does not have any outstanding maintenance, service,
                                 inspection or other orders;
                7.               establishing if the robot possesses or is carrying any unapproved or illicit
                                 payloads-in one instance, by analysing movement agility, e.g. if outside of
                                 normal baseline values/parameters this may account for unapproved payload
                                 weights; in another instance, by analysing data acquired from sensors or
                                 scanners on, in or within range of the robot that may detect unapproved
                                 payloads, e.g. these devices may be biosensors, molecular-level scanners,
                                 sensitive electronic chemical noses, etc.
[0078] Once the system receives confirmation that all registration, diagnostic and/or health
tests have been successfully completed, the system issues relevant clearance codes to allow
the robotic device to perform the function.
Command and Control Structure in More Detail
[0079] Figure 3 is a block diagram illustrating various components of a registry server which is
equivalent to the structure shown generally at numeral 100a in Figure 2. The server 300 shown
in Figure 3 illustrates an alternative view of the embodiment described with reference to
Figure 2, in that Figure 3 is divided into functional modules rather than physical hardware. That
is, Figure 3 does not delineate the application server farm 120a and the policy engine 120b and
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                11
some aspects of the public access infrastructure shown in Figure 2, such as servers 130a and
132a, as separate components, but rather illustrates how such components functionally interact.
[0080] In other words, Figure 2 is an illustration of one embodiment of a server infrastructure
in accordance with the broader inventive concept. Figure 3 is a high level "module" illustration
of one embodiment of an infrastructure in accordance with the broader inventive concept.
Figures 2 and 3 provide different perspectives of the same inventive concept and are not to be
taken to be directed to different inventions, but rather to different views of the same broad
inventive concept.
[0081] The Server 300 includes various modules and databases which provide functionality
that enables robotic devices to be monitored, controlled and managed in order to uphold, for
example, safety, security and privacy considerations. A short summary of each module is
provided below:
301 Administration Module
[0082] An Administration Module 301 is provided to transmit system administrative function
commands to one or more robotic devices. The commands can include commands that would
be common to a number of robotic devices, including powering on and off, setting access
controls, software updates, performance monitoring, statistic gathering and/or other
administrative functions not directly related to diagnostic tests, clearance codes and/or policing
'rogue' robots.
302 Communications Module
[0083] The system further provides a Communications Module 302 which enables
communication between the robotic devices and the Registry's Server 300, and/or other registry
servers (not shown).
[0084] Further, in another use of the Communications Module 302, clearance codes (that may
be generated, outputted or stored in a Clearance Code Database 331) may be transmitted to
users' robots, devices or vehicles.
[0085] Additionally, the Communications Module 302 may also facilitate communications with
the Server 300 by other entities (or the same entity) to facilitate operations, activities or tasks
such as:
                -                 Maintenance, which may be in conjunction with an Orders Module 310, which
                                 accesses a Registered Robot Database 323 to determine any outstanding
                                 orders required to be addressed;
                -                Software upgrades, which are allocated to and stored in a Manufacturer and
                                  Robot Database 324 before being distributed to registered robots, devices or
                                 vehicles that are listed in the Registered Robot Database 323 - distribution is
                                 effected by a Task/Activities/Programs Module 312;
                -                 Profile uploads retrieved from a User/Owner/Client Account Database 321,
                                 and subsequently stored in a Profiles Database 332;
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                  12
                -                 Robot registration application uploads, which are provided by a
                                 Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312, in collaboration with a Manufacturer
                                 and Robot Database 324 and a Registered Robot Database 323;
                -                 User, application uploads, from a User/Owner/Client Account Database 321;
                -                Surveillance data uploads from users' robots or devices, from the
                                  User/Owner/Client Account Database 321 and a Robot 'Apps'/Function
                                  Database 325 to confirm, for example, if a user or owner is authorised to be
                                 conducting surveillance operations;
                -                 Identifying the user or controller of the robot or device; and/or
                -                 Receiving user privacy constraints, via an Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module
                                 307.
303 Transaction Module
[0086] A Transaction Module 303 is employed to process financial transactions to pay for
services provided by the Server 300 or associated, related third party.
[0087] In one embodiment, a Transaction Module 303 is responsible for issuing or processing
product and/or service subscription accounts for users, owners or clients, which may be listed in
a User/Owner/Client Account Database 321. Such subscriptions may be for the initiation or
execution of exclusion zones or privacy constraints (not limited to shrouding or ghosting).
[0088] Moreover, the Transaction Module 303 may be responsible for issuing or processing
fines, infringements or penalties in relation to, for example, not limited to, inappropriate,
unauthorised, unregistered, illicit, illegal or unruly use, control, management or ownership of a
robot, device or vehicle. Such fines, infringements or penalties may be communicated to the
relevant party or parties using a Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312, a Seizure Protocol
Module 309, and/or a Communications Module 302.
304 Controller
[0089] In some embodiments, the modules and databases listed operate autonomously.
However, in the embodiment described herein, a central controller 304 is utilised to provide a
"supervisory" function. The central controller may operate autonomously or may be controlled
by a user, to "override" the autonomous functioning of any individual module. For example, if a
breach or compromise of the system is detected, a user may use the controller to override any
given clearance code or other permission given to a particular robotic device.
305 Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module
[0090] A Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305 is
responsible for a variety of processes or tasks, including receiving, analysing, storing and
outputting, as necessary, an end user's proposed robotic device commands.
[0091] The Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305
utilises data or information stored in a User/Owner/Client Account Database 321 or an Ineligible
Database 322 to confirm that a proposed assignment or function is permissible, i.e. can be
authorized.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  13
[0092] The Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305
also utilises data or information stored in a Registered Robot Database 323 to determine,
whether a particular class, model or type of robotic device possesses the hardware, software or
capabilities (including functional or operational) to undertake and successfully complete a
proposed assignment, operation or function.
[0093] The Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305
also confirms that proposed or active assignments, operations or functions are permissible or
authorised according to information in the Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database 325 and/or
information in the Operational Spaces Database 326, which contains approved, 'restricted' or
disallowed assignments, operations or functions.
[0094] The Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305
may consult with, check and/or confirm information and data contained or stored in one or more
of a Server's 300 databases or modules for the purpose or running any necessary test such as
those that may be conducted by a Diagnostic Tests Database 327.
306 Clearance Code Module
[0095] A Clearance Code Module 306 allows the generation of suitable authorisation codes,
for the purposes of allowing or approving a user robot, device or vehicle to undertake or
successfully complete an assignment, operation or function.
[0096] In some instances, the Clearance Code Module 306 may cause a robot, device or
vehicle to perform another type of assignment, operation or function that may not have been
proposed or initiated by a user.
[0097] Where there is a requirement to perform a diagnostics test prior to conducting a task,
the Clearance Code Module may be instructed by a Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312
following the successful passing of the diagnostic test.
307 Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module
[0098] An Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 may be a Server 300 component that is
responsible for processing all privacy-related matters such as, but not limited to, exclusion
zones, shrouding and ghosting, which may otherwise be known as privacy constraints.
[0099] In one embodiment, the Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 includes a web-based
interface which allows users to access or interact with available server tools or features leading
to the creation, setting up, amendment, removal and/or payment of a privacy constraint and/or a
subscription or an associated user account. Such an account may be listed in or stored by a
User/Owner/Client Account Database 321. The Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 may
communicate with a User/Owner/Client Account Database 321 when necessary to allow, for
example, a user to create, set up, amend or remove an account which may only exist for the
purposes of enacting privacy constraints that may be conveyed to other's robots, devices or
vehicles for execution or implementation. The Communications Module 302 may facilitate the
connection between a user's (remotely located) device that is used to connect to a Server's 300
Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307. The Communications Module 302 may also facilitate
the distribution of privacy constraints to other Servers and/or user robots, devices or vehicles.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                               14
[00100] The Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 may also impose changes to a Robot
'Apps'/Functions Database 325, for example, by altering or amending aspects of robot apps or
functions, not limited to disallowing robots to travel into or within a particular space when
executing a particular assignment, operation or function.
[00101] In this context, an Operational Spaces Database 326 may be altered to reflect changes
to travel spaces.
[00102] In another instance, an Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 may communicate with
a Diagnostic Tests Database 327, not limited to the following, for the purposes of altering,
amending, analysing, reviewing and/or confirming that a Diagnostic Tests Database 327 would
appropriately and accurately instruct or command a robot, device or vehicle to perform all
necessary tests before, during or after an assignment, operation or function with respect to any
existing, or newly imposed changes to, privacy constraints listed in or stored on an
Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307.
[00103] For example, a user may form or create a new privacy constraint that may pose a
particular challenge or be a different set of parameters not previously dealt with by a robot,
device or vehicle. Accordingly, amendments and/or additions are made to relevant or
applicable diagnostic tests on a Diagnostic Tests Database 327 which would cause all relevant
or applicable robots, devices or vehicles to undertake or successfully complete an updated
diagnostic test when next required.
[00104] The Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 may communicate with a Payload
Database 328 for the purpose of forming a new or altering or amending an existing list of
authorised payloads that is carried in, on or by a robot, device or vehicle. Certain privacy
constraints may dictate which robots, devices or vehicles can carry or transport particular
payloads. Authorised payloads may be dictated also by any restrictions placed upon, a user,
which is listed in the User/Owner/Client Account Database 321.
[00105] The Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 may also communicate with a Surveillance
Database 330 for the purpose of altering or amending authorised and unauthorised surveillance
areas. Further to a Surveillance Database 330, an Operational Spaces Database 326 may be
utilised for the same purpose.
[00106] The Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 also communicates with a Profiles
Database 332 for the purpose of implementing any privacy constraints that may involve Profiles.
For example, a user may upload to a Server 300 using their robot, device or vehicle, with the
assistance of a Communications Module 302, a new or updated Profile to a Profile Database
332, with any updates to a Master Profile that relate to a privacy constraint communicated with
an Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307 which is then distributed out to any relevant or
applicable robots, devices or vehicles.
308 Rendezvous (Sensor/Scanner) Protocol Module
[00107] A Rendezvous (Sensor/Scanner) Protocol Module 308 is a Server 300 component
responsible for processing all rendezvous protocols (not limited to the example of a
'Sense/Scan' operation). These protocols may relate to the relocation of robots, devices or
vehicles to specified locations. Rendezvous protocols may be formed, set up, amended or
removed from one or more Server 300 databases or modules, not limited to a Rendezvous
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                       15
(Sensor/Scanner) Protocol Module 308 by either the registry party, users, governing bodies or
other stakeholders or third parties.
[00108] Using the 'sense/scan' rendezvous protocol as an example scenario, such a protocol
utilises a software application that executes on dedicated or shared hardware or other
peripherals, which cause robots, devices and vehicles to perform, in one example, a predefined
operation.                 Further, a Rendezvous (E.g. Sensor/Scanner) Protocol Module 308 may
communicate with one or more databases such as a User/Owner/Client Account Database 321
or a Registered Robot Database 323 to determine which users, owners or clients require their
robots, devices or vehicles to be tested or examined by sensors or scanners.
[00109] The Rendezvous (E.g. Sensor/Scanner) Protocol Module 308 may also communicate
with a Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305 in order
to plan, program, calculate, anticipate or expect which, when or where robots, devices or
vehicles may be 'called upon' (appropriately) for the purposes of a rendezvous protocol. For
example, a robot may be in the vicinity of a sense/scan station and, thus, an opportune moment
to activate or initiative the relevant rendezvous protocol.
[00110] In another example, using a practice of concealing (final) rendezvous locations or
positions, the Rendezvous (Sensor/Scanner) Protocol Module 308 when activating a robot,
device or vehicle for sensing or scanning may communicate with a robot, device or vehicle
using a Communications Module 302 in order to regulate its surveillance or tracking capabilities,
particularly, with respect to data that may be viewed or stored by an unauthorised party.
[00111] An Operational Spaces Database 326 or a Surveillance Database 330 may provide
(the most up-to-date) privacy constraints that may need to be obeyed to protect the
confidentiality, for example, of a sensor/scanner station's location or position. An Operational
Spaces Database 326 may also have a station's location or position updated from time to time.
[00112] Certain clearance codes are generated by a Clearance Code Module 306 or retrieved
from, or confirmed against a Clearance Code Database 331. Clearance codes sent may be the
data signal which causes robots, devices or vehicles to initiate or execute a particular
assignment, operation or function either for the purposes of this instance or another.
[00113] In another example, the Rendezvous (Sensor/Scanner) Protocol Module 308 may lead
to a positive detection result of a robot, device or vehicle which may then cause another
protocol, for example, a 'seizure protocol' run by a Seizure Protocol Module 309 to be initiated.
A seizure protocol overrides any prior commands or instructions conveyed to a robot, device or
vehicle by any party to, for example, instruct that a robot, device or vehicle instead execute new
commands or instructions that may be issued by the Registry or a governing body.
[00114] The seizure protocol commands program a robot, device or vehicle to undertake or
successfully complete a particular assignment, operation or function.             For example, the
assignment may be relocated to a designated space (e.g. Police impound) that may be listed in
an Operational Spaces Database 326. Further, different types or models of robots, devices or
vehicles (that may be specified in a Registered Robot Database 323) may have different
designated space.
309 Seizure Protocol Module
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                16
This module commands a user's robot, device or vehicle be relocated to a registry designated
space. This space may be stored in an Operational Spaces Database 326. In various
embodiments, a command may be communicated or uploaded to a robot, device or vehicle
(using a Communications Module 302). The specific data signal communicated (e.g. an output
file) may trigger an installed software application on a robot, device or vehicle and that
application will perform most of the computations. In other embodiments, a Server 300 runs the
applicable software application (as a host) and the remotely located robots, devices and
vehicles (clients) are simply a vessel which receives the commands from the Server 300.
310 Orders (Maintenance/Service/Inspection) Module
[00115] Module 310 commands that a user's or owner's robot be relocated to a designated
space. This space may be listed in an Operational Spaces Database 326. The Module 310
may also incorporate all necessary information, data, tasks, activities or requirements related to
maintenance, service, inspection or other matters. This Module 310 may also be a principal
module for use by a robot, device or vehicle testing facility; therefore, not only used to instigate
relocation of a robot, device or vehicle but able to be used after the robot has arrived at the
relocation destination by dictating, undertaking or actioning (e.g. outstanding) orders.
[00116] In another aspect, Module 310 may communicate with (perhaps, by using the
Communications Module 302, for example) an Approved & Historical Assignments/Functions &
Travel Plans & Tracks Database 329 to inform the Server 300 of a robot's, device's or vehicle's
location or position relative to a designated space as described in the above paragraph. The
server and any relevant user, owner or client may be kept updated on any order matters.
312 Tasks/Activities/Programs Module
[00117] This module may be utilised for numerous applications. For example, the module may
be responsible for operating, managing, monitoring and controlling (herein this specification
these may be referred to as 'running' or 'run(s)', depen ding on the context) one or more of the
Server's 300 databases or other modules.
[00118] Some non-exhaustive examples are provided as follows:
               -                 Diagnostic Tests Database 327: The 312 Module interfaces with Database
                                 327 for the purpose of (remotely) running robot diagnostic tests, using data
                                 contained in the Database 327 as necessary. These tests may be in relation
                                 to the requirement that users or owners of robots be proficient or approved
                                  before being issues clearance code(s) in order to perform an assignment or
                                 function. In another non-limiting instance, tests may be concerned with,
                                  preferably, authorised parties that are performing maintenance, service,
                                  inspection or other orders on users' or owners' robots.
               -                 Robot Apps/Functions Database 325: The 312 Module may interface with
                                  Database 325 for the purpose of examining robot applications ('apps') for
                                 suitability or approval-for-use by users' or owners' robots, and/or acceptance
                                 on the robot app marketplace, which may be publicly or privately accessible.
                                  Further, the 312 Module may interact with the Database 325 for the purpose of
                                 public or private examinations or evaluations, i.e. the system may allow for
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                17
                                 open-source or closed-source assessments, comments and/or feedback in the
                                 process of determining an app's or function's suitability or approval.
               -                 Profiles Database 332: The 312 Module may interface with Database 332 for
                                 the purpose of running the users', owner's or clients' Profile inputs and
                                 outputs. In one example, new or updated Profile data may be sent to the
                                 server and the 312 Module may be responsible for allocating to existing,
                                 respective, Master Profiles, or creating a new Master Profile accounts.
[00119] In another example, the 312 Module is also responsible for interacting with the Profiles
Database 332 for the purpose of determining the percentage accuracy of a Master Profile.
[00120] In other words, the Module 312 may cause changes in the percentage accuracy
assigned to a particular Master Profile. This change may then be distributed to an applicable or
associated user, which would signal to the user the requirement to update the subject Profile.
Distribution or communication with a remote device (e.g. a robot) by the server may be
instigated by the Communications Module 302.
[00121] If Profiles also apply or are, for example, registered for privacy protection, e.g. Profile
Exclusion Zone, Profile Shrouding or Profile Ghosting, then the applicable Profiles from the
Profiles Database 332 may interface with Operational Spaces Database 326 (in the case of
excluding spaces) and these privacy constraints are implemented in conjunction with the
Exclusion/Privacy Protocol Module 307. Further, in performing the above mentioned programs,
for example, the Module 312 and Profiles Database 332 may interact with the
User/Owner/Client Account Database 321 where necessary. For example, Profiles in the
Profiles Database 332 may be linked or associated with specific accounts in the
User/Owner/Client Account Database 321.
[00122] In one embodiment, a Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 facilitates the policing of
'rogue robots' or unregistered, unlicensed, illegal, non-participating, etc. robots, devices and
vehicles.              In one aspect, using data and information from sensors, scanners or other
surveillance capturing devices (installed on a user's robots, devices or vehicles) and transmitted
to a Server 300 (using a Communication Module 302) and received by or stored in a
Surveillance Database 330, a Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 may run a software
program that monitors, for example, surveillance information or data that consists or comprises
of identifying factors of a 'rogue robot' that is present or operating in a space that does not
correlate with any active assignments, operations or functions listed in or stored on a Proposed
& Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305, which interfaces with an
Operational Spaces Database 326.
[00123] In other words, a Surveillance Database 330 receive data; the data may be a captured
video image of a robot, for example; where and when the image was captured may be recorded
against or with the image file in the Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 and is then
cross-indexed with data contained in a Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel
Plans & Tracks Module 305, a Surveillance Database 330, a Registered Robot Database 323, a
Manufacturer And Robot Database 324, a Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database 325, an
Operational Spaces Database 326 and a Profiles Database 332.
[00124] In more detail:
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                  18
                -                a Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 may operate to perform most, if not
                                 all of the functions described herein, not limited to cross-index data and
                                  information listed in or stored on the below list of databases and modules;
                -                a Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module
                                 305 may allow identification of currently active assignments, operations and
                                 functions, and where and when they are occurring;
                -                a Surveillance Database 330 may receive and contain raw or unprocessed
                                  robot reference data to be searched, not limited to a digital picture of a yet to
                                  be identified robot;
                -                a Registered Robot Database 323 may provide information as to the
                                  registration status of any robot that is identified after processing surveillance
                                 data;
                -                a Manufacturer And Robot Database 324 may provide data or graphical
                                  representation information on particular types or models of robots to assist
                                 with comparing and contrasting said representations with surveillance data;
                -                a Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database 325 may allow another form of checking
                                 and confirming if a registered robot recently executed or is currently executing
                                 a software application that would cause a registered robot to be present at a
                                  particular place at a particular time;
                -                an Operational Spaces Database 326 may be utilised to bolster data or
                                  information about a particular space to surveillance data; and
                -                a Profiles Database 332 may list or store various relevant robot Profiles to
                                 assist this aspect of the invention determine (in)tangible elements, subjects or
                                 objects captured in the surveillance data.
321 User/Owner/Client Account Database
[00125] A User/Owner/Client Account Database 321 includes a data structure of all users that
participate with the system described herein. The User/Owner/Client Account Database 321
contains data concerning, but not limited to:
                -                the identity of a user, owner or client, and linked to or associated with some or
                                 all information or data listed in or stored on a Profiles Database 332 such as a
                                  profile picture or other media file;
                -                 if a user, owner or client is linked to or associated with any registered robots,
                                 devices or vehicles, with some or all data listed in a Registered Robot
                                  Database 323;
                -                 historical events (dates or times) linked to or associated with a user, owner or
                                 client, for example, some or all information relevant or applicable to a user,
                                 owner or client in this regard may be listed in or stored on an Approved &
                                  Historical Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Database 329;
                -                whether a user, owner or client currently possesses or formally possessed
                                 valid security and/or protection mechanisms or 'password keys', not limited to
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                 19
                                 biometric locks or Profile data used to access or log-on to their robot, device
                                 or vehicle, or their Registry account for the purposes of paying a service fee or
                                 charge, dealing with privacy constraint matters (creating, amending, etc.), and
                                 so on, and relevant or applicable data or information concerning Profiles may
                                 be obtained from or referenced with data or information listed in or stored on a
                                  Profiles database 332;
                                 whether a user, owner or client has previously been or currently is associated
                                 with a robot, device or vehicle that had been, was or still is 'rooted', jailbroken'
                                 or hacked, or if there have been issues or notable reports with respect to a
                                  robot's, device's or vehicle's hardware, software o r capabilities, and such
                                  information or data may be listed in or stored on a Registered Robot Database
                                 323;
                -                whether a user, owner or client has any outstanding orders (that may relate to
                                  maintenance, service or inspection requests) for a robot, device or vehicle that
                                 they are linked to or associated with, and such information or data about
                                 orders may be listed on or stored in a Registered Robot Database 323, an
                                 Orders (E.g. Maintenance/Service/Inspection) Module 310, and/or a
                                  Diagnostic Test Database 327;
                -                whether a user, owner or client has any special waivers, permissions,
                                 authorisations or exemptions listed in or stored against their identity on their
                                 account file, not limited to, a waiver to have their robot, device or vehicle
                                 operate a surveillance application to allow a parent to supervise their child
                                 walking or catching the bus to/from school, or to allow their robot, device or
                                 vehicle to carry a particular payload or undertake a certain 'restricted' function,
                                 which information or data may be listed in or stored on a Payload Database
                                 328.
322 Ineligible Database
[00126] The Ineligible Database 322 comprises a list of ineligible users, owners or clients.
Ineligibility may be for a variety of applications, activities or requests, for example, particular
users, owner or clients may not be mature enough (e.g. under a statutory age limit) to possess
or have the authority to instruct, command or convey assignments, operations or functions to a
particular type or model of robot, device or vehicle. In one embodiment, the Ineligible Database
322 is operated by a Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312, and receives collaborative
information or data from a Manufacturer And Robot Database 324 which specifies the
hardware, software and capabilities (i.e. specifications) of a particular type or model of robot,
device or vehicle.
[00127] Robots, devices or vehicles that are deemed ineligible may be listed in an Ineligible
Database 322 and the corresponding ineligibility rating or status linked to or associated with a
user's account which may be listed in the User/Owner/Client Account Database 321.
323 Registered Robot Database
[00128] The Registered Robot Database 323 includes information on robots, devices or
vehicles that have been registered by their users, owners or clients. Robots, devices or
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                  20
vehicles that may be or become ineligible for registration may instead be listed in or stored on
an Ineligible Database 322.
324 Manufacturer and Robot Database
[00129] A Manufacturer and Robot Database 324 includes data or information regarding
manufacturers of robots, devices and vehicles. In more detail, the Manufacturer and Robot
Database 324 lists all robots, devices and vehicles recognised by the Server 300 system.
[00130] Further, the Manufacturer and Robot Database 324 includes data with regard to 'Type
Approval' methods, typically associated with compliance identifications/ certifications. For
example, part of a compliance process may establish a performance baseline for a particular
robot type, which would need to be above the required standards for compliance approval.
[00131] Further, data in relation to compliance matters may be stored on a Manufacturer and
Robot Database 324.                            When diagnostic tests are being undertaken, e.g. by a
Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 in collaboration with a Diagnostic Tests Database 327,
the Manufacturer And Robot Database 324 may be referenced for any required data or
information.
325 Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database
[00132] A Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database 325 includes                              data regarding approved or
unapproved robot, device or vehicle software applications.
[00133] In more detail, a Server 300 utilises the Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database 325 for the
purpose of listing or storing all available 'apps' for download and/or purchase by users, owners
or clients, perhaps, for their respective robot, device or vehicle. Those parties may access or
log-in to their registry account, navigate a web-based interface in order to search for, select and
purchase, then download a desired app.
[00134] The 'app marketplace' may interface with any one or more of the aforementioned
modules and/or databases. For example:
                -                a Communications Module 302 arranged to facilitate data transmission in
                                 order to: access an account, complete any transaction activities, download
                                 any relevant files from the Server 300 and/or another robot, device or vehicle;
                -                a Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 to operate the 'app marketplace'
                                 web-based or application programming interface;
                -                a Transaction Module 303 facilitates e-, f-, s- and/or m-Commerce activities;
                -                a User/Owner/Client Account Database 321 is responsible for assigning
                                  restrictions, regulations, listing/storing and/or advising of any applicable or
                                  relevant information about, in respect of, or to particular apps;
                -                an Ineligible Database 322 controls which parties are not eligible to download
                                  particular apps;
                -                a Registered Robot Database 323 which includes a list of apps that a robot,
                                 device or vehicle already possesses, may be eligible for or compatible with;
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                21
                -                a Manufacturer And Robot Database 324 specifies apps that are suitable for
                                  use or compatible with particular robots, devices or vehicles, or provide
                                 guidelines or parameters to prevent particular apps functioning or executing
                                 on a type of robot, device or vehicle;
                -                a Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database 325 includes a list of approved or
                                  unapproved apps for all types of robots, devices or vehicles available in the
                                  'app marketplace';
                -                an Operational Spaces Database 326 discloses all spaces that are authorised
                                 to work with or are approved-for-use by an app, which is accessible via a
                                 web-based interactive map that illustrates the specific areas;
                -                a Diagnostic Tests Database 327 determines which tests should or must be
                                  run before particular apps are executed on robots, devices or vehicles, during
                                 and/or after the execution of those apps;
                -                a Payload Database 328 determines which, if any, payloads may be utilised
                                 with a particular app;
                -                an Approved & Historical Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks
                                  Database 329 provides statistical data or information concerning the number
                                 of occasions a particular app has been utilised;
                -                a Surveillance Database 330 informs which apps in the 'app marketplace'
                                  have restrictions placed upon them in respect of surveillance activities
                                  performed by a robot, device or vehicle;
                -                a Profile Database 332 determines which Profiles are required to be
                                 exchanged or transmitted to a Server 300 and/or another robot, device or
                                 vehicle.
326 Operational Spaces Database
[00135] An Operational Spaces Database 326 is provided which includes an entire inventory of
environments, places, areas or spaces approved for particular robots, devices or vehicles. The
Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 interfaces with this database to transmit information to
the robots, devices or vehicles.
[00136] In more detail, the Operational Spaces Database 326 regulates particular assignments,
operations or functions of robots, devices or vehicles. For example, a particular (air)space may
be permanently excluded-for-use by all or particular robots, devices or vehicles for safety,
security or privacy considerations.
327 Diagnostic Tests Database
[00137] The Diagnostic Tests Database 327 includes a plurality of tests for execution on robots,
devices and vehicles. In one embodiment, a robot, device or vehicles utilises the Server 300
Diagnostic Tests Database 327 when required to perform a test, and/or the Server 300 may
reference its Diagnostic Tests Database 327 to confirm that a robot, device or vehicle
possesses the correct tests on its own database(s) and/or module(s).
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                 22
[00138] The Server's 300 Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 and/or Communications
Module 302 is utilised to, respectively:
                (i)               run or perform the test on or for a robot, device or vehicle, remotely; and
                (ii)             facilitate any necessary transmissions to/from the host (e.g. registry Server
                                 300) and clients (e.g. users', owners' or clients' rob ots, devices or vehicles) for
                                 these purposes.
329 Approved & Historical Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Database
[00139] An Approved & Historical Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Database
329 contains registry, governing body or other third party approved robot, device or vehicle
assignments, operations or functions, which includes permissible operational travel spaces for
robots, devices and vehicles.
[00140] The Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Module 305
communicate or references information or data contained in the Approved & Historical
Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks Database 329 before approving or amending
any proposed or active assignments, operations or functions.
[00141] A Clearance Code Module 306 is utilised to generate any relevant or appropriate
clearance codes after a Proposed & Active Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans & Tracks
Module 305 has deemed an assignment, operation or function is acceptable or approved
following collaboration with an Approved & Historical Assignments/Functions & Travel Plans &
Tracks Database 329.
330 Surveillance Database
[00142] In addition to aspects already described herein, a Surveillance Database 330 may be
utilised to collect particular surveillance data or information from a plurality of robots, devices or
vehicles.
[00143] A user may run a particular software application (that may be listed in or stored on a
Robot 'Apps'/Functions Database 325), and that application carry a stipulation that particular
surveillance data (e.g. with respect to time, date or location) be relayed to the Server 300 for
analysis, processing, storage, etc.                       A Communications Module 302 may facilitate the
transmissions between the Server 300 and remote robots, devices or vehicles.                                       A
Tasks/Activities/Programs Module 312 may then route (after, for example, filtering) relevant,
appropriate or of value data to a Surveillance Database 330.
331 Clearance Code Database
[00144] A Clearance Code Database 331 may list or store all historical or currently active codes
issued and their respective assignment, operation or function particulars (which robot it was
issued to, the user involved, time/date, etc.) and is run by a Clearance Code Module 306. The
Clearance Code Database 331 can also be used for the purposes of ensuring that particular
codes are not reused again, or are only recycled following suitable quarantine periods.
[00145] Figures 4 to 7 are flowcharts illustrating the process of issuing clearance code(s) to
robots before they may operate (at a particular time or in a particular manner or space). This
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                    23
embodiment adopts 'public' spaces as an example, but the broader inventive concept extends
to any physical or virtual space.
[00146] Referring to Figure 4, there is shown a typical process flow for a registry in accordance
with the registries shown generally at Figure 3 (i.e. server 300) and with the server system
generally shown at Figure 2 (i.e. server cluster 100a).
[00147] At step 402, a user typically wishes to utilize a robot for a particular function. If the
consumer does not have a robot, the consumer may wish to purchase or otherwise obtain a
robot at step 404, before proceeding to step 406, where a user makes a determination as to
whether the robot will be used in a public space.
[00148] If the consumer wishes to operate their robot in a public space, the process flow
continues to step 412, where a determination is made as to whether the consumer possesses a
valid robot account. If the consumer does not have an account, a further determination is made
at step 414 to determine whether the consumer is eligible for an account. If the consumer is not
eligible for an account, the consumer may register to determine whether they may be eligible for
an account at a later date at step 416.
[00149] If the consumer is eligible for an account, at step 418, the consumer obtains a valid
account.
[00150] Once the system has determined that the consumer has a valid account, a check is
made to determine whether the consumer's robot is registered at step 420. If the robot is not
registered, then at step 422, a determination is made as to whether the consumers robot is
registration eligible. If the robot is not registrable, the consumer may obtain a robot at step 424,
and the eligible robot can then proceed through the flow process at step 406. If the consumer's
robot is registration eligible, the consumer registers the robot at step 426 and the process flow
may continue as shown in Figure 5.
[00151] Referring now to Figure 5, once it is determined that the consumer is authorised to
operate the robot and that the robot is registered and authorised to carry out the action, then at
step 428, a determination is made as to whether the consumers robot has outstanding orders.
If so, the process flow continues to step 430 where the consumer is informed, the consumer
complies at step 430 and the orders are satisfied and the robot reinstated at step 434.
Thereafter, the robot is ready to receive future orders and the process flow continues at step
440, where the consumer conveys an assignment or function instructions to the robot.
[00152] Referring to Figure 5a, there is shown a diagram illustrating the concepts of a software
application in accordance with the present invention.
[00153] Referring to Figure 5b, there is described a process flow for the manner in which a
command is generated, processed and received by the robotic device. At step A001, external
command or request generator 1 (e.g. a user and/or user's 'smart' device or robot pendant)
generates a command or request (including any metadata).
[00154] At step A002, the command or request (which includes any attached information or
metadata) is communicated 8 to the remote server 2 (or Robot Registry). At step A003, the
remote server 2 receives and assesses the command or request, then generates an
assessment determination.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  24
[00155] At step A004 and A005, if the determination was to conditionally approve the command
or request subject to approval of results or responses from outstanding assessment
requirements, the remote server 2 communicates 9 outstanding requirements or instructions
(e.g. assessment, diagnostic or health test instructions) to the robot's 6 receiver/transmitter
module 10.
[00156] Therefore, in one embodiment, the command or request (e.g. operation mission) is first
approved, in-principle, then the robot may need to be vetted (e.g. to ensure it is up to the task)
before it is authorised to effect the command or request (e.g. like a two-part procedure or
assessment).
[00157] The receiver/transmitter module 10 transmits the requirements or instructions to the
robot's 6 regulating 'chip' 3 (e.g. a robot-local Ro bot Registry device, which may be software,
hardware and/or firmware, and may comprise one or more devices functioning together,
separately, dependently or independently; such devices may be integrated into robot modules
or units, e.g. central processing units, CPUs).
[00158] At step A006 and A007, the regulating chip 3 facilitates and/or supervises robot testing
or querying, communicating 9 results or responses to the remote server 2 (e.g. via the robot's 6
receiver/transmitter module 10).
[00159] At step A008, the remote server 2 receives and assesses the results or responses,
then generates an assessment determination. (Note: steps A004 to A008 may go through
numerous rounds or be repeated e.g. to facilitate further querying or testing following receipt,
assessment and determination of prior query or test results or responses).
[00160] At step A009, if a determination was to approve the command or request following
receipt and assessment of the robot's 6 results or responses, then the remote server 2
communicates 9 the command or request to the robot's 6 receiver/transmitter module 10. The
receiver/transmitter module 10 transmits the command or request to the robot's 6 regulating
chip 3.
[00161] At step A010, the regulating chip 3 facilitates the command or request, transmitting to
the robot's 6 output 5, which essentially results in the command or request being effected.
[00162] Referring to Figure 5c, there is another example of a command and control sequence.
At step B001, external command or request generator 1 generates a command or request.
[00163] In another embodiment, an internal command or request generator 7 (e.g. the robot's 6
autonomous logic or 'brain') generates a command or request. In one example, the robot
detects something in its environment such as unfavourable or bad weather, which upon internal
logic assessment results in the robot needing to generate a request such as permission to
implement a detour to the destination, i.e. to avoid the bad weather.
[00164] Since the detour would involve a new travel path the robot would first need it approved
before the robot is permitted to pursue the new route. At step B002, the command or request is
communicated 12 (or transmitted 11, according to the other embodiment in step B001) to the
robot's 6 input module 4. The robot's 6 input modu le 4 transmits the command or request to the
robot's 6 regulating 'chip' 3.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                 25
[00165] At step B003, the robot's 6 regulating chip 3 assesses the command or request, then
generates an assessment determination. At step B004 and B005, if the determination was to
conditionally approve the command or request subject to approval of results or responses from
outstanding assessment requirements, the regulating chip 3 then facilitates and/or supervises
robot testing or querying to establish said results or responses.
[00166] At step B006, should the results or responses be satisfactory , in conjunction with the
command and request, then the regulating chip 3 communicates 9 this data information to the
remote server 2 (e.g. via the robot's 6 receiver/transmitter module 10) for further or final
assessment and determination. In other words, the regulating chip 3 may pre-vet the command
or request and/or robot's results or responses, i.e. before communicating with the remote server
2.
[00167] An advantage of this includes reducing the probability of the remote server 2 receiving
and processing extraneous, redundant or purposeless data information traffic, e.g. the
regulating chip 3 may act as a first screen', rejecting any commands or requests (which may be
in conjunction with the robot's results or responses) that do not cut muster or are determined as
not (likely) to be approved by the remote server 2.
[00168] At step A007, the remote server 2 receives and assesses the command or request
and/or results or responses, then generates an assessment determination. At step A008, if the
determination was to approve the command or request, the remote server 2 communicates 9
the command or request approval to the robot's 6 receiver/transmitter module 10.
[00169] The receiver/transmitter module 10 transmits the command or request approval to the
robot's 6 regulating chip 3. At step A009, the regulating chip 3 facilitates the command or
request, transmitting to the robot's 6 output 5, which equates to the command or request being
effected by the robot 6. Note, as described in Scenario 1 (i.e. Figure 5b), the Scenario 2 (i.e.
Figure 5c) process may also involve steps the same as or similar to steps 4 to 7 in Scenario 1,
e.g. the remote server 2 may dictate further robot querying or testing before approving the
command or request.
[00170] Referring to Figure 5d, there is shown another example of a command and control
state. At step C001, external command or request generator 1 (or internal command or request
generator 7) generates a command or request.
[00171] At step C002, the command or request is communicated 12 (or transmitted 11) to the
robot's 6 input module 4. The robot's 6 input modu le 4 transmits the command or request to the
robot's 6 regulating 'chip' 3.
[00172] At step C003, the robot's 6 regulating chip 3 assesses the command or request, then
generates an assessment determination. At step C004 and C005, if the determination was to
conditionally approve the command or request subject to approval of results or responses from
outstanding assessment requirements, the regulating chip 3 then facilitates and/or supervises
robot testing or querying to establish said results or responses.
[00173] At step C006, it is here that the process may differ from Scenario 2, in that the
regulating chip 3 may determine that there is no communication with a remote server 2 (e.g. the
robot 6 may be 'out of range', in a wireless signal denied environment or not 'permanently'
online), so the regulating chip 3 assesses to the best of its ability and/or programming the
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  26
command or request and/or results or responses (e.g. it may take on the same or similar role as
what the remote server 2 would have performed).
[00174] In one embodiment, the regulating chip 3 may occasionally communicate 9 with a
remote server 2, e.g. via the robot's 6 receiver/transmitter module 10, and in doing so may
facilitate the renewal of the robot's regulatory chip service subscription (or licence key) and/or
the updating of relevant software, patches or flashes such as the latest Orders and/or Protocols
that are to be obeyed or complied with by the robot 6.
[00175] In a further embodiment, should the robot's 6 regulating chip 3 not communicate with
the remote server 2 within a specified time period or in respect of a currently proposed
command or request the robot's 6 regulating chip 3 may cause commands or requests to not be
approved in whole or in part-essentially, limiting or restricting the robot 6 or preventing it from
operating.
[00176] A limitation or restriction example includes the command or request being 'travel
around [this] location, taking surveillance footage'; however, since the robot had not been in
communication with the remote server within a specified period of time the command or request
was reduced or limited, for example, as follows: the robot was only permitted to travel within a
specified radius of its 'home base' (or registered address) or was not permitted to travel within
public spaces.
[00177] At step C007, if the determination was to approve the command or request, the
regulating chip 3 facilitates the command or request, transmitting to the robot's 6 output 5,
which equates to the command or request being effected by the robot 6.
[00178] Upon receiving the instructions, at step 445, the robot commences diagnostic tests and
subsequently, at step 450, the robots test data is sent to the registry where, at step 455, a
determination is made to determine whether the robot has successfully completed the
diagnostic tests. If not, the process is terminated at step 460 as the consumer's robot is not
issued a clearance code required to execute assignment and/or perform a restrictive function in
a public space. If the robot successfully completes the diagnostic tests, the registry issues the
consumer's robot with the appropriate instructions or clearance codes at step 465 and at step
470 the consumer's robot executes the assignment or function. Subsequent to the assignment
or function being executed, the registry may optionally be updated at step 475 and a further
determination is made to determine whether the consumer has other assignments or function
instructions for the robot at step 480. If not, the process ends at step 485, but if there are
further instructions, the process returns to step 406 at Figure 4.
Profile Updating
[00179] Referring now to Figure 6 there is shown a flowchart depicting a manner in which a
profile may be updated. At step A505, a customer obtains profile capture products and
ultimately at step A510 the customer obtains a subscription account and is invoiced accordingly
if a subscription model is used.
[00180] Once the customer has obtained profile capture products and a subscription account,
at step A515 the customer forms their profile. Once the profile is formed at step A520 the
customer logs onto their account and subsequently at step A525 the customer may upload their
profile update (or alternatively, the profile may be updated automatically).
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                       27
[00181] In some embodiments, the file updates may be sent to a master profile and added to
the master profile as shown at step A530. Subsequently, the customer's updated master profile
is distributed.
[00182] Referring now to Figure 7, there is shown a shorter description of how a master profile
is updated. At step 419b, a determination is made as to whether profiles are maintained. If not,
at step 419c the user is informed it is required to update their profile. The user subsequently
updates their profile at 419d and the process ends at step 419e. If the profile has been
correctly maintained, no further steps are necessary and the process ends at step 419e.
Conditions or Constraints
[00183] In the previous section, and with reference to Figures 5a-5d, there are described
various examples of a methodology for the command and control structure. One step in the
process is the imposition of "conditions or constraints" on the operation of the robotic device.
Example embodiments are described with reference to Figure 7a, each path defined by the
flowchart route chosen.
[00184] Figure 7b may conform to a similar structure of the broad process steps of:
                (1)              generating;
                (2)              assessing (optional);
                (3)              responding; and
                (4)              amending (optional).
[00185] With reference to Figure 7c and 7b, the following summarises two example processes
of generating, assessing and imposing a condition or constraint. With regard to Scenario 1 in
Figure 7c, at step D01, the condition/constraint creator CC10 generates a condition or
constraint (including any metadata).
[00186] At step D02, the condition or constraint (which includes any attached information or
metadata) is communicated to the remote server 0011 (or Robot Registry). At step D03, the
remote server 0011 receives and assesses the condition or constraint, then generates an
assessment determination.
[00187] At step D04, the remote server 0011 may approve the condition or constraint being
imposed. At step D05, the remote server 0011 communicates the condition or constraint to the
robot's CC12 one or more 'regulating chips'. At step D06, the robot's CC12 regulating chip
facilitates the condition or constraint being imposed.
[00188] At step D07, the condition or constraint may be amended or revoked for one or more
reasons, e.g. the condition/constraint creator CC10 may no longer require the condition or
constraint to be active, so it may be cancelled.
[00189] With regard to Scenario 2 in Figure 7c, at step E01, the condition/constraint creator
CC20 generates a condition or constraint (including any metadata). At step E02, the condition
or constraint is communicated to the robot's CC22 one or more regulating chips. At step E03,
the robot's CC22 regulating chip receives and facilitates assessment of the condition or
constraint, then generates an assessment determination. At step E04, the regulating chip may
approve the condition or constraint. At step E05, the regulating chip facilitates the condition or
constraint being imposed. At step E06, the condition or constraint may be amended or revoked.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                   28
Privacy Issues and Ghosting
[00190] Figures 8 to 11 illustrate some examples of the techniques utilised by the server 300 to
prevent users from capturing, viewing or recording surveillance data from any device, machine
or robot, either due to being unregistered, the user unlicensed, it operating or functioning within
or near a particular space, and so on. However, robots, for example, may still be able to use
cameras or other surveillance functionalities for navigation or other purposes, but their users
would not be approved or able to access, view or record such footage or data.
[00191] Privacy constraints may take the form of software code downloaded onto the robot,
which then self-regulates its navigation movements. In one embodiment, the robot's navigation
system may have 'blocks' or 'no go' zones placed upon i ts 'internal' map. These no go zones
may be added, subtracted or amended accordingly, from time to time. Compatible navigation
software code may utilise or feature multi-dimensional (geographical) coordinate
systems/techniques. Such as, the robot's system is informed to avoid or not to travel within
certain zones.
[00192] For example, unregistered robots would not typically receive clearance codes but they
may receive privacy constraints. Being able to receive these constraints despite not being
registered may be due to robot manufacturers supporting the 'privacy protocol standard',
thereby, by default, designing robots to automatically receive these relevant transmissions-in
whatever form they may be relayed to the robot (and whether from the registry or another
party)-irrespective of the user being aware of such receipt.
[00193] In an alternative example, a registered robot may receive clearances codes; however
not receive any privacy constraints. One reason for this may be because the consumer's
instructed assignment or function did or would not cause the robot to venture in, on or near an
exclusion zone (a zone that may be registered with the Registry or another party).
[00194] In more detail, the steps for facilitating exclusion zones (e.g. adjust travel path or plan):
                (1)              condition or constraint position data information is received (e.g. by robot or by
                                  remote server);
                (2)               prior to an Intention execution or approval, robot's travel plan or path is
                                 queried for conflicts with received condition or constraint position data
                                  information;
                (3)               if there are conflicts, plan or path is adjusted to avoid (collision with) the space
                                  (or a subject within that space) as defined by the condition or constraint
                                  position data information.
[00195] The broad steps for facilitating shrouding or ghosting (e.g. augmenting of surveillance
data and regulating disclosure):
                (1)              condition or constraint position data information is received (e.g. by robot or by
                                  remote server);
                (2)               prior to an Intention execution or approval (including the transmission of
                                 surveillance data for viewing and/or storing in non-buffered/-volatile memory;
                                 or the disclosure of data information, e.g. subject 'tagging'), robot's sensor
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                 29
                                 field(s) of capture are queried for conflicts with received condition or constraint
                                 position data information;
               (3)               if there are conflicts, robot's sensor field of capture is conditioned or
                                 constrained (e.g. augmented) such as by obstructing the sensor data feed or
                                 by blurring, censoring, blacking or whiting-out the capture field corresponding
                                 with the received condition or constraint data information. In one embodiment,
                                 this shrouding mechanism may be facilitated similar to creating 3D models in
                                 augmented reality environments, i.e. upon the recognition of a profile in the
                                 scene, the profile is virtually substituted/superimposed with a 'blank' shape,
                                 obstructing the profile.
[00196] Condition or constraint position data information is received by robot and/or remote
server in the following manners:
               -                 For pre-defined position data information (e.g. fixed coordinates and altitude)
                                 with reference to Scenario 1 (or 2) shown in Figure 7c, the remote server (or
                                 robot's regulating chip) receives the generated condition or constraint,
                                 e.g. D03 (or E03), usually, in advance.
               -                 For real-time position data information (e.g. collocated location module), the
                                 robot may receive the broadcasting device's transmission.
               -                 For real-time profile recognition: robot may capture the profile, it be recognised
                                 locally (e.g. by regulating chip), then a determination made whether the profile
                                 is conditioned or constrained. In another embodiment, the robot captures but
                                 then communicates the capture data information to a remote server for
                                 processing (i.e. recognition or querying); if the profile is conditioned or
                                 constrained then a regulated response may be issued or no response.
[00197] The systems, methods, computer programs, data signals and apparatuses which may
facilitate exclusion zones include those technologies deployed for Airborne Collision Avoidance
Systems                (http://en.wikipedia.orq/wiki/Airborne Collision Avoidance System).                Examples
(non-limiting), include:
               (1)               Traffic alert and Collision Avoidance System (TCAS)
                                 http://en.wikipedia.orq/wiki/Traffic Collision Avoidance System;
               (2)               Portable Collision Avoidance System (PCAS)
                                 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable Collision Avoidance System;
               (3)               FLARM http://en.wikipedia.orq/wiki/FLARM;
               (4)               Terrain Awareness and Warning System (TAWS)
                                 http://en.wikipedia.orq/wiki/Terrain awareness and warning system;
               (5)               Obstacle Collision Avoidance System (OCAS)
                                 http://en.wikipedia.orq/wiki/Obstacle Collision Avoidance System
Profile Recognition
[00198] The main differences with exclusion zones being facilitated via Profiles rather than
collocated location module or fixed coordinates and altitude include the substitution of position
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  30
announcing transmitting devices and signals with Profile recognition technology and the
generation of a prescribed exclusion zone around that recognised Profile, which may be
facilitated within the robot's Geospatial Information System (GIS), navigation and path planning
system.
[00199] Returning now to Figure 8, there is shown a diagram illustrating a number of clients,
user devices and robots. A client 111 selects privacy constraints, which are transmitted via a
communication network 60 and, through server 100a, to a plurality of robots 210a, 210b and
210n. The privacy constraints are filtered by the system such that only robots that are
participants in the network receive the privacy constraints. As can be seen, non participant
robot 210c does not receive the imposed privacy constraints.
[00200] Similarly, user device 11 Ob which is a non participant does not receive the imposed
privacy constraints. However, user devices 11 0a and 11On do receive the privacy constraints.
[00201] Referring now to Figure 9, there is shown an example of how exclusion, shrouding or
ghosting operates in practice. The registry may utilise its resources to exclude spaces from
being travelled (or traversed) by robots, essentially by enacting 'no go' or 'no fly' zones, for
example, that robots obey. Additionally, other devices or machines may also be regulated, by
not being permitted to operate unencumbered within or near these exclusion zones. These
devices or machines may be caused to switch off or reduce functionality.
[00202] In one embodiment, the Registry's server implements an exclusion zone and all robots
must adjust their subsequent travel plans and tracks accordingly.
[00203] In addition there may be provided a software application for robots that prevent any
(on-board) equipment (e.g. cameras) from conducting surveillance operations when faced or
encountered with a shrouded zone to protect, for example, public privacy.
[00204] In more detail, before explaining the process flow of Figure 9, it will be understood that
when a participating robot or device captures a registered Profile (not limited to a tangible
object, such as a person) the data captured would trigger, upon processing, that it is privacy
registered and then that subject is instantly shrouded (e.g. blurred). Profiles may be stored and
processed locally, on participating robots or devices (reducing lag or latency times), or remotely,
stored and processed on, for example, the Registry's cloud servers. Not storing such data on
non-registry devices or robots would be preferred in order to securely maintain (a client's)
sensitive Profile data.
[00205] In another embodiment, select Profile data is stored (and processed) locally of a user's
devices or robots. For example, the registry may transmit to participating robots and devices
Profile data of registered clients (subscribers) present in the vicinity of those participating robots
and devices. So if they were to encounter each other (i.e. come into capture view) then these
privacy measures could be effected. Then, once participating robots or devices have moved
away from a registered client, that client's Profile data is deleted from those robots and devices.
This embodiment would help ease the latency problem, by storing and processing data locally,
and slightly solve the issue of having sensitive Profile data (of others) stored and processed
locally, rather than just by the Registry's servers.
[00206] Profile data is stored, processed and filtered (with respect to database queries) in any
number of manners. For example, the end user's device or robot may locally store a copy (and
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                             31
receive relevant updates) of all database Profiles; and the device or robot may subsequently
process and filter such queries as well.
[00207] In one embodiment of the invention, the user may be presented with a map (that is at
least one-dimension), however, preferably a three-dimensional mapping computer program like
one or more of the following: Bing 3D Maps; Placebase; Google Tour Guide or Maps GL, 3D
Maps Mobile; Amazon's UpNext app; Whereis 3D City Models; Uniden TRAX 5000; Aviation
Mapper; Nokia 3D Maps (e.g. Ovi), and so on.
[00208] The user would be presented with the opportunity to select in the map (by directing a
mouse cursor or equivalently operable pointer) areas or spaces, perhaps, by dragging the
cursor or pointer across a screen or by using gesture control, voice commands or other effecting
action that may be or become applicable methods from time to time.
[00209] One example of shrouding would be a resident wishing to shroud their apartment's
windows and balconies from robot surveillance (perhaps, aerial robotic devices), would access
the system, locate their property's windows and balconies, drag the cursor over those areas or
spaces to shroud (that may be illustrated on-screen by a size-changing rectangle or rectangular
prism), confirm selection, enter and accept payment terms, confirm transaction, shrouding
effected with specified timeframe.
[00210] Only applicable or allowable zones may be available for selection by the user. For
example, parties may not have the option available to select a space that they do not have
control over, do not own or are not named on the land's title. If a party selects a zone for
exclusion (i.e. to prevent other robots from travelling in this space or on this area) and this zone
not be a space legally associated with the party, for example, then to prevent robots that are
related to a party legally associated with that space (due to the exclusion imposed by the other
disassociated party) those robots may be approved to override such imposition. There is a
need to account for antagonists, i.e. dissociated parties that may attempt to prevent other
parties' robots from genuinely accessing or travelling in a particular space.
[00211] Referring now to Figure 9, at step 1, an augmented reality device or a robot with
surveillance capabilities captures data, which may be image or voice data at step 2. At step 3
the captured data is transmitted to a remote server for processing via the communications
network 60a. The captured data is received at step 5 by at least one server such as server
300a and the data is stored and compared against privacy constraints. At step 6 the data is
uploaded through the communication network. At step 7 the processed data is transmitted to
the robot or device, so that appropriate action may be taken by the robot or device at step 8.
[00212] Referring now to Figure 9a and 9b, there is described an example of how exclusion
zones may be created (e.g. how specific areas/volumes of a town are designated as
non-operational areas to robots).
[00213] The remote server (Robot Registry) is responsible for ensuring all exclusion zone data
is updated and maintained. This data arrives from various sources such as public aviation
departments, defence departments, LEO groups, corporations and individuals. An exclusion
zone (e.g. 'no fly zone') consists of various pieces of metadata that includes the following:
                                 Geo-location data that defines a three-dimensional volume mapped against
                                 the surface of the earth;
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                               32
               -                 Times that the condition or constraint is in place;
               -                 Dates that the condition or constraint is in place;
               -                 Specifications of what the exclusion zone applies to. For instance robots over
                                 a certain size/speed capability;
               -                 Explanation for the condition or constraint; and
               -                 Body/individual that requested the condition or constraint.
[00214] The remote server allows data to be submitted via secure web forms or via automated
Application Programming Interfaces, within the remote server web form interface individuals
could enter data in several ways. Data is entered as a series of GPS locations creating a
closed loop or a map could be displayed allowing the individual to plot the closed loop over the
map. Once submitted a remote server validates geo-data and approves it for submission to the
exclusion zone database. Additional screens allow for the editing and configuration of this data
as required by remote server staff. Alternatively, once submitted, the remote server's
automated assessment programs may determine suitability for approval.
[00215] To create an accurate three-dimensional volume all data is GPS based including
altitude values. A default height may be applied to the zone.
[00216] The user can use any tool that creates a valid set of GPS coordinates which form a
loop, or alternatively they could utilise an online mapping interface provided by a remote server
(Robot Registry).
[00217] One example of an online mapping interface is Google Maps developer API. Specific
information on the capabilities can be found here https://developers.qooqle.com/maps/.
[00218] Referring to Figure 9c, a user or service provider sends to the remote server the
Intention request which holds the GPS location of the target landing site. This data is presented
in a JSON compatible format and matches the remote server API requirements or is rejected. A
typical request looks as follows:
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                   33
                  "recipiet.":        "Mr Crai-g  Smith",
                  "address":        [
                         { address1:     "1  John St"},
                         {"add.r.ess2": "Craig'   s farm"}
                  "geo":
                         "lat":   "-32.118056",
                         "lorg": "141.523447"
                  "payload":
                         "lot":   "of  data"
[00219] The remote server prccesses this request to identify if it exists within its known
database of exclusion zones.
[002201 If the destination is within an exclusion zone a rejection is sent and alternatives offered,
such as nearest possible safe point or choice to abandon the request. If the destination is
approved then a confirmation is sent approving the request.
[00221] This process is described further with reference to Figure 10. Figure 10 illustrates a
process flow, where a client wishes to apply for exclusion zone, shrouding or ghosting services
at step 505. At step 510 the dient creates a registfry account if one does not exist and at step
515 the client logs onto their account. At step 520 the client is given the option or proposing
exclusion zone, shrouding and/or ghosting options, which may be facilitated via the use of
selecting, on a map, the area the cient wishes to shroud, the area the client wishes to set as an
exclusion zone.
[00222] At step 525, the client confirms their choices and any payments necessary. At step
530 the registry receives the client's application and step 535 the registry reviews the
application and consults with third parties if relevant.
[00223] At step 540 the registry may approve, deny or propose amendments the dients
application and, once all relevant parties accept the application at step 545, the client is
invoiced and the application finalised.
[002241 At step 550 upon payment receipt, the registry takes the necessary action to update
lie database to exclude, shroud or ghost the area, device, machine or robot.
.51117
     1 .mmallam
              Pas  a.

                                                               34
[00225] The devices, machines or robots are informed and begin obeying the updated privacy
constraints.
[00226] In very select circumstances, waivers are obtainable to allow robots and participating
devices to not be constrained by the 'privacy protocol'. In one embodiment, 'exclusion zones',
'shrouding (fixed)' and 'Profile shrouding (mobile)' m ay be waived for approved parents (running
approved dedicated apps), so parents may monitor their children, for example:
                (i)               Parents would apply to the registry for a waiver;
                (ii)             Optional: parents would provide registry their child's Profile;
                (iii)             Parents' granted waiver.
[00227] Another aspect of the invention to ultimately restrict unencumbered operation or
function (e.g. surveillance) opportunitiesit will be understood that the user may be provided with
a time-limiting camera viewing (perhaps, when travelling in a particular class of exclusion zone).
After the permissible time has expired a latency period may apply before the user is permitted
another timed viewing, for example.
[00228] Turning to Figure 11, the process flow for privacy constraints is described in more
detail. At step 565, the user logs onto their account and at step 570 the user initiates
assignment or function instructions to the device, machine or robot. At step 575 the device,
machine or robot instructions are relayed to the registry and consequently at step 580 the
registry may process and regulate any instructions.
[00229] At step 585, the registry may relay clearance codes and relevant privacy constraints if
any to the devices, machines or robots and at step 590 the user's device, machine or robot
executes the assignment or function and conforms to any privacy constraints.
[00230] It will be understood that in other embodiments, indicated generally by arrows 2, 3, and
4, variations on the process flow are possible. For example, in accordance with process flow 2,
when a user initiates an assignment or function instructions, at step 570 the relevant privacy
constraints may be relayed to the user's device, machine or robot directly, at step 584 and the
robot subsequently executes the assignment or function, conforming to any privacy constraints
at step 590.
[00231] Alternate embodiments are also envisaged, where the user is not required to log into
their account or to initiate an assignment or function. As shown generally by process flows 3
and 4, privacy constraints may be relayed to the user's device, machine or robot. These privacy
constraints may then be utilised to either perform a function as shown at step 590 or may simply
be added to the robots store of information, for future use. The process flows shown generally
by process flows 3 and 4 may be used in embodiments where instructions may be issued
directly to the robot and not sent via the registry.
[00232] Referring to Figures 11a through to 11k, there are disclosed several computer
implemented processes through which the policing process may operate. Figure 11a describes
a Broad Process for Policing. The process steps are described briefly below.
Broad Process Steps (Policing)
1.              Generate
                Generate Policing Initiative
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                35
                (1) A template is generated through the use of 'robometrics' (i.e. the collection of data
               when the when robot was enrolled at certification). Testing is preferred to detect the
                presence of an illicit substance or object (e.g. chemical, molecular or tangible
                signature), such as a weapon or dangerous device.
                (2) A 'hail' signal is generated (e.g. identification request).
                (3) A 'scene screen' is generated (e.g. search for or identify non-participants or 'rogue'
                robots). This step is explained in more detail with Figures 14, 15 and 16.
2.              Assess (Optional)
                (1) The enrolled template is tested to see if it matches a newly captured sample. For
                example, if a sample matches an enrolled template for an illicit or unapproved
                substance or object, or abnormal or unacceptable robometric, then this results in an
                enforcement trigger event.
                In another example, if a sample matches an enrolled normal or acceptable robometric,
                then this does not result in an enforcement trigger event.
                In yet another example, if a sample does not match an enrolled normal or acceptable
                robometric i.e. is outside tolerance or exceeding threshold, then this results in an
                enforcement trigger event.
                (2) Has a satisfactory reply response been received? If no satisfactory reply, an
                enforcement trigger event occurs. Trigger events could include the fact that the robot
                is unregistered, has unapproved operations, or is operationally unworthy (e.g. faulty).
                (3) Is there extraneous robots in a scene, e.g. present in scene but no entry in Travel
                Plans/Tracks Database results in an enforcement trigger event? For example, no
                transponder signal results in an enforcement trigger event.
3.              Respond
                Respond with Enforcement and/or Notify
                Passive enforcement strategies may include:
                -                seizing      the    robot  (e.g. generate    performance/functionality/capability
                                 conditions/constraints such as do not operate further, remain at rendezvous
                                  location/position); or
                -                 launching a policing robot, track/trace/follow (e.g. to facilitate locating and
                                 apprehending user).
               Active enforcement strategies may include:
                -                 launching a policing robot, rendezvous with or near subject robot, capture
                                  (e.g. Grab or Net); or
                -                 launching a policing robot, rendezvous with or near subject robot,
                                 disable/disarm (e.g. Jammer, Spoof, EMP or Projectile); and
                -                 notify relevant stakeholders.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                 36
4.             Amend (Optional)
                Amending or revoking enforcement may include cancel enforcement pursuit (e.g. 'call
                off the chase'), call in reinforcements (e.g. more policing robots to assist), and/or revert
                to enforcement (e.g. trigger event)
Broad Process Steps (Conditions)
1.              Generate
                Generating                condition/constraint     may     include       generating   performance/
                functionality/capability constraint (e.g. regulations may stipulate constraints due to
                licence class, inadequate supporting infrastructure, network or systems, emergency
                provision trigger event and/or enforcement trigger event generates constraint).
                Generated exclusion zone conditions may include:
                -                collocated location modules or transmission (fixed or mobile) (real-time or
                                  'space teach');
                -                 profile captures (fixed or mobile) (upload templates or PA/eL Profiles);
                -                coordinates and altitude (fixed); and/or
                -                 'no fly zone' or do not operate zone (in full or in part);
                Generated shrouding conditions may include:
                -                 'do not watch' or no surveillance;
                -                collocated location module or transmission (fixed or mobile) (real-time or
                                  'space teach');
                -                 profile capture (fixed or mobile) (upload templates or PA/eL Profiles); and/or
                -                automatically recognise windows; similar to blurring out faces in Google Street
                                 View.
                Generated ghosting conditions may include:
                -                 'do not ID' or no on-screen or HUD 'tagging';
                -                collocated location module or transmission (fixed or mobile) (real-time or
                                  'space teach');
                -                 profile capture (fixed or mobile) (upload templates or PA/eL Profiles); and/or
                -                coordinates and altitude (fixed).
                Generated condition/constraint waiver or exemption may include:
                -                 registered parties registered to that address/location/position;
                -                 parents wishing to supervise their children;
                -                special permission (research purposes, government, etc.);
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                  37
                -                stakeholder gives operation approval (e.g. for pick-up/delivery, agricultural
                                 surveillance, etc.); and/or
                -                 'condition' and 'constraint' can generally be used interchangeably.
2.             Assess (Optional)
                Assessing generated condition/constraint may include detecting:
                -                 Is the constraint consistent with others?
                -                 Is the exclusion zone suitable?
                -                 Is the shrouding suitable?
                -                 Is the ghosting suitable?
                -                 Is the waiver or exemption suitable?
3.              Respond
                Responding by imposing condition/constraint may include:
                -                 performance/functionality/capability constrained;
                -                exclusion zone parameters imposed;
                -                shrouding conditions imposed;
                -                ghosting conditions imposed; and/or
                -                waiver or exemption imposed.
[00233] With reference to Figures 12 and 13, there may be provided mechanisms to allow for
robots to be initially detected through a sense/scan protocol and to be subsequently seized
using a seizure protocol.
[00234] Referring now to Figure 12, there is shown a process flow for the process that occurs if
a sense/scan protocol is initiated. A sense/scan protocol may be initiated as a result of the
robot performing a function, such as the function process flow shown generally at Figure 11 or a
sense/scan protocol may be initiated independently of any user instructions to the robot at step
605.
[00235] At step 608 or 610, the user's robot becomes aware of a situation where a sense/scan
operation is required.
[00236] If a positive result is achieved, at step 615 a seizure protocol may be initiated. If a
seizure protocol is initiated at step 617 then the process of sense/scan ends at step 630. If a
seizure protocol is not initiated then the user's robot proceeds as normal at step 620 and the
user's robot may complete the user assignment or function at step 625 or alternatively the
user's robot may return to the location prior to the sense/scan protocol being initiated at step
623 prior to the process ending at step 630.
[00237] Referring now to Figure 13, there is shown a process flow for a seizure protocol, such
as the seizure protocol referred to in Figure 12. At step 555 or 705, a seizure protocol is
initiated as a result of either an independent request or as a result of a sense/scan operation as
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                    38
shown Figure 12. This may result in the user robot travelling to a designated seizure position at
step 708 or the user's robot deviating from travel plans to execute seizure protocol at step 710.
Once the seizure has been performed, the process ends at step 715.
[00238] A system that allows the registry to police the environment of robots that may be
unregistered, unlawful, a danger to the public, an invasion to people's privacy or operating
improperly, perhaps, even stolen. Herewith these robots will be referred to as 'rogue robots'.
[00239] The Registry's system utilises its monitoring, controlling and managing capabilities (not
limited to the fact that it may oversee the travel paths and tracks of a vast variety of robots)
may, in one embodiment, grant it special abilities or opportunities to police the environment for
rogue robots.
[00240] In another embodiment, the registry may 'discover' rogue robots by employing the
assistance of non-registry robots (e.g. consumers' robots) operating in or near particular
spaces. Preferably, consumers' robots may feed environmental data back to the registry or
process environment locally then send results to the registry. In either method, the registry may
utilise the on-board sensors and scanners of consumers' robots, specifically monitor their travel
environment for rogue robots, i.e. robots that should not be encountered, perhaps, by the
consumers' robot's 'anti-collision and avoid' detector or module.
[00241] This initiative of employing the help of consumer's robots may also allow the tracking of
rogue robots that are initially detected. In one embodiment, as each consumer robot detects
the presence or signature of a particular rogue robot the current position of each respective
consumer robot that detected the rogue robot and/or the position the rogue robot was detected
at by each consumer robot may allow track plotting (and this may be in multiple dimensions).
[00242] However, ghosting may also be applied to, preferably, tangibles that are recognised via
other means, that is, not by Profile recognition methods. For example, a tangible may not be
identified or tagged if it is located within a zone that has been excluded (perhaps, by a client
selecting it on a 3D map) or if it is associated (e.g. collocated) with a location module device
(e.g. smartphone with geo-location features).
[00243] In other words, the Registry's system may, in a first instance, 'spot' or identify all robots
in a particular environment, then eliminate from its electronic field of view all robots that are
registered or that are known to be operating there following the issue of clearance codes
(i.e. removing robots that are not rogues). Thus, if there are any robots remaining after this
elimination process, by deduction, the remaining robots may be deemed 'off the grid' or rogue
operators.
[00244] In addition, the registry may conduct such investigations using a variety of methods. In
one method, the registry deploys at least one robot of its own to track the rogue robot to its
destination (hopefully, to where the user is located) or, perhaps, to (safety) deactivate the rogue
robot using a number of means (e.g. one ideal embodiment may be overriding or 'spoofing' its
communications system to inflict the Registry's 'seizure protocol').
[00245] The registry, over time, builds up a library or inventory of signatures (not limited to
acoustic) for a variety of robots, such signatures may be assigned to particular robot types.
[00246] Referring to Figure 14, there is shown an example of a two-dimensional environment
with all detected robots identified pictorially by the Registry's system.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                   39
[00247] Referring to Figure 15, there is shown an example of a two-dimensional environment
with all registered or non-rogue robots eliminated from view (selectively removed) in order to
show any remaining (rogue) robots.
[00248] Robots 735 and 740 remain in view. These robots are deemed not registered.
Further, rogue robot 740 has been listed as having an unrecognisable signature (illustrated by
its unique symbol). Whereas 735 was detected as having a familiar signature, was listed as
being a 'Concentric Circle' Type robot, according to the Registry's database analysis.
[00249] Referring to Figure 16, there is shown an example situation, which is a streetscape with
various participants 803, 805, 807, 809, 811, 813, 817, 819, 821, 823 and 825 and
non-participants 801 and 815 present.
[00250] Participants may act as detector nodes and/or (mobile) repeater stations-respectively,
facilitating detection of non-participants and assisting to relay any alert notices or other relevant
data to other participants. The mechanism of action may resemble (signal) propagation. [In the
figure, 'R' may equate to a 'registered' status.]
[00251] In the first instance, 803 captures a greater than partial match of a non-participating
device, machine or robot 801. This match percentage value is deemed significant enough to
warrant an alert be transmitted (in)directly to nearby participants 805 and 807, which both are
positioned with the alert radius.
[00252] In another instance, multiple participants 809, 811 and 813 capture only partial
matches of a non-participating device, machine or robot 815. Individually these partial matches
may not be enough to elicit an alert be distributed, however considering there are multiple,
these matches synergistically equate to a percentage value deemed significant enough to
warrant an alert be transmitted (in)directly to nearby participants 819 and 817, which both are
positioned within the alert radius; further, original detectors 809, 811 and 813 would similarly be
alerted, advising them that, yes, their partial matches were relevant.
[00253] Meanwhile, participants 821, 823 and 825, since outside any alert radius or positioned
away from any non-participant, have not been involved in any of the above instances.
Advantages
[00254] One of the advantages of the embodiments and broader invention described herein is
that the invention removes the onus or control from consumers (i.e. owners of the robots) to
assume full responsibility for the actions of the robots at any given time. So long as the
commands are filtered or processed through a central server system, then illegal, immoral or
accidental use of autonomous and robotic devices is greatly reduced.
[00255] If robots were unrestricted in their activities (operations or functions), were able to
venture into particular spaces unhindered (with or without explicit instructions or control from the
user), then this would cause or provoke contentious issues-some of which include, privacy,
safety, security, liability, technical and ethical issues. Therefore, the system provides a
mechanism and framework by which robots and/or their controllers are required to obtain the
relevant clearance before an operation is allowed, particularly if that operation is to occur in a
public space.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                                 40
[00256] Moreover, as consumers are required to register and identify themselves, the system
provides an ability to monitor, control or manage the actions or activities of consumers, in so far
as it is related to their robot use. This reflects society's general interest in requiring people to
obtain licenses to drive cars, pilot aircraft or own and use firearms.
[00257] That is, there is a public interest in preventing users from allowing their robots to be
used by unapproved users, or from having their robots unknowingly used by unapproved users.
Such robots may possess the capacity and capabilities to perform restricted (e.g. dangerous)
functions. These occurrences would first and foremost present safety issues, e.g. robots
(owned by parents) being used by underage children that are not listed as or approved to be
registered users.
[00258] As a corollary, there are fewer onuses on robot and autonomous system providers for
being responsible for facilitating vital robot updates. Instead, all updates would be processed by
and issued from the system described herein, irrespective of the robot's origin of manufacture,
country or space of operation. This ameliorates the legal liability of robot and autonomous
system providers.
[00259] Advantages of the embodiments described herein where the embodiment is fulfilled by
a separate device to the robot or by a remote server include:
                (1)               potential for the robot to have more frequent communication with an external
                                  regulating server (e.g. providing a greater assurance or security level of third
                                  party regulation or supervision);
                (2)               potential for a remote server to process or facilitate remote diagnostic
                                 services; and
                (3)              more frequent receipt by the robot of software, updates and/or flashes from
                                 the remote server.
[00260] Further advantages of a user and/or the user's 'smart' device or robot pendant
communicating indirectly, or not at all, with the robot, e.g. via the remote server, include no 'lost
in translation' events as the remote server (Robot Registry) receives proposed commands or
operation requests, directly from the source, i.e. the user or the user's device. In other words,
the remote server acts as an intermediary between the user (or their device) and the robot.
Disclaimers
[00261] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other inte.g.er or
group of integers.
[00262] Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is susceptible
to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. The invention includes
all such variation and modifications. The invention also includes all of the steps, features,
formulations and compounds referred to or indicated in the specification, individually or
collectively and any and all combinations or any two or more of the steps or features.
[00263] Other definitions for selected terms used herein may be found within the detailed
description of the invention and apply throughout. Unless otherwise defined, all other scientific
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  41
and technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of
ordinary skill in the art to which the invention belongs.
[00264] Although not required, the embodiments described with reference to the method,
computer program, data signal and aspects of the system can be implemented via an
application programming interface (API), an application development kit (ADK) or as a series of
program libraries, for use by a developer, for the creation of software applications which are to
be used on any one or more computing platforms or devices, such as a terminal or personal
computer operating system or a portable computing device, such as a smartphone or a tablet
computing system operating system, or within a larger server structure, such as a 'data farm' or
within a larger transaction processing system.
[00265] Generally, as program modules include routines, programs, objects, components and
data files that perform or assist in the performance of particular functions, it will be understood
that the functionality of the software application may be distributed across a number of routines,
programs, objects or components to achieve the same functionality as the embodiment and the
broader invention claimed herein. Such variations and modifications are within the purview of
those skilled in the art.
[00266] It will also be appreciated that where methods and systems of the present invention
and/or embodiments are implemented by computing systems or partly implemented by
computing systems then any appropriate computing system architecture may be utilised. This
includes standalone computers, network computers and dedicated computing devices (such as
field-programmable gate arrays).
[00267] Where the terms "computer", "computing system" and "computing device" are used in
the specification, these terms are intended to cover any appropriate arrangement of computer
hardware for implementing the inventive concept and/or embodiments described herein.
[00268] Where the terms "robotic device", "autonomous device" and "smart device" are used in
the specification, these terms are intended to cover any appropriate device which is capable of
receiving a command and utilising the command to perform a function, which may be either a
"physical" function (i.e. movement) or a "virtual" function (e.g. interact with another device via
electronic commands).
[00269] Where reference is made to communication standards, methods and/or systems,
robots or devices may transmit and receive data via a variety of forms: 3G, 4G (CDMA/GSM),
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, other radio frequency, optical, acoustic, magnetic, GPS/GPRS, or any other
form or method of communication that may become available from time to time.
9656177_1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                         42
CLAIMS
             1. A system for regulating or testing a robotic device, said system comprising:
                            an authentication system configured to authenticate an identity of a
             robotic device and an identity of a corresponding robotic device user,
                            wherein the user is an owner and/or operator of the robotic device; and
                            a command and control system arranged to:
                            receive a robotic device identifier for the robotic device and a robotic
             device user identifier for the user, and
                            provide a set of regulations or tests based on the robotic device
             identifier and the user identifier,
                            wherein the set of regulations or tests regulate or test:
                            (1) operations plan of the robotic device; or
                            (2) operation of one or more power modules of the robotic device.
             2. The system of Claim 1, wherein the authentication system is arranged to
authenticate the robotic device and the user with reference to one or more
authentication mechanisms of the robotic device or a remote device of the
corresponding user.
             3. The system of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the robotic device is operated
using a remote device.
             4. The system of Claim 3, wherein the robotic device is operated using the
remote device via a communication link.
             5. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the command and
control system comprises a supervisory controller.
9656191 1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  43
             6. The system of Claim 5, wherein the supervisory controller is arranged to
monitor one or more robotic devices within a space.
             7. The system of Claim 6, wherein the supervisory controller is arranged to
detect whether one or more robotic devices do not correlate with a predetermined
plan.
             8. The system of any one of Claims 5 to 7, wherein the supervisory controller
is arranged to detect unauthorised robotic devices within a space.
             9. The system of Claim 8, wherein the supervisory controller is arranged to
notify upon detecting the unauthorised robotic device.
             10.          The system of any one of Claims 5 to 9, wherein the supervisory
controller utilises data collected by one or more of the following sensors to monitor
robotic devices within a space:
             acoustic; sound; vibration;
             chemical; molecular; spectroscopic;
             electronic current; electronic potential; magnetic; radio;
             moisture; humidity;
             flow; fluid velocity;
             ionizing radiation; subatomic particles;
             position; angle; displacement; distance; speed; acceleration;
             optical; light; imaging; photon;
             pressure;
             force; density; level
             thermal; heat; temperature;
9656191 1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                 44
             proximity; presence.
             11.         The system of any one of Claims 5 to 10, wherein the supervisory
controller utilises data to monitor one or more activities of robotic devices within a
space, wherein the data is collected by one or more of the following:
             Robot-associated sensors
             Non-robot-associated sensors
             home bases,
             base stations,
             rendezvous locations,
             sense and/or scan stations,
             mobile devices,
             surveillance devices,
             testing facilities,
             broadcasting devices,
             collocated location modules,
             profiles,
             regulating chips,
             robot registries,
             command and control systems,
             servers,
             authentication servers,
             networks,
             wireless communications, or
             wired communications.
9656191 1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  45
             12. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the command
and control system comprises one or more modules and databases.
             13.          The system of Claim 12, wherein the one or more modules and
databases are arranged to generate and store the set of regulations or tests.
             14.         The system of Claim 13, wherein one or more robotic devices are
regulated or tested based on the set of regulations or tests.
             15.         The system of any one of Claims 12 to 14, wherein the one or more
modules and databases store one or more locations, wherein the robotic device is
imposed with one or more restrictions at said one or more locations.
             16.         The system of any one of Claims 12 to 15, wherein the one or more
modules and databases store sets of regulations or tests for multiple types of robotic
devices, wherein each set of regulations or tests are associated with a specific type
of robotic device selected from the multiple types of robotic devices.
             17. The system of any one of Claims 12 to 16, wherein the one or more
modules and databases are arranged to approve or reject one or more operation
plans of the robotic device.
             18.         The system of any one of Claims 12 to 17, wherein the one or more
modules and databases are arranged to receive a request for data from the
corresponding robotic device user.
             19. The system of Claim 18, wherein the one or more modules and database
are arranged to generate an operations plan for the robotic device in response to the
request.
9656191 1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                  46
             20.         The system of any one of Claims 12 to 19, wherein the one or more
modules and databases are arranged to adjust a predetermined operations plan of
the robotic device based on detected conditions or constraints of or in a space.
             21.        The system of Claim 20, wherein the detected conditions or constraints
comprise one or more of the following:
             conflicts or environmental factors,
             exclusion, shrouding or ghosting privacy constraints,
             changes in available space,
             payload, speed, energy, force, agility constraints,
             emergency events,
             robotic device make, model, modification constraints,
             user, owner or licence class restrictions,
             time, date constraints,
             infrastructure, network or system requirements,
             enforcement events,
             broadcasting devices,
             collocated location modules,
             profiles, or
             changes in regulations or tests.
             22. The system of Claim 20 or Claim 21, wherein the one or more modules
and databases are arranged to send the corresponding robotic device user
information about at least one adjustment to a predetermined operations plan or
alternatives for the robotic device user to select.
9656191 1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                         47
             23. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein regulating or
testing the operation of the payload, or robotic device in respect of the payload,
includes regulating or testing conditions under which a payload is allowed to be
operated, carried or transported.
             24. The system of Claim 1, wherein regulating or testing the operation of the
power module includes regulating or testing:
             (a) power usage;
             (b) a capacity of fuel or energy charge a robotic device requires when
operating or to operate in a particular space; or
             (c) the operational proficiency, performance, capabilities or functional capacity
of the robotic device.
             25.          A method for regulating or testing a robotic device, said method
comprising:
                            authenticating an identity of a robotic device and an identity of a
             corresponding robotic device user,
                            wherein the user is an owner and/or operator of the robotic device;
                            receiving a robotic device identifier for the robotic device and a user
             identifier for the user; and
                            providing a set of regulations or tests based on the robotic device
             identifier and the user identifier,
                            wherein the set of regulations or tests regulate or test:
                            (1) operations plan of the robotic device; or
                            (2) operation of one or more power modules of the robotic device.
             26.         A computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed
with aid of at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform a
method for regulating or testing a robotic device, said method comprising:
9656191 1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                                                         48
                            authenticating an identity of a robotic device and an identity of a
             corresponding robotic device user;
                            receiving a robotic device identifier and a user identifier; and
                            providing a set of regulations or tests based on the robotic device
             identifier and the user identifier,
                            wherein the set of regulations or tests regulate or test:
                            (1) operations plan of the robotic device; or
                            (2) operation of one or more power modules of the robotic device.
9656191 1 (GHMatters) P99844.AU.3

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      112
                                  110
04
08
            114                         1/37
100

<removed-date>
                                              <U+261E><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                              <U+2736><U+2736><U+2704><U+2701>
                             <U+2736> <U+2702><U+2701>          <U+2736><U+2736><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2701>
               <U+2736> <U+260E><U+2701>
                                                     <U+2736><U+2736><U+2706><U+2701>
                                    <U+2736> <U+2706><U+2701>
                                             <U+2736><U+2736><U+2702><U+2701>                           <U+2736> <U+2701>
              <U+2736> <U+2704><U+2701>
                                              <U+2736><U+260E> <U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                     <U+2736><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2736><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>
                                                              <U+2736><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
                      <U+2736><U+271E> <U+2701>          <U+2736><U+271E><U+260E><U+2701>               <U+2736><U+260E> <U+271D>
                                           <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+261E>

<removed-date>
                                     <U+270C><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                                                  <U+274A> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                                                 <U+2746><U+271E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F><U+2720><U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+260E>
                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                            <U+2738>     <U+2749><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
                                                                        <U+2740><U+273F> <U+2738><U+2739>
                                                                          <U+273D><U+2741> <U+273A><U+273B><U+273C>
                                                                            <U+2742><U+2743> <U+273D><U+273A>
                                                                              <U+273C><U+273B> <U+273E>
                                                                                <U+2741> <U+273F>
                                                                <U+2714><U+2713> <U+271B>
                                                P            <U+2712><U+2713><U+2718><U+2713><U+2719><U+271A>
                                           <U+2768> <U+2773> <U+25D7><U+25D7>             <U+2717>
                                                            <U+2715><U+2716>
                                              <U+2771><U+2769> |<U+2759><U+275A>
                                                <U+276C><U+276D> <U+276F>
                                                  <U+276F><U+275A> <U+2771><U+2759> <U+2772>
                                                    <U+2769> <U+2773>
              <U+2746><U+271E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F><U+2720><U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+260E> <U+261E><U+2702><U+2704><U+270C><U+2702><U+2704><U+270D>
                     <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F>
                                         <U+2751>
                                     <U+25CF><U+274D><U+2748><U+274F>
                                    <U+274B>     <U+25BC>
                                <U+2745><U+2745><U+2747><U+2748> <U+25C6><U+2756><U+25CF><U+274B>
                               <U+2744> <U+2751><U+274D><U+25BC>
                                  <U+25B2>
                                       <U+2724>
                                           <U+2725><U+2726> <U+271C>
                                             <U+2727><U+2722> <U+2722><U+2723>
                                               <U+2605><U+2729> <U+2722>
                                                  <U+272A>
                                                                <U+2733>
                                                         <U+2730> <U+2731><U+272E> <U+2732>
                                                        <U+272F>
                                                   <U+272C> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272E> <U+2735><U+2736><U+2730><U+272F><U+2734>
                                                  <U+272B> <U+2731><U+2734>
                                                    <U+2733>
                                                            <U+274A> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                          <U+2746><U+271E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F><U+2720><U+2706><U+2701><U+271F><U+2721><U+260E>
                                                            <U+2749><U+2721><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F><U+260E>
                                <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+261E><U+2761>

<removed-date>
                                                 <U+2739><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>              <U+276D><U+276A><U+276A>
                                      <U+276B><U+2774><U+2775>                      <U+276B><U+2774><U+275B>                     <U+276B><U+2774><U+275C>
                                                                        <U+2737><U+2751><U+2748><U+2736><U+25BC><U+2732><U+2730><U+2735><U+2731> <U+25B2>
                    <U+272D><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+2731><U+2730><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+272D><U+2733><U+2730><U+2735><U+2731>            <U+2748><U+2735><U+2731><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2736><U+2737><U+2734>                  <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2730><U+25D7><U+272D><U+2748><U+2772>
                       <U+272F><U+2735><U+272E><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2737>                                            <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735><U+2748><U+2735><U+2736>
                                                                          <U+272F><U+2735><U+272E><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2737>
<removed-apn>
                                                               <U+276B><U+2774><U+275E>                     <U+276B><U+2774><U+2761>
                                      <U+276B><U+2774><U+275D>
                                               <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+261E><U+270D><U+2713><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2773>               <U+2738><U+273A><U+273B><U+273C><U+273A><U+273D><U+273E><U+273F><U+2740><U+2741>
                                                  <U+261B><U+2756><U+2714><U+2712><U+270E><U+270F>                <U+2742><U+273A><U+2743> <U+2741><U+273A><U+273B><U+2741><U+273F><U+2738> <U+2744>
                    <U+2748><U+2735><U+272F><U+272F><U+25BC><U+2731><U+2730><U+2748><U+272D><U+2733><U+2730><U+2735><U+2731><U+2732>            <U+2706><U+2746><U+2746><U+2704> <U+2716><U+2701> <U+275A><U+2746> <U+271F>               <U+2741><U+2759><U+2745><U+273B><U+273B><U+273A><U+2738><U+2747>
                       <U+272F><U+2735><U+272E><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2737>                  <U+274B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2746> <U+272B>            P<U+2738><U+273F><U+274A><U+273F><U+2759><U+273F><U+25CF> <U+274F><U+273F><U+273C><U+2740><U+25CF><U+273A>
                                              <U+275A>|<U+2706><U+2771><U+2701><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2706> <U+2746> <U+272B>
                                                 <U+275A>|<U+2706><U+2721><U+2717><U+2746>
                                                 <U+2716><U+271D><U+2749><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701>                                <U+276B><U+2774><U+2763>
                                      <U+276B><U+2774><U+276B>                      <U+276B><U+2774><U+2762>        <U+2732><U+2737><U+2730><U+2769><U+25BC><U+2734><U+2737>
                                                                         <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735><U+2748><U+2735><U+2736>
                      <U+2733><U+2734><U+272D><U+2731><U+2732><U+272D><U+2748><U+2733><U+2730><U+2735><U+2731>           <U+2748><U+2736><U+2737><U+272D><U+2734><U+272D><U+2731><U+2748><U+2737> <U+2748><U+2735><U+272E><U+2737>                <U+272F><U+2735><U+272E><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2737>
                        <U+272F><U+2735><U+272E><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2737>                  <U+272F><U+2735><U+272E><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2737>
                                                                                       <U+276B><U+2775><U+2774>
                                                                        <U+273F><U+2738><U+273C><U+273A><U+2738><U+2741>
                                                                   <U+2742><U+273A><U+2743> <U+274F><U+2745><U+276C><U+273B><U+274A><U+273A><U+273B><U+2745><U+273B><U+2759><U+273A> <U+2744>
                     <U+2733><U+272D><U+2732><U+2764><U+2732> <U+25B2> <U+272D><U+2748><U+2733><U+2730><U+25D7><U+2730><U+2733><U+2730><U+2737><U+2732> <U+25B2> <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2735><U+2710><U+2734><U+272D><U+272F><U+2732>             <U+276B><U+2775><U+275D>      <U+2741><U+273A><U+2738><U+273E><U+276C><U+2759><U+273A> <U+2744>
                                <U+272F><U+2735><U+272E><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2737>                                <U+276C><U+273B><U+2741>P<U+273A><U+2759><U+274A><U+276C><U+273F><U+273B><U+2747>
                                                                        <U+274F><U+273F><U+273C><U+2740><U+25CF><U+273A>
                                      <U+276B><U+275D><U+2775>                                                    <U+276B><U+275D><U+2763>
              <U+276F><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271B> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2719><U+2723><U+2727>          |<U+271D><U+260E><U+271D><U+275A> <U+272C><U+2706><U+271E><U+271E><U+2746><U+272C> <U+271F>               <U+261B><U+261E><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+272B>
               <U+2605><U+2724><U+2724><U+271C><U+276F><U+2723><U+2727> <U+2729><U+2605><U+2727><U+2605><U+272A><U+2605><U+2718><U+2719>               <U+274B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2746>                    <U+274D><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+270D><U+270C><U+2712><U+2756><U+261B><U+2715>
                                               <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2746><U+2746><U+2704> <U+2716><U+2701> <U+275A><U+2746> <U+271F>
                                      <U+276B><U+275D><U+275D>                       <U+276B><U+275D><U+275E>       <U+274B><U+2720> <U+2721><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2746> <U+272B>
                                                                         <U+275A>|<U+2706><U+2771><U+2701><U+2702> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2706> <U+2746> <U+272B>
                                                                             <U+275A>|<U+2706><U+2721><U+2717><U+2746>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                <U+271D><U+271E><U+2701>|<U+2706><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2702>                    <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>
                   <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>                    <U+2746><U+271E><U+2706><U+2721><U+2701><U+2746>                                        <U+276B><U+276B><U+2774>
                                              <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>
                                      <U+276B><U+275D><U+276B>                       <U+276B><U+275D><U+2762>
                                                                         <U+2746><U+2720>|<U+2771><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2706> <U+2721><U+2701>
                  |<U+2701><U+2704><U+2746><U+275A><U+2701>|<U+2701><U+2749>                                               <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>
                    |<U+271D><U+260E><U+271D><U+275A>                   <U+2749><U+2706><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2746><U+275A><U+2721> <U+275A><U+2701><U+2746><U+275A><U+2746>                                 <U+276B><U+276B><U+2775>
                   <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>                     <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>
                                      <U+276B><U+275D><U+275B>
                                                                <U+276B><U+275D><U+275C>
                                                                        <U+2721><U+2702><U+2701><U+2706>|<U+2706> <U+2721><U+2701> <U+2721><U+271D><U+2749><U+2701>
                <U+2716><U+2706> <U+2720><U+274B><U+2706><U+2721><U+275A><U+2720>|<U+2701>|                                               <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>
                  <U+2706> <U+2749> |<U+271D><U+260E><U+271D><U+275A>                    <U+271E><U+2706><U+2768><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706><U+2749>
                   <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>                    <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>                                      <U+276B><U+276B><U+275D>
                                                                <U+276B><U+275D><U+2761>         <U+271E>|<U+271D><U+274B><U+2702><U+2701><U+2746>
                                                                            <U+2749><U+2706><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+2706><U+2746><U+2701>
                                            <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+270C>

<removed-date>
                                                         <U+273A><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
                                                          <U+2739><U+272A><U+272A>
                                             <U+2759><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2732>
                                               <U+2739><U+272A><U+272B>                                          <U+2739><U+272A><U+2739>
                          <U+2749> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E>              <U+260E>           <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E> |<U+2720><U+271F><U+2727><U+260E><U+2702>
                           <U+274D><U+271F><U+2771><U+2701> <U+271F> <U+271E> | <U+2720><U+2721>                              <U+271E> | <U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+2739><U+272A><U+272F>
                                                                                                         <U+2739><U+272C><U+272A>
                                <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>         <U+2739><U+272A><U+272E>             <U+271E> | <U+2720>
                             <U+2748><U+261E><U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270C><U+2712>                       <U+2704><U+271F><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2720>                   <U+274D><U+271F><U+2702> <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E>
                             <U+2772><U+2713><U+270D><U+2714> <U+275A><U+261E> <U+270F><U+270D><U+270C>         <U+260E>         <U+2725><U+2701><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701> <U+271E>                  <U+271E><U+2701><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2727><U+2749><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2749><U+2721>
                           <U+275A><U+2714><U+270C><U+2713><U+2712> <U+2712><U+261E><U+2715><U+261E><U+275A><U+2731> <U+261E><U+2712>                 <U+2726><U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2720><U+2727> <U+260E>
                        <U+261E><U+2756><U+270C><U+2712><U+2716><U+275A><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2716> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2719><U+2722><U+2723><U+271C><U+271A><U+2724>              <U+272D><U+2725><U+2706>|<U+2605><U+2727><U+2704><U+2605><U+2768><U+2729>
                            <U+274B><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+275A><U+2713><U+261E><U+270E><U+2718><U+2731> <U+2713><U+270E>
                               <U+2756><U+270F><U+2715>P<U+2713><U+2748>
                               <U+270D><U+2756><U+2716><U+2748><U+270C><U+2746>                                                             <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>
                             <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271F><U+2768>
                                                                                    |<U+2701><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2605><U+2727><U+2747><U+2727>|<U+2605><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2720>
                                                                                       <U+271F> <U+2605><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2749><U+271F><U+2720><U+2701>
                                                                                                         <U+2739><U+272C><U+272E>
                                               <U+2739><U+272C><U+272B>                                    <U+2739><U+272C><U+2739>
                          <U+2749> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E>              <U+260E>             <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E>              <U+260E>
                          <U+2725> <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+2771><U+271F><U+2605><U+2727><U+2749>                         <U+2701><U+2605><U+2727><U+2747><U+2727>|<U+2605><U+2701> <U+2726> <U+271E> <U+271F><U+260E>
                          <U+271E> | <U+2720> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2704> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2720><U+2721>                             <U+271F><U+2704><U+2704> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2720><U+2721>
                                                                <U+2739><U+272C><U+272F>
                                                                          <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>              |<U+2720><U+271F><U+2727><U+260E>
                             <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>         <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E> |<U+2720><U+271F><U+2727><U+260E><U+2702>                                 <U+2701><U+2605><U+2727><U+2747><U+2727>|<U+2605><U+2701>
                                          <U+271F> <U+2771><U+271F><U+2605><U+2727><U+2749> <U+271F><U+2704><U+2704> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2720>                                 <U+271E> | <U+2720>
                  <U+2739><U+272C><U+2738>                                                                                   <U+2739><U+272B><U+2739>
                            <U+2725><U+2720><U+2727> <U+260E><U+271F><U+2605><U+2736> <U+2726><U+2727><U+2747><U+2737><U+273C>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                               <U+2739><U+272B><U+272A>                                                        <U+2739><U+272B><U+272B>
                          <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2702>              <U+260E>                             <U+2727><U+2702> <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E><U+2702>
                        <U+271E> | <U+2720> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2747><U+2727><U+2702><U+2720><U+2701><U+271E><U+2701><U+2749><U+2721>                                        <U+271E> | <U+2720> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2747><U+2727><U+2702><U+2720><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2727> <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+2701><U+2605><U+2727><U+2747><U+2727>|<U+2605><U+2701><U+2721>
                                                                 <U+2739><U+272B><U+272E>
                             <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>                <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E>                                          <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>
                                             <U+271E><U+2701><U+2747><U+2727><U+2702><U+2720><U+2701><U+271E><U+2702> <U+271E> | <U+2720>
              <U+2730>                    <U+2735>
                                                <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761>            <U+2739>

<removed-date>
                                                               <U+273B><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
              <U+2747>                            <U+2719>
                                                     <U+2739><U+2712><U+2713>                                                           <U+2739><U+2714><U+2715>
                                       <U+2749> <U+2701><U+2702>
                                    <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702>             <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>
                                    <U+271D> | <U+271F> <U+274D><U+2720><U+2771><U+2701>                                     <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2746><U+2704><U+274B> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2749>
                                     <U+260E><U+271F><U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2704><U+2749><U+2746><U+2704><U+2721>
                                       <U+271D><U+2749><U+2701><U+271D><U+2702><U+2756>
                                                                                                                   <U+2739><U+2714><U+2712>
                                       <U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                        <U+2739><U+2724><U+2726>                                                        <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2748> <U+2706><U+261B><U+261E><U+2746><U+2701><U+2702>
                                    <U+261B><U+271F><U+2746> <U+2704><U+2720><U+261E><U+2722> <U+274B><U+2746><U+2721><U+2723><U+273C>
                                                                                                                   <U+2739><U+2714><U+2739>
                                                                 <U+2739><U+2739><U+2715>
                                                                                  <U+271D><U+2749><U+2701><U+271D><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2720><U+271F><U+2746><U+2702><U+274B><U+2746><U+2701><U+2749><U+275A> <U+271D> | <U+271F>
                    <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2771><U+2701><U+2768><U+2702> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2702><U+2746><U+2721><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701><U+2704><U+271F> <U+271D>                                     <U+271D><U+2701><U+2746><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F><U+2701><U+2749>
                     <U+274B><U+260E><U+2704><U+2748><U+271F><U+2746> <U+2704> <U+2746><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+271D><U+260E><U+2748><U+271F><U+2746> <U+2704><U+2702> <U+271F> <U+271D> | <U+271F>
                                                                 <U+2739><U+2739><U+2717>
                         <U+271D> | <U+271F> <U+2748> <U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2704><U+2748><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2749><U+2746><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704> <U+2702><U+271F><U+2746><U+2748>
                                  <U+271F><U+2701><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C><U+2702><U+270D>
                                                                 <U+2739><U+2717><U+2715>
                              <U+271D> | <U+271F><U+271E><U+2702> <U+271F><U+2701><U+2702><U+271F> <U+2749><U+2720><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+271F> <U+271F>
                                      <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+2746><U+2702><U+271F><U+271D><U+2768>
                                                     <U+2739><U+2717><U+2717>                                                     <U+2739><U+2716><U+2715>
                                   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2748><U+2748><U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+274B><U+260E><U+261E><U+261E><U+2768>            <U+2704>            <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+271D> | <U+271F> <U+2704> <U+271F> <U+2746><U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+2749>
                                    <U+2748> <U+2706><U+261B><U+261E><U+2701><U+271F><U+2701><U+2749>                           <U+2748><U+261E><U+2701><U+2720><U+271D><U+2720><U+2704><U+2748><U+2701> <U+2748> <U+2749><U+2701><U+270C><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271F> <U+2701><U+2725><U+2701><U+2748><U+260E><U+271F><U+2701>
                                    <U+2749><U+2746><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704> <U+2702><U+271F><U+2746><U+2748>                          <U+2720><U+2702><U+2702><U+2746><U+2721><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701><U+2704><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2704><U+2749><U+270E> <U+271D> <U+261B><U+2701><U+271D><U+274B> <U+271D><U+2706> <U+2720>
                                      <U+271F><U+2701><U+2702><U+271F><U+270C><U+2702><U+270D><U+2756>                         <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+271F><U+271D><U+2746><U+2748><U+271F><U+2701><U+2749> <U+274B><U+260E><U+2704><U+2748><U+271F><U+2746> <U+2704> <U+270C><U+261B><U+260E>|<U+261E><U+2746><U+2748><U+261E><U+2768><U+270D>
                                      <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>                                                                    <U+2739><U+2716><U+2712>
                                                                 <U+2739><U+2716><U+2717>           <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2706><U+2720><U+2768> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2701><U+2749> <U+271F>
                                                                                 <U+271D><U+2701><U+271F><U+260E><U+271D><U+2704> <U+271F> <U+2702><U+271F><U+2701><U+261B> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271C>
                          <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+2746><U+2702><U+271F><U+271D><U+2768> <U+2746><U+2702><U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702>
                           <U+271D> | <U+271F> <U+2748><U+261E><U+2701><U+2720><U+271D><U+2720><U+2704><U+2748><U+2701> <U+2748> <U+2749><U+2701><U+270C><U+2702><U+270D>
                                                                 <U+2739><U+2718><U+2715>                                       <U+2739><U+2718><U+2717>
                          <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702> <U+271D> | <U+271F> <U+2701><U+2725><U+2701><U+2748><U+260E><U+271F><U+2701><U+2702>                       <U+271D><U+2701><U+2721><U+2746><U+2702><U+271F><U+271D><U+2768> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2706><U+2720><U+2746><U+2704><U+2702> <U+260E><U+261B><U+2749><U+2720><U+271F><U+2701><U+2749>
                          <U+271F><U+274D><U+2701> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2702><U+2746><U+2721><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701><U+2704><U+271F> <U+271D> <U+274B><U+260E><U+2704><U+2748><U+271F><U+2746> <U+2704>
                                       <U+2749> <U+2701><U+2702>        <U+2739><U+2713><U+2715>
                                                                                      <U+2739><U+2713><U+2717>
                                     <U+2748> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D>          <U+2704>
                                 <U+274D><U+2720><U+2771><U+2701> <U+271F><U+274D><U+2701><U+271D> <U+271D> | <U+271F>                          <U+274A><U+270F><U+2711>
                  <U+2768><U+2701><U+2702>         <U+2720><U+2702><U+2702><U+2746><U+2721><U+2704><U+2706><U+2701><U+2704><U+271F> <U+271D> <U+274B><U+260E><U+2704><U+2748><U+271F><U+2746> <U+2704>
                                   <U+2746><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+271D><U+260E><U+2748><U+271F><U+2746> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2756>
                                                           <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761>          <U+273A>

<removed-date>
                                        <U+270D><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-apn>    <U+2759><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2720> <U+2720><U+260E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2721><U+271D><U+261B><U+260E><U+261B><U+271D><U+2704><U+261E> <U+2706><U+271E><U+270C><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2701><U+271E><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+2704><U+270E><U+271F> <U+271E><U+2706> <U+2706><U+2702><U+270F><U+2711><U+2702><U+271F><U+261B><U+271F>
                                                            <U+273B>
                              <U+2736><U+2736>
                        <U+273C>               <U+2739>      <U+2738>       <U+273A>
                                                   <U+2736>
                            <U+2736><U+2737>
                                                   <U+273E>
                        <U+2736>                      <U+2737>
                                    <U+273D>
                                   <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761>   <U+273A><U+2761>

                                               37
                                             8/3
<removed-date>                                       ART
                                                STA
                                                                               A001
                     Command
                     C                             d (i
                           d or requestt generattted     l di any metadata)
                                                     (including     t d t )
<removed-apn>
                                                                               A002
                                             municated to remote server
                       Command or request comm
                                                                             A003
              Remote server receives and assesses command or request, then generates
                                   an assessment determination
                                                                               A004
                     Remote server conditionally approves command or request
                                                                              A005
                                              uirements or instructions to robots
                Remote server communicates requ
                                       regulatiing chip
                                                                               A006
                            Regulating chip facilitates testing or querying
                                                                               A007
                                               municated to remote server
                       Results or responses comm
                                                                                A008
              Remote server receives and assesses results or responses, then generates
                                   an assessment determination
                                                                             A009
               Remote server communicates commmand or request to robots regulating
                                              hip
                                             ch
                                                                               A010
                                                  mand or request being effected
                   Regulating chip facilitates comm
                                                  ND
                                                 EN
                                                b
                                       Figurre 5b

                                               37
                                             9/3
<removed-date>
                                                  ART
                                                STA
                                                                                 B001
<removed-apn>
                      Command or request generatted (including any metadata)
                                                                                 B002
                    Command or request communicated to robots regulating chip
                                                                                 B003
                                                   mmand or request assessment
                     Regulating chip facilitates com
                                                                                 B004
                                                   a
                     Regulating chip conditionally approves command or request
                                                                                 B005
                            Regulating chip facilitates testing or querying
                                                                            B006
                                                o responses communicated to remote
              Command or request and/or results or
                                   server, only if satisfactory
                                                                              B007
                                                  c
              Remote server receives and assesses command or request and/or results or
                      responses, then generates an assessment determination
                                                                            B008
                                              mand or request approval to robots
                Remote server communicates comm
                                        regulatiing chip
                                                                                 B009
                                                   mand or request being effected
                    Regulating chip facilitates comm
                                                  ND
                                                 EN
                                       Figurre 5c

                                           10//37
<removed-date>
                                                  ART
                                                STA
<removed-apn>
                                                                                 C001
                      Command or request generatted (including any metadata)
                                                                                 C002
                   Command or request communicated to robots regulating chip
                                                                                 C003
                                                   mmand or request assessment
                     Regulating chip facilitates com
                                                                                 C004
                                                   a
                     Regulating chip conditionally approves command or request
                                                                                 C005
                            Regulating chip facilitates testing or querying
                                                                                 C006
              Regulating chip assesses command orr request and/or results or responses,
               then generates an assessment deterrmination, in the absence of remote
                                        server communication
                                                                                 C007
                                                   mand or request being effected
                    Regulating chip facilitates comm
                                                  ND
                                                 EN
                                                d
                                       Figurre 5d

                      <U+2736><U+2736><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
              <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+272B><U+2724><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272A>
                         <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
                   <U+2759> <U+2746><U+2701>
                                              <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
               <U+2706><U+270C><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2712><U+270F><U+2723> <U+2748><U+271F><U+271E><U+275A><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706>P<U+275A><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+271E>
               <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2748><U+2712><U+270C><U+275A><U+271F><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+2711><U+271F><U+2748><U+275A><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
                                              <U+2702><U+2704><U+271A><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+261B><U+2721><U+270D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2712>P<U+270F><U+2768><U+2717> <U+2748><U+271F><U+271E><U+275A><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706>P<U+275A><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+271E>
                <U+271E><U+271F>P<U+271E><U+2748><U+261B><U+270E><U+270C><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2706><U+271F><U+271D><U+275A><U+2717> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711>
               <U+2720><U+2712><U+2768> P<U+2721> <U+270E><U+271D><U+2747><U+2706><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2706><U+261B><U+2711><U+270E><U+271D><U+2756><U+270F><U+2768>
                                              <U+2702><U+2704><U+271A><U+2704>
               <U+2748><U+271F><U+271E><U+275A><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2706><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721><U+271E>
                    <U+275A><U+2716><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
                                              <U+2702><U+2704><U+2719><U+260E>
               <U+270C><U+261B><U+2721><U+270D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2712>P<U+270F><U+2768><U+2717> <U+2748><U+271F><U+271E><U+275A><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2706><U+2756><U+271E><U+2718>
                  <U+2706><U+271D> <U+275A><U+2706> <U+275A><U+2716><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2706><U+271F><U+271D><U+275A>
                                              <U+2702><U+2704><U+2719><U+2704>
               <U+2748><U+271F><U+271E><U+275A><U+2706><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2768> <U+271F><U+270C><U+270F><U+2706><U+2712><U+2711> <U+275A><U+2716><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B>
                <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271F><U+270C><U+2711><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714><U+2717> <U+2706><U+261B> <U+270E><U+275A> <U+270E><U+271E>
                       <U+2712><U+271F><U+275A><U+2706><U+2720><U+2712><U+275A><U+270E><U+2748>
                                              <U+2702><U+2704><U+2715><U+260E>
              <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+271E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271F><U+270C><U+2711><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
               <U+2712><U+2711><U+2711><U+2721><U+2711> <U+275A><U+2706> <U+2720><U+2712><U+271E><U+275A><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
                                              <U+2702><U+2704><U+2715><U+2704>
              <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+271E> <U+271F><U+270C><U+2711><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2712><U+271E><U+275A><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2768> P<U+2721> <U+2711><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+270E>P<U+271F><U+275A><U+2721><U+2711>
                                     <U+2702><U+2704><U+2715><U+2722>
                         <U+274A><U+271B><U+271C>
                    <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761>         <U+273B>

                              <U+2736><U+261E><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                     <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+272B><U+2724><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272A>
                               <U+271A><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2739> <U+2701>
                <U+2759> <U+2746><U+2701>
                                                              <U+271A>
                                                             <U+2739> <U+2701>
                                  <U+271A>
                               <U+2739> <U+2701><U+2702>                           <U+2739> <U+2701><U+2706><U+271A>
                   <U+2712><U+261B><U+2721>
                <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+271E>              <U+271D><U+2706>   <U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+271D><U+270D><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2711>
              <U+2720><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+275A><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2706><U+261B>                   <U+275A><U+2706> <U+271F><U+270C><U+2711><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721>
              <U+270C><U+2721><U+261B><U+2748><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A><U+2712><U+2756><U+2721><U+271E>                     <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
                   <U+2706><U+2756>
               <U+2768><U+2721><U+271E>                                            <U+2739> <U+2701><U+2704><U+271A>
                                            <U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271F><U+270C><U+2711><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721>
                                              <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
                              <U+271A>
                              <U+2739> <U+2701><U+260E>
                 <U+274A><U+271B><U+271C>
                          <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+270D>

                                                              <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                Conditions or constraints
ate   Assess                                Respond
                                    CC03                                  CC06
         CC01
                    Pre defined positions
                       <U+2704>
                                p                         Adjust path plan
Scenario 1                                                                                13/37
                                    CC04                                 CC07
                     Real time po
                           <U+2704>
                                ositions              Augment surveillance data   End
         CC02
Scenario 2                                                               CC08
                                    CC05
                     Profile recoggnition                Regulate disclosure

                                                        <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                       o 1 and 2
                Scenario
                Scenario 1                                          Scenario 2
1 Condition or constraint generatted          E01 Condition or constraint generated
 cluding any metadata)                        (including any metadata)
2 Condition or constraint commu
                              unicated to E02 Condition or constraint communicated to
mote server                               robots regulating chip
3 Remote server receives and asssesses
ndition or constraint, then generaates an     E03 Regulating chip receives and facilitates
sessment determination                        condition or constraint assessment
4 Remote server approves condittion or
nstraint
                                              E04 Regulating chip approves condition or
5 Remote sever communicates co     ondition
                                                                                             14/37
                                              constraint
                                   c
 constraint to robots regulating chip
6 Regulating chip facilitates condition or    E05 Regulating chip facilitates condition or
nstraint being imposed                        constraint being imposed
7 Condition or constraint amendeed or         E06 Condition or constraint amended or
voked                                         revoked

                           <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
                phical
             Grap
Scenario 1                            Scenario 2
                                               CC22
                                     E04
    D05                        E03         R    E05
                  C
              D04 CC11
              RR
                                                              15/37
                         E02
              D03
                                               CC20
    D02
                               E01         S

                                                       <U+2736><U+273B><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                            <U+274A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272E><U+272F><U+2730><U+274A><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+2735><U+272F><U+2730> <U+2735><U+2734> <U+2739><U+2733><U+2735><U+2732><U+273A>
                             <U+276C><U+271D><U+2702><U+2605>|<U+260E><U+2702> <U+272D><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271E><U+2702><U+271D><U+2756> <U+2706><U+260E>|<U+271D><U+2727><U+273C><U+2702><U+273D> <U+273E><U+271D>|<U+2748><U+2702><U+2706><U+2706><U+2701><U+2704><U+273C> <U+273F> <U+2740><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2702><U+271D><U+2701><U+2704><U+273C><U+2741>
                            <U+2736><U+2736><U+2736>                 <U+2736><U+2736><U+2720><U+2721>            <U+2736><U+2736><U+2720><U+261B>                            <U+2736><U+2736><U+2720><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                             <U+276F><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D>            <U+276F><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D>                            <U+276F><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D>
                        <U+2748> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                            <U+2749><U+2702><U+271E><U+2701><U+2748><U+2702>          <U+2749><U+2702><U+271E><U+2701><U+2748><U+2702>                          <U+2749><U+2702><U+271E><U+2701><U+2748><U+2702>
                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2711><U+275A><U+2712>                                          <U+25C6><U+271A><U+25C6><U+271B>
                  <U+270E>P<U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2712>                         <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+275A><U+2712>P<U+2712><U+270F>        <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2725><U+271C><U+2722><U+25C6><U+2724>       <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+275A><U+2712>P<U+2712><U+270F>
                       <U+2713>P                         P<U+2712><U+2759><U+270D><U+2716><U+275A><U+2759>                            P<U+2712><U+2759><U+270D><U+2716><U+275A><U+2759>
                   <U+2759><U+2712><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+275A>                         <U+2713>P                                       <U+2713>P
                  <U+270E>P<U+2715><U+2718><U+2711><U+2717><U+2746>                         <U+2715><U+270E><U+2713><U+2759><U+2712><U+270F>                            <U+2715><U+270E><U+2713><U+2759><U+2712><U+270F>
              <U+2717><U+2713><U+2719><U+2759><U+275A>P<U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+275A><U+2759>                         <U+270E>P<U+2715><U+2718><U+2711><U+2717><U+2746>                             <U+270E>P<U+2715><U+2718><U+2711><U+2717><U+2746>
                                                  <U+2717><U+2713><U+2719><U+2759><U+275A>P<U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+275A><U+2759>                    <U+2717><U+2713><U+2719><U+2759><U+275A>P<U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+275A><U+2759>
                                         <U+272D><U+2727><U+260E> <U+2702><U+2727><U+2706><U+260E> |<U+2704><U+2702><U+2756> <U+2748>|<U+2605><U+2605><U+276F><U+2704><U+2701><U+2748><U+2727><U+260E><U+2701>|<U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2729>|<U+271D><U+272A>
                                                       <U+273B><U+2720>
                                  <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+275A><U+2712>P<U+2712><U+270F>                                          <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+275A><U+2712>P<U+2712><U+270F>
                                  P<U+2712><U+2759><U+270D><U+2716><U+275A><U+2759>         <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+275A><U+2712>P<U+2712><U+270F>                           P<U+2712><U+2759><U+270D><U+2716><U+275A><U+2759>
                                  <U+2713>P              P<U+2712><U+2759><U+270D><U+2716><U+275A><U+2759>                                  <U+2713>P
                                  <U+2715><U+270E><U+2713><U+2759><U+2712><U+270F>         <U+2713>P                                 <U+2715><U+270E><U+2713><U+2759><U+2712><U+270F>
                                  <U+270E>P<U+2715><U+2718><U+2711><U+2717><U+2746>         <U+2715><U+270E><U+2713><U+2759><U+2712><U+270F>                             <U+270E>P<U+2715><U+2718><U+2711><U+2717><U+2746>
                                  <U+2717><U+2713><U+2719><U+2759><U+275A>P<U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+275A><U+2759>     <U+270E>P<U+2715><U+2718><U+2711><U+2717><U+2746>        <U+25C6><U+271A><U+25C6><U+271B>            <U+2717><U+2713><U+2719><U+2759><U+275A>P<U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+275A><U+2759>
                                                  <U+2717><U+2713><U+2719><U+2759><U+275A>P<U+2711><U+2715><U+2719><U+275A><U+2759>
                                                                 <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2725><U+271C><U+2722><U+25C6><U+2724>
                        <U+271D>|<U+271F>|<U+260E>               <U+271D>|<U+271F>|<U+260E>           <U+271D>|<U+271F>|<U+260E>                           <U+271D>|<U+271F>|<U+260E>
                            <U+2737><U+2736><U+2720><U+2721>                <U+2737><U+2736><U+2720><U+261B>            <U+2737><U+2736><U+2720><U+261E>                            <U+2737><U+2736><U+2720><U+270C>
                                                                           <U+2738><U+2720><U+2720>
                                         <U+2742><U+2743><U+2744> <U+25B2><U+2745><U+2743><U+2747><U+2744> <U+274B><U+25CF><U+2745><U+274D> <U+274F><U+2745><U+2751><U+25BC><U+2747><U+2744><U+274F><U+2768> <U+2747><U+2745><U+274F><U+2771><U+2745><U+274F>
                      <U+2732><U+2733><U+2735><U+2734><U+2737><U+2732> <U+25B2> <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2735><U+2748><U+2737><U+2732><U+2732><U+2737><U+2732> <U+2748><U+2736><U+2730><U+2737><U+2731><U+2733><U+25D7><U+2732> <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2735><U+2772><U+2730><U+2736><U+2737><U+2732> <U+25B2> <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2730><U+25D7><U+272D><U+2748><U+2772> <U+2748><U+2735><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+272D><U+2730><U+2731><U+2733><U+2732><U+2773>
                        <U+272D> <U+2734><U+2735><U+2736><U+2737> <U+2730><U+2731><U+2769> <U+2772><U+2730><U+2736><U+2733><U+2737><U+2734><U+2730><U+2731><U+2710> <U+276D><U+2732><U+2737><U+272D><U+2734><U+2748><U+276A><U+276B> <U+2734><U+2737><U+2732><U+25BC><U+2736><U+2733><U+2732> <U+25B2> <U+2730><U+272F><U+25C6><U+2735><U+2732><U+2730><U+2731><U+2710> <U+25C6><U+2734><U+2730><U+25D7><U+272D><U+2748><U+2772>
                             <U+2748><U+2735><U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2734><U+272D><U+2730><U+2731><U+2733><U+2732> <U+2735><U+2731> <U+272E><U+2737><U+25D7><U+2730><U+2748><U+2737><U+2732><U+2774> <U+272F><U+272D><U+2748><U+276A><U+2730><U+2731><U+2737><U+2732> <U+2775> <U+2734><U+2735><U+275B><U+2735><U+2733><U+2732>
                                                     <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+2761>

                                                          <U+2736><U+270D><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                               <U+274A><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+274A><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+271D><U+271E> <U+261E><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2721><U+261E><U+2720><U+270D>
                                <U+276C><U+2738><U+273A><U+274F><U+273F><U+274A><U+273A> <U+2742><U+2741><U+273A><U+2738><U+273E><U+273A><U+2738><U+2747> <U+2741><U+274A><U+273F><U+2738><U+2745><U+2756><U+273A><U+270E> P<U+2738><U+273F><U+2759><U+273A><U+2741><U+2741><U+276C><U+273B><U+2756> <U+270F> <U+2711><U+276C><U+25CF><U+274A><U+273A><U+2738><U+276C><U+273B><U+2756><U+2712>
                                <U+2742><U+2745><U+274A> <U+25CF><U+273A><U+2745><U+2741><U+274A> <U+273F><U+273B><U+273A><U+2747> <U+2759><U+273F><U+274F><U+274F><U+2740><U+273B><U+276C><U+2759><U+2745><U+274A><U+276C><U+273F><U+273B> <U+273B><U+273A><U+274A><U+275A><U+273F><U+2738> <U+2742><U+273F><U+2738> <U+276C><U+273B><U+274A><U+273A><U+2738><U+273B><U+273A><U+274A><U+2747>
                                                           <U+273B><U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   <U+2731>             <U+2739>
                                                                                                         <U+2738><U+2701><U+2701><U+2702>
                             <U+25B2>
                 <U+271C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716><U+2713><U+271B><U+271B><U+2713><U+2749> <U+2749><U+2746><U+271A><U+2746>
                <U+2718><U+2713><U+271B><U+2759><U+2723><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2715><U+2714><U+2746><U+2716><U+2605>
                   <U+2716><U+2717><U+2727><U+271B><U+271A><U+2718><U+2746><U+2715><U+2727><U+271A><U+271B>
                  <U+271A><U+2718><U+2746><U+2727><U+271B><U+2726><U+2715><U+271A><U+271A><U+2713><U+2749> <U+271A><U+2717>                             t         <U+2742><U+2745><U+274A> <U+25CF><U+273A><U+2745><U+2741><U+274A> <U+273F><U+273B><U+273A><U+2747> <U+2741><U+273A><U+2738><U+273E><U+273A><U+2738>
                 <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2717><U+2718> <U+2749><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2713>                  <U+25BC><U+25C6>P<U+25D7><U+2771><U+25BC> <U+2772> <U+2773><U+25D7>P<U+2768><U+2771><U+25BC><U+25BC><U+2771><U+25BC> <U+2768><U+276D><U+276A><U+2771><U+276B><U+25C6><U+2774><U+25BC> <U+2773><U+25D7>P<U+2775><U+276A><U+276D><U+2771><U+25BC> <U+2772> <U+2773><U+25D7><U+276A><U+275B><U+275C><U+2768><U+275D> <U+2768>P<U+276B><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+25D7><U+275C><U+276A><U+276B><U+25C6><U+25BC><U+2763>
                                                    <U+275C> <U+25D7>P<U+276D><U+2771> <U+276A><U+276B><U+2764> <U+2775><U+276A><U+276D><U+25C6><U+2771><U+25D7><U+276A><U+276B><U+2710> <U+2765><U+25BC><U+2771><U+275C><U+25D7><U+2768><U+2766><U+2767> <U+25D7><U+2771><U+25BC><U+2660><U+276D><U+25C6><U+25BC> <U+2772> <U+276A><U+2665><U+2773>P<U+25BC><U+276A><U+276B><U+2710> <U+2773><U+25D7><U+276A><U+275B><U+275C><U+2768><U+275D>
                                                          <U+2768>P<U+276B><U+25BC><U+25C6><U+25D7><U+275C><U+276A><U+276B><U+25C6><U+25BC> P<U+276B> <U+2666><U+2771><U+275B><U+276A><U+2768><U+2771><U+25BC>q <U+2665><U+275C><U+2768><U+2766><U+276A><U+276B><U+2771><U+25BC> r <U+25D7>PsP<U+25C6><U+25BC>
                                                 <U+2742><U+2734><U+2747> <U+2745><U+2735><U+2735> <U+273A><U+273C><U+273E><U+273C><U+273F><U+2740><U+2744><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+2744><U+2742><U+2740> <U+2745><U+2747><U+2748> <U+274B><U+2747><U+2743><U+2742> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2742><U+2734><U+273A> <U+2741><U+2747><U+273F><U+2747> <U+2742><U+2740><U+273C><U+2735><U+2742><U+2735><U+2748><U+2747> <U+25CF><U+273A><U+273C><U+2744><U+2742><U+2740><U+2740><U+2742><U+2741> <U+2747><U+2741>
                                                 <U+2762><U+2734><U+2735><U+273F><U+2742><U+273A><U+2742><U+2741> <U+273E><U+2748> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2742> <U+2738><U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+2740><U+273F><U+273A><U+2748><U+270E> <U+273C><U+273A>
                                                 <U+2742><U+2734><U+2734><U+2747> <U+274A><U+274B><U+2742> <U+2738><U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+2740><U+273F><U+273A><U+2748> <U+2745><U+2747><U+2748> <U+2735><U+2742><U+2743><U+2742><U+273A><U+2747><U+2743><U+2742> <U+2734><U+273F><U+2740> <U+2741><U+2747><U+273F><U+2747><U+273E><U+2747><U+2740><U+2742> <U+273C><U+2762>
                                                 <U+2742><U+273A><U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+2740><U+273F><U+2742><U+273A><U+2742><U+2741><U+2744><U+2740><U+274F><U+273E><U+2740><U+2744><U+273A><U+2734><U+273E><U+2742><U+2741><U+2747> P<U+273A><U+273C><U+2762><U+2734><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740> <U+2747><U+2743><U+2747><U+2734><U+2740><U+273F> <U+2747><U+2748> <U+273C><U+273F><U+274B><U+2742><U+273A> <U+2742><U+273F><U+274B><U+2734><U+273A><U+2741> <U+25CF><U+2747><U+273A><U+273F><U+2748><U+2747>
                                                 <U+2740><U+2742><U+273A><U+2743><U+2742><U+273A><U+2740> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2747><U+273F> <U+2745><U+2747><U+2748> <U+2734><U+2740><U+273F><U+2742><U+2747><U+2741> <U+273E><U+2742> <U+25CF><U+273A><U+273C><U+2744><U+2742><U+2740><U+2740><U+2734><U+2743> <U+2747><U+2741> <U+2762><U+2734><U+2735><U+273F><U+2742><U+273A><U+2734><U+2743> <U+2742><U+2740><U+2742><U+2747><U+273A><U+2744><U+274B> <U+273C><U+273A>
                                                 <U+2741><U+2747><U+273F><U+2747><U+2747> <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740><U+274F><U+2735><U+273F><U+2740> <U+2762><U+273C><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273C><U+273E><U+273C><U+273F><U+2740><U+2744><U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+2744><U+2742><U+2740><U+270E> <U+2734><U+275E><U+2742><U+275E> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2742> <U+2738><U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+2740><U+273F><U+273A><U+2748> <U+2745><U+2747><U+2748> <U+273A><U+2742><U+2751><U+274F><U+2742><U+2740><U+273F> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2734><U+273A><U+2741>
                                                 <U+25CF><U+2747><U+273A><U+273F><U+2748> <U+2740><U+2742><U+273A><U+2743><U+2742><U+273A><U+2740> <U+273F><U+273C> <U+2741><U+2742><U+2735><U+2742><U+273F><U+2742><U+270E> <U+273E><U+2735><U+273C><U+2744><U+2663> <U+273C><U+273A> <U+2762><U+2734><U+2735><U+273F><U+2742><U+273A> <U+25CF><U+2747><U+273A><U+273F><U+2734><U+2744><U+274F><U+2735><U+2747><U+273A> P<U+273A><U+273C><U+2762><U+2734><U+2735><U+2742> <U+2741><U+2747><U+273F><U+2747> <U+2762><U+273A><U+273C><U+2745>
                                                 <U+273E><U+2742><U+2734><U+2743> <U+273A><U+2742><U+273F><U+274F><U+273A><U+2742><U+2741> <U+2734><U+270E> <U+273C><U+273A> <U+273F><U+273A><U+2747><U+2740><U+2745><U+2734><U+273F><U+273F><U+2742><U+2741> <U+2747><U+2740><U+270E> <U+273A><U+2742><U+2740><U+274F><U+2735><U+273F><U+2740> <U+2762><U+273C><U+273A> <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+2744><U+2742><U+2740><U+2744><U+273A><U+273C><U+273E><U+273C><U+273F><U+2740> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2747><U+273F>
                                                <U+274F><U+273F><U+2734><U+2735><U+2734><U+2740><U+2742> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2747><U+273F> <U+273F><U+274B><U+2734><U+273A><U+2741> <U+25CF><U+2747><U+273A><U+273F><U+2748><U+2709><U+2740> <U+2740><U+2742><U+273A><U+2743><U+2742><U+273A> <U+2762><U+273C><U+273A> <U+2740><U+274F><U+2744><U+274B> <U+2747> <U+2740><U+2742><U+273A><U+2743><U+2734><U+2744><U+2742><U+275E>
                                    <U+2730>
                                <U+2716><U+2746><U+271C><U+271A><U+2759><U+2718><U+2713><U+2749> <U+2749><U+2746><U+271A><U+2746>
                                <U+271A><U+2718><U+2746><U+2727><U+271B><U+2726><U+2715><U+271A><U+271A><U+2713><U+2749> <U+271A><U+2717>
                               <U+2746> <U+2718><U+2713><U+2726><U+2717><U+271A><U+2713> <U+271B><U+2713><U+2718><U+2714><U+2713><U+2718>
                               <U+2722><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2716><U+2713><U+271B><U+271B><U+2715><U+2727>|                          <U+2736>
                                 <U+272D><U+272B><U+272E> <U+271B><U+2713><U+2746><U+2718><U+2716><U+2729><U+2715><U+2727>|<U+272F>       <U+2713><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2746><U+2759>|<U+2726><U+2713><U+2727><U+271A><U+2713><U+2749> <U+2718><U+2713><U+2746><U+2723><U+2715><U+271A><U+2605> <U+2749><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2713>
                                                            <U+2759><U+271B><U+2713><U+2718> <U+2717><U+2718> <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+271A> <U+276F><U+2715><U+271A><U+2729>
                                                        <U+271B><U+2759><U+2718><U+2714><U+2713><U+2715><U+2723><U+2723><U+2746><U+2727><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2746><U+271C><U+2746><U+2719><U+2715><U+2723><U+2715><U+271A><U+2715><U+2713><U+271B>
                                                                                                     <U+273D>
                                                                                               <U+271B><U+2729><U+2718><U+2717><U+2759><U+2749><U+2715><U+2727>| <U+2717><U+2718>
                                                                                               <U+2715><U+2726><U+271C><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2749> <U+2713><U+274D><U+2716><U+2723><U+2759><U+271B><U+2715><U+2717><U+2727>
                                                                                               <U+2769><U+2717><U+2727><U+2713>
                 <U+276F><U+2715><U+2718><U+2713><U+2723><U+2713><U+271B><U+271B>
               <U+271A><U+2718><U+2746><U+2727><U+271B><U+2726><U+2715><U+271B><U+271B><U+2715><U+2717><U+2727>
                   <U+273D>                           <U+2713><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2715><U+2726><U+2746>|<U+2713> <U+272A> <U+2714><U+2717><U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2716><U+2746><U+271C><U+271A><U+2759><U+2718><U+2713><U+2749>
              <U+272C><U+271C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2722><U+2715><U+2723><U+2713><U+272C><U+2732> <U+2727><U+2717><U+271A>                                    <U+2737>
              <U+2715><U+2749><U+2713><U+2727><U+271A><U+2715><U+2722><U+2715><U+2713><U+2749>
              <U+272D>|<U+2729><U+2717><U+271B><U+271A><U+2713><U+2749><U+272F><U+2733>
              <U+271B><U+2729><U+2718><U+2717><U+2759><U+2749><U+2713><U+2749><U+2733> <U+2717><U+2718>                                                                      <U+2718><U+2713>|<U+2715><U+271B><U+271A><U+2713><U+2718><U+2713><U+2749> <U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2729><U+2746><U+271B> <U+2713><U+274D><U+2716><U+2723><U+2759><U+271B><U+2715><U+2717><U+2727>                    <U+2749><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2718> <U+2718><U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+271A>                                  <U+271B><U+2759><U+2719><U+271B><U+2716><U+2718><U+2715><U+2719><U+2713><U+2749>
              <U+2769><U+2717><U+2727><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2726><U+271C><U+2717><U+271B><U+2713><U+2749>                                                                      <U+272C><U+271C><U+2718><U+2717><U+2722><U+2715><U+2723><U+2713><U+272C>
              <U+2746><U+2718><U+2717><U+2759><U+2727><U+2749> <U+2715><U+271A>
                                                       <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+2761>

       <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+271B><U+260E><U+261E><U+2663><U+2663><U+2701>
      <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271F> <U+2722><U+2701><U+2706><U+2701><U+271F>                                           <U+2731><U+2701><U+261E><U+2663><U+271F><U+274A>
       <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+271B><U+260E><U+261E><U+2663><U+2663><U+2701>
        <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2701> <U+25CF>
         <U+270C><U+270C> <U+271B><U+2701><U+271E><U+2663>
        <U+261E><U+2701><U+2721><U+2701><U+271E><U+2663><U+2663><U+2746>                                                                                               <U+2747>
                                                                                       <U+271B><U+260E><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2723>            <U+2745><U+2748> <U+2748><U+2742>
                                                                                                     <U+274D><U+274B><U+2749> <U+2743><U+2742><U+2741><U+2740><U+273F><U+273E>
                                                                                        P<U+2746>          <U+2745><U+2744><U+2742><U+2743>
 r                                            <U+275D><U+276B>   <U+276F><U+25D7><U+2762> <U+2773><U+275B><U+2772>            <U+270C><U+271E> <U+2721> <U+271E> <U+270C>
                                                           <U+25D7>
 q                                          <U+275C><U+2775>        <U+275A> <U+25D7><U+25C6><U+2756> <U+276F><U+2771><U+2771><U+275B>     <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+271B><U+260E><U+261E><U+2663><U+2663><U+2746>                       <U+273D><U+273C>
 <U+2666>                                        <U+276A><U+2775>               <U+2756><U+25C6><U+25BC>                                       <U+2739><U+2738><U+2736> <U+273B> <U+2739><U+273A>
                                                              <U+25B2><U+2751>                                        <U+2737><U+2737><U+2736> <U+273A><U+2736>
 <U+2665>                                      <U+2774><U+2775>                       <U+274F>                 <U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272B><U+272F><U+272E><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B> <U+272A>|<U+2707>         <U+2735><U+2734><U+2733> <U+2708>
 <U+2660>                                 <U+276A><U+2769>                                              <U+2605>|<U+2729><U+2605>|<U+2727> |<U+2726><U+2725><U+2724>|<U+274F>              <U+2732>
                           <U+276B>   <U+2774>
                       <U+276D><U+276A><U+276A>
                   <U+276C>
              <U+2769><U+276C>
          <U+2768>
                                                                                                     <U+270F><U+271A><U+2713><U+2719> <U+270E>
     <U+270C><U+2701><U+271D><U+2701><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702>                                                                                                  <U+2718><U+2717> <U+2716>
                                                                                                                     <U+2716><U+2711>
                                                                                                      <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+271F><U+271E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E> 
<removed-date>                                             <removed-apn>

                                                     <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                                                                   Database
                                                                    Store
    Geo Data          Remote serrver
                   submission intterface                           Validate
                                                                  submission
                                                                      b it to
                                                                  & submit t
                                                                   database
                                                                        Yes
                                       Data
                                                                                19/37
                                     validated
                                       lid t d        bmissions
                                                   SSubmissions   Approval?
                                    and sent for     validated
                                     approval
                                                                        No
Geo Data package                                                   Rejection
                                                                   R j i
                                                                  notice sent
                      Remote server                                to sender
  Geo Data                API

                                                             <removed-apn>                     <removed-date>
mith,
 t},
  arm},                                                          Remote server web API
               Flight data in
               JSON format                                  https://remoteserver.com/api/delivery
                                                                       Validate request
              Mi  i request
              Mission
               from service
                application                                      No        Request
                                                                            valid?
                            Send
                               d HTTP/1.1                                       Yes
                                                                                                           20/37
                               Bad Request
                           400 B
                                                                       Test for exclusion
               Send HTTP/1.1                                     Yes
           412 Precondition Failed           Find nearest                 Excluded?
            recommend alternatee                 safe
                                                                                No
                         Send HTTTP/1.1                                  Accept request             Shipping/
                          201 Creeated                                   and submit to               logistics
                                                                       logistics database
                                                                                                    database

<removed-date>
                                                      <U+261E><U+2736><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
                                 <U+274A> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+274A><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2721><U+271E><U+2720><U+271D><U+261B>
                                     <U+2746><U+273F>       <U+2759>        <U+2759>
              <U+276C><U+2759><U+25CF><U+276C><U+273A><U+273B><U+274A> <U+2745>PP<U+25CF><U+276C><U+273A><U+2741> <U+2711><U+273F><U+2738> P<U+2738><U+276C><U+273E><U+2745><U+2759> <U+274F><U+2745>P <U+2741><U+273A><U+25CF><U+273A><U+2759><U+274A><U+276C><U+273F><U+273B> P<U+273F><U+2741><U+276C><U+274A><U+276C><U+273F><U+273B> <U+274A><U+2738><U+2745><U+2759> <U+273A><U+2738> P<U+2738><U+273F><U+2711><U+276C><U+25CF><U+273A> P<U+2738><U+273F><U+274A><U+273A><U+2759><U+274A><U+276C><U+273F><U+273B><U+2712>
                                       <U+2704><U+260E><U+260E>
                          <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                                      <U+2704><U+260E><U+2704>
                 <U+2725>      <U+2712><U+2713>
                  <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A> <U+270E><U+271E><U+2716><U+2721><U+271E> <U+275A><U+2706> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+2768> <U+270D><U+2706><U+261B>
                <U+2721> <U+2748><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2721><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2716><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F><U+2711><U+270E><U+271D><U+2756> <U+2706><U+261B>
                         <U+2756><U+2716><U+2706><U+271E><U+275A><U+270E><U+271D><U+2756>
                                                                                            <U+2704><U+2715><U+2704>
                                                      <U+2704><U+271A><U+260E>                 <U+2712><U+2712>
                                                            <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2717>
                                                              <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270F><U+275A><U+271E> <U+270E><U+275A><U+2716> <U+275A><U+2716><U+270E><U+261B><U+2711>
                                                                 <U+270C><U+2712><U+261B><U+275A><U+270E><U+2721><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270D> <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+2721><U+2747><U+2712><U+271D><U+275A>
                 <U+270C><U+261B><U+2721><U+270D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2712>P<U+270F><U+2768><U+2717> <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A> <U+2748><U+261B><U+2721><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2712>
                      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768> <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2706><U+271F><U+271D><U+275A>
                                                                                            <U+2704><U+2739><U+260E>
                                                      <U+2704><U+271A><U+2704>    <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2768> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+2747><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2711><U+2721><U+271D><U+2768>
                                                             <U+2706><U+261B> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2712><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A><U+271E> <U+275A><U+2706>
                                                                 <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A><U+261E><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D>
                <U+270C><U+261B><U+2721><U+270D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2712>P<U+270F><U+2768><U+2717> <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A> <U+270F><U+2706><U+2756><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+275A><U+2706>
                      <U+275A><U+2716><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2706><U+271F><U+271D><U+275A>
                                                                                            <U+2704><U+2739><U+2704>
                                                      <U+2704><U+2719><U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                                             <U+2706><U+271D><U+2748><U+2721> <U+2712><U+270F><U+270F> <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+2721><U+2747><U+2712><U+271D><U+275A> <U+270C><U+2712><U+261B><U+275A><U+270E><U+2721><U+271E>
                                 <U+2725><U+275A>    <U+2713>
                                                            <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2721><U+270C><U+275A> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2717> <U+270E><U+271D> <U+2716><U+2706><U+270F><U+2721>
                 <U+275A><U+2706> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+2721> <U+2721> <U+2748><U+270F><U+271F><U+271E><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2706><U+271D><U+2721><U+2717>                      <U+2706><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2712><U+261B><U+275A><U+2717> <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2768> P<U+2721>
                 <U+271E><U+2716><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F><U+2711><U+270E><U+271D><U+2756> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2706><U+261B> <U+2756><U+2716><U+2706><U+271E><U+275A><U+270E><U+271D><U+2756><U+2717>                   <U+270E><U+271D><U+2747><U+2706><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D>
                 <U+272D><U+272D> <U+2712>                           <U+2714><U+2714>
                             <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A><U+2723>                           <U+270D><U+270E><U+271D><U+2712><U+270F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2711><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2706><U+261B><U+2711><U+270E><U+271D><U+2756><U+270F><U+2768>
                 <U+2713> <U+2714> <U+2747><U+270E><U+2721> <U+271E> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2721><U+270F><U+2721><U+2748><U+275A><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2720><U+2712><U+270C>
                                  <U+275A>
                <U+2713> <U+2714> <U+270E><U+271D><U+270D><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E> <U+2706><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2706><U+2748><U+2712><U+275A><U+2706><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721>
                   <U+272D><U+272D>        <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2706><U+261B>
                                           <U+2715><U+2739>
                   <U+2713> <U+2714> <U+271F><U+270C><U+270F><U+2706><U+2712><U+2711><U+271E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2721> <U+2713><U+270D><U+270E><U+2756> <U+2714>
                                                                                            <U+2704><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                              <U+271F><U+270C><U+2706><U+271D> <U+270C><U+2712><U+2768><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2748><U+2721><U+270E><U+270C><U+275A> <U+2713><U+270E><U+270D>
                                                      <U+2704><U+2719><U+2704>       <U+2725>
                                                                <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712>P<U+270F><U+2721><U+2714> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768>
                                                               <U+2721> <U+2748><U+270F><U+271F><U+2711><U+2721><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271E><U+2716><U+261B><U+2706><U+271F><U+2711><U+271E> <U+2706><U+261B>
                  <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A> <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+270D><U+270E><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E> <U+275A><U+2716><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+273A><U+270F><U+2711>                  <U+2756><U+2716><U+2706><U+271E><U+275A><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2756> <U+270E><U+2720><U+270C><U+2706><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270E><U+2747><U+2712><U+2748><U+2768>
                                                              <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+275A><U+271E> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+271E><U+2717>
                             <U+275A>
                       <U+2748><U+2716><U+2706><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2768>
                 <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721> <U+270C><U+2712><U+2768><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A><U+2717>
                         <U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712>P<U+270F><U+2721>
                                                                <U+2720><U+2712><U+2748><U+2716><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2706><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2706>P<U+2706><U+275A><U+271E>
                                                                                            <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704>
                                                      <U+2704><U+2715><U+260E>
                                                            <U+2711><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2748><U+2716><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2706><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2706>P<U+2706><U+275A><U+271E>
                                                             <U+270E><U+271D><U+270D><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+2721><U+2711> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> P<U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2706>P<U+2721><U+2768><U+270E><U+271D><U+2756>
                  <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2748><U+2721><U+270E><U+2747><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2748><U+270F><U+270E><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A><U+261E><U+271E>                <U+271F><U+270C><U+2711><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721><U+2711> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270E><U+2747><U+2712><U+2748><U+2768> <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+275A><U+271E>
                         <U+2712><U+270C><U+270C><U+270F><U+270E><U+2748><U+2712><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2704><U+2701><U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
                                                     <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+2736>   <U+2761>

<removed-date>
                                             <U+261E><U+261E><U+2737><U+270C><U+270D>
                           P<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2746><U+260E><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2748><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2701><U+2746><U+2702><U+271D><U+271F><U+271E>                                  <U+2704><U+2704><U+2704>
                                                                       <U+2704><U+273A><U+260E>
                                                             <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                <U+2736>
                 <U+2739>            <U+2738>                                                   <U+2704><U+273A><U+2704>
                                                <U+270C><U+261B><U+2721><U+270D><U+2721><U+261B><U+2712>P<U+270F><U+2768><U+2717> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2706><U+2756><U+271E><U+2718><U+2706><U+271D> <U+275A><U+2706>
                                                    <U+275A><U+2716><U+2721><U+270E><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2712><U+271D><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2748><U+2748><U+2706><U+271F><U+271D><U+275A>
                                                                                  <U+2704><U+2722><U+260E>
                                                <U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+271D><U+270E><U+275A><U+270E><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271E><U+271E><U+270E><U+2756><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A> <U+2706><U+261B>
                                                 <U+270D><U+271F><U+271D><U+2748><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+270E><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+271F><U+2748><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+275A><U+2706>
                                                 <U+2711><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2748><U+2716><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721> <U+2706><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2706>P<U+2706><U+275A>
                                                     <U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2704><U+2722><U+2704>
                                                <U+2706><U+270C><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2712><U+270F><U+2723> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+261E><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2748><U+2716><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721><U+261E><U+271E>
                                                  <U+2706><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2706>P<U+2706><U+275A><U+261E><U+271E> <U+270E><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+271F><U+2748><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                                    <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+2712><U+2768><U+2721><U+2711> <U+275A><U+2706> <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768>
                                                                                  <U+2704> <U+260E>
                                                 <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2768> <U+270C><U+261B><U+2706><U+2748><U+2721><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711>
                                                  <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+271F><U+270F><U+2712><U+275A><U+2721> <U+270E><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+271F><U+2748><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
                                         <U+2704> <U+2739>                                      <U+2704> <U+2704>
              <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+2721><U+2747><U+2712><U+271D><U+275A> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270E><U+2747><U+2712><U+2748><U+2768> <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+275A><U+271E>      <U+261B><U+2721><U+2756><U+270E><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2768> <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+2712><U+2768><U+271E> <U+2748><U+270F><U+2721><U+2712><U+261B><U+2712><U+271D><U+2748><U+2721>
                <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+2712><U+2768><U+2721><U+2711> <U+275A><U+2706> <U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+2717>       <U+2748><U+2706><U+2711><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+2721><U+2747><U+2712><U+271D><U+275A> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270E><U+2747><U+2712><U+2748><U+2768>
                   <U+2720><U+2712><U+2748><U+2716><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721> <U+2706><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2706>P<U+2706><U+275A>                 <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+275A><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2768>
                                                                                  <U+2704><U+2701><U+260E>
                                                 <U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2747><U+270E><U+2748><U+2721><U+2717> <U+2720><U+2712><U+2748><U+2716><U+270E><U+271D><U+2721> <U+2706><U+261B>
                                                         <U+2725>
                                                <U+261B><U+2706>P<U+2706><U+275A> <U+2721> <U+2721><U+2748><U+271F><U+275A><U+2721><U+271E> <U+2712><U+271E><U+271E><U+270E><U+2756><U+271D><U+2720><U+2721><U+271D><U+275A>
                                               <U+2706><U+261B> <U+270D><U+271F><U+271D><U+2748><U+275A><U+270E><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2712><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+270D><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+271E> <U+275A><U+2706>
                                                 <U+2712><U+271D><U+2768> <U+270C><U+261B><U+270E><U+2747><U+2712><U+2748><U+2768> <U+2748><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+275A><U+261B><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+275A><U+271E>
                                                                       <U+2704><U+2701><U+2701>
                                                             <U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
                                        <U+274B><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+2761> <U+2736><U+2736>

                                                         <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
         Policing                        Conditions                     Intentions
                                 (1) Generate
) Generate policing initiative                                 (1) Generate Intention
                                   ndition/constraint
                                 con
                                 (2) Assess generated
) Assess sample of situation                                   (2) Assess generated Intention
                                   ndition/constraint
                                 con
                                                                                                23/37
) Respond with enforcement (3) Respond by imposing             (3) Respond by effecting or
or notify                    ndition/constraint
                           con                                 executing Intention
) Amend or revoke                (4) Amend or revoke condition
                                                               (4) Amend or revoke Intention
forcement                          nstraint
                                 con

                                                       <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
anufactured   E.g. Approved Design Organisations or Production Approval
              2.1 Robots parties and particulars determined (Fig. 11c)
              2.2 Robots specifications determined (Fig. 11d)
              2.3 Robots protocols (& compatibility with) determined: Type 1-3 (Fig. 11e-h)
              2.4 Robots operations (Intentions) determined (Fig. 11i)
              2.5 Robots diagnostic/health tests determined (Fig. 11j)
              2.6 Robots baseline, tolerance, threshold & template values determined
              3.1 Prospective registrant assessed for registration (Fig. 11k)
              3.2 Specified robot customised or appropriated to registrant (Fig. 11k)
              3.3 Parties and particulars are registered
              3.4 Initial protocols installed
                                                                                               24/37
              3.5 Robot activated for use (service)
              Use standard robot
              Change of registered parties &/or particulars
              Updates created, communicated, received, installed & imposed
              Modifications (design changes)
              Use modified robot
              E.g. deregistered, uninstalled, unenrolled.

                                                                                                                       <U+272D><U+25B2><U+2731>                  <U+2769>   <U+270D><U+2702><U+2712><U+270D><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2772>
                                        <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+270D><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2733>      <U+2769>                                   <U+2461><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+2711><U+261B><U+2748>                                                          <U+276B><U+270E> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B><U+25C6><U+25B2> <U+270E> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+261B><U+2736><U+25B2> <U+270E><U+2702> <U+270E><U+270E><U+2702><U+270D><U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+276D>            <U+276B>   <U+276D>                       <U+276B>       <U+276D>
                                                                             <U+2702><U+261B><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+261B><U+25C6> <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+271E><U+2732> <U+2713><U+270D><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2732>            <U+2774>                             <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2748>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2769>
<U+270E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2712><U+2712><U+2714><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461> <U+2712><U+261B><U+270D>
         <U+2769>         <U+2769>                              <U+2769>          <U+2772>                 <U+2702><U+2712><U+25BC><U+2731> <U+271E><U+2702><U+2702><U+270D><U+271E><U+2732> <U+270D><U+2702><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+2731>
             <U+2723><U+2723><U+2716>r<U+275E><U+275E><U+271B> <U+2723>t<U+272B><U+2722> <U+2726><U+2722> <U+275E><U+2716>r<U+2716><U+2722><U+2723>t<U+2605><U+2716>r <U+2723><U+271B><U+2727> <U+2722><U+2726><U+272A><U+2726>r <U+2716><U+2725>t<U+2722> <U+2724> <U+2716><U+2722><U+271B><U+2749>                                                          <U+272D><U+25B2><U+2731>              <U+2769>   <U+270D><U+2702><U+2712><U+270D><U+261B>   <U+2772>
                                               <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+270D><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2733>        <U+2769>                                                                                       <U+276B><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+2756><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+2702><U+2720><U+2720><U+271F> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270E> <U+270D><U+261B><U+270E><U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+270E><U+261B><U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+276D>                                       <U+2774><U+276B>       <U+276D>
                                                                                      <U+276B><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+2756><U+2735> <U+270E><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+2712><U+25BC><U+2732>
                                                                                           <U+276D>                                            <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2748>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2769>
             <U+270E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2712><U+2712><U+2714><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461> <U+2712><U+261B><U+270D>
               <U+2769>        <U+2769>                                <U+2769>           <U+2772>                                                                               <U+272D><U+25B2><U+2731>                          <U+2769>   <U+270D><U+2702><U+2712><U+270D><U+261B>      <U+2772>
                                                                                                         <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+270D><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2733>                                                                                                    <U+270E> <U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+2756><U+2735>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2769><U+2772><U+2751> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270D><U+2711><U+271E><U+2721><U+25BC><U+2720><U+2711><U+271D><U+25BC><U+272F>
                                                                                                                            <U+2769>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+276B>   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2769>
                                                                 <U+270E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2712><U+2712><U+2714><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461> <U+2712><U+261B><U+270D>
                                                                     <U+2769>        <U+2769>                                    <U+2769>            <U+2772>
                                                                               <U+275E><U+2716>r<U+2716><U+2722><U+2723>t<U+2605><U+2716>r <U+2723><U+271B><U+2727> r<U+2716><U+271C><U+2727><U+2726> <U+2716><U+2725>t<U+2722> <U+2724> <U+2716><U+2722><U+271B><U+2749>                                              <U+272D><U+25B2><U+2731>                      <U+2769>   <U+270D><U+2702><U+2712><U+270D><U+261B>      <U+2772>
                                                                                                            <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2702><U+270D><U+261E> <U+261B><U+2733>                                                                                                     <U+270E> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270E><U+25BC>
     r
                                                                                                                                                <U+2769><U+2772><U+2751> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270D><U+2711><U+271E><U+2721><U+25BC><U+2720><U+2711><U+271D><U+25BC><U+272F>
                                                                                                                                <U+2769>                                                                                         <U+276B>   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2748>
     q
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2769>
     <U+2666>
                                                                     <U+270E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2712><U+2712><U+2714><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461> <U+2712><U+261B><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+272E> <U+2733>
                                                                         <U+2769>        <U+2769>                                    <U+2769>            <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+275B>                    <U+2702><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+270E><U+270E>
 <U+2737>                                                                                        <U+275E><U+2716>r<U+2716><U+2722><U+2723>t<U+2605><U+2716>r <U+2723><U+271B><U+2727> r<U+2716><U+2723><U+2729> <U+2716><U+2725>t<U+2722> <U+2724> <U+2716><U+2722><U+271B><U+2749>                                                                                             <U+272D><U+25B2><U+2731>           <U+271D><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+272E> <U+2733> <U+275B>             <U+271D><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+270E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2712><U+2712><U+2714><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2769>           <U+2769>                                         <U+271D><U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+270E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2712><U+2712><U+2714><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461><U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2769>           <U+2769>                                             <U+2702><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D><U+2702><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+271D> <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270F><U+261E> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+271F><U+270F><U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D><U+2702><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+271D> <U+270F><U+25BC><U+271F><U+270D><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D><U+25BC><U+271D><U+25BC><U+271E><U+2732>                        <U+271E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+271F><U+270D><U+25BC><U+270C><U+25B2><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270F><U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2702>
<removed-date>                                                  <removed-apn>

                          <U+2712><U+274A><U+2721><U+2715><U+271E><U+2725><U+271D><U+261B><U+270C><U+261B><U+2721><U+2713><U+2720><U+271E><U+270C><U+2721><U+270C><U+271E><U+2715><U+271E><U+270C><U+270C><U+2717><U+2711><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B><U+270E><U+2721><U+2711><U+270F><U+271C><U+271E> <U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+270C><U+271F><U+2720><U+270C><U+2720><U+270E><U+271C><U+2721><U+2715><U+271E><U+270F><U+271D><U+270E><U+2724><U+2711><U+2711><U+270F><U+261B><U+2720><U+2713><U+261B><U+270C><U+2715><U+2721><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+2711><U+271B><U+2717><U+2724><U+2721><U+271C><U+2722><U+2720> <U+2721><U+274A><U+2706><U+270F><U+274A><U+2727><U+2721>                                                               <U+270C><U+2704><U+2706> <U+271F> <U+271E><U+260E><U+261B><U+2704> <U+271E> <U+271F> <U+2704><U+270C><U+2731><U+270C> <U+260E> <U+271C><U+271E><U+2701> <U+2704> <U+2706> 
          <U+2718><U+271A><U+261B><U+2719><U+2715><U+271E><U+2715><U+2720><U+2711><U+2720><U+2706><U+271D><U+2721><U+271A><U+271E><U+270C><U+274A><U+2717><U+2721><U+270C><U+274A><U+2711><U+261B><U+2716><U+2719><U+2716><U+270C><U+2715><U+2722><U+270C><U+270C><U+271E><U+2711><U+271E><U+271D><U+2722><U+270E><U+2721><U+2711><U+2713><U+271B><U+2720><U+270C><U+2720><U+271B><U+271D><U+271B><U+271D><U+261B><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E><U+2715><U+271D><U+2715><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2715><U+271F><U+2711> <U+271E><U+261B><U+270C><U+270C><U+2717><U+270C><U+270C><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2721><U+271E><U+270E><U+274A><U+270F><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+271C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2712><U+2715><U+2713><U+271D><U+270C><U+2721><U+2711><U+270C><U+271E><U+261B><U+271D><U+271E> <U+2715><U+261B><U+271E><U+2721><U+271C><U+2720><U+2721><U+270C><U+270C><U+261B><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+2712><U+270D><U+271F><U+271E><U+270D><U+2711><U+2722><U+271C><U+2721><U+271F><U+2715><U+2711><U+261B><U+270C><U+270D><U+270C><U+2706><U+270D><U+2711><U+2715><U+2721><U+2712><U+2715><U+2715><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E><U+271D><U+271D><U+2711><U+2721><U+271D><U+2720><U+271B><U+261B><U+271D><U+2717><U+271E><U+270E><U+2715><U+2711><U+271E><U+271D><U+2715><U+270C><U+2720><U+2711> <U+270E><U+271F><U+271E><U+270C><U+271B><U+2715><U+270C><U+2717><U+270E><U+270C><U+270C><U+261B><U+2715><U+2711><U+271E><U+2721><U+2719><U+2711><U+271E><U+2722><U+270C><U+270F><U+2717><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270C><U+271E><U+271D><U+270E><U+261B><U+270F><U+2721><U+2721><U+2713><U+270F><U+2715><U+270C><U+271E><U+2712><U+261B><U+2720><U+2715><U+2721><U+271F><U+2721><U+2724><U+2722><U+2721><U+2711> <U+271C><U+2713><U+2718><U+271B><U+271D><U+270E><U+270C><U+271F><U+2723><U+2726>   <U+261E><U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C> <U+271B><U+260E><U+2721> <U+2720> <U+260E> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271F><U+2663><U+260E><U+261B><U+2704> <U+2720> <U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+271B><U+2701><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701> <U+2702><U+270C><U+2701><U+2722>
     r
     q                                                                <U+271B><U+271D><U+2711><U+271E><U+2721><U+271E><U+270C><U+2720><U+271B><U+2721><U+261B><U+270C><U+270E><U+2715> <U+2718><U+2706><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721> <U+270E><U+2711><U+271E><U+2721><U+2711><U+2725> <U+274A><U+2706><U+274A><U+2719>                                                                              <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+271F><U+271E><U+2701><U+271D><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2701><U+2704><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271F><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270C><U+270C><U+2701> 
     <U+2666>
 <U+2737>                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2663><U+2701><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2706> <U+270C> <U+260E><U+2704><U+260E><U+261E><U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+2663><U+2701><U+271B>P<U+270C><U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+2704><U+271B><U+2706><U+261B><U+271D>
 <U+2737>
                                                                              <U+271A><U+2719><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270E><U+2719> <U+2718><U+261B><U+271E><U+2715><U+2711><U+2706><U+2721><U+271A> <U+271E><U+270C><U+2717><U+270C><U+271A><U+2716> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+2713><U+271E><U+270D><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714> <U+2721><U+261B><U+271D><U+2713><U+271F><U+261B><U+2711><U+270D> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270C><U+270C><U+261B><U+2720><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271D> <U+274A><U+2706><U+274A><U+2719>                                                                                                    <U+271E>
<removed-date>                <removed-apn>

                       <U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270C><U+2720> <U+2715><U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2720>r <U+2461><U+261B><U+2721><U+2701><U+2712><U+2706><U+2701><U+2711><U+270F>
                                                              <U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F><U+2713><U+2720><U+2706> <U+2461><U+261B><U+2721><U+2701><U+2712><U+2706>
                                          <U+270C><U+2701><U+2706><U+271A><U+261E><U+2701><U+261B><U+2720><U+2706><U+2719>
                                                           <U+2701><U+2706><U+271A><U+271C><U+271F><U+2701><U+2605> <U+2714><U+261B><U+272D>
                           <U+2714><U+260E><U+2727><U+2725><U+272D> r<U+271A><U+271D><U+2723><U+2706><U+2701><U+2713><U+2720> <U+2726> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2706> <U+2722><U+2701><U+261B><U+2721><U+271D><U+2721><U+2701><U+271E><U+2721><U+271F><U+271D><U+2725> <U+2714><U+2718><U+272D>                   <U+270C><U+2706>
                                                       <U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+2701> <U+270C><U+2721><U+2724> <U+2714><U+271D><U+272D>
     r
     q
     <U+2666>
     r
                                                                                         
 <U+2737>                                <U+270C><U+2706><U+2701><U+2713><U+271F><U+271D><U+274A> <U+2726> <U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E> <U+2701><U+261B><U+271B><U+270F>                    <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721>
                                                                         <U+2715><U+271E><U+271F><U+2756> <U+2461><U+271E><U+271F><U+270F><U+271F><U+2713><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+261E><U+2712><U+261B>
             <U+2712><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+270C><U+2720><U+2723><U+2712> <U+2706><U+2720> <U+2712><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+271A><U+2720><U+2706><U+2723><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270C><U+2701><U+2721><U+2720><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+270C><U+271A>r<U+261B><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+272D>
                                                               <U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2706>
         <U+270C><U+271E><U+2721><U+271F><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E><U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2461><U+271E><U+271F>r<U+271F><U+2718><U+271D> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2715><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271A><U+2717><U+2715><U+2701><U+261B><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711><U+2706><U+2720><U+2717><U+2706><U+2701><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+272D>
          <U+271E><U+2721><U+2701><U+2711><U+2701><U+2712><U+271D><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711> <U+261B><U+271F><U+2717><U+2717><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2720> <U+270C><U+2716><U+261B><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E><U+2715><U+270C><U+2721><U+271D>r r<U+2701><U+2713><U+271D><U+2706><U+275A> <U+2714><U+271D><U+272D>               <U+276B>   <U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F><U+25BC><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2748> <U+270D><U+261B> 
                                                                                       <U+276D>
                                                                         <U+2461><U+271E><U+271F><U+270D><U+2711><U+2721><U+2702><U+2732> <U+2461><U+271E><U+2702><U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+2775>
<removed-date>             <removed-apn>

                                            <U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270F><U+271F><U+2715><U+2721> <U+270D><U+271F><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2702><U+270E><U+271F><U+270C><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+2711><U+270E> <U+261B><U+271E> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+2715><U+270E><U+271F><U+2756> <U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC><U+261E> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                                                             <U+276B><U+2721><U+271E><U+2702> <U+2774><U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270F><U+270F><U+271F><U+2702><U+270C><U+270D><U+2711><U+270E> <U+270F><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2711><U+271E><U+270F><U+2711><U+2721><U+271F><U+270D>|<U+25BC>
                                                                                                     <U+270C><U+2706><U+2701><U+2713><U+271F><U+271D><U+2724> <U+274A> <U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E> <U+2701><U+261B><U+271B><U+270F>
                     <U+2461><U+270D><U+2702><U+270C><U+271F><U+270F><U+2702><U+25B2><U+261E><U+2711><U+2714><U+2701><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E> <U+270D><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2702><U+276D> <U+270F><U+25BC><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2702><U+270C><U+271F>| <U+270D><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+2715><U+2702><U+2701><U+25BC><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
         r
                     <U+2774>
         q
         <U+2666>
                         <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+25B2><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+261B><U+270F><U+25B2><U+270E><U+270E><U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+271E><U+25BC><U+2715><U+271E> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+2702><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F>|<U+2702><U+270D> <U+270E><U+2702><U+271F><U+271E><U+270D><U+25BC><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+2702><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F>|<U+2702><U+270D> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
         <U+2665>
     <U+2737>                            <U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F><U+271D><U+2711> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702><U+270D><U+2702><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F>|<U+2702><U+270D><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2730> <U+2769><U+2746> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+261E><U+2735>
                                           <U+276B><U+2702><U+2743><U+271F><U+2720><U+276D> <U+270E><U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+271D><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+261B><U+2748> <U+2769><U+2745> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+261E><U+2735>
                                                                                <U+2712><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+270C><U+2720><U+2723><U+2712> <U+2706><U+2720> <U+2712><U+2721><U+271F><U+261E><U+271A><U+2720><U+2706><U+2723><U+270C> <U+2722><U+270C><U+2701><U+2721><U+2720><U+271C> <U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+270C><U+271A>r<U+261B><U+271B><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+272D>
                              <U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2713><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702><U+2743><U+271F><U+2720><U+276D> <U+2702><U+270D><U+2711><U+271E><U+261E><U+25BC><U+2721> <U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2720><U+261B><U+270D><U+25C6> <U+2769><U+2744> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+261E><U+2735>
                              <U+276B>
<U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2713><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702><U+2743><U+271F><U+2720><U+276D> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+270E><U+270E><U+271F><U+2712><U+270E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702><U+270F><U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+261B><U+270F><U+270F><U+261B><U+2748> <U+2769><U+2756> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+261E><U+2735>
<U+276B>
                                                                            <U+270C><U+271E><U+2721><U+271F><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E><U+270C><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B> <U+2461><U+271E><U+271F>r<U+271F><U+2718><U+271D> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2715><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+271A><U+2717><U+2715><U+2701><U+261B><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711><U+2706><U+2720><U+2717><U+2706><U+2701><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+272D>
                                                                             <U+271E><U+2721><U+2701><U+2711><U+2701><U+2712><U+271D><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711> <U+261B><U+271F><U+2717><U+2717><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2720> <U+270C><U+2716><U+261B><U+271D><U+2706><U+271E><U+2715><U+270C><U+2721><U+271D>r r<U+2701><U+2713><U+271D><U+2706><U+275A> <U+2714><U+271D><U+272D>
    <removed-date>                   <removed-apn>

                                            <U+260E><U+2702><U+2759><U+272D><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+271F><U+272D><U+261E><U+2711><U+2702> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+272D><U+2759><U+2706><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2706><U+2748><U+2704> <U+2759> <U+2717><U+2721> <U+2706><U+272D><U+271E> <U+271F> <U+2721><U+2702><U+261B><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2701><U+261E> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271D><U+272D><U+2759><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                                                      <U+260E><U+2702><U+2759><U+2701> <U+271D><U+260E>|<U+261E><U+260E><U+275A><U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2702><U+272D><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2759> <U+2704><U+271D> <U+271D><U+272D><U+2759><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>                             <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                           <U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+261B><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2748><U+2748> <U+2704><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2704><U+261E><U+272C>    <U+272D>
                                           <U+2714><U+2701><U+2702><U+270E><U+2706><U+2704>|<U+2718><U+272D><U+272D> <U+270F><U+275A><U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706><U+2706><U+2704><U+275A><U+2721><U+2702><U+270E><U+2759> <U+275A><U+275A><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+274A> <U+271D> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2721><U+261E><U+272D><U+2759><U+2701><U+272D><U+2713> <U+271E><U+275A><U+271D><U+2704><U+2706><U+270C><U+2701><U+261E> <U+271E><U+272D><U+272D> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2706> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                                                                            <U+2702><U+2759><U+2701><U+2702><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F> <U+2717><U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+274A><U+272D><U+2663><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F>
                                                                     <U+2702><U+2704><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2748><U+272D><U+260E> <U+271D> <U+2702><U+275A> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>          <U+2702> <U+2704> <U+261E><U+271D> <U+2704> <U+2702><U+271F>  <U+274A><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2717><U+271D> <U+2702><U+275A> <U+2717><U+272D> <U+274A><U+2704><U+2702><U+275A><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2714><U+260E><U+2702><U+272D> <U+2759><U+260E> <U+2759><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+272D><U+2702><U+2713> <U+2702><U+2759><U+2704><U+2706><U+2720> <U+2702><U+261B><U+272D><U+271D><U+261E>|<U+272D><U+2704><U+271D><U+260E><U+272D><U+2721> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>             <U+272D><U+2702><U+261B><U+2702><U+272D> <U+2717><U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2702><U+2759><U+2704><U+2706><U+2720>
                                                    <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+260E><U+260E><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E> <U+274A><U+271F><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702><U+272D><U+272D><U+2702><U+271F><U+2706><U+2704><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                                      <U+2714><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+272D><U+2721><U+2702><U+260E>                                     <U+2702><U+2704><U+261E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F>
                   <U+2718> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2704><U+2702><U+271E> <U+272D> <U+272D> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2720> <U+2717><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+260E><U+260E><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E> <U+272D><U+2702><U+261E><U+2720><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+260E><U+272D><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+261E><U+271F><U+274A><U+2706><U+2759> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>                <U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+275A><U+271F> <U+2717><U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2748> <U+274A><U+272D> <U+2717><U+271D><U+275A><U+2748><U+272D><U+272D> <U+2717><U+272D> <U+2759><U+272D><U+271D><U+271F><U+2706>
                                                        <U+2715><U+2714><U+260E><U+260E><U+2702><U+2701><U+272D><U+275A><U+271D><U+2704><U+2706><U+270C> <U+2718> <U+2702><U+2759><U+2701> <U+2701><U+2702><U+271D><U+2701><U+272D> <U+274A>
             <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706><U+274A><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2748> <U+271F><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F> <U+270E><U+2759> <U+2704><U+2759> <U+2717><U+2714><U+272D> <U+261E><U+271D><U+2759> <U+260E><U+261E><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2702><U+271D> <U+272D><U+271F><U+274A><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2702><U+272D><U+272D><U+2706><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2713>
               <U+260E><U+272D><U+260E><U+271E><U+272D> <U+2701> <U+272D> <U+2759><U+272D><U+275A><U+271F> <U+2704><U+2748><U+2714><U+2706><U+271F><U+2706><U+271D><U+2713> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E><U+2701><U+272D> <U+272D> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+272D><U+2721><U+2718><U+272D><U+271D><U+272D><U+261E><U+274A> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                             <U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+2748> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                              <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+272D><U+2702><U+2759><U+2759> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2702><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2702><U+2759><U+2701> <U+271D><U+260E><U+272D><U+2721> <U+2717><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2702><U+2759> <U+272D><U+271F><U+260E><U+272D><U+2721> <U+2717><U+2702><U+272D><U+2748><U+2701> <U+2717><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+272D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F>
                                 <U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2748> <U+2720><U+2706> <U+2702><U+2704><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+2759> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>                                                                                                      <U+275A>
        r
                                                                                      <U+260E><U+2702><U+272D><U+2759><U+272D><U+271D><U+2704> <U+271F> <U+2759><U+272D><U+274A><U+2706><U+271D> |<U+261E><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+272D><U+2721> <U+2704> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+272C><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D>                <U+260E><U+2702><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>
                                                                                                               <U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2759><U+2706><U+272D><U+2702><U+261B> <U+2721><U+272D><U+261E><U+272D><U+2720> <U+2717><U+270C><U+2706><U+272D><U+2720>
                                                   <U+2714><U+2702><U+2748> <U+274A> <U+2721> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271D> <U+270C><U+2713> <U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+261B><U+2702> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2721><U+272D><U+2706><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+270C> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
        q
                                                                                                               <U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2721><U+272D><U+274A><U+261E><U+275A> <U+2717><U+2702><U+2704><U+261E><U+271D><U+260E><U+272D><U+2706><U+274A>
                                                            <U+2702><U+271D> <U+271D><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2704> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+2748><U+2701><U+272D> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
        <U+2666>
                                  <U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2704>|<U+272D><U+272D> <U+2759> <U+270D> <U+260E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2702>|<U+2706><U+2704><U+271F> <U+2759><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721> <U+2706><U+272D><U+2721> <U+2704> <U+2717><U+2759><U+272D><U+271D><U+2702><U+2701><U+2748> <U+274A> <U+2717><U+272D> <U+272D><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706><U+271F><U+275A><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+261E><U+2759> <U+2759><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+272D><U+2702>
        <U+2766>
    <U+2737>
                                        <U+260E><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701> <U+272D> <U+2759><U+272D><U+274A><U+2702><U+275A><U+2759> <U+2759><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+272D><U+2702> <U+2702><U+261B><U+272D><U+271D><U+272D><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                      <U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2759><U+260E> <U+272D><U+2702><U+261B><U+2702><U+272D><U+2718><U+2704> <U+272D><U+261E><U+2759><U+2702><U+272D><U+2706><U+274A> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                                                         <U+2759><U+272D><U+271F><U+2706><U+2759><U+260E><U+2706><U+2704><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2704> <U+272D><U+261E><U+2759><U+2702><U+272D><U+2706><U+274A> <U+2717><U+272D> <U+2759><U+272D><U+274A><U+2702><U+275A><U+2759>
                                                                     <U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+272D>| <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                             <U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2759><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E> <U+272D> <U+261E><U+260E><U+2759><U+272D><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+275A><U+270C> <U+272D><U+2701><U+2702><U+2756> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                               <U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+272D> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720> <U+271D><U+2701> <U+272D><U+271F><U+2704><U+2702><U+270C><U+2706><U+271F> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2721>
                                                                                                   <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2704>|<U+272D><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2701><U+261E><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2759><U+272D><U+271D><U+260E><U+261E><U+2706><U+2759>                   <U+271A><U+2716><U+2717><U+271C><U+2712><U+275B><U+271B><U+2717><U+272A> <U+2726><U+271A><U+2729><U+2717><U+2605><U+2727><U+2714><U+2722><U+2716><U+2714>
                                                           <U+272D>      <U+272D>                      <U+2715><U+2715>
                                                                                         <U+272D>
                                                   <U+271D><U+260E><U+2702><U+271D> <U+271E><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2748><U+2702><U+271D><U+2701> <U+272D> <U+2704><U+261E><U+271D><U+2759><U+261E><U+2704><U+271D><U+260E> <U+2702><U+274A> <U+2704><U+2720><U+2704> <U+2704> <U+2701><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2748> <U+2721>                                                          <U+2712><U+275B> <U+271A><U+2715><U+2717><U+271A><U+2716><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2724><U+2725><U+2724>
                                                   <U+2714><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+272D><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+275A><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D>      <U+2759><U+2706><U+272D><U+2702><U+2704><U+2713> <U+260E><U+2702><U+2748><U+2701> <U+275A><U+2748>
                                                                                <U+272D>
                                                                        <U+2714><U+2701><U+2702><U+2721><U+2721> <U+275A><U+2713> <U+2721><U+272D><U+2702><U+275A><U+275A><U+271D>      <U+272D><U+2712>             <U+272D><U+272D> <U+275A> <U+272D>                                  <U+272D>
                                                                                                         <U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D> <U+2759><U+2706><U+272D> <U+261E><U+260E><U+261E><U+2706><U+261B><U+272C><U+2702><U+2721><U+2701><U+2702><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E><U+2701> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2704> <U+271F> <U+2721><U+2704> <U+275A><U+275A>   <U+272D>
                                                    <U+2743><U+2730><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E><U+2730> <U+272F><U+2731><U+2735><U+2736><U+2733><U+2736><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2730><U+2733><U+273E> <U+2730><U+2736><U+2735> <U+2732><U+2731> <U+2740><U+2741><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E><U+2751><U+2740> <U+2730><U+2740><U+2736><U+2731><U+273E><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2743><U+2747><U+2743><U+274F>                                          <U+271A><U+2715><U+2717><U+271A><U+2716><U+2714><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2714><U+2712><U+275B><U+271C><U+271B><U+2717><U+271A><U+271A>
            <U+2743><U+2742><U+2736><U+2731><U+273E><U+2731><U+2732> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2736> <U+273A><U+273B><U+2731> <U+272E><U+2747><U+272F><U+2733><U+2732> <U+2732><U+2731> <U+273A><U+2731><U+2736> <U+2746><U+2736><U+2735><U+2735><U+273C><U+2731><U+2732><U+274D> <U+272F><U+2735> <U+272E><U+273E> <U+2731><U+2736> <U+2737><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F> <U+2730><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E><U+2730> <U+272E><U+2734><U+272F><U+2735><U+2730> <U+2749><U+2732><U+2733><U+2741><U+2710><U+2747><U+272E><U+2732><U+2732><U+2735> <U+273A><U+2736><U+272F><U+272E><U+2710><U+2745><U+272E><U+2732><U+273B><U+272F><U+2735>                                              <U+2718><U+2712><U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+2715><U+2718><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2715><U+2714><U+2713><U+2712><U+2756>
               <U+273A><U+2741><U+2733><U+272F><U+2731><U+2735><U+2730><U+2733><U+2734><U+2734><U+2731><U+273F> <U+2736><U+2731><U+273E><U+2731><U+2732> <U+272E><U+2739><U+2736> <U+2730><U+2730><U+272E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2733> <U+2730><U+272E><U+2734><U+2735><U+25CF><U+272E><U+2737> <U+2732><U+272E><U+2739><U+2736><U+274B> <U+2743><U+2736><U+2731><U+273E><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2731><U+2736> <U+2741><U+2733><U+272F><U+2732><U+272E><U+2736><U+273C><U+272E> <U+2737><U+272E><U+2732><U+272E><U+2737><U+2735><U+2730><U+272F><U+2731><U+2734> <U+2730><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E><U+272B>                             <U+272D>
                                                                                                                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2759><U+2706><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2718><U+271D><U+2706>|<U+2706><U+2704><U+2718><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                                                        <U+2743><U+2742><U+2730><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2736><U+2735>                                                        <U+272D>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2720><U+272D><U+2702><U+271E>
 <U+2739><U+2736><U+2735><U+2738> <U+2737><U+272E><U+2736><U+2733><U+2735><U+2734><U+2731><U+2730><U+2730><U+2733> <U+272E><U+273E> <U+2730><U+2746><U+2733><U+2738><U+2741><U+2733> <U+2737><U+2741><U+2710><U+2731><U+2739><U+2730> <U+2736><U+2731><U+273E><U+2731><U+2732> <U+272E><U+2734><U+272F><U+2735><U+2730> <U+2749><U+2732><U+2733><U+2741><U+2710><U+2747><U+272E><U+2732> <U+2732><U+2731> <U+2746><U+2734><U+272F><U+272E><U+2710><U+2745><U+272E><U+2732><U+273B> <U+273A><U+2736><U+272F><U+2733><U+2736><U+2730><U+272F><U+2731><U+2734> <U+273A><U+2730><U+2710><U+2731><U+2710><U+272F><U+2735><U+2736><U+272F><U+2731><U+2734><U+273F> <U+273B><U+2741><U+272E><U+2730><U+2736><U+2735>
<U+2730><U+272E><U+2730><U+2730><U+272E><U+2730><U+2730><U+2733> <U+2742><U+2730><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E><U+2730> <U+2730><U+2736><U+2735> <U+2743><U+272E><U+2743><U+2735><U+273F> <U+2736><U+2731><U+273E><U+2731><U+2744> <U+2743><U+2742><U+2740><U+2741><U+2733><U+272F><U+2732><U+272E><U+2736><U+272F><U+2735><U+2740><U+273F> <U+2736><U+2731><U+273E><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2737><U+2732><U+2733><U+2731><U+273E><U+273D><U+272F><U+2731> <U+2732><U+2731> <U+2731><U+2736> <U+2737><U+272E><U+273C><U+2735><U+273B> <U+273A><U+2739><U+2736><U+2735><U+2738> <U+2737><U+272E><U+2736><U+2733><U+2735><U+2734><U+2731><U+2730><U+2730><U+2733> <U+2730><U+2732><U+2731><U+2730><U+272F><U+272E><U+272B>                              <U+272D>
                                                                                                                    <U+260E><U+2704><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2759><U+2706><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2718><U+271D><U+2706>|<U+2706><U+261B>
<removed-date>                                   <removed-apn>

                                                                               <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272E><U+2727><U+2725><U+272C> <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272B><U+272F><U+2725><U+272D> <U+272F><U+2730>| <U+2605>|<U+2724>
                                                                                                                <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2727><U+272E><U+2729><U+2725>
                                                                                                               <U+2461>       <U+2759>           <U+2745>
                                                                                                   <U+2727>|<U+2605> |<U+272F><U+2725><U+2605>         <U+2706><U+2701>              <U+271D>
           <U+274A><U+271E><U+270C><U+2717><U+270C><U+261B> <U+271E><U+270E><U+2721> <U+2717><U+271C><U+2715> <U+270C> <U+2721><U+270E><U+271D><U+271B><U+271B><U+2711><U+2721><U+2724><U+261B><U+271C><U+2715> <U+2706><U+2711><U+271E><U+270E><U+271C><U+2722><U+270C><U+270E> <U+261B><U+270C> <U+2706><U+2711><U+2725><U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2706><U+2711><U+271B><U+2717><U+271D><U+2715><U+2711><U+2722>
                 <U+275E>
         <U+2712><U+2706><U+2711><U+261B><U+271C><U+271E><U+2720><U+271D><U+270E> <U+261B><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2722><U+2721><U+271E><U+271D><U+2724><U+2711><U+271E><U+270E><U+271D> <U+2712><U+2715><U+271E><U+270C><U+2717><U+270C><U+261B> <U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+261B><U+270C><U+270F><U+271E><U+271C><U+271D> <U+261B><U+2721><U+270F><U+271E><U+270C> <U+261B><U+270C><U+271B><U+2722><U+271D> <U+2721><U+270E><U+2711><U+271B><U+270C> <U+274A><U+2706><U+274A><U+2719>
                                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                             <U+2727> <U+2605>|<U+272F><U+2605><U+2725> <U+2730>| |<U+2726><U+272B><U+2729><U+272E><U+2726><U+272F><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2725> <U+272E><U+2726><U+2725>
                                                                                        <U+274D> <U+2742>      <U+25C6>              <U+2704> <U+2461><U+25C6>       <U+25CF>
                                                                                <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272E><U+2727><U+2725><U+272C> <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272B><U+272F><U+2725><U+272D> <U+2730> <U+2725><U+272C><U+2724>
                                                                                                               <U+2701>   <U+2706>           <U+25BC>
                                                    <U+274D>      <U+2727><U+272F><U+272E><U+2726><U+2727><U+2725><U+2730> <U+272B><U+272E> <U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272F>|<U+2730><U+2730><U+2725><U+272F>
                                                                <U+2759>         <U+2701>                                    |<U+2605> <U+272E>|                    <U+2706><U+271F>   <U+2747> <U+274D>
             <U+272D><U+272B><U+272F><U+272E><U+2727> <U+272C> |<U+2726><U+2725><U+2725><U+2605> <U+2730>| <U+2725><U+2605><U+272A> <U+272D><U+272E><U+272B> | <U+272F><U+272B> <U+2726><U+272E><U+2707> |<U+2605>|<U+272C><U+2724><U+272B><U+2726>
     r
                <U+2461><U+260E>   <U+2742> <U+2701>             <U+2720>   <U+261B>   <U+2721><U+2701>   <U+2720>   <U+260E><U+260E>           <U+2701>                 <U+274A><U+2759><U+274A><U+2745>
     q                                                  <U+2461>     <U+2726><U+2605><U+272B><U+272C> |<U+2727><U+2730>|<U+272F><U+272E><U+272D><U+2730>
                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                      <U+2727><U+2726><U+2730>|<U+2729>| <U+2605>| <U+272E><U+2605><U+2726> |<U+2605> <U+272E>|
                                                                                    <U+2706> <U+274A><U+2759><U+274A><U+2745>
     <U+2666>                                                     <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> |<U+2605>|<U+2726><U+2727><U+272E> |<U+2605><U+2730>
                                                              <U+2701>               <U+2759>     <U+2706> <U+274A><U+2759><U+274A><U+2745>
                                                                                                           <U+2759><U+2759>       <U+2706><U+271F>      <U+2747>
                                                    <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272B><U+2605>|<U+272C><U+2725> |<U+2729><U+2725><U+2605><U+272C><U+272C><U+272B><U+2730>
 <U+2738>
     q                                                          <U+2701>                   <U+2706> <U+274A><U+2759><U+274A><U+2745>
                                               |<U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+2730>|<U+2726><U+2730><U+272E><U+272B> <U+272D><U+272B><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272B><U+2605>|<U+272C> <U+2729>
                                                        <U+272D>                         <U+274B> <U+274D> <U+2742>
                                   |<U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+2730>|<U+2726><U+2730><U+272E><U+272B> |<U+2605>|<U+2726><U+2730>| <U+2726><U+272E><U+272D><U+272E><U+272A><U+272B><U+272E><U+272D>| <U+2729><U+272E>
                                              <U+272D> <U+2701>           <U+271E> <U+2461>                   <U+274F> <U+274D>   <U+2742>
                                                 |<U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+2730>|<U+2726><U+2730><U+272E><U+272B> |<U+2729><U+272E><U+2726><U+272F>|<U+2605><U+2605><U+2725> <U+272E><U+272E><U+272E>
                                                            <U+272D>                     <U+271E> <U+274D>    <U+272D> <U+272B> <U+2605>|<U+2729><U+2725> <U+2605><U+272E><U+272B><U+272C>|<U+2605> |<U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+2730>|<U+2726><U+2730><U+272E><U+272B> 
                                                                                         <U+2742>     <U+274D><U+274B><U+274F><U+272D><U+2742> <U+2706> <U+260E>        <U+2704>           <U+2702>                <U+272D> <U+274D>
             |<U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+2730>|<U+2726><U+2730><U+272E><U+272B> |<U+272D> | <U+272F> <U+2605><U+2725> |<U+2729><U+272E><U+2726><U+272B><U+2726><U+2730>|<U+2729>|<U+2605> |<U+2730><U+2730><U+272B><U+272D> <U+272E><U+272E>
                           <U+272D> <U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2701>   <U+260E> <U+2747>                       <U+271D> <U+2701>               <U+271D> <U+274D> <U+2742>
                                                                                                            <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272F>|<U+272C><U+2727><U+2730>                        <U+25BC> <U+274D>
                                                  |<U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+2730>|<U+2726><U+2730><U+272E><U+272B> |<U+2729><U+272E><U+2726><U+272F><U+272E> |<U+2605> <U+272E>
                                                              <U+272D>               <U+2701>    <U+271D> <U+274D><U+2742>
<removed-date>                      <removed-apn>

      <U+271D><U+2737><U+2736> r <U+2727>|<U+272E><U+2605>|<U+2729><U+272E><U+272D>|<U+2701><U+2727><U+272C><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C> <U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725><U+272C><U+2727><U+2730><U+272B><U+2605>
            <U+274D>                    <U+2742>          <U+2744>
      <U+2706><U+2737><U+2736> r <U+2727>|<U+272E><U+2605>|<U+2729><U+272E><U+272D>|<U+2701><U+2727><U+272C><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C> <U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725><U+272C><U+2727><U+2730><U+272B><U+2605>
            <U+274D>                    <U+2742>          <U+2744>
                    <U+260E><U+2737> r <U+260E><U+272F><U+2605><U+272B>|<U+2727>|<U+2605> <U+272F><U+272E><U+25C6><U+272E><U+2726><U+2730>|<U+272E><U+272F> <U+2747>       <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+25C6><U+2725> |<U+272C><U+2461><U+2726><U+272D>|<U+2701><U+2725><U+2724><U+2727><U+2727><U+272B><U+272D><U+272F> <U+2727><U+272E><U+260E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+2725><U+25C6> <U+2726><U+2730>|<U+2724><U+2727><U+2727>|<U+2727><U+2727><U+272B> <U+2605>|<U+2701><U+2730><U+2706>
              <U+2738>    <U+261B><U+2736> r |<U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272C><U+2727>|<U+2605> <U+2605>|<U+2726><U+2727><U+272B><U+2727><U+272E><U+2749>
                                                                                         <U+2702>        
                                                                                   <U+2736><U+272E><U+273F><U+2729><U+272F><U+2605><U+273C> <U+2736><U+272E><U+272F><U+2605><U+2735><U+273C><U+2732> <U+2736><U+272E><U+2735><U+2732><U+273D><U+2729><U+2734>
             <U+2739> <U+261B><U+2736> r |<U+2706><U+272F><U+2727>|<U+2605> <U+2701><U+2730><U+272B> <U+260E><U+272F><U+2605><U+272B>|        <U+2747>
                               <U+2701><U+2737> <U+261B><U+2736> r <U+260E><U+272F><U+2605><U+272B>|<U+2727>|<U+2605> <U+272F><U+272E><U+25C6><U+272E><U+2726><U+2730>|<U+272E><U+272F>       <U+2747>
 r   <U+2739><U+2737><U+2736> <U+261B><U+260E><U+2701> r <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701> <U+261B><U+2736> r <U+2727>|<U+272E><U+2605>|<U+2729><U+272E><U+272D>|<U+2701><U+2727><U+272C><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C> <U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725><U+272C><U+2727><U+2730><U+272B><U+2605>
                             <U+274D>                   <U+2742>              <U+2744>
 q                                                    <U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2730><U+272B>|<U+272D><U+271E>
 <U+2666>
 <U+2660>                                            <U+2727><U+2730><U+2725><U+272E><U+2726><U+272B><U+272F><U+272E><U+2730><U+2706><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+271E>
 q
                                |<U+272F><U+2730>|<U+25C6>|<U+2701> <U+2701><U+2730><U+272B> <U+2726><U+2730>|<U+2724>|<U+272F><U+2605><U+2725><U+25C6><U+2730>| <U+2707><U+272B>      <U+25B2>     <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+25C6><U+2725> |<U+272C><U+2461><U+2726><U+272D>|<U+2701><U+2725><U+2724><U+2727><U+2727><U+272B><U+272D><U+272F> <U+2727><U+272E><U+260E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+2725><U+25C6> <U+2727>
                                        |<U+2605><U+2706><U+2726><U+272D><U+2706><U+272F><U+272E><U+2605><U+2759><U+272B><U+2461><U+2724><U+2725><U+2730><U+2725><U+2605><U+2759>     <U+2743>
                                                     <U+2461><U+2759><U+2725><U+272D><U+2725><U+2605><U+2725>|<U+2726>|<U+272D>
                  <U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2727><U+272E><U+2729><U+2605>|<U+272C><U+2706><U+2727> <U+2702>|<U+272F><U+2730><U+272B><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E>|<U+2729><U+2605><U+2706><U+2727> <U+2702><U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2461>|<U+2729><U+2605><U+2706><U+2727> <U+2702><U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2759><U+272B><U+2724><U+25BC>
                                                      <U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2726><U+260E><U+2759><U+272E><U+25C6>|<U+2605><U+272E><U+274B>
                           <U+2701><U+2701> r <U+274D><U+2727>|<U+272E><U+2605>|<U+2729><U+272E><U+272D>|<U+2701><U+2727><U+272C><U+2706><U+261B><U+2720><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+2742> <U+2759><U+2730><U+272E><U+2726><U+2605><U+2725><U+272C><U+2727><U+2730><U+272B><U+2605><U+2744>     <U+2726><U+2725><U+272A><U+2725><U+2605> <U+25C6><U+2725> |<U+272C><U+2461><U+2726><U+272D>|<U+2701><U+2725><U+2724><U+2727><U+2727><U+272B><U+272D><U+272F> <U+2727><U+272E><U+260E><U+2726> <U+2605><U+2725>
<removed-date>            <removed-apn>

                                                                                                                           <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+270E><U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+270E><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2701><U+261B><U+270D><U+2713><U+2714><U+270F><U+271F><U+25BC><U+275B><U+25B2><U+2702><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B>
 <U+275E><U+2744><U+273F><U+2742> <U+270E><U+2740><U+2742><U+2740><U+273C> <U+2735><U+2747><U+2744><U+2734><U+2745><U+2742><U+274B><U+2744> <U+2744><U+2734><U+273C><U+273A><U+273F><U+2744><U+2742><U+2735><U+2742> <U+2742><U+2743><U+2734><U+273F><U+2734><U+2740><U+2742><U+2740> <U+270E><U+2740><U+273A><U+2742><U+2747><U+2744><U+2740> <U+2735><U+2742><U+2743><U+2742><U+2735><U+271D><U+273A><U+2747><U+2735><U+274F><U+2744><U+2742><U+2735><U+273C><U+2745> <U+270E><U+2740><U+273A><U+273C><U+2740><U+2742><U+2740><U+273C><U+2734><U+273E> <U+2742><U+273E> <U+2748><U+2747><U+2745> <U+2742><U+2744><U+2734><U+2743><U+2742><U+2741> <U+2742><U+2740><U+2742><U+274B><U+273F> <U+275E><U+2743><U+275E><U+2742> <U+270E><U+2740><U+2741><U+2747><U+273C><U+2735><U+2748><U+2747><U+25CF> <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+273C><U+273A>
      <U+273F><U+2744><U+2742><U+273F><U+2742><U+2741> <U+2748><U+2747><U+2745> <U+273F><U+2747><U+274B><U+273F> <U+273F><U+273C><U+273E><U+273C><U+273A> <U+2742><U+274B><U+273F> <U+2762><U+273C> <U+2742><U+2743><U+2747><U+273A> <U+2734><U+274B><U+273F><U+2734><U+2731> <U+273A><U+273C> <U+2734> <U+270E><U+273C> <U+2740><U+273A><U+2742><U+2747><U+2744><U+2740> <U+273A><U+273C> <U+2740><U+273A><U+273C><U+2740><U+2742><U+2740> <U+2745><U+273C><U+273A><U+2762> <U+2741><U+2742><U+273A><U+2734><U+274F><U+2751><U+2744><U+2747> <U+2747><U+273F><U+2747><U+2741> <U+2743><U+2734><U+2740><U+2748><U+2735><U+2747><U+2747> <U+2748><U+273E> <U+270E><U+2742><U+2744><U+2747><U+273F><U+2740><U+2734> <U+273A><U+2742><U+274B><U+273F>
               <U+2731> <U+2741><U+2747><U+273C><U+2735><U+2748><U+2747><U+25CF> <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+273C><U+273A><U+25CF><U+25CF><U+2747><U+274F> <U+273A><U+273C><U+2762> <U+273F><U+274F><U+273C><U+2744><U+2744><U+2747> <U+2748><U+2747><U+2745> <U+2740><U+2734><U+274B><U+273F> <U+2740><U+273A><U+2742><U+273F><U+2742><U+2745><U+2747><U+273A><U+2747><U+25CF><U+2744><U+2740><U+2742><U+274F><U+2735><U+2747><U+2743> <U+2742><U+2734><U+2735><U+2742><U+2740><U+2747><U+273E> <U+2735><U+2747><U+2745><U+273A><U+273C> <U+2762><U+273C> <U+2742><U+2741><U+2734><U+2740><U+273F><U+274F><U+273C> <U+2762><U+2734> <U+275E><U+2743><U+275E><U+2742> <U+270E><U+2748><U+273F><U+2734><U+2735><U+2734><U+2743><U+2747> <U+273F><U+2742><U+2745>
              <U+2759><U+2740><U+273F><U+274B>   <U+2743>
                     <U+2734><U+2742>
                         <U+2743>                  <U+271D> <U+2740><U+2741><U+2747><U+273C><U+2735><U+2748><U+2747><U+25CF> <U+273F><U+2734><U+2744><U+2734><U+2735><U+2735><U+2734> <U+273A><U+273C> <U+2741><U+2742><U+2743><U+273C><U+273A><U+25CF><U+25CF><U+2747><U+274F> <U+2748><U+2747> <U+2743><U+2734><U+2748><U+273A><U+273A><U+2747><U+2744> <U+2740><U+2734> <U+273A><U+273C> <U+2740><U+2742><U+2740><U+2740><U+2742><U+2740><U+2740><U+273C><U+25CF> <U+273F><U+273C><U+273E><U+273C><U+273A> <U+2742><U+274B><U+273F> <U+2762><U+2734> <U+2743><U+2734><U+274B><U+2740><U+2734><U+2735><U+273E>
                             <U+2734><U+2740><U+2748><U+2735><U+2747><U+2747> <U+2748><U+273E> <U+270E><U+2742><U+2744><U+2747><U+273F><U+2740><U+2734> <U+2742><U+273C> <U+2734>
                                  <U+2714><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2701><U+2748><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+260E><U+2702><U+261E><U+2711><U+2702><U+2704>
             <U+2702><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2704><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2706><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+271F><U+272D><U+2759><U+272D><U+271D><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+272D><U+261E><U+2711><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2702><U+2704><U+272D><U+261E><U+2711><U+2702><U+2704>                                 <U+270E><U+270D><U+2702><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E><U+261B> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E><U+270E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270C><U+270D><U+2702><U+270E> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+271D><U+2702>
                                                                                                       <U+2773>                               <U+2774>       <U+2774>
              <U+272D> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2706> <U+271E><U+2720><U+260E><U+272D><U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2721><U+272D><U+261E><U+2706><U+270C> <U+2702><U+2759><U+2701> <U+274A><U+2704><U+2706><U+2720><U+2704><U+2702><U+271F> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+261E><U+2759> <U+260E><U+271D><U+272D> <U+2715> <U+2715><U+2704>                     |<U+271D><U+271F><U+271D><U+25BC><U+271E><U+270E><U+271E><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2461><U+271D><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+270C><U+25BC><U+2715> <U+271E><U+261B><U+271D> <U+270E><U+2702><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271E><U+25BC><U+2715><U+271E> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+2712><U+270D><U+271F><U+2720>
                                          <U+2714><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759><U+272D><U+2704><U+271D><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2706>  <U+2702><U+270F><U+261E><U+2712><U+25BC><U+2743><U+2702> <U+270D><U+261B><U+2720> <U+2461><U+2721><U+271D><U+2702><U+271F><U+2721><U+271F><U+2720><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+270F><U+25BC><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2702><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC> <U+2461><U+270F><U+270F><U+25BC><U+271D><U+271F>|<U+271F><U+270D><U+261B> 
                                                                             <U+2769>                     <U+2774>
    <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2701><U+2748><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E> <U+260E><U+271D><U+272D> <U+2702><U+271D><U+2702><U+272D><U+271F><U+274A><U+2706><U+2759> <U+271E><U+272D>| <U+271D><U+271F><U+2702><U+2759><U+2759> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2714><U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2759> <U+271F> <U+2759><U+275A><U+260E><U+271D><U+2701><U+272D> <U+2704><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+2759>               <U+2461><U+2720><U+271F><U+270D><U+2702><U+270C> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+270E><U+271E><U+270E><U+2702><U+271E> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711><U+2720> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+2712><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271E><U+2711><U+261B> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+2461><U+270D>
 <U+271D><U+275A><U+2748><U+272D><U+2702><U+270C> <U+2721> <U+2706><U+272D><U+271E> <U+271F> <U+2717><U+2702><U+2748><U+2704> <U+275A><U+2759> <U+271E><U+2748><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+272D><U+2702><U+261E><U+2720> <U+2702><U+272D>| <U+272D><U+272D> <U+261B> <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+272D><U+274A><U+272D><U+272D> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2701><U+2713>
  <U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2759> <U+271F> <U+2759> <U+272D> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720> <U+2721><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2702><U+272D><U+271D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D>| <U+271F> <U+2759> <U+2702><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2702><U+261B> <U+275A> <U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+270C> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+260E> <U+275A> <U+271D><U+272D> <U+2715><U+2736><U+2715><U+2704>
                     <U+2715><U+271E><U+271F><U+2756> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271F> <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+261B> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+271F><U+2711><U+2709><U+2702><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2713> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+2461><U+25BC><U+2712> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2712><U+2702><U+271E><U+270E><U+2461><U+270E> <U+2720><U+261B> <U+2701><U+270D><U+261B><U+2756><U+271E><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2702><U+271E><U+270E><U+2461><U+270E> <U+270E> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D>
                                 <U+2773>                                                                                                         <U+2774>       <U+25D7>
            <U+2720><U+261B><U+2702><U+270D><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+271D><U+271F><U+2713><U+2712><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2461><U+271D><U+25BC> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+270E><U+2702><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270F><U+271F><U+2713><U+25BC><U+261E><U+25BC><U+2721> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2756><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+270E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2756><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2715> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+271F><U+2756> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2715><U+271E><U+271F><U+2756> <U+270E><U+2712><U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+2461><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271F> <U+271D><U+25BC> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC>
                                                                     <U+2774>       <U+2774>
                                                                                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2721><U+25BC><U+2715> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2701><U+261B><U+270D><U+2713><U+2714><U+270F><U+271F><U+25BC><U+275B> <U+2702><U+271E><U+261B><U+261B><U+270D> <U+271E><U+261B><U+271D> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2702> <U+2702><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E>
      r
                                                                                              <U+2773><U+276B>               <U+25D7>                <U+2774><U+25D7>     <U+25D7>       <U+276D>
                                                      <U+271D><U+271F><U+25BC><U+2712><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271D><U+25BC> <U+271E><U+2721><U+25BC><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2756><U+271E><U+2720><U+261B><U+270E> <U+271D><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2756><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2715> <U+270E> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271F> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+2712><U+270D><U+271F><U+2720><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271D><U+25BC> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+270E><U+2461><U+270F>
      q
                                                                                                                   <U+25D7>
      <U+2666>
  <U+2737>                                      <U+2773><U+276B><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E><U+2711><U+25BC> <U+2721><U+271F><U+270D><U+271E><U+2702><U+2712><U+261B><U+271F><U+2713> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2702><U+271E><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+270F> <U+271E><U+261B><U+271D> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2721><U+271F><U+2720><U+271F><U+2721><U+2702><U+261E><U+270E> <U+270E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702><U+270E><U+2711> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2461><U+271E><U+270D><U+25BC><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC>
                                                                         <U+2774>               <U+276D>
                                          <U+2702><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F> <U+261B><U+270E><U+270F><U+25BC> <U+270E><U+271F> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270F><U+270F><U+261B><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271E><U+25BC><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+271F><U+2711><U+2709><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271D><U+25BC> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2712><U+270D><U+271F><U+2720><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270D><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E><U+270D><U+2711><U+2720> <U+2461><U+25BC><U+2712> <U+271D><U+25BC> <U+270E><U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2720><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC>
                                                                                 <U+2774>                         <U+2774>
      q
                                              <U+271D><U+25BC> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2711><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+25BC> <U+271F><U+270F><U+25BC><U+270C> <U+25BC> <U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E> <U+271E><U+25BC><U+2715><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2711> <U+25BC> <U+2712><U+261B><U+270D><U+2720> <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+2711><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711><U+2720> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+271D>|<U+271F><U+270E><U+270E><U+25BC> |<U+271D><U+271F>
                                          <U+271D><U+25BC> <U+2715><U+271E><U+271F><U+2756> <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+271F><U+2721><U+261B><U+270E><U+270E><U+25BC> <U+270E><U+271F> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+271E><U+25BC><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2461><U+270F><U+270D><U+25BC><U+270F><U+2711><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+270D><U+25BC><U+261E> <U+2714> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> <U+2720><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270F><U+270F><U+261B><U+270D><U+271E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+270D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+2461><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D>
                                                                                     <U+2774>
                                   <U+2715><U+274A><U+2702><U+271D><U+260E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2720><U+261B><U+2711><U+2713> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2702><U+2748> <U+2701> <U+2720> <U+260E><U+271D><U+275A><U+2748><U+272D><U+261B> <U+272D> <U+271D><U+272D><U+2748><U+272D><U+2711> <U+271E><U+2701>
           <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E> <U+271F> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2721><U+261E><U+272D><U+2759><U+2701><U+272D> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2702><U+261B><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F><U+271F> <U+260E><U+272D> <U+2720><U+272D><U+2702><U+260E><U+271D><U+272D> <U+2714><U+261E><U+271F><U+271F> <U+261E> <U+271D><U+2706>|<U+2706><U+2704> <U+2715><U+2702><U+2715><U+272D><U+2713> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2759><U+272D><U+272D><U+271F><U+271F> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720>
          <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2701><U+2748><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2702><U+275A><U+271D> <U+271D> <U+275A><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2701> <U+2717><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720> <U+261E><U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+2759><U+272D><U+2704><U+271D><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704><U+261E> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2701><U+2748><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+260E><U+2702><U+261E><U+2711><U+2702><U+2704>
          <U+260E><U+261E><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+261E> <U+2702><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271F> <U+260E> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+271F><U+2706> <U+2704><U+2706> <U+2721><U+2702><U+260E><U+261E> <U+2702>| <U+2706><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2702><U+261B><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F><U+271F> <U+260E><U+272D> <U+2702><U+2759><U+272D><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2702><U+275A><U+271D> <U+271D> <U+275A><U+271D> <U+2715><U+2706><U+2715><U+2736>
                                                      <U+2714><U+260E><U+272D><U+2706><U+2759><U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F> <U+2714><U+2702><U+2704> <U+270C><U+271D><U+2720><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2702><U+2713> <U+261E><U+271E><U+2759> <U+261B><U+272D><U+2704><U+271F><U+261E>
                     <U+2721><U+2701> <U+261E><U+260E><U+261E><U+2706><U+261B><U+272C><U+2702><U+2721><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2702><U+2704><U+261E><U+272C><U+272D><U+2702><U+260E><U+261E> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2702><U+2704><U+261E><U+272D><U+272D> <U+2720> <U+271D><U+272D><U+261E> <U+2720><U+2702><U+2721><U+261E> <U+2721><U+272D><U+272D> <U+261B> <U+2717><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D> <U+2759><U+272D><U+2720><U+272D><U+2759><U+2702><U+271F><U+260E>
                  <U+272D> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720> <U+2723><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2721><U+2702><U+271D><U+272D><U+274A><U+272D><U+272D> <U+271D><U+2706><U+2701> <U+2717><U+260E><U+2702><U+272D><U+271D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D>| <U+271F> <U+2759> <U+2721><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704> <U+270C><U+271D><U+2720><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2717><U+2702><U+2704> <U+270C><U+2721><U+2704> <U+275A> <U+2715><U+260E><U+2715><U+2736>
          <U+2714><U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2701><U+261E><U+2720> <U+2704><U+2706><U+275A><U+2721><U+2701> <U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+274A><U+2701><U+2748><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E>       <U+2714><U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2721><U+2701><U+2702><U+271F><U+2713> <U+260E><U+271D><U+272D> <U+2720><U+2706> <U+2702><U+260E><U+2704><U+261E><U+2706><U+2759> <U+2702><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2748><U+2701><U+272D><U+2704><U+261E><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+260E><U+272D><U+2748><U+2702><U+2704>
                     <U+2701><U+272D> <U+274A><U+2702><U+2704> <U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+270C> <U+2721><U+2701> <U+2717><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+260E><U+272D><U+2748><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271E><U+272D><U+271D><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2704><U+261E><U+2759> <U+260E><U+272D> <U+2702><U+2759><U+272D><U+261B><U+2702><U+2721> <U+2702><U+275A><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+275A><U+271D><U+2702><U+275A><U+270C> <U+2715><U+2704><U+2715><U+2736>                   <U+2702><U+270F><U+261E><U+2712><U+25BC><U+2743><U+2702> <U+270D><U+261B><U+2720> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+2702><U+271E><U+271F><U+2712><U+271F><U+270F> <U+271E><U+261B><U+271D> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2702><U+2715><U+271E> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+2461><U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
                                                                                                       <U+2769>               <U+2774>               <U+2774>
                                                <U+2714><U+260E><U+270E><U+2759><U+2706><U+272D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+261E> <U+2759><U+272D><U+2704><U+271D><U+2702><U+274A><U+2706><U+272D>| <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2702> <U+2717><U+274A><U+260E><U+272D><U+2701> <U+275A><U+2759><U+2702><U+274A>
                                <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+271D><U+2759><U+2702><U+271D><U+2706><U+2704><U+271F> <U+2721><U+2701> <U+271E><U+271D><U+272D><U+2704><U+261E><U+2759><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+261E> <U+2721><U+272D><U+272D> <U+261B> <U+2720><U+2706> <U+2701><U+2706><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+271F> <U+2715><U+2702><U+2715><U+2736>
                                                        <U+2714><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+261E><U+275A><U+2714><U+260E><U+2713><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+270C><U+2706> <U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+271D><U+260E><U+272D><U+2748><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2715><U+2701><U+2715><U+2736>
                                  <U+2714><U+260E><U+271D><U+272D><U+261E><U+260E><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271D><U+260E><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2717><U+260E><U+2702><U+274A><U+272D><U+271D><U+275A><U+260E><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2721> <U+271D><U+2701> <U+261B><U+2702><U+272D><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2715><U+2748><U+2715><U+2702> <U+2717><U+271E><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+272D><U+275A> <U+2715> <U+2715><U+2736>
                                                                 <U+2714><U+2702><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D> <U+2717><U+272D><U+2702><U+2721><U+2706><U+274A> <U+2717><U+2702><U+270E> <U+274A> <U+2715><U+2736><U+2715><U+2736>
<removed-date>                                   <removed-apn>

              <U+2702><U+270E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2711><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E> <U+270E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F>|<U+2702><U+270D> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270C><U+2702><U+270F><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270E><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+25B2><U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+261B><U+270F> <U+2461><U+2721><U+271D><U+2702>|<U+270D><U+2702><U+2712><U+2702> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+270E><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2461><U+2721><U+271D><U+2702>|<U+270D><U+2702><U+2712>
                                             <U+25D7>
                                       <U+2702><U+270E><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+271F><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2711><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E> <U+270E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F>|<U+2702><U+270D> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270C><U+2702><U+270F><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271E><U+270E><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270E><U+2702><U+270D><U+2711><U+2702><U+2721><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                                                                                            <U+25D7>
                                                           <U+2702><U+270D><U+2711>|<U+271F><U+2720><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702>|<U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2702><U+270C><U+271F><U+25BC><U+2756>                                                                 <U+2775>   <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+261E><U+2702><U+2721><U+2743><U+2702> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                          <U+2702><U+270D><U+2702><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F>|<U+2702><U+270D><U+271D><U+2711> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270D><U+261B> <U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F><U+271D><U+2711> <U+2702><U+2712><U+25BC><U+2721><U+2702><U+2713> <U+271E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+271F>|<U+2702><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2702><U+270E><U+271F><U+270F><U+25BC><U+271D><U+271F><U+2720> <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E>
        r
                            <U+276B>  <U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+25BC><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F><U+25BC><U+270D><U+271E><U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721> <U+2702><U+261E><U+261B><U+270F><U+2702><U+270C><U+271D><U+2702> <U+270E><U+2702><U+271F><U+271E><U+271F><U+270F><U+271F><U+2713><U+25BC><U+261E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+25B2><U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+2721><U+271D><U+2711><U+2720><U+25B2><U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+2712><U+270D><U+261B><U+2720><U+270D><U+2702><U+25C6> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                                             <U+276D>
        q
                                                     <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F><U+2712><U+270D><U+2702><U+271E><U+2702> <U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+2702>|<U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+270D><U+25BC> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+2702>|<U+25BC><U+271D><U+25BC><U+2712> <U+2721><U+271F><U+2720><U+2720><U+25BC><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270F><U+25BC><U+2721><U+261B><U+2736> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
        <U+2666>
                                                                                                                 <U+2735><U+2605><U+271C>t<U+2722><U+271B>r<U+2716><U+2704><U+2726>                                                                                            <U+275D><U+2723><U+2716><U+2716><U+2723><U+271C><U+2716><U+275C>t<U+2719> <U+2716><U+2725><U+2726><U+275C><U+2716>
                                                                     <U+2716>r<U+2716><U+272B><U+2727> <U+275E><U+2716><U+271C><U+272A><U+2723><U+271B><U+2702><U+2722><U+2717><U+2726><U+2716><U+2719><U+272A><U+272A><U+271B><U+2726>r<U+2723><U+2716>r<U+2723><U+271C><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+272B>r<U+2605><U+275E><U+2722> <U+275E><U+2716><U+2722><U+2726><U+271B><U+272A><U+272A><U+275E><U+2719><U+2726>t<U+2716><U+2727>rr<U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+272B><U+2722>r<U+2723><U+2722><U+2716>t<U+2605><U+2719><U+272B>t<U+2716><U+2727><U+2727>r             <U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+271F>|<U+271F><U+270F><U+2702><U+271D><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+2736>               <U+2716><U+272B><U+2723><U+2716><U+2722><U+2722><U+2719><U+271C><U+272A><U+2716><U+271B>tr<U+2605><U+271B>rt<U+2722><U+2719><U+2723>t<U+2716><U+2722>t<U+2726><U+2605><U+2723><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>r<U+2701><U+271B><U+2737><U+2716>r<U+275D><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723>t<U+2722><U+2716>t<U+275C><U+2605><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2704><U+2723>r<U+2723><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2716><U+271A>r<U+275C><U+2704>tt<U+2722><U+2719><U+275C><U+2716><U+2722><U+2716><U+271C><U+272B><U+2704><U+2716><U+2722><U+2723>r<U+2716>
        q
                                                                       <U+2723><U+271B><U+2716><U+272B><U+271A>t<U+275C><U+2722><U+275C><U+2729><U+2716><U+2723><U+2704><U+2723><U+2723>r<U+2726><U+271B>r<U+2719><U+2729><U+2704><U+275C><U+271C>t<U+2722><U+2726>r<U+271B><U+2704><U+2704><U+2729> <U+2723><U+275E><U+2702><U+2716><U+2722><U+271C><U+2723><U+271B><U+271B>r<U+272A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2735>t<U+2605><U+2605><U+2735><U+2716><U+274A>r
        q
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+271F>|<U+271F><U+270F><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+2736>
            <U+270F><U+25BC><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+2730> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+2721> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>                                                                                                            <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2721><U+2714><U+271D><U+261B><U+2731>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E><U+270D><U+261B><U+270E><U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E>
<U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+2730> <U+2702><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>                    <U+276B>   <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+25B2><U+270E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+2712><U+2712><U+261B><U+2721>
                                                                                  <U+276D>                                                                                                    <U+25B2><U+270E><U+270D><U+2702><U+271D><U+2756><U+2735>
                                                                      <U+2720><U+261B> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F>| <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+271E><U+271F><U+270F><U+271F><U+2721><U+25BC>
                          <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+270E> <U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2772>
                           <U+276B>           <U+25D7>
            <U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2461><U+271E><U+270D><U+25BC><U+261E> <U+270D><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E><U+261B><U+271D><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2715><U+2756> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2702>         <U+276D>                  <U+271E><U+271D><U+2711><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2714>|<U+261B><U+2736>
                  <U+270E><U+270F><U+25BC><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+2730> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>                                  <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+261E><U+2712><U+2702><U+2743><U+2702>
                                                                                     <U+270E><U+2702><U+270C><U+271F><U+25BC><U+2772>                                    <U+2775>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2748>
                                      <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E><U+2711><U+25BC>         <U+2721><U+271F><U+270D><U+271E><U+2702><U+2712><U+261B><U+271F><U+2713> <U+2702><U+2711><U+270F><U+2721><U+271D><U+271F> <U+270E><U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2720><U+261B><U+270D><U+25C6>                                                                                                                                                             |<U+2461><U+270D><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+271E><U+261B>
                                                          <U+2775> <U+276B>                                                                     <U+276D>
       <U+270E><U+270F><U+2702><U+270C><U+2702><U+270F> <U+2702>|<U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F><U+270D><U+261E><U+25B2><U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2702><U+270F><U+2721><U+25B2><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2715><U+271E><U+2711><U+272D>                            <U+270E><U+270E><U+25BC><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2711><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+2736>                                                              <U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+271F>|<U+271F><U+270F><U+2702><U+271D><U+271F> <U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+271F>|<U+271F><U+270F><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+2736>
    <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2721><U+25B2><U+2702><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E> <U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+25BC> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2721><U+2714><U+271D><U+261B><U+2731>                                                                        <U+2715><U+2726><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2717>
                 <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2721> <U+270F><U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+2721> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2730><U+272F><U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2717><U+2714><U+2715><U+2723><U+2722>
                                                                    <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+2721><U+25B2><U+270E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+2712><U+2712><U+261B><U+2721>                                                                                           <U+270E><U+270D><U+2702><U+270E><U+25BC>
        <U+270E><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+271D><U+2702><U+2712><U+25BC> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+261B> <U+271E><U+261E><U+2702><U+2721><U+2721><U+25BC> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                                                                <U+276B>                                       <U+276D>
                                                                                 <U+2720><U+261B> |<U+271D><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F>| <U+2702><U+271E><U+25BC><U+271E><U+271F><U+270F><U+271F><U+2721><U+25BC>                                                    <U+2772>
            <U+271E><U+270E><U+2702><U+2711><U+2709><U+2702><U+270D> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271E><U+271D><U+271F> <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270D><U+2702><U+261E><U+261B> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
                      <U+276B>           <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+275D><U+2723><U+2716><U+2716><U+2723><U+271C><U+2716><U+275C>t<U+2719> 
<U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+25BC><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2702><U+270D><U+2735> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+270D> <U+2702><U+270C><U+261B><U+270D><U+261E><U+261E><U+25BC> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2737>
<U+276B>                 <U+276D>                                                           <U+271E><U+271D><U+2711><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F> <U+261B><U+271E> <U+271D><U+261B><U+2714>|<U+261B><U+2736>                                                                                                     <U+2716><U+272B><U+2723><U+2716><U+2722><U+2722><U+2719><U+271C><U+272A><U+2716><U+271B>tr<U+2605><U+271B>rt<U+2722><U+2719><U+2723>t<U+2716><U+2722>t<U+2726><U+2605><U+2723><U+2716><U+271C><U+2722><U+271C>r<U+2701><U+271B><U+2737><U+2716>r<U+275D><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2723>t<U+2722><U+2716>t<U+275C><U+2605><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2704><U+2723>r<U+2723><U+271C><U+2716><U+2726><U+2716>
                                                     <U+276B>   <U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270C><U+2702> <U+271E><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2712><U+270E> <U+2747>|<U+2747><U+2702> <U+271E><U+271D><U+25BC><U+271D><U+2702><U+261E> <U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+261B><U+2734>
                                                                          <U+25D7>                         <U+25D7>                   <U+276D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E><U+2702><U+2702><U+270E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+270F> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+2748>
                                                                                 <U+270E><U+2702><U+270C><U+271F><U+25BC><U+2772>         <U+270E><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+261E><U+2712><U+2702><U+2743><U+2702>                                    <U+2775>
                                                                                        <U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+2721><U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2702><U+2715><U+271E><U+2711><U+25BC>                                                 <U+2775>
                                                                          <U+276B>   <U+2721><U+271F><U+270D><U+271E><U+2702><U+2712><U+261B><U+271F><U+2713> <U+2702><U+2711><U+270F><U+2721><U+271D><U+271F> <U+270E><U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+2720><U+261B><U+270D><U+25C6>                                      <U+276D>
               <U+270E><U+270F><U+2702><U+270C><U+2702><U+270F> <U+2702>|<U+2702><U+270F><U+271F><U+270C><U+271F><U+270D><U+261E><U+25B2><U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+25BC><U+270D><U+25BC><U+2702><U+270F><U+2721><U+25B2><U+271D><U+261B><U+271F><U+271E><U+25BC><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B><U+2715><U+271E><U+2711><U+272D>                                         <U+270E><U+270E><U+25BC><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271E><U+271D><U+2711><U+261B><U+2721><U+2721><U+25BC> <U+2702><U+2721><U+271D><U+2702><U+2721><U+271F><U+2736>
<removed-date>                                <removed-apn>

<removed-date>
                                              <U+2738><U+271D><U+271E><U+2738><U+271F>
                                    <U+2731><U+2732><U+2733><U+2731><U+2732> <U+2734> <U+2731><U+2735><U+2737><U+2733>                              <U+273B><U+261B><U+261B>
                                                                 <U+2759><U+2720><U+2746><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                    <U+2716><U+2715><U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+2722><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2716><U+2712><U+2725>
                                                   <U+273B><U+261B><U+271C>                         <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C>
<removed-apn>
                 <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719><U+261E><U+270C> P <U+261E><U+2748><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2748><U+270F><U+2715><U+270E>
              <U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+2749><U+2723> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2749><U+270C><U+2714><U+270C><U+2719><U+2749><U+270C><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270F><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2719><U+272D>                         <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2736><U+2736>
               <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2719><U+261E><U+2712><U+270D><U+276F><U+2748><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                   <U+273B><U+261B><U+272E>                                <U+273B><U+2605><U+261B>
                <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2716><U+2722><U+270C><U+2715><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270F>                  <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2749><U+270C><U+2722><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+261E> <U+271A><U+270D><U+270F><U+2713>
                <U+2749><U+270C><U+261E><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+2749> <U+261E><U+2748><U+2716><U+2719> P <U+261E><U+270C><U+2719><U+261E><U+270C>                    <U+2712><U+270D><U+2716><U+2722><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2719> P <U+2712><U+270D><U+2716><U+2748><U+275A> <U+2712><U+270F>
                 <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2749><U+270C>|<U+2722><U+270F><U+276F><U+261E> <U+2714><U+270F><U+261E><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719>                        <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2749><U+270C>|<U+2722><U+270F><U+276F><U+261E><U+2723> <U+270C><U+2718> <U+2724><U+2717><U+2712><U+2725>
                                                           <U+261E><U+270C><U+2719><U+261E><U+270F><U+270D><U+2726><U+261E><U+2727> P <U+261E><U+2748><U+2716><U+2719><U+2719><U+270C><U+270D><U+2726><U+261E><U+2727>
                                                                               <U+273B><U+2605><U+271C>
                        <U+270F><U+2714><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719><U+2716><U+2715><U+2756> <U+2717><U+271A> <U+2714><U+270F><U+261E><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+2722><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+261E><U+276F><U+2715><U+2712><U+2723> <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2717>|<U+276F><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2748><U+270F><U+2715><U+270E>
                                            <U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+2749>
                                                              <U+273B><U+2605><U+2730>
                                      <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2717>|<U+276F><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2748><U+270F><U+2715><U+270E>         <U+272D><U+270C><U+261E>
                                           <U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+2749><U+272F>
                                              <U+2719><U+270F>
                                                                               <U+273B><U+271B><U+261B>
                              <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2714><U+270D><U+270F><U+2748><U+270C><U+270C><U+2749><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261E> <U+2719><U+270F><U+270D><U+2713><U+2716><U+2715>
                                                   <U+273B><U+271B><U+272A>                                <U+273B><U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2716><U+272D> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2712><U+276F><U+270D><U+2719> <U+2712><U+270F>                  <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2748><U+270F><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+270C><U+2712><U+270C><U+261E>
               <U+2715><U+270F><U+2748><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270D><U+2717><U+270F><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270F> <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2719><U+261E><U+270C> P                  <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+2716><U+261E><U+261E><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2713><U+270C><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270D>
               <U+261E><U+2748><U+2716><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2748><U+270F><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719>                          <U+271A><U+276F><U+2719><U+2748><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719>
                                                                              <U+273B><U+272A><U+261B>
                                                                    <U+274A><U+272B><U+272C>
                                          <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2761> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                               <U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+271F>
<removed-date>
                                              <U+2738>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2731><U+2732>    <U+2759> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2732> <U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2735><U+260E><U+2756>
                                                                             <U+2730><U+261B><U+261B>
                                                                   <U+2759><U+2720><U+2746><U+2721><U+2720>
                                                   <U+2716><U+2715><U+2712><U+270C><U+270D><U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+2717><U+2722><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2716><U+2712><U+2725>
                                                  <U+2730><U+261B><U+271C>                         <U+271C><U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2717>|<U+276F><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2748><U+270F><U+2715><U+270E> <U+2717><U+2719><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+2749><U+2723>
                <U+2717><U+2719><U+2749><U+270C><U+2714><U+270C><U+2719><U+2749><U+270C><U+2719><U+2712> <U+270F><U+271A> <U+2716><U+2719><U+272D> <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>                            <U+271A><U+2717><U+2718><U+2729> <U+2736><U+2736>
                 <U+2717><U+2719><U+261E><U+2712><U+270D><U+276F><U+2748><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270F> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712>
                                                  <U+2730><U+261B><U+272E>                                <U+2730><U+2605><U+261B>
                <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2712><U+270D><U+2716><U+2722><U+270C><U+2715><U+261E> <U+2712><U+270F>                 <U+276F><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E> <U+270D><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2749><U+270C><U+2722><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+261E> <U+271A><U+270D><U+270F><U+2713>
              <U+2749><U+270C><U+261E><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+270C><U+2749> <U+261E><U+270C><U+2717>|<U+276F><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F><U+261E><U+2717><U+2712><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719>                <U+274A><U+2712><U+270D><U+2716><U+2722><U+270C><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2719> P <U+2712><U+270D><U+2716><U+2748><U+275A> <U+2712><U+270F>
                                                        <U+270C> <U+270C><U+2748><U+276F><U+2712><U+270C> <U+270E><U+261E><U+270C><U+2717>|<U+276F><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270D><U+270F><U+2712><U+270F><U+2748><U+270F><U+2715><U+270E>
                                                             <U+2730><U+2605><U+271C>
                                              <U+274A><U+272B><U+272C>
                                         <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2761> <U+260E><U+2738>

<removed-date>
                                         <U+2738><U+2738><U+271E><U+2738><U+271F>
                  <U+2759><U+2732><U+2733>   <U+2706><U+2759> <U+2759><U+2733><U+2720><U+2721>   <U+261B>     <U+2733>   <U+260E><U+2733> <U+2704><U+2737><U+2702><U+2706><U+2759><U+2735><U+2759><U+2704><U+2737><U+2733><U+2706><U+2731>
                                                    <U+261E>
                                                                              <U+2712>r <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2704> <U+2706> P <U+271D>r <U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                            <U+2730><U+2605><U+261B>                         <U+27A4>
                        <U+27A4>
                                                            <U+2730><U+271B><U+261B>         <U+27A4>
                                                                            <U+2730><U+272A><U+261B>
                                   <U+2730><U+272A><U+271C>
              <U+27A4>
                                              <U+2730><U+2605><U+271C>                 <U+2730><U+271B><U+271C>
                                          <U+27A4>                  <U+27A4>
                  <U+2730><U+261B><U+271C>
                                                                                   <U+2730><U+273C><U+261B>
                                   <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2761> <U+260E><U+271D>
                                   <U+2730><U+272A><U+271C>
                                                                                   <U+2730><U+273C><U+261B>
                                   <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2761> <U+260E>             <U+2738>

<removed-date>
                                                                                                            <U+2738><U+271F><U+271E><U+2738><U+271F>
                                            <U+2732><U+2737>          <U+2756><U+2759><U+2733>        <U+261B>                              <U+2759><U+2706>     <U+260E><U+2733> <U+2704><U+2737><U+2702><U+2706><U+2759><U+2735><U+2759><U+2704><U+2737><U+2733><U+2706><U+2731>
                                                                                                             <U+2733>                 <U+261E>
                                                                                                       <U+2732><U+2733><U+2756><U+2759><U+2731><U+2706>
                                                                           <U+2749>                            <U+2720>
                                                                                                                      <U+2712>            <U+27A4>
                                                                                                                                                         r <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2704> <U+2706> P <U+271D>r <U+271E><U+271F>
                                                                <U+2737>       <U+261E><U+270F><U+275B><U+270C><U+270D><U+275B><U+2714>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+272E><U+261B><U+271C>
              <U+272E><U+261B><U+2605>
<removed-apn>
                                        <U+272E><U+261B><U+272A>
                                                                          <U+272E><U+261B><U+2730>
                            <U+2729><U+272A><U+272B><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272F>
               <U+2773>                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                                            <U+2737>    <U+261E><U+270F><U+275B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+275B><U+2714>
                                                <U+2736>        <U+2743><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E><U+270F>   <U+2711><U+261E><U+270D><U+2712><U+2713>
                                            <U+2722>
                                            <U+271C>
                                        <U+271B>
                                    <U+271A>
                                    <U+2715>
                                <U+2718>
                            <U+2719>
                        <U+2718>
                        <U+2717>
                    <U+2716>
                    <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+275B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+275B> <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                <U+2736>
                                                                        <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E><U+270F>                                                        <U+272E><U+2605><U+2730>
                                                                        <U+2711><U+261E><U+270D><U+2712><U+2713>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+2737>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+275B><U+270C><U+270D><U+275B> <U+2714>
                                                <U+272E><U+261B>
                                                                                                                    <U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+261E><U+270F>
                                                     <U+2741>
                                                                          <U+272E><U+2605><U+2605>                                   <U+2736>
                                                                                                                    <U+2711><U+261E><U+270D><U+2712><U+2713>
                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                <U+2737>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+275B><U+270C><U+270D><U+275B> <U+2714>
                                                                             <U+2730>
                                                                               <U+2731>
                                                                                                        <U+2740>
                                                                                   <U+2732>
                                                                                                        <U+273F>
                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                           <U+2734>
                                                                                                        <U+273E>
                                                                                               <U+2735>        <U+273C>
                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                        <U+273B>
                                                                                                        <U+273A>
                                                                                                                <U+272E><U+2605><U+271C>
                                                                                                        <U+2739>
                                                                <U+272E><U+2605><U+272A>        <U+2748>
                                                                               <U+2723>
                                                                                <U+2724>
                                                                                 <U+2725><U+2726>
                                                                                   <U+2727><U+2605>
                                                                                                       <U+2773>
                                                                        <U+261B> <U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E> <U+261E><U+270F>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                <U+2736>
                                                                        <U+2711><U+261E><U+270D><U+2712><U+2713>
                                                                <U+2737>       <U+261E><U+270F><U+275B><U+270C> <U+270D><U+275B><U+2714>
                                                                          <U+272E><U+2605>   <U+2741>
                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                        <U+2737>   <U+261E><U+270F><U+275B><U+270C><U+270D><U+275B> <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+272E><U+271B><U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                    <U+272E><U+271B><U+2605>
                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                <U+272E><U+271B><U+272A>
                                                                                                       <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2761> <U+260E><U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+274F> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+2702><U+260E><U+275A> <U+2704><U+275A><U+2706><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2756><U+271E><U+2756><U+2756><U+273D><U+271F>

