                                           ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to methods, compositions, and kits for treating or preventing
symptoms of hormonal variation. The method comprises the steps of administering an effective
amount of a receptor antagonist to a subject having one or more symptoms of hormonal
variations. The receptor antagonist binds to at least one receptor selected from a serotonin type
2A (5-HT.sub.2A) and /or a dopamine type 2 (D.sub2) receptors.

 METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR TREATING OR PREVENTING SYMPTOMS
                                  OF HORMONAL VARIATIONS
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Serial
No. 61/309,638 filed March 2, 2010, entitled "Methods and Compositions for Treating or
Preventing Symptoms of Hormonal Variations". Applicant hereby expressly claims priority to
the filing date of said provisional application and specifically incorporates the disclosure thereof
by reference in its entirety herein.
           This application is a divisional application of AU <removed-apn> which is a divisional of
AU 2011223807, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         [0001]    The present invention relates generally to methods, compositions, and kits for
treatment or prevention of symptoms of hormonal variation associated with menopause, surgery,
anti-estrogen drugs and/or androgen deprivation therapy, such as hot flashes, night sweats, and
insomnia.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         [0001a]   Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken
as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be
expected to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
         [0001b]   As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise the term
'comprise' and variations of the term, such as 'comprising', 'comprises' and 'comprised', are not
intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
         [0002]    Hot flashes are the most common symptoms experienced by women who are
perimenopausal or postmenopausal and are also found in men with prostate cancer who undergo
androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Hot flashes are generally systemic and likely result from
an alteration in the thermoregulatory set-point center, which is located in the pre-optic anterior
                                                   1

         [0003]    hypothalamus, with involvement of dopamine, serotonin, norepinephrine, and
 alpha-adrenergic receptors.
        [0003]     Symptoms of hot flashes include a sudden sensation of warmth, which are
 usually accompanied by skin reddening, perspiration, palpitation, anxiety, irritability, and even
panic and night sweats. They can be characterized by mild warmth to profuse sweating. Typical
hot flashes occur with sudden onsets of sensation of warmth in the chest, which then spreads
upward to involve the neck and face. Other people feel a sudden onset of warmth all over the
upper part of the body. A chill may follow a hot flash because of a subsequent drop in core
temperature.
                                             IA

    Hot flashes may also be accompanied by dizziness, nausea, headaches, palpitations, and profuse
    sweating. Such symptoms can disrupt sleep and work and interfere with quality of life.
            [0004] The severity of hot flash sensations varies greatly both from time to time in the
   same person and from person to person. Hot flashes have been studied in perimenopausal and
   postmenopausal women but have not been studied extensively in men. Hot flashes in a woman
   can occur several times a week to as frequently as once an hour. Each episode can last from a
   few seconds to sixty minutes, depending on the woman. Hot flashes are provoked by several
   factors such as hot weather, stress, eating, or drinking alcohol. The severity and length of hot
  flashes can result in sleep deprivation and interference with work and lifestyle.
           [0005]   Perimenopausal and postmenopausal women are likely to have hot flashes. In
  fact, almost 60-70% of postmenopausal women have hot flashes, and approximately 10-20% of
  all postmenopausal women will report intolerable symptoms. Some women may suffer from
  these symptoms for up to 15 years. Thus, the identification and proper management of
  menopausal and postmenopausal symptoms are crucial to maintaining a woman's quality of life.
           [0006] Hot flashes are also a common and potentially chronic problem in men. For
 example, men with prostate cancer who undergo ADT may have hot flashes. This is a major
 quality of life issue for a significant proportion of men receiving ADT. One report shows that
 the natural history of hot flashes in men, including variation in severity and frequency, has not
 been widely studied. It is known that almost 70% of men who undergo surgical orchiectomy
report hot flushes. About 70 to 80% of men on long-term androgen suppression have hot
flushes, and 30 to 40% of these patients report that symptoms are a major source of discomfort.
          [0007] Although the pathophysiology of hot flashes is not completely understood, it has
been postulated that hot flashes result from a transient lowering of the hypothalamic temperature
regulatory set point. Because of the temporal relation between changes in sexual hormone
concentrations and the onset of hot flashes, it is believed that such symptoms result from
declining estrogen levels or increased gonadotropin concentrations. Thus, hot flashes occur
commonly in menopausal women, but also occur in premenopausal women taking anti-estrogen
drugs, such as tamoxifen. Administration of aromatase inhibitors, which are anti-estrogen drugs
                                                     2

   given to menopausal women with a history of breast cancer, also can result in hot flashes as a
   side effect. Men on androgen deprivation treatment may also experience such symptoms.
            [0008] Although estrogen replacement therapy can effectively minimize or prevent hot
  flashes in women, many women are concerned about potential risks of hormone replacement
  therapy. This is especially true for women who suffer from breast cancer or have a family
  history of breast cancer, and/or a history of clotting disorders.
            [0009] Various non-hormonal agents for treating the symptoms of hot flashes have been
  tested. One of these agents is clonidine, a centrally-acting quadrature.sub.2 adrenergic receptor
 agonist. It selectively stimulates receptors in the brain that monitor catecholamine levels in the
 blood. These receptors close a negative feedback loop that begins with descending sympathetic
 nerves from the brain that control the production of catecholamines (e.g., epinephrine, also
 known as adrenaline, and norepinephrine) in the adrenal medulla. By tricking the brain into
 believing that catecholamine levels are higher than they really are, clonidine causes the brain to
 reduce its signals to the adrenal medulla, leading to lower catecholamine production. The result
 is a lowered heart rate and blood pressure. In randomized clinical trials, clonidine was shown to
 be moderately more efficacious than placebo, but adverse effects are common, including dry
 mouth, dizziness, and blurred vision.
           [0010] Recent randomized clinical trials also confirmed that some selective
 serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRI), such as venlafaxine and paroxetine, are more effective than
placebo in minimizing the occurrence and severity of hot flashes. However, adverse effects with
SSRIs are moderate, including headache, agitation, tremor, sedation, and sexual dysfunction.
          [0011] There are also a number of treatments for hot flashes that appeared to have similar
effects in men and women. Decreases of hot flash frequencies in women treated with clonidine
are approximately 10-15 percent greater than that seen with placebo. In a double blind, cross
over study of clonidine to reduce self-reported hot flash frequency in men, a similar effect was
seen, but the difference from placebo effect was not statistically significant. Research has found
virtually identical results for men and women receiving megestrol acetate for hot flashes, with
approximately an 80% reduction in self-reported hot flash frequency compared to a 20%
                                                    3

   reduction with placebo. However, higher levels of vaginal bleeding were also associated with
   the use of megestrol acetate in women.
           [0012] Many women seek complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) methods to
   ease their menopausal symptoms. Compounds used as complementary and alternative medicine
   include Soy Vitamin E, Red clover (Trifolium pratense), dong quai, evening primrose oil, and
   black cohosh (Cimicifuga racemosa).
           [0013] Over the last few years, anecdotal reports suggested that antidepressants from the
  SSRI/SNRI groups might reduce symptoms of hot flashes. These observations led to initial pilot
  studies and then to randomized placebo controlled clinical trials. In pilot studies, the SNRI
  venlafaxine (Effexor) and the SSRI paroxetine (Paxil) were associated with hot-flash score
  reductions on the order of 55%-75%. Other pilot evaluations have suggested that citalopram
  (Celexa) and mirtazapine (Remeron) also alleviate hot flashes to a similar degree. The first
  reported randomized clinical trial of one of these newer antidepressants compared three doses of
  venlafaxine (37.5, 75, and 150 mg/day) to placebo. While low-dose venlafaxine was only mildly
 more effective than placebo (37% vs 27% reduction in hot-flash scores, respectively), both the
 moderate and high doses were associated with a statistically significant 61% reduction in hot
 flash scores. Fluoxetine (Prozac) 20 mg/day was associated with a 50% reduction in hot-flash
 scores compared to a 36% reduction with placebo.
          [0014] More recently, anecdotal observations suggesting efficacy led to trials to assess
 the value of another compound, gabapentin (Neurontinim). Gabapentin is a .gamma.
 aminobutyric acid (GABA) analog that has been most often prescribed for the treatment of
 seizures and naturopathic pain. It is also effective in other syndromes, such as panic disorder,
 social phobia, migraine headache, and essential tremor. Based on anecdotal observations, pilot
and randomized trials of gabapentin for the treatment of hot flashes were launched. Results of the
pilot trials suggested that gabapentin reduces the incidence of hot flashes by 42%-70%. Benefit
was demonstrated regardless of the concurrent use of a stable dose of an SSRI/SNRI agent.
         [0015] Seradam, another formulation of gabapentin, has also been tested in clinical trials
for the treatment of menopausal hot flashes. Serada"' dosed once daily (1200 mg) or twice daily
(600 mg in the morning and 1200 mg in the evening for a total of 1800 mg) resulted in a
                                                    4

 significant reduction of frequency and severity of hot flashes measured after four weeks.
 However, this effect was not found after 12 weeks of usage.
           [0016] Given the risks of estrogen replacement therapy and marginal benefits of current
 non-hormonal treatments, there is a continued need for alternative methods or compositions such
 as drugs for treating or preventing symptoms associated with menopause, surgery, anti-estrogen
 drugs, and/or androgen deprivation therapy, including hot flashes. In accordance with the
 invention, such an alternative method and compositions are provided which avoid the dangers of
 estrogen replacement therapy while providing for an effective treatment of symptoms.
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          [0017] The present invention provides methods and compositions for treatment and
 prevention of symptoms of hormonal variation. Specifically, the invention relates to symptoms
 associated with menopause, surgery, anti-estrogen drugs, and/or androgen deprivation therapy,
 such as hot flashes, night sweats, and insomnia, which are frequently experienced by both males
 and females.
          [0018] In one aspect, the invention relates to methods for treating or preventing
 symptoms of hormonal variation, particularly associated with menopause, surgery, anti-estrogen
drugs, and/or androgen deprivation therapy. The method generally includes: identifying a
 subject having one or more symptoms of hormonal variations, and administering an effective
amount of a receptor antagonist to the subject. The receptor antagonist is of the type that binds
to at least one of a serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A) receptor and/or a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2)
receptor. In a preferred embodiment, the receptor antagonist is one selected from
Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBR, Dextrorphan, Amantadine, Ibogaine,
Ketamine, Memantine, Riluzole, Aptiganel, Dizocipline, HU-21 1, Remacemide, Ketobemidone,
Methadone and Tramadol.
         [0019] In a second aspect, the invention relates to pharmaceutical composition for
treating or preventing symptoms of hormonal variation. The pharmaceutical composition
includes an effective amount of a receptor antagonist for treating or preventing symptoms of
hormonal variation, wherein the receptor antagonist binds to at least one receptor selected from a
                                                   5

    serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A) receptor and a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor. As
    discussed above, in a preferred embodiment, the receptor antagonist is one selected from
   Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBR, Dextrorphan, Amantadine, Ibogaine,
    Ketamine, Memantine, Riluzole, Aptiganel, Dizocipline, HU-21 1, Remacemide, Ketobemidone,
   Methadone and Tramadol.
             [0020] In a third aspect, the invention is directed to kits for performing a method of the
   invention. Typically, the kits of the invention comprise a receptor antagonist for treating or
  preventing symptoms of hormonal variation and instructions for a method of the invention. The
  kits can also comprise some or all of the other reagents and supplies necessary to perform at least
  one embodiment of one method of the invention.
            [0021] These and other advantages and features that characterize the invention are set
  forth in the claims annexed hereto and forming a further part hereof. However, for a better
  understanding of the invention, and of the advantages and objectives attained through its use,
  reference should be made to the accompanying descriptive matter, in which there are described
 exemplary embodiments of the invention.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           [0022] The present invention relates to methods, compositions, and kits for treating or
 preventing symptoms associated with hormonal variations, particularly those associated with
 hormonal changes accompanying menopause, surgery, anti-estrogen drugs and/or androgen
 deprivation therapy. The invention relates to specific subtypes of dopamine, serotonin, and
 adrenergic receptors as effective targets for the treatment of hot flashes and other symptoms
 associated with hormonal variations. Specifically, the inventor has surprisingly found that
receptor antagonists of the type that bind to at least one of a serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A)
receptor and/or a dopamine type 2(D.sub.2) receptor, commonly used as antitussive (cough
suppressant) drugs, can be used to treat or prevent symptoms associated with hormonal
variations.
          [0023] Accordingly, in one aspect, the invention provides methods for treating or
preventing symptoms of hormonal variation, particularly associated with perimenopause,
                                                    6

 menopause, surgery, anti-estrogen drugs, and/or androgen deprivation therapy. The methods
 include identifying a subject having one or more symptoms of hormonal variations, and
 administering an effective amount of a receptor antagonist to the subject.
          [0024] The inventor of the present invention has found that specific subtypes of
 dopamine, serotonin, and adrenergic receptors are effective targets for the treatment of hot
 flashes and other symptoms associated with hormonal variations. The serotonin type receptors
 that have been found to be effective targets include 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, 5-HTlE, 5
 HTIF, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, 5-HT2C, 5-HT3, 5-HT4, 5-HT5A, 5-HT6, and 5-HT7. The dopamine
 type receptors that have been found to be effective targets include D1, D2, D3, D4 and D5.
 While the specific receptors above have been discussed, the invention is also applicable to other
 serotonin and dopamine type receptors that interact with the receptor antagonists used in the
 invention.
          [0025] The receptor antagonists that interact with the receptors discussed above and have
 been found to be effective in reducing or eliminating symptoms associated with hormonal
 variations include 5-HT.sub.2A antagonists and/or D.sub.2 dopamine antagonists. Such 5
 HT.sub.2A antagonists include Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, Dextrorphan,
 Amantadine, Ibogaine, Ketamine, Memantine, Riluzole, Aptiganel, Dizocipline, HU-21 1,
 Remacemide, Ketobemidone, Methadone, Tramadol, Aripiprazole, Asenapine, Clozapine,
 Cyproheptadine, Eplivanserin, Etoperidone, Iloperidone, Ketanserin, Methysergide, Mianserin,
Mirtazapine, Nefazodone, Olanzapine, Pimavanserin, Pizotifen, Quetiapine, Risperidone,
Ritanserin, Trazodone and Ziprasidone. The D.sub.2 dopamine antagonists include
Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, Dextrorphan, Melperone, Risperidone,
Ziprasidone and Raclopride. Other receptor antagonists having the functional characteristics of
interacting with serotonin and/or dopamine type receptors are also contemplated as part of the
present invention.
         [0026]   In a preferred embodiment, the receptor antagonist is Dextromethorphan,
DextromethorphanHBr or Dextrorphan. Dextromethorphan is the dextrorotatory enantiomer of
the methyl ether of levorphanol, an opiod analgesic. Dextromethorphan is rapidly absorbed from
the gastrointestinal tract, where it enters the bloodstream and crosses the blood-brain barrier.
                                                    7

   Dextromethorphan is known to be both a serotonin transport and a norepinephrine transport
   blocker. After absorption from the gastrointestinal tract, Dextromethorphan is converted into the
   active metabolite Dextrorphan in the liver by CYP2D6, a cytochrome P450 enzyme.
  Dextrorphan is an active metabolite of Dextromethorphan and the therapeutic activity of
  Dextromethorphan is believed to be caused by both the drug and this metabolite.
            [0027] Dextromethorphan HBr is a specific form of Dextromethorphan. HBr, i.e.
  hydrobromide, refers to hydrobromic acid which is mainly used for the production of inorganic
  bromides, especially the bromides of zinc, calcium, and sodium. While reference is made to
  DextromethorphanHBr as a specific form of Dextromethorphan used in the invention, it will be
  readily apparent to those of ordinary skill that other forms can be used.
           [0028] The methods of the invention can be used on male or female subjects. It is
 envisioned that the methods will be used for subjects that are prone to having, are currently
 having, or are expected to have symptoms of hormonal variation. These include subjects that are
 in perimenopause, menopause, anticipating or have gone through surgery, androgen deprivation
 therapy or chemotherapy, subjects that are being given Goserelin (such as ZoladexTM) or
 Leuprolide (such as LupronTM) to induce menopause, subjects that are taking anti-estrogen drugs
 (such as tamoxifin or aromatase inhibitors), and/or any other condition that results in changes in
 hormonal levels.
          [0029] The symptoms of hormonal variation include a sudden sensation of warmth,
which are usually accompanied by skin reddening, perspiration, palpitation, anxiety, irritability,
and even panic and night sweats. A chill may follow a hot flash because of a subsequent drop in
core temperature. Hot flashes may also be accompanied by dizziness, nausea, headaches,
palpitations, and profuse sweating. Although any of these symptoms can be alleviated or
prevented by the methods of the invention, it is expected that the methods will reduce or prevent
hot flashes, which will result in a reduction, elimination, or prevention of the symptoms caused
by the hot flashes.
         [0030] In accordance with some embodiments of the invention, a method for treating or
preventing symptoms of hormonal variations may comprise the use of an effective amount of an
antagonist of 5-HT.sub.2A serotonin receptor and/or D.sub.2 dopamine receptor. An effective
                                                    8

    amount of an antagonist that binds 5-HT.sub.2A and/or D.sub.2 receptors will depend on the
    mode of administration, frequency of administration, and the type of pharmaceutical composition
    used to deliver the compound into a patient, as well as weight, gender, age, and physical
    conditions of the patient.
            [0031] Generally, effective amounts of such compounds will be about 0.002 mg to about
    1.0 mg/kg body weight per day, preferably about 0.005 mg to 1.0 mg/kg body weight per day,
   and more preferably about 0.005 to about 0.7 mg/kg body weight per day. For example, daily
   doses may range from about 0.1 to about 50 mg per day for an adult patient weighing about
   50 Kg (110 lb), or from about 0.2 to about 100 mg per day for an adult patient weighing about
   100 Kg (220 lb). In one preferred embodiment, approximately 30 to approximately 45 mg per
   day of Detromethorphan, DextromethorphanHBr or Dextrorphan is administered to a subject. It
   is expected that no more than 120 mg of a daily dose will be administered. Typically, 100 mg
  will be the maximum daily dose required in most cases for the methods of the present invention.
  While individual needs vary, determination of optimal range of effective amounts of each
  compound is within the skills of one skilled in the art. By treating the symptoms of hormonal
  variations, including hot flashes, embodiments of the invention either reduce the number
  (occurrence or frequency), duration, and/or severity of symptomatic events.
           [0032] Administering an effective amount of a compound of the invention to a patient
 may be via any suitable route used for administering similar pharmaceuticals to a patient,
 including oral administration (such as a solution, gel, tablet, capsule, and powder), injection,
 suppository, infusible, lozenge, cream, salve, inhalant, transdermal patch, and the like. The
 compound may be administered with any substance that is biologically tolerable (i.e., non-toxic
or present in an amount that is non-toxic). Examples of such substances are well known to those
of skill in the art and include, without limitation, sugars, salts, lipids, drugs, excipients, carriers,
flavorants, fillers, binders, gums, colorants, water, buffers, detergents, biologically active
compounds, and the like.
          [0033] Administration of an effective amount of a compound of the invention to a subject
may be in one dose or the method may comprise two or more administrations of less than the
effective amount, where the amount ultimately administered is an effective amount. For
                                                   9

   example, if 30 mg per day is to be administered, one dose of 30 mg may be given, two doses of
    15 mg may be given, three doses of 10 mg may be given in one day, etc. Likewise, multiple
   administrations of an effective dose may be desirable where the second or subsequent
   administration is performed at a time well separated from the first administration. In addition, it
   may be desired to administer the effective dose using a slow release method (also called time,
   sustained, or extended release) instead of an immediate release. In this case, the total effective
   amount is administered but the compound of the invention is released systemically in the subject
   over hours instead of minutes.
           [0034] The effective amount of a compound of the invention to a subject may be lower if
   one or more other compounds that reduce the symptoms of hormonal variation are concurrently
  given to a subject. These compounds include, but are not limited to, compounds used as
  complementary and alternative medicine such as Soy Vitamin E, Red clover (Trifolium
  pratense), dong quai, evening primrose oil, and black cohosh (Cimicifuga racemosa). These
  compounds may also include medicines considered mainstream including, but not limited to,
  conjugated estrogens (i.e., a kind of hormone replacement therapy, i.e., "HRT", such as
  CenestinTM, EnjuviaTM, and PremarinTM ), bupropian (such as WellbutrinTM, ZybanTM, AplenzinTM,
  and Budeprion   TM), venlafaxine (such as EffexorTM), fluoxetine (such as ProzacTM, RapifluxTM, and
  SarafenTM), duloxetine (such as CymbaltaTM), sertraline (such as ZoloftTM), clonidine (such as
  Catapres-TTS- 1TM, CatapresgTTS.2TM, and CatapresTTS_3TM), clonidine hydrochloride,
 methyldopa (such as AldometTM), and gabapentin (such as Neurontina and Seradam). If a
 compound of the invention is given to a subject along with one or more other compounds known
 to reduce the symptoms of hormonal variation, then the effective amount of the compound of the
 invention may be lower than if the compound of the invention is administered alone. The
 effective amount of the compound of the invention may then be, for example, one-half, one
 third, one-fourth, one-sixth, or one-eighth of the effective amount of the compound when given
by itself.
          [0035] Serotonin (5-HT) receptors comprise about 15 different receptors. Type 2
(5-HT.sub.2) serotonin receptors are G.sub.q/G.sub. 11 coupled receptors that mediate cellular
effects by increasing cellular levels of inositol triphosphate (IP.sub.3) and diacylglycerol (DAG).
In accordance with some embodiments of the invention, serotonin type 2A receptor is the target
                                                    10

   for treating or preventing symptoms associated with hormonal variation. Reduction in 5-HT
   levels increases the sensitivity of 5-HT.sub.2A receptor in the hypothalamus, which is involved
   in thermoregulation. Therefore, modulators of 5-HT.sub.2A receptors may be useful in the
   management of symptoms associated with hormone variations.
             [0036] In accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the invention,
   Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, may be used to treat symptoms of hormonal
   variations. Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, is an antitussive (cough
   suppressant) drug that functions by interfering with the communication among nerves in the
   brain. It elevates the threshold for coughing, without inhibiting ciliary activity.
  Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, acts as a 5-HT.sub.2A antagonist and can be
  used to quickly and effectively block the effects of 5-HT.sub.2A agonists at a low dose.
  Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, is also a potent dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2), and
  .quadrature.sub.2 adrenergic receptor antagonist. However, as described herein,
  Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, has been unexpectedly found to be effective in
  reducing or eliminating symptoms associated with hormonal variations.
            [0037] In accordance with another embodiment of the invention, Dextrorphan may be
  used as a treatment for the symptoms of hormonal variations. Dextrorphan is the principal active
  metabolite of Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, and they had similar binding
 profiles and affinity for 5-HT.sub.2A receptors and D.sub.2 receptors. Like Dextromethorphan,
 e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, Dextrorphan can effectively treat or prevent the symptoms
 associated with hormonal variations via its antagonist activity for 5-HT.sub.2A and/or dopamine
 receptors.
           [0038] In addition to Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr, and Dextrorphan,
 other receptor antagonists that can bind to 5-HT.sub.2A and/or D.sub.2 dopamine receptors may
also be used to control symptoms associated with hormonal variations. These other antagonists,
for example, may include Amantadine, Ibogaine, Ketamine, Memantine, Riluzole, Aptiganel,
Dizocipline, HU-21 1, Remacemide, Ketobemidone, Methadon and Tramadol.
          [0039] In a second aspect, the invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions for
treating or preventing symptoms of hormonal variation. The pharmaceutical composition is
                                                  11

  comprised of an effective amount of a receptor antagonist for treating or preventing symptoms of
  hormonal variation, wherein the receptor antagonist binds to at least one receptor selected from a
  serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A) receptor and a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor.
           [0040] The pharmaceutical composition can be a pharmaceutically acceptable form such
  as an oral dosage form, injection, inhalation, and/or transdermal patch. Oral dosage forms, for
  example, may be a controlled-release dosage form, rapidly dispersed dosage form with a porous
  network of a matrix composition, or a solid rapidly disintegrating dosage form. For example, an
  oral dosage form may be made up of a microparticle composition and a biodegradable and
 biocompatibly acceptable microparticle polymer carrier. One oral dosage form may include at
 least a sustained-release microparticle produced by dissolving in a solvent with a biodegradable
 and biocompatible polymer to form an organic phase, and extracting the solvent to form
 microparticles. Another oral dosage form may be a microencapsulated pharmaceutical
 composition having a selected release profile prepared by a method for preparing microparticles.
          [00413 The method of preparing microparticles may involve: (a) preparing an emulsion
 that has a first phase and a second phase, wherein the first phase includes the active agent, a
 polymer, and a solvent for the polymer; (b) quenching the emulsion in a quench liquid to form
 microparticles containing the active agent; (c) selecting a degree of intermediate drying of the
 microparticles to be performed so that the selected release profile is achieved; (d) washing the
 microparticles; and (e) conducting final drying of the microparticles.
         [0042] The oral dosage form can be a multi-phasic sustained-release microparticle
composition, prepared by a process involving: dissolving in a solvent the active agents and a
biodegradable and biocompatible polymer to form an organic phase; extracting the solvent to
form microparticles; and combining microparticles having a plurality of sizes to thereby form a
composition that delivers the active agent in a multi-phasic manner.
         [0043] A pharmaceutical composition optionally includes the active agents, and at least
one substance selected from pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, nutrients, vitamins, other
active ingredients, sweeteners, flavoring agents, coloring agents, surfactants, preservatives,
antioxidants, viscosity enhancers, and minerals. As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable"
is intended to include ingredients that are biologically tolerable. As used herein, "biologically
                                                   12

  tolerable" means substances that are non-toxic to humans. The use of such ingredients is well
  known in the art, and thus further examples and methods of incorporating each into compositions
  at effective levels need not be discussed here. As used herein, "pharmaceutically acceptable
  carrier" refers to solvents, binders, disintegrating agents, lubricants, excipients, absorption
  delaying agents, and the like.
           [0044] In a third aspect, the present invention is directed to kits for performing a method
  of the invention. Typically, the kits of the invention comprise a receptor antagonist and
  instructions for how to perform at least one method of the invention. The receptor antagonist is
  generally supplied in the kits in an amount sufficient to treat at least one patient at least one time
  to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the symptoms of hormonal variations. Alternatively, the kit can
 be comprised of a dose of receptor antagonist wherein the dose is not enough to be effective for
 reduction, elimination, or prevention of the symptoms of hormonal variations by itself, but when
 administered with another dose at a later time, it becomes effective. The receptor antagonist
 supplied in the kits may be supplied as a solution, gel, tablet, capsule, powder, injection,
 suppository, infusible, lozenge, cream, salve, inhalant, transdermal patch, and the like. The kits
 can also comprise some or all of the other reagents and supplies necessary to perform at least one
 embodiment of one method of the invention.
          [0045] In its simplest form, a kit according to the invention comprises a container
 containing at least one type of receptor antagonist or at least one composition according to the
 invention. Thus, in embodiments, the kit of the invention comprises a container containing at
 least one type of receptor antagonist or a composition comprising a receptor antagonist. In other
embodiments, the kit comprises multiple containers, each of which may contain at least one
receptor antagonist, compositions comprising receptor antagonists, or other substances that are
useful for performing one or more embodiments of the invention.
          [0046] The container can be any material suitable for containing a composition of the
invention or another substance useful in performing a method of the invention. Thus, the
container may be a vial or ampule. It can be fabricated from any suitable material, such as glass,
plastic, metal, or paper or a paper product. In embodiments, it is a glass or plastic ampule or vial
that can be sealed, such as by a stopper, a stopper and crimp seal, or a plastic or metal cap. In
                                                     13

   embodiments, the container comprises an effective amount of receptor antagonist to reduce,
   eliminate, or prevent the symptoms of hormonal variation according to the invention. The
   amount of receptor antagonist contained in the container can be selected by one of skill in the art
   without undue experimentation based on numerous parameters that are relevant according to the
   invention.
           [0047] In embodiments, the container is provided as a component of a larger unit that
  typically comprises packaging materials (referred to below as a kit for simplicity purposes). The
  kit of the invention can include suitable packaging and instructions and/or other information
  relating to the use of the compositions. Typically, the kit is fabricated from a sturdy material,
  such as cardboard and plastic, and can contain the instructions or other information printed
  directly on it. The kit can comprise multiple containers containing the composition of the
  invention. In such kits, each container can be the same size, and contain the same amount of
  composition, as each other container, or different containers may be different sizes and/or
 contain different amounts of compositions or compositions having different constituents. One of
 skill in the art will immediately appreciate that numerous different configurations of container
 sizes and contents are envisioned by this invention, and thus not all permutations need be
 specifically recited herein.
          [0048] In general, the kit comprises containers to contain the components of the kit, and
 is considered a single package comprising a combination of containers. Thus, the components
 are said to be in packaged combination within the kit. In addition to a container containing the
 composition of the invention, the kit can comprise additional containers containing additional
 compositions of the invention. Each container may contain enough receptor antagonist for a
 single dose of an embodiment of the method of the invention, or it may contain enough for two
or more doses, The various containers may contain differing amounts of the composition of the
invention. Thus, in embodiments, the kit comprises a sufficient amount of receptor antagonist to
perform an embodiment of the method according to the invention. The kit can further comprise
some or all of the supplies and materials needed to prepare for and perform a method of the
invention, such as, but not limited to, syringes, sterile water or a sterile aqueous solution. In
some embodiments, the kits comprise one or more liquids to hydrate the compositions of the kits.
                                                  14

                                              EXAMPLES
            [0049] The following examples are provided to illustrate that embodiments of the present
   invention can reduce the symptoms of hormone variations, including hot flashes, night sweats,
   and blood pressure fluctuations. Embodiments of the invention are effective for patients under
   various conditions. However, one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that these
  examples are for illustration purposes only and by no means is intended to limit the scope of the
  invention.
           [0050] Example 1: Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr Resolved Hot
  Flashes in a Case involving a partial Hysterectomy, Hormone Replacement Therapy and
  Breast Cancer Surgery/Treatment
           [0051] As previously noted, embodiments of the invention involve administering a
  therapeutically effective amount of an antagonist (such as Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
  Dextromethorphan HBr or Dextrorphan) of 5-HT.sub.2A and/or D.sub.2 dopamine receptor to
  alleviate symptoms associated with hormone variations. This example involves use of
  Dextromethorphan HBr which has been used on a patient with a breast cancer history to
  successfully alleviate the occurrence of hot flashes or other symptoms of hormonal variations.
 The following describes a real specific past example of use of the methods and compositions of
 the invention with one patient, illustrating the effectiveness of Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
 DextromethorphanHBr in alleviating symptoms associated with hormone variations. The
 following example from one patient illustrates the effectiveness of Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
 Dextromethorphan HBr in alleviating symptoms associated with hormone variations. One of
 ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that this specific example is not intended to limit the
 scope of the invention. For example, embodiments of the invention may use other regimens,
including other antagonists of 5-HT.sub.2A and/or D.sub.2 dopamine receptors.
          [0052] In September of 1993, a 31-year-old woman who had been experiencing severe
menstrual cycles required a partial hysterectomy. Within a few months of the surgery, she
started to experience hot flashes, night sweats and insomnia. These occurrences took place
several times a day/night lasting a few minutes. Approximately a year after surgery, she was
placed on CenestinTM (a kind of hormone replacement therapy, i.e., "HRT"). Upon starting the
                                                   15

  CenestinTM, the patient reported that the frequency and intensity of her hot flashes were reduced.
  In 2006, the CenestinTM was discontinued due to an increase in hot flashes, night sweats and
  irritability.
            [0053] At this time, the patient began taking dosages of WellbutrinTM and receiving
  another hormone replacement therapy of estrogen and testosterone to treat the hot flashes, night
  sweats and other menopausal symptoms. Upon starting this new therapy, the patient reported
  that the frequency and intensity of her hot flashes, night sweats and other menopausal symptoms
  were markedly reduced.
           [0054] In November of 2008, at the age of 46, the patient was diagnosed with Stage 2
  breast cancer and the HRT was discontinued immediately. Subsequently, the patient underwent
  a lumpectomy and the removal of fourteen lymph nodes (one tested positive). At this time, the
  menopausal symptoms returned.
           [0055] In December 2008, the patient went through an intense treatment of chemotherapy
  which lasted until April 2009. At this time, a less intense chemotherapy treatment was continued
 until November 2009. The patient also received radiation therapy from April 2009 until June
 2009. At the end of the radiation therapy, the patient was started on a regimen of TamoxifenTM.
 Since commencing treatment with TamoxifenTM, the hot flashes, night sweats and other
 menopausal symptoms increased in intensity.
          [0056] In February 2009, the patient was treated with Vitamin E and ClonidineTM, a blood
 pressure medication that has also been used to reduce menopausal symptoms. ClonidineTM is a
 direct-acting a2 adrenergic agonist that is used to treat several medical conditions. The
 ClonidineTM had no impact on reducing the menopausal symptoms. Both the ClonidineTM and the
WellbutrinTMwere discontinued in June 2009.
          [0057] In June 2009, the patient was treated with NeurontinTM(generic name gabapentin),
a seizure or nerve pain medication that has also been used to reduce menopausal symptoms. It
was originally developed for the treatment of epilepsy, and currently, gabapentin is widely used
to relieve pain, especially neuropathic pain. The NeurontinTM had no impact on reducing the
menopausal symptoms and was discontinued in August 2009. At this time, the patient was
                                                    16

    treated with EffexorTM (generic name Venlafaxine), a medication which is used primarily for the
    treatment of major depression, generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, obsessive
    compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and menopausal hot flashes in adults. The EffexorTM had no
    impact on reducing the menopausal symptoms and was discontinued in October 2009.
             [0058] At this time, the patient began WellbutrinTM again to treat the hot flashes, night
   sweats and other menopausal symptoms. The WellbutrinTM had no impact on reducing the hot
   flashes, night sweats and other menopausal symptoms. Also at this time, she started Black
   Cohosh (an herbal remedy) to treat the indications, which had no impact on reducing the
   indications,
            [0059] Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr was then started January 2010 at
  a dose of 30 mg per day (15 mg every 12 hours), and the patient reported that the occurrence of
  hot flashes, night sweats and other menopausal symptoms were reduced significantly two days
  after starting the Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan HBr. After three days, the hot
  flashes, night sweats and other menopausal symptoms were drastically reduced and were totally
  gone by the third day. The dosage continued and remained the same for another 5 days.
           [0060] With the patient's permission, the Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextromethorphan
 HBr was then discontinued and the menopausal symptoms reoccurred within 24 hours. The
 symptoms were again eliminated within 24 hours after again commencing treatment with the
 Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextormethorphan HBr. While continuing the treatment of
 Dextromethorphan, e.g., Dextormethorphan HBr and with the patient's permission, the
 WellbutrinTM was discontinued and the hot flashes, night sweats and menopausal symptoms did
 not reoccur.
          [0061] Example 2: Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr Resolved Hot
Flashes in Menopausal Women with No Breast Cancer History
          [0062] The following Table summarizes data from female test subjects who had not had
a breast cancer history but were experiencing symptoms of hormonal variation likely due to
entering natural menopause. The dosage given in these test cases was 15 mg in the morning and
15 mg in the evening of Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr. The decrease in the
                                                    17

symptoms of hormonal variation was noted by assessing the severity and frequency of hot
flashes.
         [0063] Table 1. Response of Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr in
Menopausal Women with No Breast Cancer History
    Test         Age       No. of     Frequency of       Other           Other      Response
  Subject                   Years      Hot Flashes       Health       Treatments      to Dex.
                          with Hot                       Issues           Used          HBr
                           Flashes                                       Before
                                                                       With No
                                                                       Response
      1          48           6         4 times/day    High blood      Hormonal      No more
                                                        pressure         patch,         hot
                                       3 times/night                                  flashes
                                                                         Black
                                                                        Cohosh
     2           61          5-7      3-4 times/day,     Partial       Hormonal      No more
                                                     hysterectomy        patch,         hot
                                     Approximately   25 years ago     Flashease,      flashes
                                       2 times/night                   Amberen,
                                                                         Black
                                                                        Cohosh
     3           51       Several                        None                       Moderate
                                                                                     response
                                                                                      (some
                                                                                    reduction
                                                                                      in hot
                                                                                     flashes)
                                              18

       4             50        Several                          None                       No more
                                                                                               hot
                                                                                            flashes
       5            54           3-4                         No major                      No more
                                                            health issues                     hot
                                                                                            flashes
           [0064] As can be seen from Table 1, the administration of Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
 DextromethorphanHBr to five women without any breast cancer history, but with hormonal
 variation symptoms, relieved the symptoms as seen by a reduction in hot flashes. In fact, four
 out of the five women no longer had hot flashes when on the drug comprised of receptor
 antagonist.
          [0065] Example 3: Standard Protocol to Administer a Receptor Antagonist to
 Resolve Symptoms of Hormonal Variation
          [0066] The following example provides a protocol for the administration of a receptor
antagonist to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the symptoms of hormonal variation. Although
Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr is specifically used in this protocol, other
receptor antagonists, wherein the receptor antagonist binds to at least one selected from a
serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A) receptor and a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor, may be
used in the methods and compositions of the present invention.
         [0067] Protocol:
         [0068] Identify a subject having one or more symptoms of hormonal variation;
        [0069] Administer to the subject a starting dosage of 15 mg of Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
DextromethorphanHBr in the morning and evening for a total dosage of 30 mg
Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr;
        [0070] Monitor the symptoms of hormonal variation, such as hot flashes.
                                                 19

          [0071] If the symptoms remain or are lessened, an additional dosage of 15 mg
 Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr can be administered in the afternoon to try to
 eliminate the symptoms. Alternatively, the amount of Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
 DextromethorphanHBr can be increased in the morning and evening. As is standard practice in
 the medical field, the dosage of compounds given may need to be adjusted for each subject
 depending on the subject's age, weight, gender, metabolism, etc.
          [0072] If the symptoms are eliminated using the protocol delineated above, the dosage of
Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr can be maintained or the dosage can be reduced
to find the minimum dosage that will still eliminate the symptoms of the subject.
         [0073] Example 4: Standard Protocol to Administer a Receptor Antagonist Along
with Gabapentin to Resolve Symptoms of Hormonal Variation
         [0074] The compounds of the invention can also be administered to a subject along with
other compounds known to reduce, eliminate, or prevent hormonal variations. The following
example provides a protocol for the administration of Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
DextromethorphanHBr, along with Gabapentin, a compound shown to reduce hot flashes in
clinical trials. As discussed in the Example above, although Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
DextromethorphanHBr is specifically used in this protocol, other receptor antagonists, wherein
the receptor antagonist binds to at least one selected from a serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A)
receptor and a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor, may be used in the methods and
compositions of the present invention.
         [0075] Protocol:
         [0076] Identify a subject having one or more symptoms of hormonal variations;
        [0077] Administer to the subject a starting dosage of 15 mg of Dextromethorphan, e.g.,
DextromethorphanHBr and 300 mg of Gabapentin each in the morning and evening for a total
dosage of 30 mg Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr and 600 mg of Gabapentin per
day;
        [0078] Monitor the symptoms of hormonal variation, such as hot flashes.
                                                  20

          [0079] If the symptoms remain or are lessened, an additional dosage of 15 mg
 Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr and 300 mg of Gabapentin can be administered
 in the afternoon to try to eliminate the symptoms. Alternatively, the amounts of
 Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr and/or Gabapentin can be increased in the
 morning and evening.
         [0080] If the symptoms are eliminated using the protocol delineated above, the dosage of
 Dextromethorphan, e.g., DextromethorphanHBr and Gabapentin can be maintained or reduced,
 For example, the subject may try to take only one dosage a day. As another example, the subject
 may opt to reduce the amount of each compound given in the morning and evening. As
 examples, the amount of gabapentin may be reduced to a lower level, such as 400 mg per day,
 300 mg per day, 200 mg per day, 100 mg per day, 50 mg per day or even as low as 1 mg per day.
         [0081] While the present invention has been illustrated by a description of various
embodiments and while these embodiments have been described in considerable detail, it is not
the intention of the Applicant to restrict, or any way limit the scope of the appended claims to
such detail. The invention in its broader aspects is therefore not limited to the specific details,
representative apparatus and method, and illustrative example shown and described.
Accordingly, departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or
scope of Applicant's general inventive concept.
                                                  21

                                              CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      A method for treatment or prevention of symptoms of hormonal variation, comprising:
        identifying a subject having one or more symptoms of hormonal variations; and
        administering an effective amount of a receptor antagonist to the subject, wherein the
receptor antagonist binds to at least one selected from a serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A)
receptor and a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor antagonist comprises at least one of
Dextromethorphan and Dextrorphan.
3.      The method of claim 2 wherein said Dextromethorphan is DextromethorphanHBr.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor antagonist consists essentially of
Dextromethorphan.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor antagonist consists essentially of
Dextromethorphan HBr.
6.      The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor antagonist consists essentially of
Dextrorphan.
7.      The method of claim 1 wherein said symptoms of hormonal variation comprise hot
flashes and night sweats.
8.      The method of claim 1 wherein the effective amount of a receptor antagonist is from 0.1
to 100 mg per day.
9.      The method of claim 1 wherein the subject is a female.
10.     The method of claim 1 wherein the subject is a male.
11.     A method for treatment or prevention of symptoms of hormonal variation, comprising:
                                                  22

        identifying a subject having one or more symptoms of hormonal variations; and
        administering an effective amount of a receptor antagonist and another compound known
to reduce or prevent the symptoms of hormonal variation to the subject, wherein the receptor
antagonist binds to at least one selected from a serotonin type 2A (5-HT.sub.2A) receptor and a
dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor.
12.     The method of claim 11 wherein the receptor antagonist comprises at least one of
Dextromethorphan and Dextrorphan.
13.     The method of claim 11 wherein said another compound is Gabapentin.
14.     The method of claim 13 wherein the amount of a receptor antagonist administered is from
0.1 to 100 mg per day and the amount of Gabapentin administered is from 1 mg to 900 mg per
day.
15.     A pharmaceutical composition for treatment or prevention of symptoms of hormonal
variation, comprising:
        an effective amount of a receptor antagonist in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, said
receptor antagonist being of the type that binds to at least one receptor of a serotonin type 2A
(5-HT.sub.2A) receptor and/or a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor; and
         wherein the receptor antagonist is used to treat or prevent symptoms of hormonal
variation.
16.     A kit for treatment or prevention of symptoms of hormonal variation, comprising:
        an effective amount of a receptor antagonist in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, said
        receptor antagonist being of the type that binds to at least one receptor of a serotonin type
        2A (5-HT.sub.2A) receptor and/or a dopamine type 2 (D.sub.2) receptor; and
        instructions for performing at least one method of the invention.
                                                 23

17.     The kit of claim 16, wherein the receptor antagonist is one of Dextromethorphan,
Dextrorphan, Amantadine, Ibogaine, Ketamine, Memantine, Riluzole, Aptiganel, Dizocipline,
HU-2 11, Remacemide, Ketobemidone, Methadone and Tramadol.
18.     The kit of claim 17, wherein said Dextromethorphan is DextromethorphanHBr.
19.     The kit of claim 16, further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable form of receptor
antagonist in at least one of oral dosage form, injection, inhalation, and transdermal patch.
20.     The kit of claim 19, wherein said oral dosage form comprises a solution, gel, tablet,
capsule, or powder.
21.     The kit of claim 19, wherein said oral dosage form comprises a controlled-release dosage
form, a rapidly dispersed dosage form with a porous network of a matrix composition, or a solid
rapidly disintegrating dosage form.
22.     The kit of claim 19, wherein the oral dosage form comprises at least a microparticle
composition and a biodegradable and biocompatibly acceptable microparticle polymer carrier.
23.     The kit of claim 19, wherein the oral dosage form comprises at least a sustained-release
microparticle produced by dissolving the receptor antagonist in a solvent with a biodegradable
and biocompatible polymer to form an organic phase, and extracting the solvent to form
microparticles.
24.     The kit of claim 19, wherein the oral dosage form comprises a microencapsulated
pharmaceutical composition having a selected release profile prepared by a method for preparing
microparticles, comprising:
        (a) preparing an emulsion that comprises a first phase and a second phase, wherein the
first phase comprises the receptor antagonist, a polymer, and a solvent for the polymer;
        (b) quenching the emulsion in a quench liquid to form microparticles containing the
receptor antagonist;
                                                 24

        (c) selecting a degree of intermediate drying of the microparticles to be performed so that
the selected release profile is achieved;
        (d) washing the microparticles; and
        (e) final drying the microparticles
25.     The kit of claim 19, wherein the oral dosage form is a multi-phasic sustained-release
microparticle composition, prepared by a process comprising: dissolving in a solvent the receptor
antagonist and a biodegradable and biocompatible polymer to form an organic phase; extracting
the solvent to form microparticles; and combining microparticles having a plurality of sizes to
thereby form a composition that delivers the receptor antagonist in a multi-phasic manner.
26.     The kit of claim 16, comprising the receptor antagonist and at least one substance
selected from the group consisting of nutrients, vitamins, other active ingredients, sweeteners,
flavouring agents, colouring agents, surfactants, preservatives, antioxidants, viscosity enhancers,
and minerals.
27.     The kit of claim 16, comprising multiple containers containing the receptor antagonist.
28.     The kit of claim 16, wherein the effective amount of receptor antagonist is given to a
female.
29.     The kit of claim 16, wherein the effective amount of receptor antagonist is given to a
male.
                                                 25

