                                              ABSTRACT
              A microbial oil comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid as a constituent fatty acid
of an oil, the microbial oil has a content, in terms of a weight ratio of arachidonic acid
relative to dihomo-y-linolenic acid (arachidonic acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid) of less
than 1/13.            Preferably, the microbial oil has a triglyceride content of greater than or
equal to 70% by weight, and a saturated fatty acid content of less than or equal to 40%
by weight.             Moreover, a lower alcohol ester of dihomo-y-linolenic acid or a free fatty
acid of dihomo-y-linolenic acid obtained from the microbial oil is provided.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                       1
                                               DESCRIPTION
DIHOMO-y-LINOLENIC ACID-CONTAINING MICROBIAL OIL AND
DIHOMO-y-LINOLENIC ACID-CONTAINING MICROBIAL BIOMASS
[0001]
              This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2014358123, which in turn claims priority from Japan Patent Application No.
2013-251401. The specification for each of these applications is entirely incorporated
herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[000 la]
              The present invention relates to a microbial oil containing dihomo-y-linolenic
acid (also referred to hereinafter as DGLA), a dihomo-y-linolenic acid-containing
microbial biomass, and to methods of preparation and uses thereof.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]
              DGLA (8,11,14-eicosatrienoic acid) is one of the constituent fatty acids in
fish oils, marine algae and the like.             DGLA is known to be produced as a precursor
for arachidonic acid (also referred to hereinafter as ARA) in microbes such as
Mortierella alpina.               However, there is only a slight amount of generation of DGLA in
microbes containing triglycerides, diglycerides, monoglycerides, phospholipids and
sterols as lipid components.             DGLA and ARA are fatty acids that have similar
chemical characteristics.             Thus, separation of DGLA from ARA is difficult.
              Technology has been proposed for decreasing the generated amount of ARA
in the microbe in order to produce DGLA in an efficient manner.
[0003]
              For example, Japanese Patent Application Laid-Open (JP-A) No. H5-091887
discloses a method of producing DGLA or a lipid containing DGLA, the method
comprising culturing a microbe having an ability to produce arachidonic acid but
having a reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity, to produce DGLA or
DGLA-containing lipids, and recovering the DGLA or DGLA-containing lipids.
JP-A No. H-091887 also discloses that the microbe having an ability to produce
arachidonic acid and having a reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity is cultured in
the presence of a A5 desaturase inhibitor, e.g. sesamin or the like.
[0004]
10417418_1(GHMatters)P103123.AU.1

                                                  2
              Moreover, WO 2005/083 101 discloses a method of producing phospholipid
containing a long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid such as arachidonic acid and
DGLA as a constituent component.             The method comprises steps of extracting
phospholipids from defatted cells obtained by extracting oils/fats containing
triglycerides from cells of a lipid-producing microbe, which microbe produces a lipid
containing a long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid as a constituent component.
[0005]
              Despite these prior disclosures, commercial production of DGLA-rich
microbial oil has scarcely taken place up to now, because of the technical difficulties
in achieving a product of satisfactory and useful quality.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
Problems to be Solved by the Invention
[0006]
              There is increased demand for DGLA-containing oils in higher purity, and
the aforementioned technologies have been insufficient for such demand.
              An object of the present invention is to provide microbial oil and a microbial
biomass capable of use in order to efficiently obtain a dihomo-y-linolenic
acid-containing oil that has a lower arachidonic acid content than that of the oil
obtained by conventional method, and to provide corresponding methods of
preparation and use thereof.
Means for Solving the Problems
[0007]
              The present invention provides the following.
              A first aspect is a lower alcohol ester composition comprising
dihomo-y-linolenic acid esterified with a lower alcohol, or a free fatty acid
composition comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid, wherein the concentration of
dihomo-y-linolenic acid is greater than or equal to 90% by weight of the total fatty
acid component.
              Also described herein is a microbial oil comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid
as a constituent fatty acid of the oil, the microbial oil having a weight ratio of
arachidonic acid relative to dihomo-y-linolenic acid (arachidonic
acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid) of less than 1/13.
              The weight ratio of arachidonic acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid may be less
than or equal to 1/15, preferably less than or equal to 1/20.
              Desirably the microbial oil has a triglyceride content of greater than or equal
to 70% by weight, more preferably greater than or equal to 90% by weight.            It may
10417418_1(GHMatters)P103123.AU.1

                                                 3
contain phospholipid e.g. at from 0.1% to 10% by weight.
              The content of saturated fatty acid in the oil is desirably not more than 40%
by weight.
[0008]
              The microbial oil may be a crude or refined oil.     In the crude oil, preferably
the triglyceride content is greater than or equal to 90% by weight.          The weight ratio
of arachidonic acid relative to dihomo-y-linolenic acid is desirably less than or equal
to 1/15 in the crude oil, or any other value disclosed herein for this ratio.
              When the microbial oil is a refined oil, preferably the triglyceride content is
greater than or equal to 90% by weight.         The weight ratio of arachidonic acid relative
to dihomo-y-linolenic acid is desirably less than or equal to 1/20 in the refined oil, or
any other value disclosed herein for this ratio.
[0009]
              A further aspect is a lower alcohol ester composition comprising
dihomo-y-linolenic acid ester, or a free fatty acid composition comprising
dihomo-y-linolenic acid, produced or obtainable by a method comprising subjecting
any microbial oil disclosed herein to an ester exchange reaction or hydrolysis reaction
respectively.
              A further aspect is a lower alcohol ester composition derived from a
microbial oil and comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid ester, or a free fatty acid
composition derived from a microbial oil and comprising dihomo-'y-linolenic acid, in
which a weight ratio of arachidonic acid relative to dihomo-y-linolenic acid
(arachidonic acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid) is less than 1/13, or less than any other
value disclosed herein for this ratio.
              In the microbial oil, lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid
composition of any of the present aspects the arachidonic acid content is usually less
than or equal to 7% by weight and preferably much less, as discussed below.
[0010]
              The microbial oil, lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid
composition of any of the present aspects may be provided for use as a medicament,
preferably as an anti-allergic agent or an anti-inflammatory agent. The use as such a
medicament is a further aspect of the present proposals.          This aspect includes a
method for the prevention, treatment or amelioration of inflammatory or allergic
disease, or the substance for use in such method, the method comprising:
administering a medicament including a microbial oil, lower alcohol ester
composition or free fatty acid composition of any of the present aspects or preferred
aspects, and preferably the purified dihomo-y-linolenic acid or lower alcohol ester of
dihomo-y-linolenic acid, or composition containing it, to a subject suffering from, or
10417418_1(GHMatters)P103123.AU.1

                                                 4
at risk of suffering from, an inflammatory disease or allergic disease.        The
medicament may be administered topically or orally, preferably topically.          The
inflammatory disease or allergic disease may be, but without limitation, any of atopic
dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis (ACD), irritant contact dermatitis (ICD),
photocontact dermatitis, systemic contact dermatitis, rheumatism, psoriasis, lupus and
the like.
              The microbial oil, lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid
composition of any of the present aspects may in general be used in a method of
producing foodstuffs, dietary supplements, medicaments, cosmetics or animal feed.
[0011]
              Further aspects of the invention are a microbial biomass containing any
microbial oil as defined herein in combination with the microbial cells, and a liquid
culture medium containing such a microbial biomass.
              In such a liquid culture medium the content of the microbial biomass may
greater than or equal to 2.5 g/L, in terms of dry weight of the microbial biomass.
              Desirably the liquid culture medium contains the microbial oil at a content of
0.4 g/L or greater.
[0012]
              A further aspect of the invention provides methods for producing such
microbial oils, and for the further processing thereof to useful products.
              One method aspect is a method of producing a dihomo-y-linolenic
acid-containing microbial oil, such as any microbial oil disclosed herein, comprising:
              adding A5 desaturase inhibitor, especially two or more types of A5 desaturase
inhibitor, to a liquid culture medium, and
              culturing a microbe having a reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity in the
liquid culture medium to produce the dihomo-y-linolenic acid containing microbial
oil.
              One of the at least two types of A5 desaturase inhibitor may be an aryl
benzamide A5 desaturase inhibitor, especially 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide.
[0013]
              One of the at least two types of A5 desaturase inhibitor, or a said A5
desaturase inhibitor other than 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide, may be a
dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane derivative represented by Formula (I):
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                  5
                                  OR 2                                   ()
 R01 0
                                                   OR5
                                                                      (OR 6 )L
wherein, R', R2, R3 , R4 , R5 , and R6 are each independently a hydrogen atom or an
alkyl group having from 1 to 3 carbon atoms; or, R1 and R 2, and/or R4 and R5 together
form a methylene group or an ethylene group, and n, m, and L represent 0 or 1;
              piperonyl butoxide, curcumin, or a compound represented by Formula (II):
             OR'                       (II)
             o             (R 2 )
wherein, R1 represents a lower alkyl group; R 2 represents a hydroxyl group, an alkyl
group, an alkoxy group, an alkenyl group or an oxyalkyl group wherein in the case
that a plurality of R2 are present, the plurality of R 2 may be the same or different, and
n is an integer of 0 to 5.
[0014]
              Where a dioxabicyclo[3.3.0]octane derivative used it is may be selected from
sesamin, sesaminol, episesamin, episesaminol, sesamolin,
2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-6-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-3,7-dioxabicyclo[3.3.
0]octane, 2,6-bis-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-3,7-dioxabicyclo[3.3.0] octane and
2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-6-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenoxy)-3,7-dioxabicyclo[3.
3.0]octane.
              Particularly, one of the at least two types of A5 desaturase inhibitor, or a said
A5 desaturase inhibitor other than 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide, may be
sesamin or curcumin.
              In general the microbe used herein as source of the oil is most desirably a
microbe belonging to the genus Mortierella. It may or not be genetically modified.
It may be a microbe with an arachidonic acid-producing function which has been
inhibited by reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity, e.g. by mutation and/or selection.
[0015]
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                     6
              A further method aspect is a method of producing a lower alcohol ester
composition or free fatty acid composition as proposed above, from any microbial oil
as proposed herein, the method comprising:
              (a) obtaining a mixture of free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters of fatty
acids by hydrolysis or alcoholysis respectively of the microbial oil, and
              (b) purifying the mixture of free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters,
preferably by rectifying, to obtain a free fatty acid or lower alcohol ester composition
in which the fatty acids have at least 20 carbon atoms.
              This mixture or composition may be further purified e.g. by column
chromatography such as reverse phase distribution type column chromatography.
For example the lower alcohol dihomo-y-linolenic acid ester or free
dihomo-y-linolenic acid may be purified or produced by producing a lower alcohol
ester composition or free fatty acid composition as described and then performing
fractionation and purification of the lower alcohol ester of dihomo-y-linolenic acid, or
of dihomo-y-linolenic acid, by reverse phase distribution type column
chromatography.
[0016]
              A further method aspect is a method of producing a lower alcohol ester
composition or free fatty acid composition comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid,
comprising:
              (a)       producing a dihomo-y-linolenic acid-containing microbial oil by
culturing a microbe in a liquid culture medium to produce the dihomo-y-linolenic acid,
the microbe being a microbe with an arachidonic acid-producing function which has
been inhibited by reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity, optionally in the presence
of one, two or more types of A5 desaturase inhibitor in the liquid culture medium, to
produce said microbial oil in which a weight ratio of arachidonic acid relative to
dihomo-y-linolenic acid is less than 1/13;
              (b)       by hydrolysis or alcoholysis of the microbial oil, obtaining a mixture of
fatty acids or lower alcohol esters containing dihomo-y-linolenic acid, optionally after
purification of the oil;
              (c) purifying the mixture of fatty acids or lower alcohol esters.
              In step (c) the mixture may be purified to obtain a fatty acid or lower alcohol
ester mixture in which the fatty acids have at least 20 carbon atoms, and the method
may further comprise
              (d) performing fractionation and purification of dihomo-y-linolenic acid or
lower alcohol ester of dihomo-y-linolenic acid from said purified mixture by reverse
phase chromatography.
[0017]
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                 7
              The purified dihomo-y-linolenic acid or lower alcohol ester of
dihomo-y-linolenic acid, or composition containing it, may be used in any manner
described herein, e.g. used as or incorporated into a medicament, preferably an
anti-allergic agent or an anti-inflammatory agent.
[0017a]
              Aspects of the invention described herein is described and claimed in
AU2014358123.
EFFECT OF THE INVENTION
[0018]
              According to the present invention, a microbial oil and microbial biomass
capable of use in order to efficiently obtain a dihomo-y-linolenic acid-containing oil
that has a lower arachidonic acid content than that of the oil obtained by a
conventional method and use thereof can be provided.
              According to the present invention, a method of producing a
dihomo-y-linolenic acid-containing lipid that has a lower arachidonic acid content
than that of the oil obtained by a conventional method, and the free fatty acid of
dihomo-y-linolenic acid and a lower alcohol ester of dihomo-y-linolenic acid that have
the lower arachidonic acid content than those of the free fatty acid and the lower
alcohol ester obtained by a conventional method can be provided.
              According to other aspects of the present invention, uses of such
dihomo-y-linolenic acid-containing lipid, the free fatty acid of dihomo-y-linolenic
acid or the lower alcohol ester of dihomo-y-linolenic acid are provided.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0019]
              The microbial oil of the present invention is a microbial oil comprising
DGLA as a constituent fatty acid of an oil and fat and having a content, in terms of a
weight ratio of arachidonic acid relative to DGLA (ARA/DGLA), of less than 1/13.
              The microbe of the present invention is a microbial biomass containing a
microbial oil comprising DGLA as a constituent fatty acid of an oil and having a
content, in terms of a weight ratio ARA relative to DGLA (ARA/DGLA), of less than
1/13.
[0020]
              Although the content ratio of DGLA and ARA may be defined as a weight
ratio (ARA/DGLA), this may also be expressed as a weight ratio (DGLA/ARA).
Since the oil often originates from a microbe having a native ARA-producing function,
although this function may have been reduced by mutation or strain selection and/or
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                           8
inhibited in culture, at least a trace of ARA is often present.
[0021]
              According to the present invention, a microbial oil which contains DGLA
and has a weight ratio of DGLA relative to ARA (DGLA/ARA) of greater than or
equal to 13, and a microbial biomass which contains DGLA and has a weight ratio of
DGLA relative to ARA (DGLA/ARA) of greater than or equal to 13 are provided.
The microbial oil and microbial biomass having a DGLA/ARA (weight ratio) of
greater than or equal to 13 have been unknown heretofore.                    Thus, by use of the
microbial oil of the present invention or by use of the microbial biomass of the present
invention, it is possible to efficiently provide an oil that contains DGLA at higher
DGLA purity and lower ARA content than conventional oils.
[0022]
              The microbial oil of the present invention is a lipid obtained by culturing a
microbe that produces DGLA-containing lipids in a suitable culture medium and
recovering from the microbial biomass using methods such as solvent extracting.                     In
general, the lipids include triglycerides, diglycerides, monoglycerides, phospholipids,
cholesterol, and the like, and the lipids are mainly composed of triglycerides.
Various types of fatty acids are included as the constituent fatty acids of these lipids.
In the microbial biomass and the microbial oil of the invention, among these
constituent fatty acids, the content of DGLA is high and the content of ARA is low.
[0023]
              In the present invention, the term "crude oil" of microbial oil refers to a
mixture of lipids as obtained simply by extraction of such lipids from the microbial
biomass.           The refined oil of microbial oil is a microbial oil obtained by refining this
microbial oil to remove phospholipids and cholesterol and thereby increase the
proportion of triglycerides.               The term "microbial oil" in the present specification
means both the crude oil and refined oil unless otherwise noted.                  In general, It is
possible to further increase concentration of a desired fatty acid by converting the
desired fatty acid to free fatty acids form or lower alcohol esters form using
hydrolysis or esterification with lower alcohol esters and then refining the free fatty
acids or lower alcohol esters thereof.                It is known that, since ARA and DGLA have
the same number of carbon atoms, i.e. 20 carbon atoms, and the number of double
bonds is 4 and 3, the properties of these compounds are similar and it is extremely
difficult to separate DGLA from ARA by a purification process realized at actual
production scale.                 A microbial oil in which the ARA content is low at the stage of the
crude microbial oil, in other word, the difference between a DGLA content and an
ARA content is large, may be provided by the present invention and therefore can
markedly increase the ability to obtain a very high DGLA/ARA in a refined and/or
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                        9
chemically-processed downstream form of the product.
[0024]
              The term "ARA/DGLA" or the term "DGLA/ARA" in the present
specification is a weight ratio between ARA and DGLA according to analysis of the
composition of fatty acids included in an oil.               The composition of fatty acids may be
determined by the conventional method.                  Specifically, the analyte oil is esterified
using a lower alcohol and a catalyst to obtain fatty acid lower alcohol esters.
Thereafter, the obtained fatty acid lower alcohol esters are analyzed using gas
chromatography.                   The peaks corresponding to each of the fatty acids are identified in
the obtained gas chromatogram, and the peak area of each of the fatty acids is
determined, e.g. using the Agilent ChemStation integration algorithm (revision
C.01.03 [37], Agilent Technologies).                 "Peak area" indicates the ratio of the peak area
for a respective component to the area of all peaks, that is, the proportion of content of
the component of the peak, as determined by the analytical chart obtained from gas
chromatography or thin-layer chromatography/flame ionization detector (TLC/FID) of
oil having various fatty acids as constituent components.                 The fatty acid composition
was determined by gas chromatography, e.g. according to the method indicated in the
Examples below.                   The lipid composition was determined using TLC/FID.         Detailed
suitable conditions are indicated in the working examples.
[0025]
              In the present specification, the scope of the term "process" includes not only
a discrete process, but also a process that cannot be clearly distinguished from another
process as long as the expected effect of the process of interest is achieved.
              In the present specification, any numerical range expressed using "to" refers
to a range including the numerical values before and after "to" as the minimum and
maximum values, respectively.
              In a case in which the amount of a component type that may be included in
the composition is indicated herein, when there are plural substances corresponding to
the component type in the composition, the indicated amount means the total amount
of the plural substances present in the composition, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
[0026]
              In the present specification, the term "microbe" includes both eukaryotes and
prokaryotes, as exemplified specifically by bacteria, actinomycetes, cyanobacteria,
archaea, fungi, algae, lichens, protozoa, and the like.
[0027]
              For convenience the term "oil" is used herein in to refer to "oil/fat". Also,
while the terms "oil" and "oil/fat" are sometimes narrowly defined as specifying
10417418_1(GHMatter) P103123.AU.1

                                                   10
triglycerides, in the present specification these terms are taken to include oils, e.g.
crude oils, comprising triglycerides as a main component with other lipid components
such as diglycerides, monoglycerides, phospholipids, cholesterol, and free fatty acids.
Practically, the triglyceride content is preferably greater than or equal to 30% by
weight, more preferably is greater than or equal to 50% by weight, further preferably
is greater than or equal to 70% by weight, and most preferably is greater than or equal
to 90% by weight.
[0028]
              In the present specification, the term "crude oil" means an oil in the state as
obtained by extraction from the microbe, and being generally a mixture of the lipid
components described above.             In the present specification, the term "refined oil" is
taken to mean an oil obtained after refining process, comprising degumming process,
deacidification process, decoloring process (bleaching process), deodorization process
and the like, in any combination of some or all of them, for removing substances other
than the target substance, such as phospholipids and cholesterol.            The skilled person
is familiar with these terms and can distinguish crude microbial oils from refined
microbial oils by reference to their specific composition.           Particular refining steps
remove characteristic subsets of impurities from the original crude microbial oil,
which in itself can be generally characteristic of its microbial source as is known.
              In the present specification, , the term "microbial oil" is taken to widely mean
any oil obtained from a microbe and is used in the present specification without
distinguishing between crude oils and refined oils, unless otherwise noted.
[0029]
              In the present specification, the expression "microbial biomass containing
microbial oil" means biomass having the microbial oil accumulated within the
microbial cells or released from the microbial cells by culturing the microbes that
produces the microbial oil of the present invention.           Both living microbes and dead
microbes may be included in the microbial biomass.              Dried microbial biomass is also
included.           The expression "dried microbial biomass" is taken to mean a dried product
of microbial biomass including substantially no water as well as the dried product
including residual culture medium components, filtration aids, and the like.             The
expression "including substantially no water" means that the moisture content is at or
below the amount that would result in difficulty for the microbe to live.            This amount
is generally less than or equal to 15% by weight moisture content, and preferably is
less than or equal to 10% by weight moisture content.
              In the present specification, the expression "liquid culture medium including
the microbial biomass" is the liquid culture medium in which the "microbial biomass"
described above is cultured, and this refers to the state prior to separation of the
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                11
microbial biomass from the culture liquid.
              Aspects of the present invention will be described below.
[0030]
(1) Microbial Oil
              The microbial oil of the present invention includes DGLA and has a
DGLA/ARA (weight ratio) of greater than or equal to 13.           The value of DGLA/ARA
is preferably as high as possible, further preferably is greater than or equal to 15,
greater than or equal to 20, or greater than or equal to 30, and still further preferably is
greater than or equal to 50, still further preferably is greater than or equal to 100, and
particularly preferably is greater than or equal to 200.       When the value of
DGLA/ARA is less than 13, the relative proportion of ARA in the microbial oil
relative to DGLA becomes high, and even if the microbial oil is refined or the like, the
resultant ARA content may be near 10% by weight so that DGLA purity can be
insufficiently increased by purification.       No particular limitation is placed on the
upper limit of DGLA/ARA in the microbial oil, and for example, the value of
DGLA/ARA may be set less than or equal to 3,000.
[0031]
               The content of DGLA in the microbial oil may be 10 % by weight or more,
preferably 15% by weight or more, more preferably 20 % by weight or more, further
preferably 25% by weight or more, based on the total weight of the microbial oil.
The microbial oil may have a little of ARA.          The content of ARA in the microbial oil
may be 0.03 % by weight or more, 0.01 % by weight or more, 0.001 % by weight or
more, or 0.0005 % by weight or more.             The content of ARA in the microbial oil is
preferably not more than 10 % or not more than 7 % by weight.
[0032]
              Moreover, the content of triglyceride in the crude oil with respect to the total
amount of the microbial oil is preferably greater than or equal to 70% by weight in the
microbial oil described above, and more preferably is greater than or equal to 90% by
weight.         When the content of triglycerides in the microbial oil is greater than or
equal to 70% by weight, there is a tendency for moisture absorption not being
excessively low, such that e.g. good flowability may be obtained.          Although no
particular limitation is placed on the upper limit of the content of the triglyceride in
the microbial oil, generally the weight content of triglycerides in the microbial oil is
less than or equal to 99% by weight.         The weight content of triglycerides in the
microbial oil may be 100% by weight, that is, the microbial oil may contain
substantially no non-triglyceride components.          The fatty acids constituting the
triglycerides of the microbial oil are exemplified by saturated or unsaturated fatty
acids having 14 to 26 carbon atoms.          The refined oil may have an increased
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                 12
concentration of triglycerides due to removal of impurities e.g. by known methods.
[0033]
              In the fatty acid composition of the crude microbial oil, with respect to the
total weight of the microbial oil, the microbial oil preferably contains less than or
equal to 60% by weight of fatty acids having 18 carbon atoms or less.           This content
is more preferably less than or equal to 55% by weight, and this content is further
preferably less than or equal to 50% by weight.         Oil having a low content of fatty
acids having 18 or less carbon atoms in the crude oil is preferable since the oil may be
used as triglyceride without the need to adjust the fatty acid composition by removing
fatty acids having 18 or less carbon atoms.         Such adjustment generally needs a
method with low yield such as winterizing (low temperature processing) or the like.
[0034]
              The microbial oil preferably has a phospholipid content less than or equal to
 10% by weight with respect to the total weight of the oil, especially for the crude
microbial oil, and more preferably 5% by weight, further preferably less than or equal
to 1% by weight with respect to the total weight of the oil.           However phospholipid
may be present to some extent, such as from 0.1 to 10 % by weight, more preferably
0.5 to 7 % by weight, still more preferably 1 to 5 % by weight with respect to the total
weight of the oil.
[0035]
              The saturated fatty acid content of the microbial oil is preferably less than or
equal to 40% by weight with respect to the total weight of the crude microbial oil, and
more preferably is less than or equal to 35% by weight of the crude microbial oil.           A
microbial oil having a low content of saturated fatty acids is favourable for some uses,
such as a functional dietary supplement.
              It should be understood that the above-described optional values for the
various parameters of the microbial oil are generally independently achievable and
may be freely combined to define preferred microbial oils.
[0036]
(2) Production of Microbial Oil
              The microbial oil may be obtained by a production method including
producing microbial oil by culturing a microbe known to produce lipids (referred to
hereinafter as the production process), and separating the obtained microbial oil from
the microbial biomass (separation process).
              DGLA containing lipid may be obtained by a production method including
producing microbial oil by culturing a microbe known to produce lipids (referred to
hereinafter as the production process), and separating the obtained microbial oil from
the microbial biomass (separation process).
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                    13
              The producing method of DGLA-containing lipid or the producing method of
microbial oil according to the present invention may be a method including adding
two or more types of A5 desaturase inhibitors to a liquid culture medium and
culturing a microbe having a reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity in the liquid
culture medium to produce the dihomo-y- linolenic acid containing lipids.
[0037]
              Alternatively, the producing method of DGLA containing lipid or the
producing method of microbial oil according to the present invention may be a
method including adding two or more types of A5 desaturase inhibitors to a liquid
culture medium; and culturing a microbe, having a reduced or lost A5 desaturation
activity obtained by mutating a microbe capable of producing arachidonic acid, in the
liquid culture medium to produce the dihomo-y-linolenic acid-containing lipids.
              In other words, the producing method of DGLA-containing lipid or the
producing method of microbial oil according to the present invention may be a
method of producing lipids having a lowered arachidonic acid content relative to
dihomo-y-linolenic acid in the lipids by culturing a microbe, obtained by mutating a
microbe capable of producing arachidonic acid, having a reduced or lost A5
desaturation activity, to produce lipid containing dihomo-y-linolenic acid and the
method comprising adding e.g. two types of A5 desaturase inhibitors to a culture
liquid of the microbe.
[0038]
              The microbe known to produce lipids used in the production process is
preferably at least one kind selected from the group consisting of microbes of the
genera Mortierella, Conidiobolus,Pythium, Phytophthora,Penicillium, Cladosporium,
Mucor Fusarium,Aspergillus, Rhodotorula, Entomophthora, Echinosporangium,and
Saprolegnia. The microbe should be a microbe that has the ability to produce
DGLA, and a microbe belonging to the genus Mortierella is further preferred.
[0039]
              The microbe is further preferably a microbe having reduced or lost A5
desaturation activity (referred to hereinafter as a "low A5 desaturation activity
microbe"), such as reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity relative to a native state.
More preferably it is a microbe having having reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity
obtained by mutation of a microbe having an ARA production function, and further
more preferably a microbe belonging to the genus Mortierellaand having reduced or
lost A5 desaturation activity obtained by mutation in/of a microbe having an ARA
production function.              The microbe having an ARA production function for the
mutation is preferably a microbe of the genus Mortierellahaving an ARA production
function.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                14
[0040]
              Microbes of the genus Mortierella having an ARA production function are
exemplified by microbes belonging to the subgenus Mortierella, such as Mortierella
elongata, Mortierellaexigua, Mortierellahygrophila, and Mortierella alpina. The
low A5 desaturation activity microbe may be obtained by introducing mutation into a
microbe having an ARA production function, inducing a mutant strain that has
reduced or lost A5 desaturase activity.
[0041]
              Examples of mutation procedure include physical treatments such as by
irradiation (X-rays, gamma rays, neutron beam, or the like), ultraviolet irradiation,
and heat treatment.
              Moreover, the target mutant strain may be obtained by a mutant strain
isolation method, comprising incubating the microbe targeted for mutation for a fixed
time interval in the presence of a source of mutation and inoculating in agar medium
according to the standard method to obtain a colony of the target mutant strain.
Examples of the source of mutation used in the mutant strain isolation method include
alkylating agents such as nitrogen mustard, methyl methane sulfonate (MMS),
N-methyl-N'-nitroso-N-nitrosoguanidine (NTG); base analogs such as 5-bromouracil;
antibiotics such as mitomycin C; inhibitors for base synthesis such as
6-mercaptopurine; dyes such as proflavine; cancer-causing agents such as
4-nitroquinoline-N-oxide; and manganese chloride, potassium dichromate, nitrous
acid, hydrazine, hydroxylamine, formaldehyde, nitrofuran compounds and the like.
Moreover, the form of the microbe targeted for mutation may be the growing
microbial body (mycelia or the like) or spores.
[0042]
              For example, among low A5 desaturation activity microbes, the mutant strain
Mortierella alpina SAM 1860 (Accession Number 3589 at the Fermentation Research
Institute), induced by mutation in the aforementioned manner, may be used as the
mutant strain of the genus Mortierella.        The production of DGLA using SAM 1860 is
described in detail in JP-A No. H05-091887.          This production method is summarized
below.
[0043]
              In order to culture the low A5 desaturation activity microbe, the spores or
mycelia of the microbial strain or precultured liquid culture medium obtained by
culturing in advance are used to inoculate into a liquid or solid medium, and the
microbe is cultured.
              In a case of a liquid medium, any of generally used carbon sources including
glucose, fructose, xylose, saccharose, maltose, soluble starch, molasses, glycerol,
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                    15
mannitol, and the like, can be used; however, the carbon source is not limited to these.
              The nitrogen source can be a natural nitrogen source such as peptone, yeast
extract, malt extract, meat extract, casamino acid, corn steep liquor, as well as organic
nitrogen sources such as urea, and inorganic nitrogen sources such as sodium nitrate,
ammonium nitrate, ammonium sulfate. In addition, inorganic salts such as
phosphates, magnesium sulfate, iron sulfate, copper sulfate, as well as vitamins or the
like can also be used as trace nutrient source, if necessary.
              An aqueous medium used as the base material for the liquid medium is
basically water, and distilled water or purified water may be used.
[0044]
              No particular limitation is placed on these culture media components as long
as the concentration of these components does not interfere with the growth of the low
A5 desaturation activity microbe.             Generally, for practical purposes, the
concentration of carbon source is from 0.1% by weight to 30% by weight, and
preferably from I% by weight to 10% by weight, and the concentration of nitrogen
source is from 0.01% by weight to 5% by weight, and preferably from 0.l1% by
weight to 2% by weight.             Moreover, the culture temperature is from 5'C to 40'C,
and preferably is from 20'C to 30'C. The pH of the culture medium is from 4 to 10,
and preferably is from 6 to 9. Culturing may be an aeration-stirring culturing,
shaking culturing, or stationary culturing. Culturing is usually performed for 2 days
to 15 days.            The aeration rate during aeration-stirring culturing may be a usually used
aeration rate for such aeration.
[0045]
              In order to promote the accumulation of DGLA, a component to be a
substrate for the production of ARA and/or DGLA may be added to the culture
medium.            Such substrates are exemplified by hydrocarbons such as tetradecane,
hexadecane, octadecane; fatty acids such as tetradecanoic acid, hexadecanoic acid,
octadecanoic acid; salts of such fatty acids, such as sodium salts and potassium salts;
fatty acid esters; oils-fats containing fatty acids as constituent components, such as
olive oil, soybean oil, cottonseed oil, and palm oil; and the like.          However, the
substrate is not limited to these.
[0046]
              A conventional solid medium may be used as the solid medium for culturing
the low A5 desaturation activity microbe.             Such solid media are exemplified by agar
culture medium, malt extract agar culture medium, malt agar culture medium,
Czapek-Dox agar culture medium, Czapek agar culture medium, potato-carrot agar
culture medium (PCA), potato-glucose agar culture medium ("Potato Dextrose Agar
Culture Medium" as tradename, potato dextrose agar: PDA), Sabouraud agar culture
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                       16
medium, cornmeal agar culture medium, and the like.                   The culture medium may be
selected appropriately according to the species of the microbe used for culturing.
Any of such solid culture media may be available as commercially marketed products,
and the commercial solid culture medium may be used without any modification and
according to the instructions provided therewith. Among such solid culture media,
PDA culture medium is preferred from the standpoint of efficient production of
DGLA in the low A5 desaturation activity microbe.
              In order to produce a microbial oil having a higher DGLA/ARA ratio, a
culture medium used for culturing of the microbe is preferably a liquid medium
comprising glucose as the carbon source and yeast extract as the nitrogen source in
the case of liquid medium, or PDA culture medium in the case of a solid medium.
[0047]
(3) Culturing of the Microbe
              In order to produce a microbial oil having a higher DGLA/ARA ratio, the
microbe, preferably a low A5 desaturation activity microbe, is preferably cultured in
the presence of a A5 desaturase inhibitor.               The A5 desaturase inhibitor inhibits an
enzyme in the synthesis pathway leading to ARA during production of fatty acids in
the microbial cell.               Thus, by use of the A5 desaturase inhibitor(s) and/or selection of
a suitable microbe which favours DGLA over ARA production, e.g. a mutated ARA
producer according to the known principles, the synthesis of ARA in the microbial
cells may be inhibited and increase markedly the accumulated amount of DGLA in the
microbial cells.
[0048]
              Any known A5 desaturase inhibitor may be used without any limitation, as
one type or as a combination of two or more types.                 In order to more efficiently
obtain the high DGLA/ARA microbial oil, the inventors find that a combination of
two or more A5 desaturase inhibitors is preferably used.                Surprisingly the inventors
have found that they can achieve a marked increase in the DGLA/ARA ratio by such
combinations, which would not have been foreseen, to produce novel microbial oils
with unprecedentedly high DGLA/ARA ratio.
[0049]
              In a case in which a combination of two types of A5 desaturase inhibitors is
used, 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide is preferably selected as the first type of
A5 desaturase inhibitor.               By combination of 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl) benzamide
with another type of A5 desaturase inhibitor, the reducing of the overall production
amount of lipid is suppressed, and the DGLA/ARA ratio may be increased.
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide is an anthranilic anilide, known as an aryl
benzamide having A5 desaturase inhibitor effect which may be used here, but it was
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                 17
not previously known to be effective for the present type of process.
[0050]
              The second type of A5 desaturase inhibitor may be exemplified by a
dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane derivative represented by following Formula (I):
[0051]
                                  OR 2                                           (I)
               R'O 1
               R                            0
                                                         OR5
                                                                             (OR  6
                                                                                     )L
[0052]
              wherein, in the formula (I), R', R2 , R3 , R4, R , and R6 represent each
independently a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having from 1 to 3 carbon atoms;
alternatively, R' and R2 and/or R4 and R5 together form a methylene group or an
ethylene group; and n, m, and L represent 0 or 1;
piperonyl butoxide, curcumin, and a compound represented by following Formula (II)
below:
[0053]
              OR'                      (II)
              O               (R2>
[0054]
              wherein, in the formula (II), RI represents a lower alkyl group, such as an
alkyl group having from 1 to 3 carbon atoms; R2 represents a hydroxyl group, an alkyl
group, an alkoxy group, an alkenyl group, or an oxyalkyl group; in the case that a
plurality of R2 are present, the plurality of R2 may be the same or different; and n is an
integer in a range of 0 to 5, or the like.      Such A5 desaturase inhibitors may be used
alone or in combination.
[0055]
              The dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane derivative may be exemplified by sesamin,
sesaminol, episesamin, episesaminol, sesamolin,
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                     18
2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-6-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-3,7-dioxabicyclo
[3.3.0] octane, 2,6-bis-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-3,7-dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane,
2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-6-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenoxy)-3,7-dioxabicyclo
[3.3.0] octane, and the like.           Such dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane derivatives may be
used alone or as a combination of two or more types.               Moreover, such dioxabicyclo
[3.3.0] octane derivatives may be used in combination with a stereoisomer or a
racemate.            Particularly preferably, the dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane derivative is at
least one type selected from the group consisting of sesamin and curcumin.               Such
dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane derivatives may be products of chemical synthesis or
extracts from natural products.
[0056]
              No particular limitation is placed on the adding manner of the A5 desaturase
inhibitor other than 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide added to the culture
medium, and this manner may be selected appropriately according to the type and
form of the utilized A5 desaturase inhibitor.           For example, the A5 desaturase
inhibitor may be at least one type selected from sesame oil, peanut oil, and natural
extracts such as extracts from sesame oil using organic solvents substantially
incompatible with sesame oil, solvent extracts of sesame seed, extract of
Acanthopoanacis Core (gokahi extract), extract of Paulownia tree, ginkgo bark extract,
Piper longum extract, Asiasari radix extract, tarragon extract, dill seed extract, parsley
extract, turmeric extract, and nutmeg extract.            In the case in which the A5 desaturase
inhibitor is a natural extract, such natural extracts may be added to the culture medium
used for culturing the microbe, or alternatively, these natural extracts may be added to
the liquid culture medium culturing the microbe.              The microbe may be further
cultured using a culture medium containing these A5 desaturase inhibitors.
[0057]
              In a case in which a combination of two or more types of A5 desaturase
inhibitor is used, this combination may be a combination of
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide (or one of the other first type inhibitors listed
earlier) and at least one type of A5 desaturase inhibitor selected from the group
consisting of the dioxabicyclo[3.3.0] octane derivatives, piperonyl butoxide, curcumin
and the compounds represented by the Formula (II).                From the standpoint of
obtaining a microbial oil having a high DGLA/ARA ratio, the combination of
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide and the dioxabicyclo [3.3.0] octane derivative
is preferred.            A combination of 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide and at least
one selected from the group consisting of sesamin, sesaminol, episesamin,
episesaminol, sesamolin,
2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-6-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-3,7-dioxabicyclo[3.3.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                 19
0]octane, 2,6-bis-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenyl)-3,7-dioxabicyclo[3.3.0] octane, and
2-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-6-(3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenoxy)-3,7-dioxabicyclo[3.
3.0]octane is more preferred.
[0058]
              Although the added concentration of the A5 desaturase inhibitor depends on
the type of the utilized A5 desaturase inhibitor, in the case of a liquid medium, the
added concentration in the liquid culture medium of A5 desaturase inhibitor per day is
preferably from 0.01 g/L to 1 g/L, and more preferably is from 0.03 g/L to 0.50 g/L.
Moreover, in the case of a solid medium, the respective concentration of the A5
desaturase inhibitor is preferably 0.0001 %by weight to 0.1% by weight, and more
preferably is 0.001 % by weight to 0.05% by weight.           In a case in which the A5
desaturase inhibitor is used in the form of sesame oil or an extract such as sesame oil
extract, in consideration of factors such as the amount of effective component
included in the extract, the final concentration of the total amount of A5 desaturase
inhibitors in the liquid culture medium, for example, is 0.001% by weight to 10% by
weight, and preferably is 0.5% by weight to 10% by weight.            In a case in which a
combination of two or more types of A5 desaturase inhibitors is used, no particular
limitation is placed on the ratios of the amounts of the utilized multiple A5 desaturase
inhibitors, and such ratios may be selected appropriately according to the types of the
utilized A5 desaturase inhibitors.        For example, in the case in which
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide is used in combination with another A5
desaturase inhibitor, the ratio of 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide or other
benzamide to the other A5 desaturase inhibitor (effective component in the natural
extract, in the case of a natural extract) may be, in terms of weight ratio, from 100:1 to
1:100, and preferably from 10:1 to 1:10, and more preferably is from 5:1 to 1:5.
              The production of lipids by the microbe may be affected in the case in which
the A5 desaturase inhibitor is added to the culture medium, and in this case , in order
to lessen the effect on production, it is preferable to add the A5 desaturase inhibitor to
the culture liquid in aliquots rather than as the entire amount.
[0059]
              No particular limitation is placed on the time of addition of the A5 desaturase
inhibitor, and such addition may be performed every day, or may be performed once a
day to once a few days during the culturing of the microbe.          In a case in which the
A5 desaturase inhibitor is added at intervals of once a day to once a few days,
additions may be performed at equally spaced intervals, at irregularly spaced intervals,
or at a combination of such intervals. The time of addition of the A5 desaturase
inhibitor may be selected appropriately according to the growth state of the microbe.
              In a case in which the A5 desaturase inhibitor is added to the culture medium
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                   20
during the production process, in order to produce microbial oil having a higher
DGLA/ARA ratio, for the culture medium used during the production process, in the
case of a liquid medium, the liquid medium in which uses glucose as a carbon source
and yeast extract as a nitrogen source is preferred, and, in the case of a solid medium,
PDA culture medium is preferred.
[0060]
              No particular limitation is placed on the culture vessel used in the production
process, and any culture vessel may be used that is usually used for the culturing of
microbes.            The culture vessel may be selected appropriately according to the scale of
culturing.
[0061]
              For example, in the case of liquid culturing at the 1 L to 50 L scale, a stirred
type culture vessel is preferred as the culture vessel in order to produce a microbial oil
having a higher DGLA/ARA ratio.               The stirred type culture vessel preferably has
disc turbine type agitator blade in at least one stage, and a stirred type culture vessel
further preferably has disc turbine type agitator blades in two stages.          In the case of a
stirred type culture vessel equipped with disc turbine type agitator blades in two
stages, the distance between the agitator blades that are closer to the bottom surface
may be small in order to efficiently stir the culture liquid efficiently at the culture
vessel bottom surface.            For example, the positions of placement of the upper and
lower agitator blades may be selected appropriately.            For example, the ratios of
"distance from the culture vessel bottom to the lower agitator blade" : "distance
between the lower agitator blade and the upper agitator blade" : "distance from the
upper agitator blade to the surface of the culture liquid" are preferably adjusted to
become "1": "I to 3" : "I to 5", preferably "1": "1.5 to 2" : "2 to 4".          A preferred
example of these ratios is 4 : 7 : 15.        The stirring type culture vessel is particularly
preferred in the case of culturing the microbe using a liquid culture medium
containing the culture medium including A5 desaturase inhibitor.
[0062]
(4) Separation of Microbial biomass from the Culture Medium, and Recovering of the
Microbial Oil from the Microbial biomass
              In the separation process, the microbial oil containing DGLA produced
during the production process is separated from the microbial biomass.              The
separation process preferably includes separation of the cultured microbial biomass
from the culture medium used in culturing (microbial biomass separation process) and
recovery of the microbial oil containing DGLA from the cultured microbial biomass
(recovering process), that is, the obtaining of the crude oil.
              In the microbial biomass separation process and the microbial oil recovering
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                       21
process, an extraction method and a separation method are used according to the
manner of culturing, so that the DGLA-containing microbial oil is recovered from the
cultured microbial mass.
[0063]
              In a case in which a liquid medium is used, the microbial oil containing
DGLA is recovered, for example, in the following manner from the cultured microbial
biomass.
              After completion of culturing, the cultured microbial biomass is obtained
from the liquid culture medium by use of a normal means for solid-liquid separation
such as a centrifugal separation and filtration.              The microbial biomass is washed
sufficiently using water, and then is preferably dried.             Drying may be performed by
freeze drying, air-drying, heating-drying, or the like.
              In a case in which a solid medium is used for culturing, the solid medium and
microbial biomass may be crushed using a homogenizer or the like without separation
of the microbial mass from the culture medium, and the obtained crushed material
may be directly supplied to the recovering process.
[0064]
              The recovering process may include extraction processing of the dried
microbial biomass obtained in the microbial biomass separation process by using an
organic solvent, preferably under nitrogen gas stream.                The utilized organic solvent
includes ether, hexane, methanol, ethanol, chloroform, dichloromethane, petroleum
ether, and the like.              Alternatively, a good result may be obtained by alternating
extraction using methanol and petroleum ether, or extraction using a single layer type
solvent of chloroform-methanol-water.                  A microbial oil containing a high
concentration of DGLA is obtained by distilling off the organic solvent from the
extract under reduced pressure.                Hexane is most generally used in the case of
recovering triglycerides.
              Moreover, as an alternative to the aforementioned method, extraction may be
performed using the moist microbial biomass. A solvent that is miscible with water,
such as methanol or ethanol, or a mixed solvent miscible with water, containing the
solvent and water and/or other solvent, is used.               The remainder of the procedure is
similar to that described above.
[0065]
              The crude oil of the recovered microbial oil may be refined by a method
which is used for refining plant oils, fish oils, or the like.           Normally used refining
process for oils/fats are exemplified by degumming, deacidification, bleaching
(decolorization), and deodorization process.                Such processing may be performed by
any method.              Degumming is exemplified by water wash treatment.           Deacidification
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                               22
is exemplified by distillation treatment.      Bleaching is exemplified by bleaching using
activated clay, activated carbon, silica gel, or the like.    Deodorization is exemplified
by steam distillation or the like.
[0066]
(5) Production of Lower Alcohol Esters and Free Fatty Acids of the fatty acid from the
Microbial Oil
              The DGLA included as a constituent fatty acid of the microbial oil may be
converted to a form of a lower alcohol ester by use of a catalyst, or a form of a free
fatty acid by hydrolyzation.      In comparison to triglyceride as is, the lower alcohol
ester or the free fatty acid may be readily separated from other fatty acids, and it is
possible to concentrate DGLA to increase their purity.
[0067]
              A method of producing a lower alcohol ester or free fatty acid of the
dihomo-y-linolenic acid according to the present invention may be a method
comprising: (a) obtaining free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters of fatty acids by
hydrolysis or alcoholysis of the microbial oil; (b) rectifying a mixture of the free fatty
acids or the lower alcohol esters of the fatty acids to obtain a free fatty acid or lower
alcohol ester of the fatty acids, which the fatty acids has at least 20 carbon atoms; and
(c) performing fractionation and purification of free fatty acid or lower alcohol ester
of dihomo-y-linolenic acid by reverse phase distribution type column chromatography
from the free fatty acid or lower alcohol ester, which the fatty acids has at least 20
carbon atoms.
[0068]
              A method of producing a lower alcohol ester of the dihomo-y-linolenic acid
according to the present invention may be a method comprising: (a) obtaining lower
alcohol esters of fatty acids by alcoholysis of the microbial oil; (b) rectifying a
mixture of the lower alcohol esters of the fatty acids to obtain a lower alcohol ester of
the fatty acids, which the fatty acids has at least 20 carbon atoms; and (c) performing
fractionation and purification of lower alcohol ester of dihomo-y-linolenic acid by
reverse phase distribution type column chromatography from lower alcohol ester,
which the fatty acids has at least 20 carbon atoms.
[0069]
              A method of producing a free fatty acid of the dihomo-y-linolenic acid
according to the present invention may be a method comprising: (a) obtaining free
fatty acids by hydrolysis of the microbial oil; (b) rectifying a mixture of the free fatty
acids to obtain a free fatty acid having at least 20 carbon atoms; and (c) performing
fractionation and purification of free dihomo-y-linolenic acid by reverse phase
distribution type column chromatography from the free fatty acid having at least 20
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                    23
carbon atoms.
[0070]
              The lower alcohol herein is exemplified by alcohols having 3 or less carbon
atoms, particularly ethanol, methanol, or the like.          The lower alcohol esters of DGLA
are exemplified by methyl dihomo-y-linolenate, ethyl dihomo-y-linolenate, and the
like.
[0071]
              For example, the methyl esters of the fatty acids are obtained by treatment of
the oil with from 5% to 10% of anhydrous methanol-hydrochloric acid, from 10% to
50% of BF3-methanol, or the like, at room temperature for 1 to 24 hours.              The ethyl
esters of the fatty acids are obtained by treatment of the oil with from 1%to 20% of
sulfuric acid ethanol or the like, for 15 to 60 minutes at 25'C to 100'C.            The methyl
esters or the ethyl esters may be extracted from the reaction liquid using an organic
solvent such as hexane, ether, or ethyl acetate.          The extract liquid is dried using
anhydrous sodium sulfate or the like, and then the organic solvent is removed by
distillation to obtain a composition comprising fatty acid esters as main components.
[0072]
              In addition to the target DGLA lower alcohol ester, other fatty acid lower
alcohol esters are included in the esterified composition obtained by esterification
treatment.            For isolation of the DGLA lower alcohol ester from the mixture of these
fatty acid lower alcohol esters, distillation method, rectification method, column
chromatography, low temperature crystallization method, urea clathrate method,
liquid-liquid countercurrent distribution chromatography, or the like may be used by
solely or a combination of two or more. A combination of distillation or rectification,
and column chromatography or liquid-liquid countercurrent distribution
chromatography is preferably used.
[0073]
              For these methods, normal procedures may be applied.          Reverse phase
distribution type (preferably ODS) column chromatography is preferred as the column
chromatography.
[0074]
              In order to obtain the free fatty acid of DGLA, after the lower alcohol ester of
the microbial oil is produced in the aforementioned manner, DGLA lower alcohol
ester which is refined to increase the purity, may be hydrolyzed to obtain high purity
free DGLA.               In order to obtain free DGLA from the DGLA lower alcohol ester, after
hydrolysis using an alkaline catalyst, extraction process may be carried out using an
organic solvent such as ether, ethyl acetate, or the like.
[0075]
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                  24
              Alternatively, the free fatty acid of DGLA may also be obtained directly from
the microbial oil by hydrolysis.         For example, the microbial oil undergoes alkaline
decomposition, for example, for 2 to 3 hours at room temperature using 5% sodium
hydroxide to obtain a decomposed liquid, and then the free fatty acid of DGLA may
be extracted or refined from the decomposed liquid by the methods usually used for
extraction or refining of fatty acids.
[0076]
              The free acid or lower alcohol ester of DGLA obtained by the
aforementioned method is produced using the microbial oil of the present invention as
the raw material, and thus the free acid or lower alcohol ester of DGLA is a
composition having a low content of ARA, which is difficult to remove in the refining
process.          The ARA/DGLA ratio may be made less than 1/13, less than 1/20, or less
than 1/30; or further may be made less than 1/50, less than 1/100, less than 1/200, less
than 1/1,000, or less than 1/3,000.         That is, the concentration of ARA may be made
less than or equal to 7% by weight, less than or equal to 5% by weight, less than or
equal to 3% by weight, less than or equal to 2% by weight, less than or equal to 1%by
weight, less than or equal to 0. 5% by weight, less than or equal to 0. 1%by weight, or
less than or equal to 0.03% by weight.           For medical use, DGLA is preferably
concentrated to greater than or equal to 90% by weight.
[0077]
(6) Microbial Biomass Containing Microbial Oil
              The expression "microbial biomass containing microbial oil" refers to a
biomass of a microbe which produces microbial oil within its cells by cultivation in
the above-described manner.           The microbial biomass may be a microbial biomass
having the microbial oil accumulated within the microbial cells, or after release of the
oil from the microbial cells, as long as the microbial biomass comprises a microbial
oil of the present invention.        Because this microbial mass contains a microbial oil of
the present invention, the microbial biomass contains DGLA as a constituent fatty
acid of the oil and has a content of ARA relative to DGLA of greater than or equal to
13 as indicated by the weight ratio (DGLA/ARA).              Furthermore, the microbial oil
has preferably a triglyceride content of greater than or equal to 70% by weight, greater
than or equal to 80% by weight or greater than or equal to 90% by weight.
              Alternatively, the DGLA/ARA ratio of the microbial oil included in the
microbial biomass of the present invention is preferably greater than or equal to 15,
more preferably greater than or equal to 20, further preferably greater than or equal to
30, still further preferably greater than or equal to 50, still further preferably greater
than or equal to 100, and particularly preferably greater than or equal to 200.
[0078]
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                 25
              The DGLA/ARA ratio in the microbial biomass is taken to be the value
determined in the aforementioned manner.            Any method may be used for
measurement of DGLA and ARA in the microbial biomass, as long as the method is
one normally used for measurement of relative weights of DGLA and ARA in a
microbial biomass, or equivalent.          For example, the microbes may be recovered from
the liquid culture medium during growth, and esterification treatment may be
performed by 5% tol 0O%of anhydrous methanol-hydrochloric acid, 10% to 50% of
BF3-methanol, 1% to 20% sulfuric acid-methanol, 1% to 20% of sulfuric acid-ethanol,
or the like for 15 minutes to 60 minutes treatment at 25 0 C to 100 C. Then, analysis
of the fatty acid content (%) in the fatty acids may be performed using gas
chromatography with or without extraction of the ester forms.            In the case of
esterification for evaluation of substances other than the free fatty acids, treatment for
 15 to 60 minutes at 25 C to 100 C using an alkoxide such as sodium methoxide,
sodium ethoxide, or the like at a concentration of 0.1 M to 10 M may be used. For
extraction of the ester form after esterification, an organic solvent which is immiscible
with the water soluble component, such as hexane, may be used.
[0079]
              Moreover, the microbe is preferably a microbe capable of providing an oil
that satisfies at least one condition, and preferably any combination of two or more
conditions, from among conditions such as the triglyceride content, content of fatty
acids having 18 or less carbon atoms, content of phospholipids, content of saturated
fatty acids, and the like that are described above for the microbial oil.
[0080]
(7) Liquid Culture Medium Containing Microbial Biomass Containing the Microbial
Oil
              The "liquid culture medium containing microbial biomass containing the
microbial oil" is taken to mean the culture medium prior to separation from the liquid
culture medium of microbes grown by the microbial oil production method described
above.         Therefore, the liquid culture medium contains the DGLA described above
and microbial oil having a DGLA/ARA ratio greater than or equal to 13.              In order to
recover the microbial oil from this liquid culture medium, the liquid culture medium
preferably has the microbe content, in terms of a weight of the dried microbial
biomass, of greater than or equal to 2.5 g/L.        Furthermore, the content of the
microbes in the microbe-containing liquid culture medium, in terms of a weight of the
dried microbial biomass, is preferably greater than or equal to 5 g/L, more preferably
greater than or equal to 30 g/L, and further more preferably greater than or equal to 60
g/L.       It is possible to efficiently obtain microbial oil having a high DGLA/ARA ratio
from such liquid culture medium.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                       26
[0081]
              Moreover, considering the microbial oil in the microbial mass in the liquid
culture medium, the liquid culture medium contains the microbe-derived oil described
above, which includes DGLA and has preferably the content of the oil containing
DGLA of greater than or equal to 0.4 g/L, more preferably greater than or equal to 0.8
g/L.       In a case in which the content of the oil containing microbial oil-derived DGLA
is greater than or equal to 0.4 g/L, there is a tendency for advantages to be obtained
such as decreasing of production costs, improvement of quality stability, and the like.
[0082]
              The microbe is grown by cultivation, and the DGLA is produced in the
microbial cells.               Therefore, by recovery of the liquid culture medium containing the
microbes without any modification during the culturing process, the liquid culture
medium containing the microbe may be obtained.                    Moreover, due to production of
the microbial oil containing DGLA within the microbial cells of the microbe during
the culture process, the microbial oil-containing liquid culture medium may be
obtained by recovering the liquid culture medium containing microbes without any
modification during the culture process, or alternatively, disrupting the microbes in
the liquid culture medium by crushing or the like and recovering the liquid culture
medium containing microbial oil released into the culture medium. Furthermore,
with regard to the liquid culture medium in the liquid culture medium containing the
microbial oil and the microbe-containing culture medium the above descriptions
thereof may be applied as they are.
[0083]
Applications
              According to the present invention, the DGLA-containing microbe, the
microbial oil, the lower alcohol esters, the free fatty acids, and the microbe-containing
culture liquid can each have a ratio of ARA to DGLA that is lower than that
previously known.                 Therefore, each is extremely useful for use in applications
requiring high purity DGLA or for which the lower content of ARA is preferable.
Such applications are exemplified by foodstuffs, dietary supplements, medicament,
cosmetics, animal feeds, and the like. Since the DGLA-containing microbial oil has
a low content of ARA, comparing to a DGLA-containing microbial oil having a high
content of ARA, the amount of ARA in the microbial oil may be reduced for the same
amount of microbial oil and DGLA to be used.                   Therefore, applications targeting the
functionality of DGLA are particularly preferred, and such applications are
exemplified by anti-inflammatory applications and anti-allergy applications, in
particular topical applications, and the like, as set forth above.
[0084]
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                27
              As mentioned above the medicament comprising or consisting of the
microbial oil, lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid composition may
usually be administered topically or orally, preferably topically.        An inflammatory
disease or allergic disease to be treated, prevented or ameliorated may be for example,
without limitation, any skin inflammation. Skin inflammation may be at least one
selected from a group consisting of rashes, hives, blisters and wheals, or may be
caused by at least one selected from a group consisting of eczema, exposure to
radiation, automimmune diseases, and uremic pruritis.
              In particular the skin inflammation may be skin inflammation associated with
or caused by atopic eczema, contact dermatitis, psoriasis or uremic pruritis.
[0085]
              The medicament may be for the treatment, prevention or amelioration of skin
inflammation associated with eczema.           The term eczema is applied to a wide range
of skin conditions with a variety of aetiologies.       In general, eczema is characterised
by inflammation of the epidermis.          Common symptoms associated with eczema
include dryness, recurring skin rashes, redness, skin edema (swelling), itching,
dryness, crusting, flaking, blistering, cracking, oozing, and bleeding. Eczema
includes atopic eczema (atopic dermatitis), contact dermatitis, xerotic eczema,
seborrhoeic dermatitis, dyshydrosis, discoid eczema, venous eczema, dermatitis
herpetiformus, neurodermatitis and autoeczematisation.          Eczema is typically atopic
eczema or contact dermatitis.
[0086]
              Atopic eczema is primarily aggravated by contact with or intake of allergens,
which include animal hair and dander, food allergens, for example nuts or shellfish,
and drugs, for example penicillin.
              Contact dermatitis includes allergic contact dermatitis, irritant contact
dermatitis and photocontact dermatitis.         Photocontact dermatitis includes phototoxic
contact dermatitis and photoallergic contact dermatitis.
              The skin inflammation may be skin inflammation caused by exposure of the
skin to electromagnetic radiation. This includes, for example, exposure to sunlight,
heat, X-rays or radioactive materials. Thus, the medicament may be used, or for use,
to treat sunburn.
              Electromagnetic radiation includes radio waves, microwaves, terahertz
radiation, infrared radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and gamma
rays. Electromagnetic radiation is preferably infrared radiation, visible light,
ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and gamma rays, more preferably ultraviolet radiation,
X-rays and gamma rays.
[0087]
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                 28
              Autoimmune diseases can involve an autoimmune response against the skin.
Examples of such autoimmune diseases are lupus and psoriasis.
              Uremic pruritis is a disorder of the skin associated with chronic renal failure.
It also frequently affects patients undergoing dialysis treatment.
              Optionally the microbial oil, lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty
acid composition herein is used, or is for use, co-administered with a corticosteroid or
other therapeutic agent for any of the above medical uses.
[0088]
              In other aspects of the invention, the inflammatory disease may be at least
one from a group consisting of atopic dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis (ACD),
irritant contact dermatitis (ICD), photocontact dermatitis, systemic contact dermatitis,
rheumatism, psoriasis, lupus and the like.
[0089]
              It will be understood that a medicament for treatment of
inflammatory/allergic disease is a medicament which is to suppress or relieve one or
more symptoms when the symptom(s) is/are found or suspected to be due to
inflammatory/allergic disease.          On the other hand, a medicament for prevention of
inflammatory/allergic disease is a medicament to suppress an occurrence of one or
more symptoms, which may be predicted or anticipated due to inflammatory/allergic
disease, typically by pre-administration.         However, the terms "medicament for
treatment" and "medicament for prevention" should be understood taking into account
multiple or general aspects such as the timing of use and/or the symptom(s) to be
treated/prevented on use, in line with clinical practice, and should not be restrictively
applied.
                                           EXAMPLES
[0090]
              The present invention is described below in detail using working examples.
However, the present invention is not limited by these working examples.           Unless
indicated otherwise, "%" in the working examples below means "% by weight".
[0091]
EXAMPLE 1
Effect of Various Types of A5 Desaturase Inhibitor on Fatty Acids Produced by
Microbial Mass: 1
              Five plate culture media, namely Plate Culture Medium A containing no
added A5 desaturase inhibitor, Plate Culture Medium B to which was added 0.005%
by weight sesamin, Plate Culture Medium C to which was added 0.01% by weight
sesamin, Plate Culture Medium D to which was added 0.02% by weight sesamin, and
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                   29
Plate Culture Medium E to which were added 0.01% by weight sesamin and 0.01% by
weight 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide, were prepared according to the
product instructions for Potato Dextrose Agar Culture Medium (commercial product
name; Nissui Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.), excepting the addition or non-addition of the
mentioned A5 desaturase inhibitor(s) to the potato dextrose agar medium so as to
obtain the listed concentration. The size of each plate culture medium was the same,
i.e. 90 mm diameter and 5 mm thickness.
[0092]
              Each of Plate Culture Media A to E was inoculated using 100 ptL each of a
spore suspension of SAM 1860, the mutant strain of Mortierellaalpina, and static
culturing was performed at 28'C for 7 days.
              After completion of culturing, each plate culture medium with its microbial
mass was cut into roughly 1 cm sample wedges, and the sample wedges were
transferred to flasks.            Then 50 mL of hexane was added per each flat plate, and the
mixture obtained was homogenized for 2 minutes to obtain an organic solvent mixed
liquid. The organic solvent mixed liquid was centrifuged (2,000 rpm, 810 G), and
the supernatant layer of hexane was recovered. Then solvent was removed by
distillation to obtain about 40 mg per single plate culture medium of Microbial Oils A
to E.
[0093]
              To 0.5 mg of each of the respective Microbial Oils A to E was added 0.10 mL
of 10% (v/v) sulfuric acid ethanol solution, and ethyl esterification was performed by
reaction for 30 minutes at 80'C.            In order to neutralize the reaction solution, 0.18 mL
of 1.0 M sodium hydroxide ethanol solution was added, then 0.05 mL of hexane and
0.30 mL of saturated sodium chloride solution were added and extraction was
performed, whereby respective Fatty Acid Ethyl Esters A to E were obtained.                 The
fatty acid compositions (%) in Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester compositions A to E were
analyzed using gas chromatography.              The analytical conditions used for gas
chromatography are shown below.               The results of gas chromatography are shown in
Table 1. Furthermore, the fatty acid composition (%) is the area ratio based on the
gas chromatogram.
[0094]
Gas Chromatography Analysis Conditions
Equipment type: Agilent 6850 GC system (Agilent Technologies, Inc.)
Column: DB-WAX (Agilent Technologies, 30 mx0.25 mm ID, 0.25 pm film
thickness) J&W122-7032
Column oven: 180'C-3 0 C/min-230'C (25 min)
Injection temperature: 270'C
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                 30
Injection method:                  split
Split ratio: 20:1
Detector temperature: 270'C
Detector: FID
Carrier gas: helium (1.0 mL/min, constant flow)
  [0095]
Table 1
                                  Fatty Acid Fatty Acid Fatty Acid Fatty Acid Fatty Acid
                                  Ethyl Ester Ethyl Ester Ethyl Ester Ethyl Ester Ethyl Ester
                                       A           B           C           D           E
Fatty acid composition
    Palmitic acid                    9.552      10.672      10.454      14.662      11.394
    Oleic acid                      14.563      26.665      27.744      25.172      31.450
    DGLA                            31.975      22.831      23.083      18.115      18.699
    ARA                              5.164       2.016       1.908       1.552       0.911
Other                              balance     balance     balance     balance     balance
DGLA/ARA                                6          11          12          12          21
[0096]
              As shown in Table 1, for Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester E, which used the microbial
Oil E as the raw material, the DGLA/ARA ratio was substantially greater than 13, and
this ratio was higher than any of Microbial Oil A, Microbial Oil B, Microbial Oil C,
and Microbial Oil D obtained by culturing of the publicly known SAM 1860 strain in
the presence of one type of A5 desaturase inhibitor.        Furthermore, 33.8 mg of fatty
acid ester E was obtained from Microbial Oil E.
[0097]
EXAMPLE 2
Effect of Various Types of A5 Desaturase Inhibitor on Fatty Acids Produced by
Microbial Mass: 2
              In a corrugated Erlenmeyer flask of 500 mL total volume, 100 mL of a
culture medium (pH 6.0) including 2% of glucose and 1% of yeast extract was added,
and then 4 types of liquid culture media were prepared, namely, Liquid Culture
Medium F with no added A5 desaturase inhibitor, Liquid Culture Medium G with 10
mg of sesamin added, Liquid Culture Medium H with 10 mg of
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl) benzamide added, and Liquid Culture Medium I with
both 10 mg of sesamin and 10 mg of 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl) benzamide added.
An 1-26 Stackable Shaker (manufactured by New Brunswick Scientific) was used as
the shaking culturing equipment.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                       31
[0098]
              After 15 minutes of sterilization of the Liquid Culture Media F to I at 121 C,
 1 mL of the pre-cultured liquid culture medium of SAM 1860, mutant strain of
Mortierellaalpina, was inoculated into the respective liquid culture media and
culturing with shaking was performed for 15 days at a rotation rate of 200 rpm and
28'C temperature.                 On the 5th day and 10th day, 10 mg of sterilized sesamin was
added to Liquid Culture Medium G, 10 mg of sterilized
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide was added to Liquid Culture Medium H, and
a combination of 50 mg of sterilized sesamin and 10 mg of
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide was added to Liquid Culture Medium I.
After culturing the microbial mass was recovered by centrifugal separation.                  After
washing with water sufficiently, the microbial mass was freeze dried.                 3.2 g of dried
microbial mass (Dried Microbial Mass F) was obtained from Liquid Culture Medium
F.     2.5 g of dried microbial mass (Dried Microbial Mass G) was obtained from
Liquid Culture Medium G.                  0.6 g of dried microbial mass (Dried Microbial Mass H)
was obtained from Liquid Culture Medium H.                    0.6 g of dried microbial mass (Dried
Microbial Mass I) was obtained from Liquid Culture Medium I.
[0099]
              175 mL of hexane was added to each of Microbial Masses F to I to extract
lipids, with stirring for 30 minutes at room temperature, and the mixture obtained was
then filtered to obtain the extract liquid and microbial cells.             This operation was
repeated 3 times to obtain a hexane extract liquid.               The hexane extract liquid was
concentrated using a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure.                 613.2 mg of
microbial oil, Microbial Oil F, was obtained from Dried Microbial Mass F.                   328.3 mg
of microbial oil, Microbial Oil G, was obtained from Dried Microbial Mass G.                    77.7
mg of microbial oil, Microbial Oil H, was obtained from Dried Microbial Mass H.
 105.3 mg of microbial oil, Microbial Oil I, was obtained from Dried Microbial Mass
I.
[0100]
              To 0.5 mg of each respective microbial oil among Microbial Oils F to I, 0.10
mL of 10% (v/v) sulfuric acid ethanol solution was added, and reaction was conducted
for 30 minutes at 80'C for ethyl esterification.              0.18 mL of 1.0 M sodium hydroxide
ethanol solution was added to the liquid after the reaction for neutralization.              Then
0.05 mL of hexane and 0.30 mL of saturated sodium chloride solution were added for
extraction.            533.2 mg of fatty acid ethyl ester, Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester F, was obtained
from Microbial Oil F. 285.4 mg of fatty acid ethyl ester, Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester G,
was obtained from Microbial Oil G. 67.6 mg of fatty acid ethyl ester, Fatty Acid
Ethyl Ester H, was obtained from the microbial oil H.                 91.6 mg of fatty acid ethyl
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                  32
ester, Fatty acid ethyl ester I, was obtained from Microbial Oil I. The fatty acid
proportions of the obtained Fatty Acid Ethyl Esters F to I were analyzed by gas
chromatography in the same way as in Example 1. The results of the gas
chromatography are shown in Table 2.             Furthermore, the fatty acid compositions (%)
are based on area ratios of gas chromatograms in the aforementioned manner.
              The analytical conditions of gas chromatography were similar to those of
Example 1.
[0101]
              As shown in Table 2, the DGLA/ARA ratio for Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester I using
Microbial Oil I as the raw material was much greater than 13, and this value was
higher than that of any of Microbial Oils F, G, and H, which were produced by
culturing the known SAM 1860 strain or by culturing the SAM 1860 strain in the
presence of one type of A5 desaturase inhibitor.
[0102]
Table 2
                                       Fatty Acid     Fatty Acid     Fatty Acid     Fatty Acid
                                      Ethyl Ester F Ethyl Ester G Ethyl Ester H Ethyl Ester I
Fatty acid composition
(wt.%)
    Palmitic acid                         17.991         18.418        20.996          14.071
    Oleic acid                           34.217          19.680        23.840          31.332
    DGLA                                  7.145         24.996          4.469           0.278
    ARA                                   2.490          3.773          1.424           0.009
Other                                    balance        balance       balance         balance
DGLA/ARA                                    3              7              3               31
[0103]
EXAMPLE 3
Effect of Various Types of A5 Desaturase Inhibitor on Fatty Acids Produced by
Microbial mass: 3
              A one litre (1 L) jar fermenter equipped with disc turbine type agitator blades
in two stages was provided.          The positions of the agitator blades in the jar fermenter
were adjusted so that the relationships between the positions of the agitator blades and
the liquid surface of the liquid culture medium (500 mL) contained were as follows:
ratios of "distance from culture vessel bottom to agitator blade of the lower stage"
"distance from the agitator of the lower stage to the agitator of the upper stage"
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                  33
"distance from the agitator of the upper stage to the culture liquid surface" = 4 : 7 : 15.
              500 mL of a culture medium (pH 6.0) containing 2% glucose and 1%yeast
extract was placed in each of four 1 Ljar fermenters and 4 types of liquid culture
media were prepared: Liquid Culture Medium J with no addedA5 desaturase inhibitor,
Liquid Culture Medium K with 50 mg of added sesamin, Liquid Culture Medium L
with 50 mg of added 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide and Liquid Culture
Medium M with 50 mg of added sesamin and 50 mg of added
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide.
[0104]
              After each of Liquid Culture Media J to M was sterilized for 20 minutes at
120'C, 20 mL of pre-cultured liquid culture medium of a Mortierella alpina strain
lacking A5 desaturase was inoculated into the respective liquid culture medium, and
culturing with aeration and agitation was performed for 12 days under 0.6 v.v.m.
aeration and 28'C temperature. On the 3rd day, 4th day, 5th day, 6th day, 7th day,
10th day and 11th day, 50 mg of sterilized sesamin was added to Liquid Culture
Medium K, 50 mg of sterilized 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide was added to
Liquid Culture Medium L, and a combination of 50 mg of sterilized sesamin and 50
mg of 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide was added to Liquid Culture Medium
M.      After culturing, the microbial mass was recovered by centrifugal separation.
After washing with water sufficiently, the microbial mass was freeze dried.            2.9 g of
dried microbial mass (Dried Microbial Mass J) was obtained from Liquid Culture
Medium J. 2.9 g of dried microbial mass (Dried Microbial Mass K) was obtained
from Liquid Culture Medium K.             1.5 g of dried microbial mass (Dried Microbial
Mass L) was obtained from Liquid Culture Medium L.                2.9 g of dried microbial mass
(Dried Microbial Mass M) was obtained from Liquid Culture Medium M.
[0105]
              175 mL of hexane was added to each of Dried Microbial Masses J to M to
extract lipids, with stirring for 30 minutes at room temperature, and the mixture
obtained was then filtered to obtain the extract liquid and microbial cells.         This
operation was repeated 3 times to obtain a hexane extract liquid.           The hexane extract
liquid was concentrated using a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure.             552.0 mg
of microbial oil, Microbial Oil J, was obtained from Dried microbial mass J.            379.5
mg of microbial oil, Microbial Oil K, was obtained from Dried Microbial Mass K.
195.5 mg of microbial oil, Microbial Oil L, was obtained from Dried Microbial Mass
L.      552.0 mg of microbial oil, Microbial Oil M, was obtained from Dried Microbial
Mass M.            The contents and types of lipids in the obtained Microbial Oils J to M were
analyzed by the thin-layer chromatography/flame ionization detector (TLC/FID)
method (IATROSCAN (a trade name; same below), Mitsubishi Chemical Medience
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                     34
Corp.).
[0106]
              Moreover, 0.10 mL of 10% sulfuric acid ethanol solution was added to 0.5
mg of each respective microbial oil among Microbial Oils J to M, and reaction was
conducted for 30 minutes at 80'C for ethyl esterification.              0.18 mL of 1.0 M sodium
hydroxide ethanol solution was added to the liquid after the reaction for neutralization.
Then 0.05 mL of hexane and 0.30 mL of saturated sodium chloride solution were
added for extraction.             480.0 mg of fatty acid ethyl ester, Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester J, was
obtained from Microbial Oil J.             330.0 mg of fatty acid ethyl ester, Fatty Acid Ethyl
Ester K, was obtained from Microbial Oil K. 170.0 mg of fatty acid ethyl ester,
Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester L, was obtained from Microbial Oil L. 480.0 mg of fatty acid
ethyl ester, Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester M, was obtained from Microbial Oil M.                The
contents and types of the fatty acids in Fatty Acid Ethyl Esters J to M obtained were
analyzed by gas chromatography.
[0107]
              Results from use of the IATROSCAN and gas chromatography are shown in
Table 3.
              The IATROSCAN analytical conditions and gas chromatography analytical
conditions are listed below.
IATROSCAN Analytical Conditions
Developing solvent:
              0-3 min. CHCl3 : MeOH         = 95:5 (v/v)
              3-23 min. hexane : diethyl ether : formic acid = 90:10:0.2 (v/v)
Sample concentration: 10 mg/mL
Added amount: 5 pL
[0108]
Gas Chromatography Analysis Conditions
Equipment type: Agilent 7890 GC system (Agilent Technologies)
Column: DB-WAX (Agilent Technologies, 30 mx0.25 mm ID, 0.25 pm film
thickness) J&W122-7032
Column oven: 180'C - 3C/min - 230'C (25 min)
Injection temperature: 270'C
Injection method: split
Split ratio: 20:1
Detector temperature: 270'C
Detector: FID
Carrier gas: helium (1.0 mL/min, constant flow)
[0109]
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                       35
              As made clear by Table 3, when the A5 desaturase-deficient strain belonging
to Mortierellaalpinaused in the present working example was cultured by itself
(Microbial Oil J), when culturing was performed in the presence of one type of A5
desaturase inhibitor (Microbial Oil K and Microbial Oil L), and when culturing was
performed in the presence of two types of A5 desaturase inhibitors (Microbial Oil M),
the DGLA/ARA ratio for each oil was greater than or equal to 15.
[0110]
              Among these microbial oils, while Microbial Oil L, to which had been added
only a single type of A5 desaturase inhibitor, had a reduced total fat content in the
liquid culture medium; an unexpected result was also obtained in that the reduction of
the total fat content in the liquid culture medium was suppressed for Microbial Oil M,
for which two types of A5 desaturase inhibitors were used.
[0111]
Table 3
                                  Microbial Oil J Microbial Oil K Microbial Oil L Microbial Oil M
Triglyceride                          457.6            305.8           153.6           442.2
Diglyceride                            27.7              1.6            12.4            35.2
Monoglyceride                           6.3              6.0            12.6            14.0
Phospholipid                            0.2              0.2            0.1              0.8
Free fatty acid                         0.0              1.3            0.5              0.0
Sterol                                 50.0             40.3            14.7            55.5
Other                                  10.1             24.4             1.6             4.3
Total Lipids                          552.0            379.5           195.5           552.0
Palmitic acid                          66.3             48.3           25.1             88.0
Oleic acid                             60.1             63.0           37.4             90.2
DGLA                                  181.2            100.0           27.9            141.8
ARA                                    5.18             0.58           0.45             0.05
DGLA/ARA                                35              172              62            2836
Total fatty acid
(value calculated                     480.0            330.0           170.0           480.0
from total lipids)
Dried microbial                      2880.5           2889.7          1509.9          2871.2
* The values for each of the fatty acids were calculated based on the total fatty acid
esters (mg).
* Except for DGLA/ARA, the values refer to the amount produced (mg) per 500 mL
of culture medium.
[0112]
EXAMPLE 4
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                36
(1) Refining of the Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester by Rectification
              Each of Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester compositions J, K, and M obtained in
Example 3 was subjected to a rectification process under reduced pressure, to obtain
respective fractions (Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester Fractions J, K and M) each of which
contains the Fatty Acid Ethyl Esters J, K, or M as main component, derived from fatty
acids having 20 or more carbons.
[0113]
              The results are shown in Table 4.    As made clear by Table 4, by rectification
of the ethyl ester having the DGLA/ARA ratio controlled at 2836 by addition of
sesamin and 2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide in the working examples, a fatty
acid ester fraction was obtained that had greater than or equal to 20 carbon atoms and
extremely low ARA content.
[0114]
Table 4
                                          Fatty Acid Ethyl Fatty Acid Ethyl Fatty Acid Ethyl
 Fatty acid composition (wt% )EseJEtrKEtrM
                                               Ester J           Ester K          Ester M
DGLA                                            61.80             59.53            65.06
ARA                                              1.78              0.50             0.03
DGLA/ARA                                          35                120            2024
[0115]
(2) Refining of Fatty Acid Ethyl Esters Using Column Chromatography
              Fatty Acid Ethyl Esters J, K, and M after rectification, which had the
compositions shown in Table 4, were subjected to further high purification using ODS
(Octa Decyl Silyl)-HPLC.          The separation conditions are listed below.
Separation Conditions
Column: ODS AQ S-50 12 nm (YMC Corp., Ltd.), 20 (px 300 mm
Separation liquid: methanol
Flow rate: 25 mL/min
Column temperature: 40'C
Sample load: 1.42 g
Detectors: UV/Vis spectrophotometer and differential refractometer
[0116]
              Table 5 shows the fatty acid compositions after ODS-HPLC purification of
each fatty acid ethyl ester fraction when the HPLC yield was 65%.           Furthermore, the
fatty acid compositions (%) are based on area ratios of gas chromatograms in the
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                   37
aforementioned manner.
[0117]
Table 5
 Fatty Acid Composition             Fatty Acid Ethyl     Fatty Acid Ethyl     Fatty Acid Ethyl
                 (%)                Ester Fraction J     Ester Fraction K     Ester Fraction M
              DGLA                        94.72                94.12                95.89
                ARA                        1.53                 0.78                 0.05
             20:4n-3                       1.15                 0.10                 0.07
          DGLA/ARA                          62                  121                  1918
[0118]
              As made clear by Table 5, for each of the fatty acid ethyl ester fractions (J, K,
and M) ODS-HPLC refining was able to increase the content of DGLA. In
particular, it was possible to attain a purity of 95% by weight or greater particularly
for Fatty Acid Ethyl Ester Fraction M.
[0119]
              On the other hand, there was no great change in the DGLA/ARA ratios for
the fatty acid ethyl ester fractions obtained by further high purification of DGLA in
comparison to the DGLA/ARA ratios of the crude oils prior to refining.              It is
understood that separation of DGLA from ARA in a refining process is difficult.             In
order to obtain a high concentration of DGLA ethyl ester with a low content of ARA,
it is therefore understood that it is effective to increase the DGLA/ARA ratio
beforehand, at an early stage.
              In particular, it is understood that culturing a microbe strain while adding two
types of A5 desaturase inhibitors in combination (e.g. sesamin and
2-amino-N-(3-chlorophenyl)benzamide) during growth of the microbe is effective for
this.
[0120]
              It is therefore understood that the present invention provides a microbe and
microbial oil including an oil having a high DGLA/ARA ratio, and also provides
lower alcohol esters and free fatty acids obtained from such microbes and oils.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[0121]
              The DGLA-containing microbial oil of the present invention has a low
content of arachidonic acid.           Thus, while administering a given amount of DGLA,
the effect of arachidonic acid can be made small. A composition can be provided
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                38
that is suitable for applications for which arachidonic acid is undesirable, e.g. as
anti-allergic agents and as anti-inflammatory agents.
[0122]
              It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of
the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
[0123]
              In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
invention.
Also disclosed herein are the following items 1 to 24:
[0124]
              Item 1. A microbial oil from a microbe of the genus Mortierella, comprising
dihomo-y-linolenic acid as a constituent fatty acid of the oil, the microbial oil having a
weight ratio of arachidonic acid relative to dihomo-y-linolenic acid (arachidonic
acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid) of less than 1/13.
[0125]
              Item 2. The microbial oil according to item 1, wherein said weight ratio is
less than or equal to 1/15.
[0126]
              Item 3. The microbial oil according to item 1 or item 2, wherein said weight
ratio is less than or equal to 1/20.
[0127]
              Item 4. The microbial oil according to any one of item 1 to 3, wherein the
microbial oil has a triglyceride content of greater than or equal to 70% by weight.
[0128]
              Item 5. The microbial oil according to item 4 having a triglyceride content
of greater than or equal to 90% by weight.
[0129]
              Item 6. The microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 5 containing
phospholipid at from 0.1% to 10% by weight.
[0130]
              Item 7. The microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 6, wherein the
microbial oil has a saturated fatty acid content of less than or equal to 40% by weight.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                               39
[0131]
              Item 8. The microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 7 wherein the
microbial oil is a crude oil.
[0132]
              Item 9. The microbial oil according to item 8 wherein the triglyceride
content of the crude oil is greater than or equal to 90% by weight and said weight ratio
of arachidonic acid relative to dihomo-y-linolenic acid is less than or equal to 1/ 15.
[0133]
              Item 10. The microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 9 wherein the
microbial oil is a refined oil.
[0134]
              Item 11. The microbial oil according to item 10 wherein the triglyceride
content of the refined oil is greater than or equal to 90% by weight and said weight
ratio of arachidonic acid relative to dihomo-y-linolenic acid is less than or equal to
 1/20.
[0135]
              Item 12. The microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 11 wherein the
arachidonic acid content is less than or equal to 7% by weight.
[0136]
              Item 13. A method of producing a lower alcohol ester composition
comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid ester, or a free fatty acid composition comprising
dihomo-y-linolenic acid, comprising subjecting a microbial oil according to any one
of items 1 to 11 to an ester exchange reaction or hydrolysis reaction.
[0137]
              Item 14. Use of microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 11 in the
manufacture of a medicament.
[0138]
              Item15. The use according to item 14 wherein the medicament is an
anti-allergic agent or an anti-inflammatory agent.
[0139]
              Item 16. Use of microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 11 in a
method of producing foodstuffs, dietary supplements, medicaments, cosmetics or
animal feed.
[0140]
              Item 17. The use according to item 16 in which dihomo-y-linolenic acid ester,
or a free fatty acid composition comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid, is obtained by
subjecting the microbial oil to an ester exchange reaction or hydrolysis reaction.
[0141]
10417418_1(GHMatter) P103123.AU.1

                                                 40
              Item 18. A microbial biomass of a microbe of the genus Mortierella,
containing a microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 7.
[0142]
              Item 19. A liquid culture medium containing a microbial biomass according
to item 18.
[0143]
              Item 20. A liquid culture medium according to item 19, wherein a content of
the microbial biomass is greater than or equal to 2.5 g/L, in terms of dry weight of the
microbial biomass.
[0144]
              Item 21. A liquid culture medium according to item 19 or item 20 wherein the
liquid culture medium contains the microbial oil according to any one of items 1 to 7
at a content of 0.4 g/L or greater.
[0145]
              Item 22. A method according to item 13 for producing a lower alcohol ester
composition or free fatty acid composition, from a microbial oil according to any one
of items 1 to 11, the method comprising:
              (a) obtaining a mixture of free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters of fatty
acids by hydrolysis or alcoholysis of the microbial oil, and
              (b) rectifying the mixture of free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters to obtain
a free fatty acid or lower alcohol ester composition in which the fatty acids have at
least 20 carbon atoms.
[0146]
              Item 23. A method of producing a lower alcohol dihomo-y-linolenic acid
ester or free dihomo-y-linolenic acid, comprising producing a lower alcohol ester
composition or free fatty acid composition in accordance with item 22, and then
              (c) performing fractionation and purification of lower alcohol ester of
dihomo-y-linolenic acid or of dihomo-y-linolenic acid, by reverse phase distribution
type column chromatography, from the free fatty acid or lower alcohol ester
composition in which the fatty acids have at least 20 carbon atoms.
[0147]
              Item 24. A method of item 23 further comprising incorporating the purified
dihomo-y-linolenic acid or lower alcohol ester of dihomo-y-linolenic acid into a
medicament.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                41
                                              CLAIMS
 1.           A lower alcohol ester composition comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid
esterified with a lower alcohol, or a free fatty acid composition comprising
dihomo-y-linolenic acid, wherein the concentration of dihomo-y-linolenic acid is
greater than or equal to 90% by weight of the total fatty acid component.
2.            The lower alcohol ester composition or the free fatty acid composition
according to claim 1, further comprising arachidonic acid, wherein a weight ratio of
arachidonic                acid   relative to   dihomo-y-linolenic acid   (arachidonic
acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid) is less than 1/13.
3.            The lower alcohol ester composition or the free fatty acid composition
according to claim 2, wherein the weight ratio of arachidonic acid relative to
dihomo-y-linolenic acid (arachidonic acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid) is less than or
equal to 1/15.
4.            The lower alcohol ester composition or the free fatty acid composition
according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the weight ratio of arachidonic acid relative to
dihomo-y-linolenic acid (arachidonic acid/dihomo-y-linolenic acid) is less than or
equal to 1/20.
5.            The lower alcohol ester composition or the free fatty acid composition
according to any one of claims 1 to 4, which is a lower alcohol ester composition
comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid esterified with an alcohol having 3 or less carbon
atoms.
6.            The lower alcohol ester composition or the free fatty acid composition
according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the arachidonic acid content is less
than or equal to 7% by weight.
7.            The lower alcohol ester composition or the free fatty acid composition
according to any one of claims 1 to 6, obtained by a method comprising subjecting a
microbial oil comprising dihomo-y-linolenic acid to an ester exchange reaction or
hydrolysis reaction.
8.            The lower alcohol ester composition, or the free fatty acid composition
according to claim 7, wherein the microbial oil is a crude oil.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                                    42
9.            The lower alcohol ester composition or the free fatty acid composition
according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the microbial oil is obtained from a microbe of the
genus Mortierella.
10.           A method of producing the lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid
composition according to any one of claims 1 to 9, the method comprising subjecting
a microbial oil to an ester exchange reaction or hydrolysis reaction.
11.           The method of claim 10, comprising:
              (a) obtaining a mixture of free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters of fatty
acids by hydrolysis or alcoholysis of the microbial oil, and
              (b) rectifying the mixture of free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters to obtain
a free fatty acid or lower alcohol ester composition in which the fatty acids have at
least 20 carbon atoms.
12.           A method of producing a lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid
composition according to any one of claims 1 to 9, comprising:
              (a)         producing a dihomo-y-linolenic acid-containing microbial oil by
culturing a microbe in a liquid culture medium to produce the dihomo-y-linolenic acid,
the microbe being a microbe with an arachidonic acid-producing function which has
been inhibited by reduced or lost A5 desaturation activity, optionally in the presence
of one, two or more types of A5 desaturase inhibitor in the liquid culture medium, to
produce said microbial oil;
              (b)       by hydrolysis or alcoholysis of the microbial oil, obtaining a mixture of
free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters containing dihomo-y-linolenic acid, optionally
after purification of the oil;
              (c) purifying the mixture of free fatty acids or lower alcohol esters.
13.           A medicament comprising the lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty
acid composition according to any one of claims 1 to 9.
14.           An anti-allergic agent or an anti-inflammatory agent comprising the lower
alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid composition according to any one of
claims 1 to 9 or the medicament according to claim 13.
15.           Use of the lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid composition
according to any one of claims 1 to 9, in the preparation of a medicament for the
prevention, treatment or amelioration of an inflammatory or allergic disease.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

                                              43
16.           A method of preventing, treating or ameliorating an inflammatory or allergic
disease, comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of
the lower alcohol ester composition or free fatty acid composition according to any
one of claims 1 to 9, the medicament according to claim 13 or the anti-allergic agent
or anti-inflammatory agent according to claim 14.
17.           The use according to claim 15 or the method according to claim 16, wherein
the inflammatory or allergic disease is selected from atopic dermatitis, allergic contact
dermatitis (ACD), irritant contact dermatitis (ICD), photocontact dermatitis, systemic
contact dermatitis, rheumatism, psoriasis and lupus.
10417418_1(GHMattes) P103123.AU.1

