ABSTRACT
Provided herein are diterpene synthases (diTPS) and methods for producing diterpenoids. Also
provided herein are nucleic acid sequences encoding diTPS, diTPS amino acid sequences,
diTPS proteins, vectors, cells, transgenic organisms, uses, compositions, methods, processes,
and kits thereof. See Fig. 1A and 1B.

WO 2013/075239                                                        PCT/CA2012/050837
                                           1/9
                                                      0
                                                      -8
                                   E
                                                      ~0                          U))
                               >                   a)
                                                          C)       N
                                   C13             co
                                                             C(D
                                          2-       _
                                                      C),
          2)                                                            7
                                                                                  C)
                                                                              CC)
                      cu)
                      L))
                   a-
             0                                                       CL
                                       C)          C)
                                                    0            +
               + _     _   _ _   _  _      _   _  _
                                                 0.2
                                                                        L) M0         E2
                        CC
                        0                                                             0
                 LLL~
  C)

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                  DITERPENE SYNTHASES AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING
                                             DITERPENOIDS
     RELATED APPLICATIONS
             Benefit of priority is claimed to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
  5  61/562,280, filed November 21, 2011, entitled "Diterpene Synthases and Method for
     Producing Diterpenoids." The subject matter of the above-noted application is
     incorporated by reference in its entirety.
             This application is related to United States Patent Application No. (Attorney
     Dkt. No. 33322-00234.US01/234), filed the same day herewith, entitled "Diterpene
 10  Synthases and Method for Producing Diterpenoids," which claims priority to U.S.
     Provisional Application Serial No. 61/562,280.
             The subject matter of each of the above-noted applications is incorporated by
     reference in its entirety.
     Incorporation by reference of sequence listing provided electronically
 15          An electronic version of the Sequence Listing is filed herewith, the contents of
     which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The electronic file is 200
     kilobytes in size, and titled 234SEQPC1.txt.
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             Provided herein are diterpene synthases (diTPS) and methods for producing
20   diterpenoids. Also provided herein are nucleic acid sequences encoding diTPS,
     diTPS amino acid sequences, diTPS proteins, vectors, cells, transgenic organisms,
     uses, compositions, methods, processes, and kits thereof.
     BACKGROUND
             Conifers produce a diverse array of diterpenoids as major oleoresin
25   components that play a role in the chemical defense against herbivores and pathogens,
     such as bark beetles and their associated fungi (Trapp et al. (2001) Annu. Rev. Plant
     Physiol. PlantMol. Biol., 52:689-724; Keeling et al. (2006) Phytochemistry, 67:2415
     2423; Keeling et al. (2006) New Phytol., 170:657-675). Oleoresin diterpenoids are
     also used as large-volume, renewable raw material for the production of a suite of
 30  industrial resins and coatings, and other bioproducts (Bohlmann et al. (2008) PlantJ.,
     54:656-669; Hillwig et al. (2011) Biopolymer, 95:71-76). There is a need for
     alternative methods for producing diterpenoids.

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                -2
     SUMMARY
              Provided herein are methods for producing diterpenoids. Also provided herein
     are nucleic acids encoding diterpene synthase (diTPS), diTPS amino acid sequences,
     and vectors, hosts containing diTPS and that can be used to produce diterpenoids.
  5  More specifically, the methods provided herein relate to the production of bicyclic
     tertiary diterpene alcohols such as for example cis-abienol and the production of
     diterpene olefins such as for example abietadiene, levopimaradiene, palustradiene or
     neoabietadiene. The production can be in vivo or in vitro. Also provided herein are
     methods for expression of an enzyme with diTPS activity in a host organism.
 10          Also provided herein are diTPS nucleic acid sequences, diTPS amino acid
     sequences, proteins, vectors, cells, transgenic organisms, uses, compositions,
     methods, processes, and kits thereof. For example, a diterpene synthase (diTPS)
     polypeptide having the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID
     NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 7, an active fragment thereof, or sequence substantially identical
 15  thereto are provided. Furthermore, provided herein is a nucleic acid encoding the
     polypeptide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO: 5 or
     SEQ ID NO: 7. The nucleic acid can have the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2;
     SEQ ID NO: 4, SEQ ID NO: 6, SEQ ID NO: 8 or a sequence substantially identical
     thereto. Also provided herein is a nucleic acid encoding the polypeptide sequence as
20   set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7, an active fragment thereof, or sequence substantially
     identical thereto, wherein the nucleotide at position 621 is replaced by A, the
     nucleotide at position 402 is replaced by A, the nucleotide at position 404 is replaced
     by A or a combination thereof. Also provided herein is a diterpene synthase with an
     active site as disclosed in Figure 6.
25            Provided herein is a method for producing diterpenoids that includes providing
     a host containing a nucleotide sequence encoding a diterpene synthase (diTPS), the
     nucleotide sequence operatively linked with a regulatory region that is active in the
     host, and growing the host thereby expressing the nucleotide sequence and producing
     diterpenoids.
 30          Also provided herein is a method for producing one or more diterpenoids by
     introducing into a host capable of producing (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate
     (GGPP) one or more nucleotide sequence encoding a diterpene synthase (diTPS), the

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                -3
     nucleotide sequence operatively linked with a regulatory region that is active in the
     host, and growing the host thereby expressing the nucleotide sequence and producing
     diterpenoids. The diTPS can contain a bifunctional class I/II diTPS.
             Also provided is a method for producing one or more diterpenoids by
  5  contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with at least one polypeptide
     having a diterpene synthase (diTPS) activity under conditions effective to produce
     diterpenoids. Optionally, the diterpenoids produced can be isolated. The diTPS can
     contain a bifunctional class I/II diTPS.
             Also provided herein is a method for producing diterpenoids by contacting
 10  (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with at least one polypeptide having a
     diterpene synthase (diTPS) activity under conditions effective to produce diterpenoids
     and optionally, isolating the produced diterpenoids.
              In one example, provided herein is an isolated nucleic acid molecule
     containing a sequence of nucleotides encoding a bifunctional class I/II cis-abienol
 15  synthase (CAS) polypeptide or an active fragment, wherein the encoded polypeptide
     or active fragment comprises a class II active site comprising a DxDD motif and a
     class I active site comprising a DDxxD motif; and the encoded polypeptide or active
     fragment catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate
     (GGPP). For example, the isolated nucleic acid molecule has a sequence of
20   nucleotides encoding a cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID
     NO:7, an active fragment thereof, or a sequence that exhibits at least 75% sequence
     identity to SEQ ID NO:7, wherein the encoded polypeptide or active fragment
     catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). The
     sequence of nucleotides that encodes a CAS polypeptide exhibits at least 80%, 85%,
25   90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:7. In some examples, the
     sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that has the sequence of amino acids
     set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active fragment thereof. In other examples, the
     sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that is the sequence of amino acids set
     forth in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active fragment thereof. In any of the above examples,
 30  the active fragment is a pseudomature form.
              For example, in any of the examples of an isolated nucleic acid molecule
     encoding a bifunctional class 1/11 cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide or an active

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 -4
     fragment, the nucleic acid molecule contains the sequence of nucleotides set forth in
     SEQ ID NO:8 or a sequence of nucleotides that exhibits at least 75% sequence
     identity to SEQ ID NO:8 or the complement thereof, wherein the sequence of
     nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or active fragment that catalyzes the formation of
  5  cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). For example, the sequence of
     nucleotides exhibits at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to SEQ
     ID NO:8 or the complement thereof. In some examples, the nucleic acid molecule
     contains the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8, an active fragment
     thereof or the complement thereof. In other examples, the nucleic acid molecule has
 10  the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8, an active fragment thereof or
     the complement thereof.
              Also provided herein is a cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide encoded by
     any of the nucleic acid molecules provided herein above encoding a bifunctional
     class 1/11 cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide or an active fragment thereof.
 15           Also provided herein is a vector containing any of the nucleic acid molecules
     provided herein above encoding a bifunctional class 1/11 cis-abienol synthase (CAS)
     polypeptide or an active fragment thereof. Also provided is a host cell containing
     such a vector. The host cell can be a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell. For
     example, the host cell is a bacterial, fungal, plant, insect, amphibian or animal cell,
20   such as an E. coli cell or a yeast cell. In examples herein, the host cell is one that
     produces GGPP. For example, the host cell is transformed with one or more
     sequences that result in production of GGPP.
              Also provided herein are method for producing a bicyclic terteriary diterpene
     alcohol, by i) contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a
25   bifunctional class 1/11 synthase polypeptide having a diterpene synthase (diTPS)
     activity under conditions effective to produce bicyclic terteriary diterpene alcohols,
     wherein the bifunctional class I/II synthase is a conifer synthase; and ii) optionally,
     isolating the diterpenoids produced in step i). Also provided herein are methods for
     producing cis-abienol, by i) contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP)
 30  with a bifunctional class 1/11 synthase polypeptide having a diterpene synthase
     (diTPS) activity under conditions effective to produce cis-abienol; ii) optionally,
     isolating the cis-abienol produced in step i). In the above provided methods, the

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 -5
     bifunctional class I/II synthase has a class II active site containing a DxDD motif and
     a class I active site containing a DDxxD motif. In particular examples of any of the
     above provided methods, the bifunctional class I/II synthase is a cis-abienol synthase
     (CAS) polypeptide or active fragment that catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from
  5  geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
              For example, in the above provided methods, the bifunctional class 1/11
     synthase is a CAS polypeptide or active fragment that contains the sequence of amino
     acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7, an active fragment thereof, or a sequence that
     exhibits at least 75% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:7, wherein the encoded
 10  polypeptide or active fragment catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). For example, the sequence of amino acids
     exhibits at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:7. In
     some examples, the CAS polypeptide contains the sequence of amino acids set forth
     in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active fragment thereof. In other examples, the CAS
 15  polypeptide is the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active
     fragment thereof. In any of the above example, the the active fragment is a
     pseudomature form.
              In any of the above examples of methods herein, the CAS polypeptide is
     encoded by the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8 or a sequence of
20   nucleotides that exhibits at least 75% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:8 or the
     complement thereof, wherein the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or
     active fragment that catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl
     diphosphate (GGPP). For example, the sequence of nucleotides exhibits at least 80%,
     85%, 90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:8 or the complement
25   thereof. In some examples, the sequence of nucleotides contains the sequence of
     nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8, an active fragment thereof or the complement
     thereof. In other examples, the sequence of nucleotides is set forth in SEQ ID NO:8,
     an active fragment thereof or the complement thereof.
              In any of the above method of producing a bicyclic terteriary diterpene alcohol
 30  or cis-abienol, the step of contacting E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with
     a bifunctional class 1/11 synthase polypeptide is effected in vitro or in vivo. In

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               -6
     examples of methods herein, the bicyclic terteriary diterpene alcohol or cis-abienol is
     further isolated. For example, the cis-abienol is used to produce (-)-ambroxide.
             Also provided herein is an isolated nucleic acid molecule containing the
     sequence of nucleotides encoding a levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) set
  5  forth in SEQ ID NO: 1, an active fragment thereof, or a sequence that exhibits greater
     than 99% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1, wherein the encoded polypeptide or
     active fragment catalyzes the formation of epimers of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene
     from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP), such as any one or more of abietadine,
     levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and plaustradiene. For example, the sequence of
 10  nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that contains the sequence of amino acids set forth
     in SEQ ID NO: 1 or an active fragment thereof. In other examples, the sequence of
     nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that has the sequence of amino acids set forth in
     SEQ ID NO:1 or an active fragment thereof. In any of the above examples, the
     active fragment is a pseudomature form.
 15          For example, in any of the examples of an isolated nucleic acid molecule
     encoding a levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS), the nucleic acid molecule
     contains the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:2 or a sequence of
     nucleotides that exhibits greater than 99% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2 or the
     complement thereof, wherein the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or
20   active fragment that catalyzes the formation of epimers of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene
     from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). In one example, the isolated nucleic acid
     molecule contains the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:2, an active
     fragment thereof or the complement thereof. In another example, the isolated nucleic
     acid molecule has the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:1, an active
25   fragment thereof or the complement thereof.
             Also provided herein is a levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS)
     polypeptide encoded by any of the nucleic acid molecules provided above encoding a
     levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) or an active fragment thereof.
             Also provided herein is a vector containing any of the nucleic acid molecules
 30  provided herein above encoding a levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) or an
     active fragment thereof. Also provided is a host cell containing such a vector. The
     host cell can be a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell. For example, the host cell is a

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                -7
     bacterial, fungal, plant, insect, amphibian or animal cell, such as an . coli cell or a
     yeast cell. In examples herein, the host cell is one that produces GGPP. For example,
     the host cell is transformed with one or more sequences that result in production of
     GGPP.
  5          Also provided herein is a method of producing an epimer of 13-hydroxy
     8(14)-abietene, such as any one or more of abietadine, levopimaradiene,
     neoabietadiene and plaustradiene, by i) contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl
     diphosphate (GGPP) with a levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) polypeptide
     encoded by any of the nucleic acid molecules provided herein encoding a
 10  levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) or an active fragment thereof under
     conditions effective to produce an epimer of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene; and ii)
     optionally, isolating the epimer of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene produced in step i),
     such as any one or more of abietadine, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and
     plaustradiene. In examples of the methods provided herein, the step of contacting
 15  E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a levopimaradiene/abietadiene
     synthase (LAS) polypeptide is effected in vitro or in vivo. In examples of the methods
     herein, the method further includes isolating one or more of the diterpenes selected
     from among abietadine, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and plaustradiene.
             Also provided herein is an isolated nucleic acid molecule containing the
20   sequence of nucleotides encoding a isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide set
     forth in SEQ ID NO: 3, an active fragment thereof, or a sequence that exhibits at least
     95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3, wherein the encoded polypeptide or active
     fragment catalyzes the formation of isopimaradiene from geranylgeranyl diphosphate
     (GGPP). For example, the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that
25   exhibits at least 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3. In
     one example, the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that contains the
     sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3 or an active fragment thereof. In
     another example, the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that has the
     sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:3 or an active fragment thereof. In
 30  any of the above examples, the active fragment is a pseudomature form.
             For example, in any of the examples of an isolated nucleic acid molecule
     encoding isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide, the nucleic acid molecule

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                -8
     contains the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:4 or a sequence of
     nucleotides that exhibits at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:4 or the
     complement thereof, wherein the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or
     active fragment that catalyzes the formation of isopimaradiene from geranylgeranyl
  5  diphosphate (GGPP). For example, the sequence of nucleotides exhibits at least 96%,
     97%, 98%, 99% or more sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:4. In one example, the
     isolated nucleic acid molecule contains the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ
     ID NO:4, an active fragment thereof or the complement thereof. In another example,
     the isolated nucleic acid molecule has the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID
 10  NO:4, an active fragment thereof or the complement thereof.
             Also provided herein is a isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide encoded
     by any of the nucleic acid molecules provided above encoding a isopimaradiene
     synthase (Iso) polypeptide or an active fragment thereof.
             Also provided herein is a vector containing any of the nucleic acid molecules
 15  provided herein above encoding isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide or an
     active fragment thereof. Also provided is a host cell containing such a vector. The
     host cell can be a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell. For example, the host cell is a
     bacterial, fungal, plant, insect, amphibian or animal cell, such as an . coli cell or a
     yeast cell. In examples herein, the host cell is one that produces GGPP. For example,
20   the host cell is transformed with one or more sequences that result in production of
     GGPP.
             Also provided herein is a method of producing isopimaradiene by i) contacting
     (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a isopimaradiene synthase (Iso)
     polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 57-65 under
25   conditions effective to produce isopimaradiene; and ii) optionally, isolating the
     isopimaradiene produced in step i). In examples of the methods provided herein, the
     step of contacting E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a isopimaradiene
     synthase (Iso) polypeptide is effected in vitro or in vivo. In examples of the methods
     provided herein, the method further includes isolating isopimaradiene.
 30          It is understood that this summary of subject matter provided herein does not
     necessarily describe all features provided herein.
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 -9
              These and other features provided herein will become more apparent from the
     following description in which reference is made to the appended drawings wherein:
     Figure 1 shows a schematic of the proposed biosynthesis of diterpene olefins and
     alcohols by class I/II bifunctional diTPSs in conifers. The activity of LAS- and Iso
  5  type diTPSs in the formation of tricyclic diterpenes involves the stepwise cyclization
     of GGPP via (9S,1OS)-CPP (i.e., CPP of normal or (+) stereochemistry). Figure 1A.
     Protonation initiated cyclization of GGPP to CPP is catalyzed by the class II active
     site of LAS- and Iso-type diTPSs. At the class I active site of Iso enzymes, ionization
     dependent secondary cyclization of CPP and deprotonation of the resulting
 10  sandaracpoimaren-8-yl cation lead to the formation of isopimaradiene. Alternatively,
     in the class I active site of LAS enzymes, additional proton transfer and methyl
     migration afford the tertiary abietenyl cation and further deprotonation and
     hydroxylation (i.e., water capture) result in the formation of the instable 13-hydroxy
     8(14)abietene product of the LAS activity. Dehydration of this tertiary diterpene
 15  alcohol yields several different diterpene olefins, including abietadiene,
     levopimaradiene, palustradiene, and neoabietadiene. Figure 1B. A different reaction
     sequence is proposed for the formation of the bicyclic diterpene alcohol cis-abienol by
     the class I/II bifunctional AbCAS enzyme. The class II activity ofAbCAS converts
     GGPP to labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate via water capture at the C-8 carbon of the
20   labda-13-en-8-yl+ cation. Subsequent ionization of the allylic diphosphate at the class
     I active site, without additional cyclization, yields cis-abienol.
     Figure 2 shows the activity of balsam fir diTPSs AbdiTPS1 (AbLAS; SEQ ID NO:1),
     AbdiTPS2 (AbIso; SEQ ID NO:3) and AbdiTPS4 (AbCAS; SEQ ID NO:7). Figure
     2A. Total ion chromatograms (TIC) of reactions products from in vitro assays with
25   purified recombinant enzymes, as described in Example 3. IS, internal standard 1.6
     pM 1-eicosene; 1, palustradiene; 2, levopimaradiene; 3, abietadiene; 4,
     neoabietadiene; 5 and 6, epimers of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietadiene; 7, isopimaradiene;
     8, cis-abienol. Figure 2B Mass spectrum of cis-abienol, produced by recombinant
     AbdiTPS4 with GGPP as substrate, and comparison to the reference mass spectrum of
 30  cis-abienol.
     Figure 3 shows LC-MS analysis of diterpenol products of AbdiTPS1 (AbLAS; SEQ
     ID NO:1) and AbdiTPS4 (AbCAS; SEQ ID NO:7). Reaction products are shown as

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 10
     extracted ion chromatograms (EIC) of the base peak m/z 273, including 3,
     abietadiene; 5/6, 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietadiene epimers; 8, cis-abienol.
     Figure 4 shows phylogeny of balsam fir diTPSs of the LAS-, Iso- and CAS-type in
     the context of the TPS-d3 subfamily of conifer diTPSs, including PpCPS/KS,
  5  Physcomitrellapatens ent-copalyl diphosphate/ent-kaurene synthase (NCBI accession
     no. BAF61135; SEQ ID NO:42); TbrTS, Taxus brevifolia taxadiene synthase (NCBI
     accession no. AAC493 10; SEQ ID NO:43); TcuTS, T. cuspidata taxadiene synthase
     (NCBI accession no. ABW82997; SEQ ID NO:44); TxmTS, T. x media taxadiene
     synthase (NCBI accession no. AAS18603; SEQ ID NO:45); Palso, Picea abies
 10  isopimaradiene synthase (NCBI accession no. AAS47690; SEQ ID NO:35); PsIso,
     Picea sitchensis isopimaradiene synthase (NCBI accession no. ADZ45512; SEQ ID
     NO:36); PaLAS, P. abies (NCBI accession no. AAS47691; SEQ DINO:37); PsLAS,
     P. sitchensis levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (NCBI accession no. ADZ45517;
     SEQ ID NO:38); PtLAS, Pinus taeda levopimaradiene synthase (NCBI accession no.
 15  AY779541; SEQ ID NO:39); AgAS, Abies grandis abietadiene synthase (NCBI
     accession no. AAK83563; SEQ ID NO:40); and GbLS, Ginkgo biloba
     levopimaradiene synthase (NCBI accession no. AAL09965; SEQ ID NO:41).
     Asterisks indicate nodes supported by > 90% bootstrap values.
     Figure 5 shows characterization of AbCAS protein variants. Figure 5A. Total ion
20   chromatograms (TIC) of reactions products. IS, internal standard 1.6 pM 1-eicosene;
     PC, plasticizer contamination; 8, cis-abienol; 9, geranylgeraniol; 10, (9S,10S)
     copalol; 11, epi-manoyl oxide; 12, manoyl oxide; 13, labd-13-en-8,15-diol. Figure
     5B. Characteristic mass spectra of (9S,10S)-copalol (upper panel, compound 10) and
     labd-13-en-8,15-diol (lower panel, compound 13), produced by PaLAS:D61 1A and
25   AbCAS:D621A, respectively.
     Figure 6 depicts the unique active site residues of AbCAS (SEQ ID NO:7) relative to
     AbLAS (SEQ ID NO:1) and AbIso (SEQ ID NO:3) and implication for the formation
     of cis-abienol. Figure 6A. Superimposed homology models of AbCAS, AbLAS and
     AbIso resembling the common a-helical folding pattern, comprised of the N-terminal
 30  P domain   and y domain and C-terminal a domain. Labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate is
     shown in the active sites, with the diphosphate group bound to the Mg 2+-cluster,
     which in return is coordinated by the DDxxD (SEQ ID NO: 13) and NDxxTxxxE

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 11
     (SEQ ID NO:14) motifs. Figure 6B. Superimposition of putative catalytic residues in
     the class II active site ofAbLAS, Ablso and AbCAS. Asp348 is located at the
     posterior of the class II active site, opposite of the DIDD (SEQ ID NO:16) motif, with
     its side chain protruding towards C-8 of labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate. Figure 6C.
  5  Leu617 and Phe696 are located in the class I active site cavity upstream of the
     DDLYD motif (SEQ ID NO:17), creating an expansion of the hydrophobic pocket
     relative to AbLAS and Ablso. Figure 6D. Gly723 and Va1724 contribute to a change
     in the hinge region between helix GI and G2.
     Figure 7 shows amino acid sequence alignment of bifunctional class I/II conifer
 10  diTPSs, including AbdiTPS1 (SEQ ID NO:57), AbdiTPS2 (SEQ ID NO:3),
     AbdiTPS3 (SEQ ID NO:5) and AbdiTPS4 (SEQ ID NO:58). Grey shading indicates
     strictly conserved residues. The catalytically relevant aspartate-rich motifs (i.e.,
     DxDD, DDxxD, NDxxTxxxE, (SEQ ID NOS:12-14)) are highlighted. Plastidial
     transit peptides are underlined. Amino acids identified in a 7A radius around the
 15  docked reaction intermediates in the N-terminal class II (light asterisks) and C
     terminal class I (dark asterisks) active site are highlighted. Additional bifunctional
     class I/II conifer diTPSs include Palso,Picea abies isopimaradiene synthase (NCBI
     accession no. AAS47690; SEQ ID NO:35); Pslso, Picea sitchensis isopimaradiene
     synthase (NCBI accession no. ADZ45512; SEQ ID NO:36); PaLAS, P. abies (NCBI
20   accession no. AAS47691; SEQ ID NO:37); PsLAS, P. sitchensis
     levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (NCBI accession no. ADZ45517; SEQ ID
     NO:38); PtLAS, Pinus taeda levopimaradiene synthase (NCBI accession no.
     AY779541; SEQ ID NO:39); AgAS, Abies grandis abietadiene synthase (NCBI
     accession no. AAK83563; SEQ ID NO:40); and GbLS, Ginkgo biloba
25   levopimaradiene synthase (NCBI accession no. AAL09965; SEQ ID NO:41).
     FIG. 8. Figure 8A shows the synthesis of (-)-ambroxide from cis-abienol. Figure 8B
     shows the synthesis of (-)-ambroxide from geranylgeranyl diphosphate. Figure 8C
     shows the synthesis of (-)-ambroxide from cis-abienol through the intermediate
     sclareolide.
 30  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     Outline
              A.      Definitions

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 12
              B.     Bifunctional Class I/II Diterpene Synthase Polypeptides and
     Diterpenoid Products
                      1.     Bifunctional Class I/II Diterpene Synthases in Balsam Fir
                     2.      Biosynthesis of Oleoresin Diterpenoids by diTPSs
  5                          a.      Biosynthesis of Tricyclic Diterpene
                             b.      Biosynthesis of Bicyclic Diterpene
                     3.      Methods of Producing Diterpenoids
             C.       cis-Abienol Synthase and Production of Cis-Abienol
                      1.     Nucleic Acid and Encoded AbCAS Polypeptides
 10                  2.       Methods of producing cis-abienol and ambroxide
                             Production of (-)-ambroxide
             D.      LAS-type bifunctional class I/II Synthase
             E.      Isopimaradiene Synthase
             F.      Methods of Producing or Generating Diterpene Synthases, Vectors
 15  & Host Cells
                      1.     Isolation of nucleic acid encoding diterpene synthases
                     2.      Vectors and Cells
                     3.      Expression Systems
                             a.      Prokaryotic cells
20                           b.      Yeast cells
                             c.      Plants and plant cells
                             d.      Insects and insect cells
                             e.      Mammalian expression
                     4.      Purification
25                    5.     Fusion Proteins
             G.      Examples
     A.      DEFINITIONS
             Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
     the same meaning as is commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which the
 30  invention(s) belong. All patents, patent applications, published applications and
     publications, Genbank sequences, databases, websites and other published materials
     referred to throughout the entire disclosure herein, unless noted otherwise, are
     incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the event that there are a plurality of
     definitions for terms herein, those in this section prevail. Where reference is made to
 35  a URL or other such identifier or address, it understood that such identifiers can
     change and particular information on the internet can come and go, but equivalent
     information can be found by searching the internet. Reference thereto evidences the
     availability and public dissemination of such information.
             As used herein, a diterpenoid is an unsaturated hydrocarbon based on the
40   isoprene unit (C 5H8), and having a general formula C5xH 8 . A diterpene contain 20

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 13
     carbon atoms, and hence is made up of four isoprene units. A diterpenoid also is a
     type of diterpene. A diterpenoid can derive from geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate
     (GGPP). Diterpenoids include diterpene olefins and diterpene alcohols.
             As used herein, "diterpene synthase" or "diTPS" as used herein, refers to
  5  bifunctional diterpene synthase that is capable of synthesizing diterpene olefins and
     alcohols by sequential cycloisomerisation of the substrate (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl
     diphosphate (GGPP).
             As used herein, a bifunctional class I/II diTPS refers to a synthase that
     contains a class II active site that has a DxDD motif (SEQ ID NO: 12) and a class I
 10  active site that has a DDxxD motif (SEQ ID NO:13).
             As used herein, an active fragment of a synthase polypeptide refers to a
     contiguous sequence of amino acids of a synthase polypeptide that exhibits synthase
     activity (e.g. cis-abienol synthase activity, levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase
     activity or isopimaradiene synthase activity), but that does not include the full
 15  sequence of the synthase polypeptide. For purposes herein, the active fragment
     typically includes the class I site and class II site, and thereby contains a class II
     active site that has a DxDD motif (SEQ ID NO:12) and a class I active site that has a
     DDxxD motif (SEQ ID NO: 13). The active fragment generally contains at least 300,
     400, 500, 600, 700, 800 or more amino acid residues.
20           As used herein, "cis-abienol synthase (CAS) activity" or "AbCAS activity"
     refers to a synthase polypeptide or an active fragment of a synthase polypeptide that
     catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
             As used herein, "levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) activity" or
     "AbLAS activity" refers to a synthase polypeptide or an active fragment of a synthase
25   polypeptide that catalyzes the formation of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) and the generation of epimers thereof as
     dehydration products, including abietadine, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and
     plaustradiene.
             As used herein, "isopimaradiene synthase activity" or "Ablso" refers to a
 30  synthase polypeptide or an active fragment of a synthase polypeptide that catalyzes
     the formation of isopimaradiene from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 14
              As used herein, a pseudomature polypeptide with reference to a synthase
     refers to a polypeptide that lacks one or more amino acid residues from the N
     terminus of the preprotein, and typically at least 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or
     more N-terminal amino acid residues. Typically, a pseudomature polypeptide lacks
  5  the plastidial transit peptide. For example, with reference to AbCAS, the plastidial
     transit polypeptide corresponds to amino acid residues 1-50 of SEQ ID NO:7. Hence,
     a pseudomature AbCAS polypeptide lacks at least 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 90 or
     more N-terminal amino acid residues of the preprotein set forth in SEQ ID NO:7.
              As used herein, ambroxide is the compound having the following structure or
 10  a mixture of isomers thereof:
              As used herein, corresponding residues refers to residues that occur at aligned
     loci. Related or variant polypeptides are aligned by any method known to those of
     skill in the art. Such methods typically maximize matches, and include methods such
 15  as manual alignments and those produced by the numerous alignment programs
     available (for example, BLASTP) and others known to those of skill in the art. By
     aligning the sequences of polypeptides, one skilled in the art can identify
     corresponding residues, using conserved and identical amino acid residues as guides.
     Corresponding positions also can be based on structural alignments, for example by
20   using computer simulated alignments of protein structure.
              As used herein, nucleic acids or nucleic acid molecules include DNA, RNA
     and analogs thereof, including peptide nucleic acids (PNA) and mixtures thereof.
     Nucleic acids can be single or double-stranded.
              As used herein, the term polynucleotide means a single- or double-stranded
25   polymer of deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotide bases read from the 5' to the 3'
     end. Polynucleotides include RNA and DNA, and can be isolated from natural
     sources, synthesized in vitro, or prepared from a combination of natural and synthetic
     molecules. The length of a polynucleotide molecule is given herein in terms of
     nucleotides (abbreviated "nt") or base pairs (abbreviated "bp"). The term nucleotides
 30  is used for single- and double-stranded molecules where the context permits. When

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 15
     the term is applied to double-stranded molecules it is used to denote overall length
     and will be understood to be equivalent to the term base pairs. It will be recognized by
     those skilled in the art that the two strands of a double-stranded polynucleotide can
     differ slightly in length and that the ends thereof can be staggered; thus all nucleotides
  5  within a double-stranded polynucleotide molecule cannot be paired. Such unpaired
     ends will, in general, not exceed 20 nucleotides in length.
             As used herein, a peptide refers to a polypeptide that is greater than or equal to
     2 amino acids in length, and less than or equal to 40 amino acids in length.
             As used herein, the amino acids which occur in the various sequences of
 10  amino acids provided herein are identified according to their known, three-letter or
     one-letter abbreviations (Table 1). The nucleotides which occur in the various nucleic
     acid fragments are designated with the standard single-letter designations used
     routinely in the art.
             As used herein, an "amino acid" is an organic compound containing an amino
 15  group and a carboxylic acid group. A polypeptide contains two or more amino acids.
     For purposes herein, amino acids include the twenty naturally-occurring amino acids,
     non-natural amino acids and amino acid analogs (i.e., amino acids wherein the a
     carbon has a side chain).
             As used herein, "amino acid residue" refers to an amino acid formed upon
20   chemical digestion (hydrolysis) of a polypeptide at its peptide linkages. The amino
     acid residues described herein are presumed to be in the "L" isomeric form. Residues
     in the "D" isomeric form, which are so designated, can be substituted for any L-amino
     acid residue as long as the desired functional property is retained by the polypeptide.
     NH 2 refers to the free amino group present at the amino terminus of a polypeptide.
25   COOH refers to the free carboxy group present at the carboxyl terminus of a
     polypeptide. In keeping with standard polypeptide nomenclature described in J. Biol.
     Chem. 243:3557-3559 (1968), and adopted 37 C.F.R. §§ 1.821-1.822, abbreviations
     for amino acid residues are shown in Table 1:
              Table 1 - Table of Correspondence
                       SYMBOL
                       1-Letter       3-Letter         AMINO ACID
                       Y              Tyr              Tyrosine
                       G              Gly              Glycine

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 16
                       SYMBOL
                       1-Letter     3-Letter         AMINO ACID
                       F            Phe              Phenylalanine
                       M            Met              Methionine
                       A            Ala              Alanine
                       S            Ser              Serine
                       I            Ile              Isoleucine
                       L            Leu              Leucine
                       T            Thr              Threonine
                       V            Val              Valine
                       P            Pro              Proline
                       K            Lys              Lysine
                       H            His              Histidine
                       Q            Gln              Glutamine
                       E            Glu              Glutamic acid
                       Z            Glx              Glu and/or Gln
                       W            Trp              Tryptophan
                       R            Arg              Arginine
                       D            Asp              Aspartic acid
                       N            Asn              Asparagine
                       B            Asx              Asn and/or Asp
                       C            Cys              Cysteine
                       X            Xaa              Unknown or other
             All amino acid residue sequences represented herein by formulae have a left to
     right orientation in the conventional direction of amino-terminus to carboxyl
     terminus. In addition, the phrase "amino acid residue" is defined to include the amino
     acids listed in the Table of Correspondence (Table 1) and modified and unusual
  5  amino acids, such as those referred to in 37 C.F.R. §§ 1.821-1.822, and incorporated
     herein by reference. Furthermore, it should be noted that a dash at the beginning or
     end of an amino acid residue sequence indicates a peptide bond to a further sequence
     of one or more amino acid residues, to an amino-terminal group such as NH 2 or to a
     carboxyl-terminal group such as COOH.
 10          As used herein, "naturally occurring amino acids" refer to the 20 L-amino
     acids that occur in polypeptides.
             As used herein, "non-natural amino acid" refers to an organic compound
     containing an amino group and a carboxylic acid group that is not one of the
     naturally-occurring amino acids listed in Table 1. Non-naturally occurring amino
 15  acids thus include, for example, amino acids or analogs of amino acids other than the
     20 naturally-occurring amino acids and include, but are not limited to, the D-

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 17
     isostereomers of amino acids. Exemplary non-natural amino acids are known to those
     of skill in the art.
              As used herein, modification is in reference to modification of the primary
     sequence of amino acids of a polypeptide or a sequence of nucleotides in a nucleic
  5  acid molecule and includes deletions, insertions, and replacements and
     rearrangements of amino acids and nucleotides. Modifications can be made by
     making conservative amino acid replacements and also non-conservative amino acid
     substitutions as well as by insertions and other such changes in primary sequence.
     Modifications also can include post-translational modifications or other changes to the
 10  molecule that can occur due to conjugation or linkage, directly or indirectly, to
     another moiety, but when such modifications are contemplated they are referred to as
     post-translational modifications or conjugates or other such term as appropriate.
     Methods of modifying a polypeptide are routine to those of skill in the art, and can be
     performed by standard methods, such as site directed mutations, amplification
 15  methods, and gene shuffling methods.
              As used herein, amino acid replacements or substitutions contemplated
     include, but are not limited to, conservative substitutions, including, but not limited
     to, those set forth in Table 2. Suitable conservative substitutions of amino acids are
     known to those of skill in the art and can be made generally without altering the
20   conformation or activity of the polypeptide. Those of skill in this art recognize that, in
     general, single amino acid substitutions in non-essential regions of a polypeptide do
     not substantially alter biological activity (see, e.g., Watson et al. MolecularBiology of
     the Gene, 4th Edition, 1987, The Benjamin/Cummings Pub. co., p.224). Conservative
     amino acid substitutions are made, for example, in accordance with those set forth in
25   Table 2 as follows:
              TABLE 2
                   Original residue            Conservative substitution
                          Ala (A)                        Gly; Ser
                          Arg (R)                           Lys
                         Asn (N)                         Gln; His
                          Cys (C)                            Ser
                          Gln (Q)                           Asn
                          Glu (E)                           Asp
                          Gly (G)                        Ala; Pro

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 18
                   Original residue           Conservative substitution
                        His (H)                         Asn; Gln
                         Ile (I)                        Leu; Val
                        Leu (L)                         Ile; Val
                        Lys (K)                      Arg; Gln; Glu
                       Met (M)                       Leu; Tyr; Ile
                        Phe (F)                      Met; Leu; Tyr
                        Ser (S)                            Thr
                        Thr (T)                            Ser
                       Trp (W)                             Tyr
                        Tyr (Y)                         Trp; Phe
                        Val (V)                      Ile; Leu; Met
     Other conservative substitutions also are permissible and can be determined
     empirically or in accord with known conservative substitutions.
             As used herein, a DNA construct is a single or double stranded, linear or
  5  circular DNA molecule that contains segments of DNA combined and juxtaposed in a
     manner not found in nature. DNA constructs exist as a result of human manipulation,
     and include clones and other copies of manipulated molecules.
             As used herein, a DNA segment is a portion of a larger DNA molecule having
     specified attributes. For example, a DNA segment encoding a specified polypeptide is
 10  a portion of a longer DNA molecule, such as a plasmid or plasmid fragment, which,
     when read from the 5' to 3' direction, encodes the sequence of amino acids of the
     specified polypeptide.
             As used herein, "primary sequence" refers to the sequence of amino acid
     residues in a polypeptide.
 15          As used herein, "similarity" between two proteins or nucleic acids refers to the
     relatedness between the sequence of amino acids of the proteins or the nucleotide
     sequences of the nucleic acids. Similarity can be based on the degree of identity
     and/or homology of sequences of residues and the residues contained therein.
     Methods for assessing the degree of similarity between proteins or nucleic acids are
20   known to those of skill in the art. For example, in one method of assessing sequence
     similarity, two amino acid or nucleotide sequences are aligned in a manner that yields
     a maximal level of identity between the sequences. "Identity" refers to the extent to
     which the amino acid or nucleotide sequences are invariant. Alignment of amino acid
     sequences, and to some extent nucleotide sequences, also can take into account

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 19
     conservative differences and/or frequent substitutions in amino acids (or nucleotides).
     Conservative differences are those that preserve the physico-chemical properties of
     the residues involved. Alignments can be global (alignment of the compared
     sequences over the entire length of the sequences and including all residues) or local
  5  (the alignment of a portion of the sequences that includes only the most similar region
     or regions).
              As used herein, "sequence identity" refers to the number of identical or similar
     amino acids or nucleotide bases in a comparison between a test and a reference poly
     peptide or polynucleotide. Sequence identity can be determined by sequence
 10  alignment of nucleic acid or protein sequences to identify regions of similarity or
     identity. For purposes herein, sequence identity is generally determined by alignment
     to identify identical residues. The alignment can be local or global. Matches,
     mismatches and gaps can be identified between compared sequences. Gaps are null
     amino acids or nucleotides inserted between the residues of aligned sequences so that
 15  identical or similar characters are aligned. Generally, there can be internal and
     terminal gaps. Sequence identity can be determined by taking into account gaps as the
     number of identical residues/ length of the shortest sequence x 100. When using gap
     penalties, sequence identity can be determined with no penalty for end gaps (e.g.
     terminal gaps are not penalized). Alternatively, sequence identity can be determined
20   without taking into account gaps as the number of identical positions/length of the
     total aligned sequence x 100.
              Amino acid sequence similarity or identity can be computed by using the
     BLASTP and TBLASTN programs which employ the BLAST (basic local alignment
     search tool) 2.0 algorithm. Techniques for computing amino acid sequence similarity
25   or identity are well known to those skilled in the art, and the use of the BLAST
     algorithm is described in ALTSCHUL et al. 1990, JMol. Biol. 215: 403- 410 and
     ALTSCHUL et al. (1997), Nucleic Acids Res. 25: 3389-3402.
              As used herein, the term "identity" represents a comparison between a test and
     a reference polypeptide or polynucleotide. In one non-limiting example, "at least 90
 30  % identical to" refers to percent identities from 90 to 100 % relative to the reference
     polypeptides. Identity at a level of 90 % or more is indicative of the fact that,
     assuming for exemplification purposes a test and reference polypeptide length of 100

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 20
     amino acids are compared, no more than 10 % (i.e., 10 out of 100) of amino acids in
     the test polypeptide differs from that of the reference polypeptides. Similar
     comparisons can be made between a test and reference polynucleotides. Such
     differences can be represented as point mutations randomly distributed over the entire
  5  length of an amino acid sequence or they can be clustered in one or more locations of
     varying length up to the maximum allowable, e.g., 10/100 amino acid difference
     (approximately 90 % identity). Differences also can be due to deletions or truncations
     of amino acid or nucleotide residues. Differences are defined as nucleic acid or amino
     acid substitutions, insertions or deletions. Depending on the length of the compared
 10  sequences, at the level of homologies or identities above about 85-90 %,the result
     reasonably independent of the program and gap parameters set; such high levels of
     identity can be assessed readily, often without relying on software.
             As used herein, a substantially similar sequence is an amino acid sequence that
     differs from a reference sequence only by one or more conservative substitutions.
 15  Such a sequence can, for example, be functionally homologous to another
     substantially similar sequence. It will be appreciated by a person of skill in the art the
     aspects of the individual amino acids in a peptide provided herein that can be
     substituted.
              As used herein, an aligned sequence refers to the use of homology (similarity
20   and/or identity) to align corresponding positions in a sequence of nucleotides or
     amino acids. Typically, two or more sequences that are related by about or 50 % or
     more identity are aligned. An aligned set of sequences refers to 2 or more sequences
     that are aligned at corresponding positions and can include aligning sequences derived
     from RNAs, such as ESTs and other cDNAs, aligned with genomic DNA sequence.
25           As used herein, substantially pure means sufficiently homogeneous to appear
     free of readily detectable impurities as determined by standard methods of analysis,
     such as thin layer chromatography (TLC), gel electrophoresis and high performance
     liquid chromatography (HPLC), used by those of skill in the art to assess such purity,
     or sufficiently pure such that further purification would not detectably alter the
 30  physical and chemical properties, such as enzymatic and biological activities, of the
     substance. Methods for purification of the compounds to produce substantially
     chemically pure compounds are known to those of skill in the art. A substantially

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 21
     chemically pure compound can, however, be a mixture of stereoisomers or isomers. In
     such instances, further purification might increase the specific activity of the
     compound.
             As used herein, isolated or purified polypeptide or protein or biologically
  5  active portion thereof is substantially free of cellular material or other contaminating
     proteins from the cell of tissue from which the protein is derived, or substantially free
     from chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized.
     Preparations can be determined to be substantially free if they appear free of readily
     detectable impurities as determined by standard methods of analysis, such as thin
 10  layer chromatography (TLC), gel electrophoresis and high performance liquid
     chromatography (HPLC), used by those of skill in the art to assess such purity, or
     sufficiently pure such that further purification would not detectably alter the physical
     and chemical properties, such as proteolytic and biological activities, of the substance.
     Methods for purification of the compounds to produce substantially chemically pure
 15  compounds are known to those of skill in the art. A substantially chemically pure
     compound, however, can be a mixture of stereoisomers. In such instances, further
     purification might increase the specific activity of the compound.
             As used herein, substantially free of cellular material includes preparations of
     diTPSs or diterpene products in which the synthase or product is separated from
20   cellular components of the cells from which it is isolated or produced. In one
     embodiment, the term substantially free of cellular material includes preparations of
     having less that about or less than 30%, 20%, 10%, 5% or less (by dry weight) of
     non-diTPS or diterpene product, including cell culture medium. When the synthase is
     recombinantly produced, it also is substantially free of culture medium, i.e., culture
25   medium represents less than about or at 20%, 10% or 5 % of the volume of the
     synthase protein preparation.
             As used herein, the term substantially free of chemical precursors or other
     chemicals includes preparations of synthase proteins or diterpene products that is
     separated from chemical precursors or other chemicals that are involved in the
 30  synthesis thereof. The term includes preparations of synthase proteins or diterpene
     products having less than about or less than 30% (by dry weight), 20%, 10%, 5% or
     less of chemical precursors or non- synthase chemicals or components.

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 22
             As used herein, synthetic, with reference to, for example, a synthetic nucleic
     acid molecule or a synthetic gene or a synthetic peptide refers to a nucleic acid
     molecule or polypeptide molecule that is produced by recombinant methods and/or by
     chemical synthesis methods.
  5          As used herein, production by recombinant methods by using recombinant
     DNA methods refers to the use of the well known methods of molecular biology for
     expressing proteins encoded by cloned DNA.
             As used herein, vector (or plasmid) refers to discrete DNA elements that are
     used to introduce heterologous nucleic acid into cells for either expression or
 10  replication thereof. The vectors typically remain episomal, but can be designed to
     effect integration of a gene or portion thereof into a chromosome of the genome. Also
     contemplated are vectors that are artificial chromosomes, such as bacterial artificial
     chromosomes, yeast artificial chromosomes and mammalian artificial chromosomes.
     Selection and use of such vehicles are well known to those of skill in the art.
 15          As used herein, expression refers to the process by which nucleic acid is
     transcribed into mRNA and translated into peptides, polypeptides, or proteins. If the
     nucleic acid is derived from genomic DNA, expression can, if an appropriate
     eukaryotic host cell or organism is selected, include processing, such as splicing of
     the mRNA.
20           As used herein, an expression vector includes vectors capable of expressing
     DNA that is operatively linked with regulatory sequences, such as promoter regions,
     that are capable of effecting expression of such DNA fragments. Such additional
     segments can include promoter and terminator sequences, and optionally can include
     one or more origins of replication, one or more selectable markers, an enhancer, a
25   polyadenylation signal, and the like. Expression vectors are generally derived from
     plasmid or viral DNA, or can contain elements of both. Thus, an expression vector
     refers to a recombinant DNA or RNA construct, such as a plasmid, a phage,
     recombinant virus or other vector that, upon introduction into an appropriate host cell,
     results in expression of the cloned DNA. Appropriate expression vectors are well
 30  known to those of skill in the art and include those that are replicable in eukaryotic
     cells and/or prokaryotic cells and those that remain episomal or those which integrate
     into the host cell genome.

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 23
             As used herein, vector also includes "virus vectors" or "viral vectors." Viral
     vectors are engineered viruses that are operatively linked to exogenous genes to
     transfer (as vehicles or shuttles) the exogenous genes into cells. Viral vectors include,
     but are not limited to, adenoviral vectors, retroviral vectors and vaccinia virus vectors.
  5          As used herein, operably or operatively linked when referring to DNA
     segments means that the segments are arranged so that they function in concert for
     their intended purposes, e.g., transcription initiates downstream of the promoter and
     upstream of any transcribed sequences. The promoter is usually the domain to which
     the transcriptional machinery binds to initiate transcription and proceeds through the
 10  coding segment to the terminator.
             As used herein, the term assessing or determining includes quantitative and
     qualitative determination in the sense of obtaining an absolute value for the activity of
     a product, and also of obtaining an index, ratio, percentage, visual or other value
     indicative of the level of the activity. Assessment can be direct or indirect.
 15          As used herein, recitation that a polypeptide "consists essentially" of a recited
     sequence of amino acids means that only the recited portion, or a fragment thereof, of
     the full-length polypeptide is present. The polypeptide can optionally, and generally
     will, include additional amino acids from another source or can be inserted into
     another polypeptide
20           As used herein, the singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents
     unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to
     polypeptide, comprising "an amino acid replacement" includes polypeptides with one
     or a plurality of amino acid replacements.
             As used herein, ranges and amounts can be expressed as "about" a particular
25   value or range. About also includes the exact amount. Hence "about 5 %"means
     "about 5 %" and also "5 %."
             As used herein, "optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently
     described event or circumstance does or does not occur, and that the description
     includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances where it
 30  does not. For example, an optional step of isolating a diterpenoid (e.g. cis-abienol)
     means that the diterpenoid (e.g. cis-abienol) is isolated or is not isolated.

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 24
             As used herein, the abbreviations for any protective groups, amino acids and
     other compounds, are, unless indicated otherwise, in accord with their common usage,
     recognized abbreviations, or the IUPAC-IUB Commission on Biochemical
     Nomenclature (see, (1972) Biochem. 11:1726).
  5          For clarity of disclosure, and not by way of limitation, the detailed description
     is divided into the subsections that follow.
     B.      Bifunctional Class I/II Diterpene Synthase Polypeptides and Diterpenoid
     Products
             The present disclosure provides, in part, diterpene synthase (diTPS) nucleic
 10  acid molecules and polypeptides that can, for example, be used in the production of
     diterpenoids. The disclosure also relates, in part, to vectors containing such
     sequences, transformed cells, cell lines, and transgenic organisms. The present
     disclosure also provides methods for producing a diterpene. The present disclosure
     further relates to a method for producing diterpenoids in a host. The present disclosure
 15  also provides compositions, uses, and kits comprising diTPS.
             1.       Bifunctional Class I/II Diterpene Synthases in Balsam fir
             Varied mechanisms of diTPS-catalyzed cycloisomerization of
     (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) contribute substantially to the chemical
     diversity of diterpene metabolites found in the oleoresin of conifers, and in nature, in
20   general. Introduction of hydroxyl functions further increases the diversity of naturally
     occurring diTPS products. Hydroxylation of conifer diterpenes can result from
     activity of P450s acting on products of diTPSs (Ro et al. (2005) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
     U.S.A., 102:8060-8065; Hamberger et al. (2011) PlantPhysiology, 157:1677-1695),
     or can result from capture of water by carbocation intermediates during the diTPS
25   reaction (Keeling et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem., 286:21145-21153). For example, in
     general, biosynthesis of oleoresin diterpenoids in conifers involves the sequential
     cycloisomerization of GGPP, catalyzed by bifunctional class I/II diterpene synthases
     (diTPSs) of the TPS-d subfamily. Oxygen functionality of conifer oleoresin
     diterpenes can be introduced by diTPSs (Keeling et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem.,
 30  286:21145-21153) and/or by separate activity of cytochrome P450 dependent
     monooxygenases of the CYP720B subfamily (Ro et al. (2005) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci.

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 25
     U.S.A., 102:8060-8065; Hamberger et al. (2006) Biochem. Soc. Trans., 34:1209-1214;
     Hamberger et al. (2011) PlantPhysiol, 157:1677-1695).
              Relatively little is known about diTPSs catalyzing cyclohydration reactions.
     Reported examples are the biosynthesis of copal-8-ol by a monofunctional class II
  5  diTPS from Cistus creticus (Falaraet al. (2010) PlantPhysiol., 154: 301-3 10), the
     formation of ent-16u-hydroxy-kaurene as a product of the bifunctional class 1/11 ent
     copalyl diphosphate/ent-kaurene synthase (CPS/KS) from the non-vascular plants
     Physcomitrellapatens and Jungermanniasubulata (Hayashi et al. (2006) FEBS Lett.,
     580: 6175-6181; Kawaide et al. (2011) FEBS J., 278:123-133), and the biosynthesis
 10  of labda-7,13-dien-15-ol catalyzed by a CPS/KS-like diTPS from the lycophyte
     Sellaginellamoellendorffii (Mafu et al. (2011) Chembiochem., 12:1984-1987). In
     addition, a recent study on the product specificity of Norway spruce PaLAS (Keeling
     et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem., 286:21145-21153), demonstrated a tricyclic, tertiary
     diterpene alcohol as the initial, but highly unstable, product of this diTPS. In the case
 15  of PaLAS, the allylic diterpenol product dehydrates to a set of diterpene olefins.
              Previously characterized conifer diTPSs produce either isopimaradiene and
     minor amounts of sandaracopimaradiene (Iso-type diTPSs) or epimeric forms of
     13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene (LAS-type diTPSs) (Figure 1A; see also Stofer Bogel et
     al. (1996) J. Biol. Chem., 271:23262-23268; Peters et al. (2000) Biochemistry,
20   39:15592-15602; Peters et al. (2001) J. Am. Chem. Soc., 123:8974-8978; Martin et al.
     (2004) PlantPhysiol., 135:1908-1927; Ro et al. (2006) Phytochemistry,67:1572
     1578; Keeling et al. (2008) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 105:1085-1090; Keeling et
     al. (2011) BMC PlantBiol., 11:43; and Keeling et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem.,
     286:21145-21153). In vitro, and perhaps in vivo, 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene is
25   readily dehydrated, resulting in a mixture of abietadiene, levopimaradiene,
     neoabietadiene, and palustradiene (Keeling et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem., 286:21145
     21153).
              As described herein from development of a 454-transcriptome resource for
     balsam fir, which was used in conjunction with terpenoid metabolite profiling, diTPSs
 30  were identified that resembled bifunctional class I/II gymnosperm diTPSs of the TPS
     d group containing the characteristic DxDD, DDxxD and NSE/DTE motifs (SEQ ID
     NOS:12-14, respectively) (Martin et al. (2004) Plant Physiol 135:1908-1927;

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 26
     Keeling et al. (2011) BMC PlantBiol 11:43; Chen et al. (2011) The PlantJournal
     66:212-229; Peters et al. (2003) Biochemistry 42:2700-2707; Peters & Croteau (2002)
     Biochemistry 41:1836-1842; Zhou & Peters (2009) Phytochemistry 70:366-369). The
     identified diTPS synthases are denoted AbdiTPS1 (set forth in SEQ ID NO:2 and
  5  encoding the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:1), AbdiTPS2 (set
     forth in SEQ ID NO: 4 and encoding the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID
     NO:3), AbdiTPS3 (set forth in SEQ ID NO:6 and encoding the sequence of amino
     acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:5) and AbdiTPS4 (set forth in SEQ ID NO:8 and
     encoding the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7. Identification and
 10  functional characterization of pseudomature forms lacking the plastidial transit
     peptide revealed that AbdiTPS4 is a class 1/11 gymnosperm cis-abienol synthase
     (CAS). The same sequence resource also revealed the two additional bifunctional
     class I/II diTPSs AbdiTPS2 and AbdiTPS1 represent the balsam fir Iso and LAS
     enzymes, respectively, which form tricyclic diterpenes.
 15           The present disclosure relates to one, or more than one, diterpene synthase
     (diTPS) nucleic acid molecule and one, or more than one, diTPS polypeptide. The
     one or more than one, diTPS polypeptides can be a class 1/11 diTPS. More specifically
     the one or more than one diTPS polypeptides can be a bifunctional class 1/11 diTPS.
     The diTPS can therefore contain a class II active site that has a DxDD motif and/or a
20   class I active site that has a DDxxD motif. The present disclosure provides a nucleic
     acid containing a nucleotide sequence encoding diterpene synthase (diTPS), for
     example, LAS diTPS, Iso-type diTPS and CAS diTPS. The nucleotide sequence
     encoding diTPS can be operatively linked to a regulatory region active in a host.
              Also provided herein are variants of any of the nucleic acid sequences
25   provided herein exhibiting substantially the same properties as the sequences provided
     herein. By this it is meant that nucleic acid sequences need not be identical to the
     sequence disclosed herein. Variations can be attributable to single or multiple base
     substitutions, deletions, or insertions or local mutations involving one or more
     nucleotides not substantially detracting from the properties of the nucleic acid
 30  sequence as encoding an enzyme having the activity of the diTPS as provided herein.
              One, or more than one, nucleic acid encoding a diTPS are provided. The
     nucleic acid encoding a diTPS, such as is used in any of the described embodiments

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 27
     herein, can contain a nucleotide sequence that is at least 50% identical to any of SEQ
     ID NO: 2, 4, 6 or 8, a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment that exhibits
     diTPS activity or to the complement thereof. For example, the nucleic acid contains a
     nucleotide sequence that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at
  5  least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as generally at least 95% or
     at least 98% identical to any of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, 6 or 8, a portion thereof that
     encodes an active fragment that exhibits diTPS activity or the complement thereof.
     The present disclosure provides nucleic acid sequences encoding for a polypeptide
     having a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ
 10  ID NO: 7, an active fragment thereof or sequences substantially identical thereto. For
     example, the provided nucleic acid sequence encodes a pseudomature form of any of
     SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 7, or an active fragment
     thereof. The one, or more than one, nucleic acid can contain the sequence set forth in
     SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 4, SEQ ID NO: 6, SEQ ID NO: 8, a portion thereof that
 15  encodes an active fragment that exhibits diTPS activity, combinations thereof, or
     sequences substantially similar thereto. The sequence of the nucleic acid can be
     changed, for example, to account for codon preference in a particular host cell. In
     particular examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS contains a nucleotide sequence
     set forth in any of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, 6 or 8, a portion thereof that encodes an active
20   fragment or the complement thereof. In other examples, the nucleic acid encoding a
     diTPS is set forth in any of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4, 6 or 8, a portion thereof that encodes an
     active fragment or the complement thereof.
              Also provided are one, or more than one diTPS polypeptides. The polypeptide
     having a diTPS activity, such as intended for use in aspects of the methods provided
25   herein, is a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence that is at least 50% identical to
     any of SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, 5, or 7 or an active fragment thereof that exhibits a diTPS
     activity. Such polypeptides include pseudomature forms lacking the transit peptide.
     For examples, among polypeptides provided herein are any that have an amino acid
     sequence that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at
 30  least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as generally at least 95% or at least 98%
     identical to any of SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, 5, or 7 or an active fragment thereof that exhibits
     diTPS activity. The one, or more than one diTPS polypeptides can contain the

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 28
     sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 7
     or an active fragment thereof that exhibits diTPS activity, or sequences having at least
     about 80-100% sequence similarity thereto, including any percent similarity within
     these ranges, such as or at least or greater than 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90,
  5  91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99% sequence similarity thereto. The present disclosure
     provides nucleic acid sequences encoding for a polypeptide having a sequence
     selected from SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 5, SEQ ID NO: 7, an
     active fragment thereof that exhibits diTPS activity or sequences substantially
     identical thereto. In examples herein, the polypeptide contains the sequence of amino
 10  acids set forth in any of SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, 5, or 7 or an active fragment thereof that
     exhibits diTPS activity. In other examples, the amino acid sequence for a polypeptide
     provided herein is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1, 3, 5, or 7 or an active fragment thereof
     that exhibits diTPS activity. Also provided herein are pseudomature forms of any of
     SEQ ID NOS:1, 3, 5 or 7 lacking the transit peptide.
 15          The present study highlights the powers of combined metabolite profiling,
     tissue-specific deep transcriptome sequencing, and functional (i.e., biochemical)
     genomics for the successful discovery and characterization of new enzymes of natural
     product biosynthesis (see also Bleeker et al. (2011) Plant.Mol. Biol., 77:323-336).
     Of fundamental importance for the success of a genomics- or transcriptomics-based
20   approach to natural products enzyme discovery is the traditional or new knowledge of
     the occurrence of specialized metabolites associated with particular plant species or
     particular tissues. Balsam fir was ideally suited for the discovery of CAS, since this
     species accumulates large amounts of cis-abienol in the oleoresin of bark/phloem
     tissue (Example 1). Xylem/wood or needles of balsam fir do not contain cis-abienol in
25   relevant amounts, and therefore were not included in the transcriptome sequencing for
     CAS discovery.
             Beyond the selection of species and tissues via metabolite profiling prior to
     454 sequencing, another element in the successful discovery strategy of AbCAS was
     the application of a directed BlastX search of the de novo transcriptome assembly.
 30  Specifically, the BlastX search of the de novo transcriptome assembly was directed
     against a comprehensive sequence database of characterized TPSs. This strategy
     allowed for the curator-optimized annotation of TPSs genes, which substantially

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 29
     streamlined the efforts of functional gene characterization towards four candidate
     AbdiTPSs. Of these four candidates, the corresponding enzymes ofAbdiTPS1
     (AbLAS), AbdiTPS2 (AbIso), and AbdiTPS4 (AbCAS) were successfully
     characterized. Together, the set of three types of bifunctional diTPSs, AbIso, AbLAS
  5  and A bCAS, account for the majority of diterpene structures found in the specialized
     diterpene metabolism of balsam fir bark tissue.
              2.     Biosynthesis of Oleoresin Diterpenoids by diTPSs
              Bifunctional class I/II diTPSs of conifer specialized metabolism are members
     of the TPS-d group (Martin et al. (2004) Plant Physiol., 135:1908-1927; Keeling et
 10  al. (2011) BMC PlantBiol., 11:43; Chen et al. (2011) The PlantJournal,66:212
     229). Within this group, new genes and enzyme functions appear to have evolved
     from a common ancestor by repeated gene duplication. Neo- or sub-functionalization
     of members of this gene family involved mutation of specific active site residues
     (Keeling et al. (2008) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci,. U.S.A., 105:1085-1090; Wilderman et
 15  al. (2007) J. Am. Chem. Soc., 129:15736-15737). As shown herein, using mutational
     analysis of AbCAS and comparative structural analysis of AbCAS with AbIso and
     AbLAS, distinct catalytic mechanisms were identified. Also, unique residues in the
     AbCAS class I and class II active sites that are associated with product specificity also
     were revealed.
20            The initial bicyclization of GGPP, resulting in a labda-13-en-8-yl+
     intermediate of (9S,10S)-stereochemistry, is likely a common feature of the class II
     reactions of CAS-, LAS-, and Iso-type diTPSs (Figure 1). Previous work showed that
     naturally occurring cis-abienol is optically pure and represents the (9S,1OS)
     stereoisomer (Carman et al. (1993) Aust. J. Chem., 46: 1105-1114). Based on the
25   relatively high protein sequence identity of more than 90% with Abies grandis
     abietadiene synthase (AgAS), a similar catalytic function was suspected for AbdiTPS1
     and AbdiTPS2, while the lower sequence identity of AbdiTPS4 (75%) was indicative
     of a distinct function. Characterization by sequence identity was confirmed by
     functional characterization. In a distinct pathway of the class II reaction, it is shown
 30  herein that AbCAS then promotes water capture at the C-8 carbon of the carbocation
     to form labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate, while the LAS- and Iso-type diTPSs form
     (9S,10S)-CPP through deprotonation at the C-8 position (Figure 1). In contrast to the

WO 2013/075239                                                                 PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 30
     well characterized biosynthesis of tricyclic diterpenes by conifer diTPSs of the Iso
     and LAS-type, until now a conifer gene or enzyme for the biosynthesis of a bicyclic
     diterpene cis-abienol has not yet been reported. Thus, AbdiTPS4 (AbCAS) represents
     a previously unknown diTPS function.
  5                    a.     Biosynthesis of Tricyclic Diterpene
              As shown in Figure 1A, the reaction mechanism of the Iso- and LAS-type
     diTPSs involves the initial protonation-initiated bicyclization of GGPP at the class II
     active site resulting in copalyl diphosphate (CPP) of (9S,10S) configuration (i.e.,
     normal or (+)-configuration). (9S,10S)-CPP then translocates to the class I active site
 10  where it undergoes a secondary ionization-dependent cyclization and enzyme-specific
     rearrangement of intermediate carbocations. In Iso-type diTPSs, direct deprotonation
     of the sandaracopimarenyl cation results in the formation of isopimaradiene, whereas
     LAS-type diTPSs catalyze additional rearrangement and water capture at C- 13
     resulting in 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietane as the initial product (Keeling et al. (2011) J.
 15  Biol. Chem., 286: 21145-21153). This reaction mechanism has been exemplified in
     the examples herein for the Iso- and LAS-type diTPS provided herein from balsam fir.
              The functional characterization of AbdiTPS1 (AbLAS) with 13-hydroxy
     8(14)-abietene as the initial reaction product, and multiple olefin compounds
     occurring upon dehydration of the alcohol, substantiates a report of the formation of a
20   tricyclic tertiary C-13 alcohol as the primary product of Norway spruce PaLAS
     (Keeling et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem., 286:21145-21153). Likewise, AbdiTPS2 (AbIso)
     is the first Iso-type diTPS to be characterized outside of the spruce genus (Picea),
     with phylogenetic patterns indicating that functional divergence of LAS- and Iso-type
     diTPS occurred independently in the spruce and fir (Abies) lineages (Figure 4).
25                     b.     Biosynthesis of Bicyclic Diterpene
              A special feature of AbCAS from other conifer diTPSs is the formation of a
     bicyclic, tertiary diterpenol, cis-abienol, at the class II active site of a bifunctional
     class 1/11 diTPS. As shown herein, the reaction sequence of cis-abienol formation
     catalyzed by the bifunctional conifer class I/II diTPS (AbCAS) proceeds via water
 30  capture of a carbocation intermediate at carbon C-8 and subsequent ionization of the
     allylic diphosphate group without further cycloisomerization (Figure 1B). For the
     fragrance industry, bicyclic hydroxylated diterpenes, such as cis-abienol and sclareol,

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 31
     are of particular value as plant-derived precursors for the sustainable production of
     Ambrox*, which replaces the controversial use of animal-derived ambergris in
     perfume formulations.
              Structural modeling and molecular docking of labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate in
  5  the class I and class II active sites of AbCAS (see Figure 6) revealed only one unique
     amino acid in the class II active site in proximity of the docked intermediate that
     seems likely to control this particular hydroxylation reaction, namely Asp348 with
     reference to the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:58 (corresponding to Asp349 of
     SEQ ID NO:7). Located at the posterior of the active site opposite of the DIDD motif
 10  and Trp358, which have previously been reported to contribute to the AgAS-catalyzed
     class II reaction (Peters et al. (2002) Biochemistry, 41:1836-1842), the negatively
     charged side chain of Asp348 appears to stabilize the positive charge at C-8 for water
     quenching to occur in the formation of labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate (see Figure 6B).
     This local negative charge is not present in any LAS- or Iso-type enzymes, which
 15  contain a conserved histidine in this position (Figure 7).
              Comparative homology modeling and site directed mutagenesis revealed
     unique features of cis-abienol biosynthesis that demonstrate a functional divergence in
     the evolution of CAS relative to the paralogous Iso- and LAS-type conifer diTPSs
     associated with substitution of key residues in the active sites. Mutational analysis and
20   complementation assays indicate that the class I active site of AbCAS is selective for
     labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate as a substrate, but does not convert (9S,10S)-CPP,
     which is the class I active site substrate of LAS-, and Iso-type diTPSs (Figure 5) .
     Unlike LAS- and Iso-enzymes, the class I active site of AbCAS catalyzes the
     ionization of the diphosphate group without cyclization of a C-ring (Figure 1). Several
25   unique residues were found in a radius of 7^ around the hydroxy group of labda-13
     en-8-ol diphosphate docked within the class I active site of AbCAS that indicate a role
     in the AbCAS reaction (Figure 6 C and D). Among these, Leu617, Phe696 and
     Gly723 with reference to the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:58 are of particular
     interest as they contribute to contour of the active site cavity (corresponding to
 30  residues Leu618, Phe697 and Gly724 of SEQ ID NO:7). Leu617 and Phe696 are
     located in the class I active site cavity upstream of the DDxxD motif on helix D,
     creating an expansion of the hydrophobic pocket relative to AbLAS and A blso.

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 32
     Gly723 and Va1724 account for a change in the hinge region between helix GI and
     G2. These residues are positioned to contribute to the release of a bicyclic product
     rather than facilitating a secondary cyclization. Interestingly, residues corresponding
     to Leu617, Phe696 and Gly723 have previously been shown to be critical for the
  5  catalytic plasticity of conifer diTPSs (Keeling et al. (2008) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci.
     U.S.A., 105:1085-1090; Wilderman et al. (2007) J. Am. Chem. Soc., 129:15736
     15737; Peters et al. (2002) Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci., U.S.A., 99:580-584; Leonard et al.
     (2010) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 107:13654-13659) and thus appear to represent
     key positions for the functional evolution of these enzymes.
 10           While tricyclic diterpene resin acids are ubiquitously abundant in the pine
     family (Pinaceae),the oleoresin of balsam fir (Abies balsamea (L.) Mill.) contains
     cis-abienol, a bicyclic, tertiary diterpene alcohol, as the major diterpenoid (Gray et al.
     (1964) J. Chem. Soc., 5822-5825). The generation of bicyclic, tertiary diterpene
     alcohols has been demonstrated in non-conifer clades. For example, recently, a
 15  monofunctional angiosperm diTPS, catalyzing the formation of a bicyclic oxygen
     containing diterpenoid, copal-8-ol diphosphate synthase, from Cistus creticus
     (Cistaceae)has been reported (Falara et al. (2010) Plant Physiol., 154:301-310). This
     enzyme represents a class II diTPS that catalyzes the protonation-initiated cyclization
     of GGPP to form the hydroxylated CPP compound. In addition, Mafu et al. ((2011),
20   Chembiochem, 12:1984-1987) described a bifunctional class I/II diTPS,
     SmCPSKSL1, from the lycophyte Sellaginellamoellendorffii for the formation of
     labda-7,13-dien-15-ol, where the primary hydroxyl group is introduced in the reaction
     of the class I active site.
              Despite extensive efforts of TPS gene discovery in species of spruce (Martin
25   et al. (2004) Plant Physiol., 135:1908-1927; Keeling et al. (2011) BMC Plant Biol.,
     11:43; Ralph et al. (2008) BMC Genomics, 9:484) and in grand fir (Bohlmann et al.
     (1999) Arch. Biochem. Biophys., 368:232-243), there is no known gene in any plant
     species that is closely related (> 70% protein identity) to AbCAS. It is therefore
     possible that a CAS-type bifunctional class I/II diTPS is unique to balsam fir, which is
 30  the first conifer species for which three types of functionally distinct diTPSs are now
     known. A phylogenetic position of AbCAS between Gingko biloba GbLS and other
     known conifer diTPSs of specialized metabolism in spruce, firs, and pine (Figure 4)

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 33
     indicates an evolutionary origin of AbCAS by gene duplication prior to speciation
     within the pine family with its possible loss in some or all of the other species of this
     comparison.
              3.      Methods of Producing Diterpenoids
  5           Plant TPSs are useful enzymes for the metabolic engineering of bioproducts
     and biofuels in yeast and E. coli (Bohlmann et al. (2008) PlantJ., 54:656-669;
     Peralta-Yahya et al. (2011) Nat. Commun., 2:483). US Patent Application
     2011/0041218 discloses a method for the production of sclareol, a compound useful
     in the fields of perfumery and flavoring. US Patent Application 2008/0281135
 10  discloses a method for producing terpenes of interest in plants having glandular
     trichomes. The plants contain a sequence encoding a heterologous terpene synthase
     under the control of a promoter permitting it to be specifically expressed in the
     trichomes. Moreover, the pathway for producing endogenous diterpenes is blocked in
     the trichomes of the plants, to increase the flow in the heterologous pathway. WO
 15  2008/007031 discloses a protein having a syn-copalyl-8-ol diphosphate synthase
     activity, the nucleotide sequence encoding said protein, as well as a vector and a
     transgenic non-human organism containing the nucleic acid.
              Provided herein are methods of producing diterpenoids in vitro or in vivo
     using the bifunctional class I/II diTPSs provided herein. Depending on the diTPS
20   used, the diterpenoid that can be produced by the present methods are for example
     cis-abienol, abietadiene, levopimaradiene, palustradiene, neoabietadiene and/or
     isopimaradiene.
              In one example, the method for producing diterpenoids is carried out in vitro.
     In this case, (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) is contacted with at least
25   one polypeptide having a diterpene synthase (diTPS) activity under conditions
     effective to produce diterpenoids. In performing the methods, GGPP can be added to
     a suspension or solution containing a diterpene synthase polypeptide, which is then
     incubated at optimal temperature, for example between 15 and 40' C, such as between
     25 and 35' C, or at 30' C. The produced diterpenoid can optionally be isolating by
 30  methods known in the art. For example, after incubation, the one or more than one
     diterpene produced can be isolated from the incubated solution by standard isolation
     procedures, such as solvent extraction and distillation, optionally after removal of

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 34
     polypeptides from the solution. For example, extraction can be effected with pentane,
     diethyl ether, methyl tertiary butyl ether or other organic solvent. Production and
     quantification of the amount of the diterpene product (e.g. any one or more of cis
     abienol, abietadiene, levopimaradiene, palustradiene, neoabietadiene and/or
  5  isopimaradiene) can then be determined using any method known in the art, such as
     column chromatography, for example liquid chromotography (e.g. LC-MS or HPLC)
     or gas chromatography (e.g. GC-MS), using an internal standard. For detection of
     diphosphate intermediates, reaction products can be dephosphorylated prior to
     extraction by incubation with alkaline phosphatase.
 10           In another example, the method for producing diterpenoids is carried out in
     vivo. In this case, the method involves introducing into a host capable of producing
     GGPP, a nucleotide sequence encoding a diterpene synthase (diTPS) operatively
     linked with a regulatory region active in the host, and growing that host under
     conditions that permit the expression of the nucleic acid, thereby producing the
 15  diterpenoids. Any host cell can be used for expressing the diTPS, such as any host
     cell described in Section F. For example, the host cell can be a eukaryotic or
     prokaryotic host cell that produces GGPP or is modified to produce GGPP.
     Exemplary of host cells are bacterial host cells (e.g. E.coli) or fungal host cells (e.g.
     yeast). In such an example, it is possible to carry out the method in vivo without
20   previously isolating the polypeptide. The reaction occurs directly within the organism
     or cell transformed to express said nucleic acid. The diterpene product (e.g. any one
     or more of cis-abienol, abietadiene, levopimaradiene, palustradiene, neoabietadiene
     and/or isopimaradiene) then can be extracted from the cell culture medium with an
     organic solvent and subsequently isolated or purified by any known method, such as
25   column chromatography, such as liquid chromotography (e.g. LC-MS or HPLC) or
     gas chromatography (e.g. GC-MS), and the amount and purity of the recovered
     product are assessed.
              For example cis-abienol, abietadiene, levopimaradiene, palustradiene,
     neoabietadiene and/or isopimaradiene can be obtained by these in vitro and in vivo
 30  methods. Other compounds that can be formed are labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate, (+)
     copalyl diphosphate, sandaracopimaren-8-yl, abientenyl, 13-hydroxy-8(14)labietene

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 35
     and (-)-isopimaradiene, (see Figure 1). The exact product profile is dependent on the
     conditions in which the method is carried out and the particular diTPS employed.
             The quantity of diterpene produced, such as for example cis-abienol,
     abietadiene, levopimaradiene, palustradiene, neoabietadiene and/or isopimaradiene,
  5  can be determined by any known standard chromatographic technique useful for
     separating and analyzing organic compounds. For example, production can be assayed
     by any known chromatographic technique useful for the detection and quantification
     of hydrocarbons, including, but not limited to, gas chromatography mass spectrometry
     (GC-MS), gas chromatography using a flame ionization detector (GC-FID), capillary
 10  GC-MS, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS), high performance
     liquid chromatography (HPLC) and column chromatography. Typically, these
     techniques are carried out in the presence of known internal standards which are used
     to quantify the amount of the terpene produced. For example, diterpenes can be
     identified by comparison of retention times and mass spectra to those of authentic
 15  standards for the particular diterpene in gas chromatography with mass spectrometry
     detection. In other examples, quantification can be achieved by gas chromatography
     with flame ionization detection based upon calibration curves with known amounts of
     authentic standards and normalization to the peak area of an internal standard. These
     chromatographic techniques allow for the identification of any terpene or diterpene
20   present in the organic layer.
             Exemplary provided diTPSs, and methods of use thereof, are described in the
     following Sections.
     C.      cis-Abienol Synthase and Production of Cis-Abienol
             Provided herein is a cis-Abienol Synthase (AbTPS4 or AbCAS) polypeptide or
25   active fragment thereof that catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). The AbCAS is a bifunctional class I/II dTPS
     that exhibits class I and class II enzymatic activities to produce a diterpenoid. The
     nucleic acid or encoded AbCAS polypeptide can be used in methods of producing cis
     abienol, which can be used to generate Ambrox* ((-)-ambroxide).
 30          In addition to balsam fir, a gymnosperm tree, only a few angiosperm plant
     sources such as tobacco (Nicotianatabacum; family Solanaceae)trichomes (Guo et
     al. (1994) Archives ofBiochemistry andBiophysics, 308:103-108; Guo et al. (1995)

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 36
     Planta,197:627-632) or the tuberous roots of Bolivian sunroot (Polymniasonchifolia;
     family Asteraceae) (Miyazawa et al. (2008) J. Essent. Oil Res., 20:12-14) are known
     to produce cis-abienol in amounts that are relevant for industrial-scale extraction.
     Metabolic engineering of microbial hosts or plants to produce oxygenated
  5  diterpenoids such as cis-abienol or sclareol, can provide a sustainable production
     platform for these compounds for the fragrance industry and other applications.
             The importance of cis-abienol as a plant-derived precursor for the fragrance
     and bioproducts industry has spawned an interest in the discovery of the relevant
     biosynthetic genes and enzymes and their future application in metabolically
 10  engineered microbial or plant production systems. Genes for cis-abienol and sclareol
     biosynthesis have been cloned from angiosperms as described in the patent literature
     (see e.g. International PCT Application Nos. W02008/007031; W02009/044336;
     W02009/095366; W02009/101126) . Unlike the bifunctional conifer class I/II
     diTPSs provided herein, the known angiosperm diTPSs are exclusively
 15  monofunctional enzymes (Chen et al. (2011) The PlantJournal,66:212-229). Thus,
     using the angiosperm enzymes for pathway engineering would require the dual
     expression and optimization of separate class I and class II enzymes.
             In contrast, the use of a bifunctional class I/II diTPS such as AbCAS provided
     herein requires only expression of a single gene. Optimization of protein expression is
20   also likely to be less complicated for the bifunctional class I/II diTPS (i.e., AbCAS),
     since the two active sites required for the conversion of GGPP to cis-abienol will be
     in equal amounts as part of the same protein and will be in very close physical
     proximity of each other. In essence, for applications of metabolic engineering, the
     bifunctional class I/II AbCAS offers a scaffolded arrangement of the two active sites.
25   This scaffold evolved in nature for the high volume production of cis-abienol in the
     oleoresin of balsam fir. Since AbCAS is only very distantly related to angiosperm
     diTPSs (less than 30% protein sequence identity), this enzyme also is contemplated as
     the enzyme used for metabolic engineering of cis-abienol production in industrial
     crops, such as tobacco, as co-suppression effects on endogenous diTPSs are unlikely.
 30          1.      Nucleic Acid and Encoded AbCAS Polypeptides
             Provided herein are nucleic acid molecules encoding a cis-Abienol Synthase
     (AbCAS) polypeptide or an active fragment thereof, including pseudomature forms

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 37
     lacking the plastidial transit peptide, and the encoded polypeptides. The AbCAS
     polypeptide or active fragment thereof catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). The polypeptide having an AbCAS activity,
     such as intended for use in aspects of the methods provided herein, is a polypeptide
  5  having an amino acid sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 7 or an
     active fragment thereof.
              The AbCAS or active fragment thereof provided herein is a diTPS that is
     bifunctional and contains a class II active site that has a DxDD motif (SEQ ID
     NO:12) and a class I active site that has a DDxxD (SEQ ID NO:13) motif. The class
 10  II active site is located in the N-terminal beta-gamma domain of the diTPS,
     encompassing for example residues corresponding to residues Asn87-Glu545 of
     AbdiTPS4 as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7 (corresponding to residues Asn86-Glu544 as
     set forth in SEQ ID NO:58). The DxDD motif corresponds to amino acid residues
     Asp403-Asp4O6 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 (corresponding to residues Asp402
 15  Asp405 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:5 8). The class I active site is located in the C
     terminal alpha domain of the diTPS, encompassing for example residues
     corresponding to residues Ser576-Thr867 of AbdiTPS4 as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7
     (corresponding to residues Ser575-Thr866 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:58). The
     DDxxD motif corresponds to amino acid residues Asp622-Asp626 as set forth in SEQ
20   ID NO:7 (corresponding to residues Asp621-Asp625 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:58).
     In a one example, a diTPS provided herein is an AbCAS polypeptide or active
     fragment thereof that contains an Asp349 amino acid in the class II active site with
     reference to SEQ ID NO:7 (corresponding to Asp348 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:58).
     Furthermore, in some examples, a diTPS provided herein is an AbCAS that contains a
25   Leu618, Phe697 and a Gly724 amino acid in the class I site with reference to amino
     acid residues set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 (corresponding to Leu617, Phe696 and a
     Gly723, respectively, as set forth in SEQ ID NO:58).
              For examples, among polypeptides provided herein are any that have an amino
     acid sequence that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least
 30  75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as generally at least 95% or at
     least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 7 or an active fragment thereof. The diTPS that is
     an AbCAS polypeptide can contain the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7 or an

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 38
     active fragment thereof, or sequences having at least about 80-100% sequence
     similarity thereto, including any percent similarity within these ranges, such as or at
     least or greater than 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97,
     98, 99% sequence similarity thereto.      In particular examples, the polypeptide
  5  contains the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7 or an active fragment
     thereof. In other examples, the amino acid sequence for a polypeptide provided
     herein is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7 or an active fragment thereof.
              Hence, also provided herein are nucleic acid molecules that encode for a
     polypeptide having a sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO:7 or that
 10  has a sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7 or sequences substantially identical thereto,
     or an active fragment thereof. The nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbCAS,
     such as is used in any of the described methods herein, can contain a nucleotide
     sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8 or a portion thereof that
     encodes an active fragment having AbCAS activity, or to the complement thereof. For
 15  example, the nucleic acid contains a nucleotide sequence that is at least 55%, at least
     60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%,
     such as generally at least 95% or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 8, or a portion
     thereof that encodes an active fragment having AbCAS activity or the complement
     thereof. The nucleic acid can contain the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 8 or a
20   portion thereof encoding an active fragment, or sequences substantially similar
     thereto. The sequence of the nucleic acid can be changed, for example, to account for
     codon preference in a particular host cell. In particular examples, the nucleic acid
     encoding a diTPS that is an AbCAS contains a nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ
     ID NO: 8, or a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment or the complement
25   thereof. In other examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbCAS is set
     forth in SEQ ID NO: 8 or is a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment or the
     complement thereof.
              For example, AbCAS polypeptides provided herein also include active forms
     that are pseudomature forms that lack the plastidial transit peptide and that exhibit
 30  AbCAS activity to catalyze the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl
     diphosphate (GGPP). The plastidial transit peptide of AbCAS corresponds to amino
     acid residues 1-50 of SEQ ID NO:7 (corresponding to residues 1-49 of SEQ ID

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 39
     NO:58; see also Figure 7). Exemplary of pseudomature forms are forms that include
     all or part of the conserved N/KRx6W motif (SEQ ID NO:15), such as the N-terminal
     sequence K/NREFPP (SEQ ID NO: 11; see also Figure 7). For example, an
     exemplary pseudomature form of an AbCAS polypeptide provided herein is a
  5  polypeptide having an amino acid sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID
     NO: 50 or an active fragment thereof. For example, among polypeptides provided
     herein are any that have an amino acid sequence that is at least or greater than 55%,
     60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%,
     94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more identical to SEQ ID NO: 50 or an active
 10  fragment thereof.
              It is understood that the pseudomature form can include fewer or greater
     amino acids at the N- terminus or less amino acids at the C-terminus as compared to
     the polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO:50 so long as the resulting polypeptide
     exhibits AbCAS activity to catalyze the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl
 15  diphosphate (GGPP). For example, the AbCAS polypeptide can be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
     8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
     31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 50, 60 or more amino acids longer or shorter
     than the AbCAS polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO:50. Also, one or more amino
     acid variations can occur in the N-terminal or C-terminal domain of the pseudomature
20   form of the AbCAS polypeptide depending on such factors as the cloning procedures
     employed (e.g. the addition or deletion of amino acids to facilitate cloning
     procedures), the presence of absence of an N-terminal methionine (e.g. for translation
     initiation), the presence or absence of a tag or other moiety and other factors well
     within the knowledge of one of skill in the art. Shortened or lengthened variants with
25   insertions or deletions of amino acids, particularly at either terminus that retain an
     activity readily can be prepared and the loci for corresponding mutations identified.
     For example, provided herein is a pseudomature form of AbCAS having an amino
     acid sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 55 or an active fragment
     thereof. For examples, among polypeptides provided herein are any that have an
 30  amino acid sequence that is at least or greater than 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%,
     85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 9 3 %, 9 4 %, 9             %    ,, 9 7 %, 98%, 9 9 %
     or more identical to SEQ ID NO: 55 or an active fragment thereof.

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 40
              Hence, also provided herein are nucleic acid molecules that encode an AbCAS
     polypeptide having a sequence of amino acids that is at least 50% identical to the
     sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 50 or SEQ ID NO:55, or an active fragment
     thereof. The nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbCAS, such as is used in any
  5  of the described methods herein, can contain a nucleotide sequence that is at least
     50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 54 or 56 or a portion thereof that encodes an active
     fragment having AbCAS activity, or to the complement thereof. For example, the
     nucleic acid contains a nucleotide sequence that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least
     65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as
 10  generally at least 95% or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 54 or 56, or a portion
     thereof that encodes an active fragment having AbCAS activity or the complement
     thereof. The one, or more than one, nucleic acid can contain the sequence set forth in
     SEQ ID NO: 54 or 56 or a portion thereof encoding an active fragment, or sequences
     substantially similar thereto. The sequence of the nucleic acid can be changed, for
 15  example, to account for codon preference in a particular host cell. In particular
     examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbCAS contains a nucleotide
     sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 54 or 56, or a portion thereof that encodes an active
     fragment or the complement thereof. In other examples, the nucleic acid encoding a
     diTPS that is an AbCAS is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 54 or 56 or is a portion thereof
20   that encodes an active fragment or the complement thereof.
              In examples provided herein, amino acid residues in the class I and/or the class
     II active site of the the AbCAS polypeptides or active fragment thereof provided
     herein can be altered, for example by mutation as compared to any of the sequences
     set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7, 50 or 55. For example the diTPS polypeptide that is an
25   AbCAS polypeptide or active fragment thereof can contain the sequence as set forth in
     SEQ ID NO: 7, an active fragment thereof (e.g. such as a pseudomature form as set
     forth in SEQ ID NO:50 or SEQ ID NO:55), or sequence substantially identical
     thereto, wherein the amino acid at position 622 is replaced by A, the amino acid at
     position 403 is replaced by A, the amino acid at position 405 is replaced by A or a
 30  combination thereof with reference to amino acid numbering set forth in SEQ ID
     NO:7. With reference to SEQ ID NO:58, such replacements correspond to amino
     acids at position 621 replaced by A, amino acid at position 402 replaced by A, amino

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 41
     acid at position 404 replaced by A, or a combination thereof (see for example Figure
     5). Corresponding amino acid residues can be identified by one of skill in the art in
     other sequence forms of the AbCAS polypeptide by alignment of residues with SEQ
     ID NO:7 or SEQ ID NO:58. In other examples provided herein, the above amino acid
  5  residues are not altered because they are identified herein to change AbCAS activity
     resulting in a loss of enzymatic activity to produce cis-abienol from GGPP (see
     Example 5).
             Furthermore, the one or more than one diTPS polypeptides can contain
     modifications in active site residues as disclosed in Figure 6 (see also Example 6).
 10  For example, the diTPS polypeptide that is an AbCAS polypeptide or active fragment
     thereof can contain the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7, an active fragment
     thereof (e.g. such as a pseudomature form as set forth in SEQ ID NO:50 or SEQ ID
     NO:55), or sequence substantially identical thereto, wherein the amino acid at
     position 618, 697 or 724 or a combination thereof with reference to amino acid
 15  numbering set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 is replaced with another amino acid. With
     reference to SEQ ID NO:58,such replacements correspond to replacement at amino
     acid position 617, 696 or 723 or a combination thereof with another amino acid.
     Corresponding amino acid residues can be identified by one of skill in the art in other
     sequence forms of the AbCAS polypeptide by alignment of residues with SEQ ID
20   NO:7 or SEQ ID NO:58.
             2.       Methods of producing cis-abienol and ambroxide
              Provided herein are in vitro and in vivo methods of using an AbCAS
     polypeptide or active fragment thereof provided herein for producing cis-abienol and
     related products such as (-)-ambroxide (Ambrox*). Among other applications, cis
25   abienol and other oxygen-containing diterpenoids of plant origin (e.g., sclareol and
     manool) can be used in the fragrance industry to produce Ambrox*. Ambrox*serves
     as a sustainable replacement for the use of ambergris in high-end perfume
     formulations (Barrero et al. (1993) Tetrahedron, 49:10405-10412). While Ambrox* is
     produced from plant terpenoids, ambergris is an animal product secreted from the
 30  intestines of sperm whales, which are listed as an endangered species.
             In one example, the method for producing the diterpenoid cis-abienol is
     carried out in vitro. In this case, (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) is

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 42
     contacted with at least one polypeptide having AbCAS activity, such as any described
     above, under conditions effective to produce cis-abienol. In performing the methods,
     GGPP can be added to a suspension or solution containing an AbCAS polypeptide or
     active fragment thereof, such as any provided herein, which is then incubated at
  5  optimal temperature, for example between 15 and 40' C, such as between 25 and
     35'C, or at 30' C. The cis-abienol diterpenoid can optionally be isolated by methods
     known in the art. For example, after incubation, the cis-abienol diterpene produced
     can be isolated from the incubated solution by standard isolation procedures, such as
     solvent extraction and distillation, optionally after removal of polypeptides from the
 10  solution. For example, isolation can be effected by column chromatography,
     including liquid chromatography methods (e.g. HPLC). Production and quantification
     of the amount of cis-abienol can be determined using methods as described herein,
     such as gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (e.g. GC-MS) or liquid
     chromatography-mass spectroscopy (e.g. LC-MS), using an internal standard. In some
 15  examples, the internal standard can be a cis-abienol authentic standard. In other
     cases, production can be confirmed by comparison to a reference mass spectrum of
     cis-abienol as described by Vlad et al. ((1974) Khimiya PrirodnykhSoedinenii 1:30
     35) and obtained from the National Institute of Standards and Technology MS library
     searches (Wiley W9N08).
20             In particular examples of product profiles obtained when the method is
     carried out in vitro with a Ni-affinity purified polypeptide that is a pseudomature form
     of sequence SEQ ID NO:7 (e.g. as set forth in SEQ ID NO:55) are provided in Figure
     2. Cis-abienol is the direct product of the enzymatic reaction catalyzed by the diTPS
     that is an AbCAS polypeptide or active fragment thereof used in the method provided
25   herein.
              In another example, the method for producing the diterpenoid cis-abienol is
     carried out in vivo using any of the nucleic acid molecules encoding an AbCAS
     polypeptide or active fragment thereof provided herein. In this case, the method
     involves introducing into a host capable of producing GGPP, a nucleotide sequence
 30  encoding an AbCAS polypeptide or active fragment thereof operatively linked with a
     regulatory region active in the host, and growing that host under conditions that
     permit the expression of the nucleic acid, thereby producing the cis-abienol

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 43
     diterpenoid. Any host cell can be used for expressing an AbCAS polypeptide or
     active fragment thereof, such as any host cell described in Section F. For example,
     the host cell can be a eukaryotic or prokaryotic host cell that produces GGPP or is
     modified to produce GGPP. Exemplary of host cells are bacterial host cells (e.g.
  5  E.coli) or fungal host cells (e.g. yeast). In such an example, it is possible to carry out
     the method in vivo without previously isolating the polypeptide. The reaction occurs
     directly within the organism or cell transformed to express the nucleic acid. The cis
     abienol then can be extracted from the cell culture medium with an organic solvent
     and subsequently isolated or purified by any known method, such as column
 10  chromatography, including liquid chromatography methods (e.g. HPLC) or gas
     chromatography. The amount and purity of the produced cis-abienol also can be
     assessed by any known standard chromatographic technique for the detection and
     quantification of hydrocarbons, including, but not limited to, gas chromatography
     mass spectrometry (GC-MS), gas chromatography using a flame ionization detector
 15  (GC-FID), capillary GC-MS, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS),
     high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and column chromatography using
     an internal standard or based on a reference mass spectrum as described above.
                     Production of (-)-ambroxide
             The A bdiTPS4 or A bCAS diterpene synthase polypeptides or active fragments
20   thereof provided herein produce cis-abienol, which can be used to produce (-)
     ambroxide. (-)-Ambroxide is used as a base note in the perfume industry as a
     substitute for ambergris. Conversion of cis-abienol to (-)-ambroxide can be carried out
     through chemical means (see e.g. Barreroet al. (1993) Tetrahedron 49(45): 10405
     10412; Barrero et al. (1994) Tetrahedron 50:6653-6662; Barrero et al., (2004)
25   Synthetic Communications 34(19):3631-3643; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,525,728). In one
     example, cis-abienol is converted to (-)-ambroxide by chemical methods involving
     ozonolysis of the side chain followed by reduction and cyclization (see Figure 8A,
     Scheme I). In another example, cis-abienol is oxidatively cleaved to form sclareolide
     (10), which is then converted to (-)-ambroxide by reduction and cyclization (see
 30  Figure 8B, Scheme II) (see, Barrero et al. (1994) Tetrahedron 50:6653-6662; and
     U.S. Pat. No. 5,525,728). For example, cis-abienol can be treated with Os0 4 -NaIO4
     or RuO 4-NaIO 4 to form sclareolide.

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 44
              (-)-Ambroxide can be purified from the reaction mixture by extraction with
     organic solvents, such as ethers and hydrocarbons, including for example, methyl tert
     butyl ether, diethylether, n-hexane and toluene, column chromatography, or extraction
     with an organic solvent followed by column chromatography. (-)-Ambroxide
  5  formation can be confirmed and/or quantified by any of the chromatographic
     techniques described herein.
     D.       LAS-type bifunctional class I/II Synthase
              Provided herein are nucleic acid molecules encoding a
     levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (AbLAS or AbTPS1) polypeptide or active
 10  fragment thereof, including pseudomature forms lacking the plastidial transit
     polypeptide, and the encoded polypeptides. The LAS-type synthase is a bifunctional
     class I/II dTPS that exhibits class I and class II enzymatic activities to produce
     diterpenoid products. The polypeptide or active fragment thereof, including
     pseudomature forms, catalyze the formation of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene from
 15  geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) to effect production of epimers thereof produced
     as dehydration products of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene, including abietadine,
     levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and plaustradiene. The nucleic acid or encoded
     AbLAS polypeptide can be used in methods to produce a diterpenoid product from
     among any one or more of abietadiene, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and
20   palustradiene.
              The AbLAS or active fragment thereof provided herein is a diTPS that is
     bifunctional and contains a class II active site that has a DxDD motif (SEQ ID
     NO:12) and a class I active site that has a DDxxD motif (SEQ ID NO:13). The class
     II active site is located in the N-terminal beta-gamma domain of the diTPS,
25   encompassing for example residues corresponding to residues Lys84-Glu542 of
     AbdiTPS1 as set forth in SEQ ID NO 1 (corresponding to residues Lys2l-Glu479 as
     set forth in SEQ ID NO:57). The DxDD motif corresponds to amino acid residues
     Asp400-Asp4O3 as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 (corresponding to residues Asp337
     Asp340 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:57). The class I active site is located in the C
 30  terminal alpha domain of the diTPS, encompassing for example residues
     corresponding to amino acid residues Ser573-Ala866 of AbdiTPS1 as set forth in SEQ
     ID NO: 1 (corresponding to residues Ser510-Ala803 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:57).

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 45
     The DDxxD motif corresponds to amino acid residues Asp6l9-Asp623 as set forth in
     SEQ ID NO: 1 (corresponding to residues Asp556-Asp560 as set forth in SEQ ID
     NO:57).
              For example among the polypeptides provided herein having AbLAS activity,
  5  such as intended for use in aspects of the methods provided herein, is a polypeptide
     having an amino acid sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1 or an
     active fragment thereof. For example, among polypeptides provided herein are any
     that have an amino acid sequence that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at
     least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as generally at
 10  least 95% or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1 or an active fragment thereof.
     The diTPS that is an AbLAS polypeptide can contain the sequence set forth in SEQ
     ID NO: 1 or an active fragment thereof, or sequences having at least about 80-100%
     sequence similarity thereto, including any percent similarity within these ranges, such
     as or at least or greater than 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95,
 15  96, 97, 98, 99% sequence similarity thereto.       In particular examples, the polypeptide
     contains the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 or an active fragment
     thereof. In other examples, the amino acid sequence for a polypeptide provided
     herein is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 or an active fragment thereof.
              Hence, also provided herein are nucleic acid molecules that encode for a
20   polypeptide having a sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1 or that
     has a sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 or sequences substantially identical thereto,
     or an active fragment thereof. The nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbLAS,
     such as is used in any of the described methods herein, can contain a nucleotide
     sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, or a portion thereof that
25   encodes an active fragment having AbLAS activity, or to the complement thereof.
     For example, the nucleic acid contains a nucleotide sequence that is at least 55%, at
     least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least
     90%, such as generally at least 95% or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, or a
     portion thereof that encodes an active fragment having AbLAS activity or the
 30  complement thereof. The nucleic acid can contain the sequence set forth in SEQ ID
     NO: 2 or a portion thereof encoding an active fragment, or sequences substantially
     similar thereto. The sequence of the nucleic acid can be changed, for example, to

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 46
     account for codon preference in a particular host cell. In particular examples, the
     nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbLAS contains a nucleotide sequence set
     forth in SEQ ID NO: 2, or a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment or the
     complement thereof. In other examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an
  5  AbLAS is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 2 or is a portion thereof that encodes an active
     fragment or the complement thereof.
              For example, AbLAS polypeptides provided herein include active forms that
     are pseudomature forms that lack the plastidial transit peptide and that exhibit AbLAS
     activity to catalyze the formation of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene from geranylgeranyl
 10  diphosphate (GGPP) to effect production of epimers thereof produced as dehydration
     products of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene, including abietadine, levopimaradiene,
     neoabietadiene and/or plaustradiene. Exemplary of pseudomature forms are forms
     that include all or part of the conserved N/KRx6W motif (SEQ ID NO: 15; see also
     Figure 7). For example, an exemplary pseudomature form of an AbLAS polypeptide
 15  provided herein is a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence that is at least 50%
     identical to SEQ ID NO: 47 or an active fragment thereof. For examples, among
     polypeptides provided herein are any that have an amino acid sequence that is at least
     or greater than 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%,
     91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more identical to SEQ ID NO:
20   47 or an active fragment thereof. It is understood that the pseudomature form can
     include fewer or greater amino acids at the N- terminus or less amino acids at the C
     terminus as compared to the polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO:47 so long as the
     resulting polypeptide exhibits AbLAS activity to catalyze the formation of 13
     hydroxy-8(14)-abietene from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) to effect
25   production of epimers thereof produced as dehydration products of 13-hydroxy-8(14)
     abietene, including abietadine, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and/or plaustradiene.
     For example, the AbLAS polypeptide can be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
     15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37,
     38, 39, 40, 50, 60 or more amino acids longer or shorter than the A bLAS polypeptide
 30  set forth in SEQ ID NO:47. Also, one or more amino acid variations can occur in the
     N-terminal or C-terminal domain of the pseudomature form of the AbLAS
     polypeptide depending on such factors as the cloning procedures employed (e.g. the

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 47
     addition or deletion of amino acids to facilitate cloning procedures), the presence of
     absence of an N-terminal methionine (e.g. for translation initation), the presence or
     absence of a tag or other moiety and other factors well within the knowledge of one of
     skill in the art. Shortened or lengthened variants with insertions or deletions of amino
  5  acids, particularly at either terminus that retain an activity readily can be prepared and
     the loci for corresponding mutations identified.
              Hence, also provided herein are nucleic acid molecules that encode an AbLAS
     polypeptide having a sequence of amino acids that is at least 50% identical to the
     sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 47, or an active fragment thereof. The nucleic acid
 10  encoding a diTPS that is a AbLAS, such as is used in any of the described methods
     herein, can contain a nucleotide sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO:
     51 or a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment having AbLAS activity, or to
     the complement thereof. For example, the nucleic acid contains a nucleotide sequence
     that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least
 15  80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as generally at least 95% or at least 98%
     identical to SEQ ID NO: 51, or a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment
     having AbLAS activity or the complement thereof. The one, or more than one,
     nucleic acid can contain the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 51 or a portion thereof
     encoding an active fragment, or sequences substantially similar thereto. The sequence
20   of the nucleic acid can be changed, for example, to account for codon preference in a
     particular host cell. In particular examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is
     an AbLAS contains a nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 51, or a portion
     thereof that encodes an active fragment or the complement thereof. In other
     examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbLAS is set forth in SEQ ID
25   NO: 51 or is a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment or the complement
     thereof.
              In examples provided herein, amino acid residues in the class I and/or the class
     II active site of the the AbLAS polypeptides or active fragment thereof provided
     herein can be altered, for example by mutation as compared to the sequences set forth
 30  in SEQ ID NO: 1 or 47.
              Also provided herein are in vitro and in vivo methods of using any AbLAS
     polypeptide or active fragment thereof provided herein for producing an epimer of 13-

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 48
     hydroxy-8(14)-abietene, such as any one or more of or all of abietadiene,
     levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and/or palustradiene or related products.
              In one example, the method for producing an AbLAS product is carried out in
     vitro. In this case, (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) is contacted with at
  5  least one polypeptide having AbLAS activity, such as any described above, under
     conditions effective to produce one or more of abietadiene, levopimaradiene,
     neoabietadiene and/or palustradiene. In performing the methods, GGPP can be added
     to a suspension or solution containing an AbLAS polypeptide or active fragment
     thereof, such as any provided herein, which is then incubated at optimal temperature,
 10  for example between 15 and 40' C, such as between 25 and 35' C, or at 30' C. The
     produced AbLAS diterpenoid or diterpenoids can optionally be isolating by methods
     known in the art. For example, after incubation, a diterpene product produced can be
     isolated from the incubated solution by standard isolation procedures, such as solvent
     extraction and distillation, optionally after removal of polypeptides from the solution.
 15  For example, isolation can be effected by column chromatography, including liquid
     chromatography methods (e.g. HPLC) methods. In such examples, one, two, three or
     all diterpene products from among any one or more of one or more of abietadiene,
     levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and/or palustradiene can be isolated. Methods and
     procedures for individually isolated such products are known to one of skill in the art,
20   for example, by elution profiles using known chromatographic techniques (see e.g.
     Keeling et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem., 286:21145-53). Production and quantification of
     the amount of any one or more of abietadiene, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene
     and/or palustradiene can be determined using methods known in the art or as
     described herein, such as gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (e.g. GC-MS) or
25   liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (e.g. LC-MS) using an internal standard for
     the particular product.
              In another example, the method for producing an AbLAS diterpenoid is carried
     out in vivo using any of the nucleic acid molecules encoding an AbLAS polypeptide
     or active fragment thereof provided herein. In this case, the method involves
 30  introducing into a host capable of producing GGPP, a nucleotide sequence encoding
     an AbLAS polypeptide or active fragment thereof operatively linked with a regulatory
     region active in the host, and growing that host under conditions that permit the

WO 2013/075239                                                                 PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                  - 49
     expression of the nucleic acid, thereby producing any one or more of abietadiene,
     levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and/or palustradiene. Any host cell can be used for
     expressing an AbLAS polypeptide or active fragment thereof, such as any host cell
     described in Section F. For example, the host cell can be a eukaryotic or prokaryotic
  5  host cell that produces GGPP or is modified to produce GGPP. Exemplary of host
     cells are bacterial host cells (e.g. E.coli) or fungal host cells (e.g. yeast). In such an
     example, it is possible to carry out the method in vivo without previously isolating the
     polypeptide. The reaction occurs directly within the organism or cell transformed to
     express said nucleic acid. The isolated diterpene product or products can be
 10  optionally isolated from the cell. For example, the products can be extracted from the
     cell culture medium with an organic solvent and subsequently isolated or purified by
     any known methods, such as by known chromatographic techniques including column
     chromatography methods. In such examples, one, two, three or all diterpene products
     from among any one or more of one or more of abietadiene, levopimaradiene,
 15  neoabietadiene and/or palustradiene can be isolated based on differences in elution
     profiles as described above and known in the art. Production and quantification of the
     amount of any one or more of abietadiene, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and/or
     palustradiene can be determined using methods known in the art or as described
     herein, such as by using any chromatographic technique such as gas chromatography
20   mass spectroscopy (e.g. GC-MS) or liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (e.g.
     LC-MS) using an internal standard for the particular product.
     E.       Isopimaradiene Synthase
              Provided herein are nucleic acid molecules encoding an isopimaradiene
     synthase (Ablso or AbTPS2) polypeptide or active fragment thereof, including
25   pseudomature forms lacking the plastidial transit polypeptide, and the encoded
     polypeptides. Ablso is a bifunctional class I/II dTPS that exhibits class I and class II
     enzymatic activities to produce diterpene products. The polypeptide or active
     fragment thereof, including pseudomature forms, catalyze the formation of
     isopimaradiene from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). The nucleic acid or
 30  encoded A blso polypeptide can be used in methods to produce a diterpenoid product
     that is an isopimaradiene.

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 50
              The Abso or active fragment thereof provided herein is a diTPS that is
     bifunctional and contains a class II active site that has a DxDD motif (SEQ ID
     NO:12) and a class I active site that has a DDxxD motif (SEQ ID NO:13). The class
     II active site is located in the N-terminal beta-gamma domain of the diTPS,
  5  encompassing for example residues corresponding to residues Lys69-Glu527 of
     AbdiTPS2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3. The DxDD motif corresponds to amino acid
     residues Asp385-Asp388. The class I active site is located in the C-terminal alpha
     domain of the diTPS, encompassing for example residues corresponding to residues
     Ser558-Ala852 of AbdiTPS2 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:3. The DDxxD motif
 10  corresponds to amino acid residues Asp604-Asp608 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:3.
              For example among the polypeptides provided herein having Abso activity,
     such as intended for use in aspects of the methods provided herein, is a polypeptide
     having an amino acid sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3 or an
     active fragment thereof. For example, among polypeptides provided herein are any
 15  that have an amino acid sequence that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at
     least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as generally at
     least 95% or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3 or an active fragment thereof.
     The diTPS that is an Ablso polypeptide can contain the sequence set forth in SEQ ID
     NO: 3 or an active fragment thereof, or sequences having at least about 80-100%
20   sequence similarity thereto, including any percent similarity within these ranges, such
     as or at least or greater than 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95,
     96, 97, 98, 99% sequence similarity thereto.       In particular examples, the polypeptide
     contains the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3 or an active fragment
     thereof. In other examples, the amino acid sequence for a polypeptide provided
25   herein is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3 or is an active fragment thereof.
              Hence, also provided herein are nucleic acid molecules that encode for a
     polypeptide having a sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO:3 or that
     has a sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3 or sequences substantially identical thereto
     or an active fragment thereof. The nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an Ablso,
 30  such as is used in any of the described methods herein, can contain a nucleotide
     sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4, or a portion thereof that
     encodes an active fragment having AbISO activity, or to the complement thereof. For

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 51
     example, the nucleic acid contains a nucleotide sequence that is at least 55%, at least
     60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%,
     such as generally at least 95% or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4, or a portion
     thereof that encodes an active fragment having AbISO activity or the complement
  5  thereof. The nucleic acid can contain the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 4 or a
     portion thereof encoding an active fragment, or sequences substantially similar
     thereto. The sequence of the nucleic acid can be changed, for example, to account for
     codon preference in a particular host cell. In particular examples, the nucleic acid
     encoding a diTPS that is an AbIso contains a nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID
 10  NO: 4, or a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment or the complement
     thereof. In other examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an AbIso is set
     forth in SEQ ID NO: 4, or is the portion thereof that encodes an active fragment or the
     complement thereof.
             For example, AbIso polypeptides provided herein include active forms that are
 15  pseudomature forms that lack the plastidial transit peptide and that exhibit A blso
     activity to catalyze the formation of isopimaradiene from geranylgeranyl diphosphate
     (GGPP). Exemplary of pseudomature forms are forms that include all or part of the
     conserved N/KRx6W motif (SEQ ID NO: 15; see also Figure 7). For example, an
     exemplary pseudomature form of an AbIso polypeptide provided herein is a
20   polypeptide having an amino acid sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID
     NO: 48 or an active fragment thereof. For examples, among polypeptides provided
     herein are any that have an amino acid sequence that is at least or greater than 55%,
     60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%,
     94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more identical to SEQ ID NO: 48 or an active
25   fragment thereof. It is understood that the pseudomature form can include fewer or
     greater amino acids at the N- terminus or less amino acids at the C-terminus as
     compared to the polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO:48 so long as the resulting
     polypeptide exhibits AbIso activity to catalyze the formation of isopimaradiene from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP). For example, the AbIso polypeptide can be 1, 2,
 30  3,4,5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
     28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 50, 60 or more amino acids longer or
     shorter than the AbIso polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID NO:48. Also, one or more

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 52
     amino acid variations can occur in the N-terminal or C-terminal domain of the
     pseudomature form of the Abso polypeptide depending on such factors as the cloning
     procedures employed (e.g. the addition or deletion of amino acids to facilitate cloning
     procedures), the presence of absence of an N-terminal methionine (e.g. for translation
  5  initation), the presence or absence of a tag or other moiety and other factors well
     within the knowledge of one of skill in the art. Shortened or lengthened variants with
     insertions or deletions of amino acids, particularly at either terminus that retain an
     activity readily can be prepared and the loci for corresponding mutations identified.
              Hence, also provided herein are nucleic acid molecules that encode an Abso
 10  polypeptide having a sequence of amino acids that is at least 50% identical to the
     sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 48, or an active fragment thereof. The nucleic acid
     encoding a diTPS that is a Abso, such as is used in any of the described methods
     herein, can contain a nucleotide sequence that is at least 50% identical to SEQ ID NO:
     52 or a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment having Abso activity, or to the
 15  complement thereof. For example, the nucleic acid contains a nucleotide sequence
     that is at least 55%, at least 60%, at least 65%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least
     80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, such as generally at least 95% or at least 98%
     identical to SEQ ID NO: 52, or a portion thereof that encodes an active fragment
     having Abso activity or the complement thereof. The nucleic acid can contain the
20   sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 52 or a portion thereof encoding an active
     fragment, or sequences substantially similar thereto. The sequence of the nucleic acid
     can be changed, for example, to account for codon preference in a particular host cell.
     In particular examples, the nucleic acid encoding a diTPS that is an Ablso contains a
     nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 52, or a portion thereof that encodes an
25   active fragment or the complement thereof. In other examples, the nucleic acid
     encoding a diTPS that is an Abso is set forth in SEQ ID NO: 52 or is a portion
     thereof that encodes an active fragment or the complement thereof.
              In examples provided herein, amino acid residues in the class I and/or the class
     II active site of the Ablso polypeptides or active fragment thereof provided herein can
 30  be altered, for example by mutation as compared to the sequences set forth in SEQ ID
     NO: 3 or 48.

WO 2013/075239                                                                 PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                  - 53
               Also provided herein are in vitro and in vivo methods of using an AbIso
     polypeptide or active fragment thereof provided herein for producing isopimaradiene
     or a related product. In one example, the method for producing an isopimaradiene
     product is carried out in vitro. In this case, (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate
  5  (GGPP) is contacted with at least one polypeptide having AbIso activity, such as any
     described above, under conditions effective to produce isopimaradiene. In performing
     the methods, GGPP can be added to a suspension or solution containing an AbIso
     polypeptide or active fragment thereof, such as any provided herein, which is then
     incubated at optimal temperature, for example between 15 and 40' C, such as between
 10  25 and 35' C, or at 30' C. The produced AbIso diterpenoid can optionally be isolated
     by methods known in the art. For example, after incubation, the diterpene produced
     can be isolated from the incubated solution by standard isolation procedures, such as
     solvent extraction and distillation, optionally after removal of polypeptides from the
     solution. For example, isolation can be effected by column chromatography,
 15  including liquid chromatography methods (e.g. HPLC). Production and quantification
     of the amount of isopimaradiene can be determined using methods as known in the art
     or as described herein, such as gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (e.g. GC-MS)
     or liquid chromatography-mass spectroscopy (e.g. LC-MS) using an internal standard
     for isopimaradiene.
20            In another example, the method for producing an AbIso diterpenoid is carried
     out in vivo using any of the nucleic acid molecules encoding an A blso polypeptide or
     active fragment thereof provided herein. In this case, the method involves introducing
     into a host capable of producing GGPP, a nucleotide sequence encoding an AbIso
     polypeptide or active fragment thereof operatively linked with a regulatory region
25   active in the host, and growing that host under conditions that permit the expression
     of the nucleic acid, thereby producing isopimaradiene. Any host cell can be used for
     expressing an AbIso polypeptide or active fragment thereof, such as any host cell
     described in Section F. For example, the host cell can be a eukaryotic or prokaryotic
     host cell that produces GGPP or is modified to produce GGPP. Exemplary of host
 30  cells are bacterial host cells (e.g. E.coli) or fungal host cells (e.g. yeast). In such an
     example, it is possible to carry out the method in vivo without previously isolating the
     AbIso polypeptide. The reaction occurs directly within the organism or cell

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                              - 54
     transformed to express said nucleic acid. The produced isopimaradiene can be isolated
     from the cell. For example, the isopimaradiene then can be extracted from the cell
     culture medium with an organic solvent and subsequently isolated or purified by any
     known method, such as column chromatography, including liquid chromatography
  5  methods (e.g. HPLC) or gas chromatography. The amount and purity of the produced
     isopimaradiene also can be assessed by any known standard chromatographic
     technique for the detection and quantification of hydrocarbons, including, but not
     limited to, gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS), gas chromatography
     using a flame ionization detector (GC-FID), capillary GC-MS, liquid chromatography
 10  mass spectrometry (LC-MS), high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and
     column chromatography using an internal standard as described above.
     F.      Methods of Producing or Generating Diterpene Synthases, Vectors &
     Host Cells
             Provided herein are polynucleotides encoding any of the diTPS provided
 15  herein or the encoded diTPSs polypeptide. As described herein, the nucleic acids and
     encoding polypeptides are derived from Abies balsamea. The polypeptide or the
     nucleic acid can be used in any of the method provided herein for producing a
     diterpenoid. Also provided herein are vectors and hosts containing the diTPS and that
     can be used for producing diterpenoids.
20           The diTPS to be used in methods provided herein also can be generated
     synthetically. Standard reference works setting forth the general principles of peptide
     synthesis technology and methods known to those of skill in the art include, for
     example: Chan et al., Fmoc Solid Phase Peptide Synthesis, Oxford University Press,
     Oxford, United Kingdom, 2005; Peptide and Protein Drug Analysis, ed. Reid, R.,
25   Marcel Dekker, Inc., 2000; Epitope Mapping, ed. Westwood et al., Oxford University
     Press, Oxford, United Kingdom, 2000; Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A
     Laboratory Manual, 3 rd ed., Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 2001;
     and Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Publishing
     Associates and John Wiley & Sons, NY, 1994.
 30          Also provided is a diTPS kit. The kit can contain one or more diTPS nucleic
     acid molecules. The kit can contain one or more diTPS polypeptides. The kit can
     contain a synthetic diTPS gene. The kit can contain a vector containing one or more

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 55
     diTPS nucleic acids. The kit can contain a host cell capable of expressing one or more
     than one diTPS polypeptide.
             1. Isolation of nucleic acid encoding diterpene synthases
             The one or more than one polynucleotide sequences encoding the diTPS as
  5  provided herein can be prepared by any method known by the person skilled in the
     art. For example, the polynucleotide sequence encoding a diTPS can be amplified
     from a cDNA template, by polymerase chain reaction with specific primers. In such
     an example the codons of the cDNA can be chosen to favor the expression of said
     protein in the desired expression system. In other examples, nucleic acids encoding
 10  diterpene synthases, including any of the diTPS provided herein, can be cloned or
     isolated using any available methods known in the art for cloning and isolating
     nucleic acid molecules. Such methods include PCR amplification of nucleic acids and
     screening of libraries, including nucleic acid hybridization screening. In some
     examples, methods for amplification of nucleic acids can be used to isolate nucleic
 15  acid molecules encoding a diTPS polypeptide, including for example, polymerase
     chain reaction (PCR) methods. A nucleic acid containing material can be used as a
     starting material from which a diTPS-encoding nucleic acid molecule can be isolated.
     For example, DNA and mRNA preparations from fir (Abies sp.), including but not
     limited to Abies balsamea, can be used to obtain diterpene synthase genes.
20           Nucleic acid libraries also can be used as a source of starting material. Primers
     can be designed to amplify a diterpene synthase-encoding molecule, such as a diTPS
     encoding molecule. For example, primers can be designed based on known nucleic
     acid sequences encoding a diterpene synthase, such as a class I/class II bifunctional
     diterpene synthase, such as those set forth in SEQ ID NOS:35-46. Nucleic acid
25   molecules generated by amplification can be sequenced and confirmed to encode a
     diTPS polypeptide.
             Additional nucleotide sequences can be joined to a diTPS-encoding nucleic
     acid molecule, including linker sequences containing restriction endonuclease sites for
     the purpose of cloning the synthetic gene into a vector, for example, a protein
 30  expression vector or a vector designed for the amplification of the core protein coding
     DNA sequences. Furthermore, additional nucleotide sequences specifying functional
     DNA elements can be operatively linked to a diTPS-encoding nucleic acid molecule.

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 56
     Still further, nucleic acid encoding other moieties or domains also can be included so
     that the resulting synthase is a fusion protein. For example, nucleic acids encoding
     other enzymes, such as a GGPP synthase, or protein purification tags, such as His or
     Flag tags.
  5           2. Vectors and Cells
              The disclosure also relates, in part, to vectors containing such sequences,
     transformed cells, cell lines, and transgenic organisms. For recombinant expression of
     one or more of the diterpene synthase polypeptides provided herein, including diTPS
     polypeptides, the nucleic acid containing all or a portion of the nucleotide sequence
 10  encoding the synthase can be inserted into an appropriate expression vector, i.e., a
     vector that contains the necessary elements for the transcription and translation of the
     inserted protein coding sequence. Depending upon the expression system used, the
     necessary transcriptional and translational signals also can be supplied by the native
     promoter for a diTPS gene, and/or their flanking regions. For example, vectors
 15  containing a polynucleotide sequence encoding a diTPS are provided herein. The
     vector can be obtained and introduced in a host cell by well-known recombinant DNA
     and genetic engineering techniques. In some examples, a vector can contain the gene
     encoding a GGPP synthase, such as the gene encoding the GGPP synthase crtE from
     Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous (SEQ ID NO:59).
20            The disclosure also provides a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell which is
     modified by a polynucleotide or a vector as provided herein. The host cell can be
     prokaryotic, such as bacterial, or eukaryotic, such as fungal (e.g., yeast), plant,
     Archea, insect, amphibian or animal cell. The host cell can contain a diTPS vector, a
     synthetic diTPS gene, and/or diTPS nucleic acid. The host cell can be any cell that is
25   capable of being transformed by the vector, synthetic gene, and/or nucleic acid. The
     host cell can also be any cell that is capable of expressing the diTPS polypeptide. The
     host cell can be incubated under conditions that allow expression of the diTPS
     polypeptide.
              Several of these organisms do not produce GGPP naturally. To be suitable to
 30  carry out the method of the invention, these organisms may need to be transformed
     with one or more sequences, such as a sequence encoding a GGPP synthase, that
     result in production of the precursor, GGPP. They can be so transformed either

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 57
     before the modification with the nucleic acid described according to any of the above
     embodiments, or simultaneously with a nucleotide sequence encoding diTPS, or a
     vector containing a nucleotide sequence encoding diTPS. Alternatively, in particular
     examples, the cells are yeast, such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae,that express an
  5  acyclic pyrophosphate terpene precursor, such as GGPP. The cells are used to produce
     a diterpene synthase, such as a diTPS polypeptide, by growing the above-described
     cells under conditions whereby the encoded diTPS is expressed by the cell. In some
     instances, the expressed synthase is purified. In other instances, the expressed
     synthase, such as an AbCAS synthase, converts GGPP to one or more terpenes (e.g.
 10  cis-abienol) in the host cell.
              Any method known to those of skill in the art for the insertion of DNA
     fragments into a vector can be used to construct expression vectors containing a
     chimeric gene containing appropriate transcriptional/translational control signals and
     protein coding sequences. These methods can include in vitro recombinant DNA and
 15  synthetic techniques and in vivo recombinants (genetic recombination). Expression of
     nucleic acid sequences encoding a diTPS polypeptide, or a fragment thereof, can be
     regulated by a second nucleic acid sequence so that the genes or fragments thereof are
     expressed in a host transformed with the recombinant DNA molecule(s). For example,
     expression of the proteins can be controlled by any promoter/enhancer known in the
20   art. In a specific embodiment, the promoter is not native to the genes for a diTPS
     protein. Promoters that can be used include but are not limited to prokaryotic, yeast,
     mammalian and plant promoters. The type of promoter depends upon the expression
     system used, described in more detail below.
              In a specific embodiment, a vector is used that contains a promoter operably
25   linked to nucleic acids encoding a diTPS polypeptide, or a fragment thereof, thereof,
     one or more origins of replication, and optionally, one or more selectable markers
     (e.g., an antibiotic resistance gene). Vectors and systems for expression of diTPS
     polypeptides are described, including, for example, the pET28b(+) vector.
              3. Expression Systems
 30           Diterpene synthases, including diTPS polypeptides provided herein, can be
     produced by any methods known in the art for protein production including in vitro
     and in vivo methods such as, for example, the introduction of nucleic acid molecules

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 58
     encoding the diterpene synthase (e.g. AbIso, AbLAS and AbCAS) into a host cell or
     host plant for in vivo production or expression from nucleic acid molecules encoding
     the diterpene synthase (e.g. AbIso, AbLAS and AbCAS) in vitro. Diterpene synthases
     such as AbIso, AbLAS and AbCAS polypeptides can be expressed in any organism
  5  suitable to produce the required amounts and forms of a synthase polypeptide.
     Expression hosts include prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms such as E. coli, yeast,
     plants, insect cells, mammalian cells, including human cell lines and transgenic
     animals. Expression hosts can differ in their protein production levels as well as the
     types of post-translational modifications that are present on the expressed proteins.
 10  The choice of expression host can be made based on these and other factors, such as
     regulatory and safety considerations, production costs and the need and methods for
     purification.
              Isolated higher eukaryotic cells, such for example cell culture, can also be
     used, instead of complete organisms, as hosts to carry out the method provided herein
 15  in vivo. Suitable eukaryotic cells can be any non-human cell, but are generally plant
     cells. Representative examples of a plant host cell include for example plants that
     naturally produce high amounts of terpenes. The plant can be selected from the family
     of Pinaceae, Funariacea, Solanaceae, Poaceae, Brassicaceae, Fabaceae, Malvaceae,
     Asteraceae or Lamiaceae. For example, the plant is selected from the genera Picea
20   (spruce), Pinus (pine), Abies (fir), Physcomitrella,Funariaceae,Nicotiana,Solanum,
     Sorghum, Arabidopsis, Brassica(rape), Medicago (alfalfa), Gossypium (cotton),
     Artemisia, Salvia and Mentha. Preferably, the plant belongs to the species of
     Nicotiana tabacum, Nicotiana benthamiana or Physcomitrellapatens. Additional
     plants and plant cells include, for example, citrus, corn, rice, algae, and lemna. In
25   other examples, the eukaryotic cells are yeast cells. Representative examples of a
     yeast host cell include those from the Saccharomyces genus (e.g. Saccharomyces
     cerevisiae)and Pichiagenus (e.g. Pichiapastoris).In some examples, insect cells
     such as Drosophilacells and lepidopteran cells are used for the expression of a diTPS
     provided herein. Eukaryotic cells for expression also include mammalian cells lines
 30  such as Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells or baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells.
              Eukaryotic expression hosts also include production in transgenic animals, for
     example, including production in serum, milk and eggs. There are several methods

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 59
     known in the art for the creation of transgenic host organisms or cells such as plants,
     fungi, prokaryotes, or cultures of higher eukaryotic cells. Appropriate cloning and
     expression vectors for use with bacterial, fungal, yeast, plant and mammalian cellular
     hosts are described, for example, in Pouwels et al., Cloning Vectors: A Laboratory
  5  Manual, 1985, Elsevier, New York and Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A
     Laboratory Manual, 2 "dedition, 1989, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press. Cloning
     and expression vectors for higher plants and/or plant cells in particular are available to
     the skilled person. See for example Schardl et al. (1987) Gene 61: 1-11.
              Methods for transforming host organisms or cells to harbor transgenic nucleic
 10  acids are familiar to the skilled person. For the creation of transgenic plants, for
     example, current methods include: electroporation of plant protoplasts, liposome
     mediated transformation, agrobacterium-mediated transformation, polyethylene
     glycol-mediated transformation, particle bombardement, microinjection of plant cells,
     and transformation using viruses.
 15           Many expression vectors are available and known to those of skill in the art
     for the expression of a diterpene synthase, such as a diTPS provided herein.
     Exemplary of expression vectors are pET expression vectors, such as pET28b(+). The
     choice of expression vector is influenced by the choice of host expression system.
     Such selection is well within the level of skill of the skilled artisan. In general,
20   expression vectors can include transcriptional promoters and optionally enhancers,
     translational signals, and transcriptional and translational termination signals.
     Expression vectors that are used for stable transformation typically have a selectable
     marker which allows selection and maintenance of the transformed cells. In some
     cases, an origin of replication can be used to amplify the copy number of the vectors
25   in the cells.
              Diterpene synthases, including diTPS polypeptides, also can be utilized or
     expressed as protein fusions. For example, a fusion can be generated to add additional
     functionality to a polypeptide. Examples of fusion proteins include, but are not limited
     to, fusions of a signal sequence, a tag such as for localization, e.g. a his 6 tag or a myc
 30  tag, or a tag for purification, for example, a GST fusion, GFP fusion or CBP fusion,
     and a sequence for directing protein secretion and/or membrane association. In other
     examples, diterpene synthases such as diTPS polypeptides provided herein can be

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 60
     fused to GGPP synthase (see, e.g., Brodelius et al. (2002) Eur. J. Biochem. 269:3570
     3579).
             Methods of production of diterpene synthase polypeptides, including AbIso,
     AbLAS and AbCAS polypeptides, can include co-expression of an acyclic
  5  pyrophosphate terpene precursor, such as GGPP, in the host cell. In some instances,
     the host cell naturally expresses GGPP. Such a cell can be modified to express
     greater quantities of GGPP (see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,531,303, 6,689,593, 7,838,279
     and 7,842,497). In other instances, a host cell that does not naturally produce GGPP is
     modified genetically to produce GGPP.
 10                           a. Prokaryotic cells
             Prokaryotes, especially E. coli, provide a system for producing large amounts
     of the diTPS polypeptides provided herein. Transformation of E. coli is a simple and
     rapid technique well known to those of skill in the art. Representative examples of a
     bacterial host cell include, but are not limited to, E. coli strains such as for example E.
 15  coli BL21DE3-C41 (Miroux and Walker (1996) JMol Biol 260:289-298).Exemplary
     expression vectors for transformation of E. coli cells, include, for example, the pGEM
     expression vectors, the pQE expression vectors, and the pET expression vectors (see,
     U.S. Pat. No. 4,952,496; available from Novagen, Madison, WI; see, also literature
     published by Novagen describing the system). Such plasmids include pET1 1a, which
20   contains the T71ac promoter, T7 terminator, the inducible E. coli lac operator, and the
     lac repressor gene; pET12a-c, which contains the T7 promoter, T7 terminator, and the
     E. coli ompT secretion signal; and pET15b and pET19b (Novagen, Madison, WI),
                                TM
     which contain a His-Tag       leader sequence for use in purification with a His column
     and a thrombin cleavage site that permits cleavage following purification over the
25   column, the T7-lac promoter region and the T7 terminator; and pET28b (Novagen,
     Madison, WI), which contains a His-TagTM leader sequence for use in purification
     with a His column and a thrombin cleavage site that permits cleavage following
     purification over the column, the T7-lac promoter region and the T7 terminator; and
     the pJET vectors (Thermo Scientific), such as the pJET1.2 vector which contains a
 30  lethal gene which is disrupted by ligation of a DNA insert into the cloning site and a
     T7 promoter for in vitro transcription.

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 61
             Expression vectors for E. coli can contain inducible promoters that are useful
     for inducing high levels of protein expression and for expressing proteins that exhibit
     some toxicity to the host cells. Exemplary prokaryotic promoters include, for
     example, the   p-lactamase  promoter (Jay et al., (1981) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
  5  78:5543) and the tac promoter (DeBoer et al., (1983) Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. USA
     80:21-25); see also "Useful Proteins from Recombinant Bacteria": in Scientific
     American 242:79-94 (1980)). Examples of inducible promoters include the lac
     promoter, the trp promoter, the hybrid tac promoter, the T7 and SP6 RNA promoters
     and the temperature regulated XPL promoter.
 10          Diterpene synthases, including diTPS polypeptides provided herein can be
     expressed in the cytoplasmic environment of E. coli. The cytoplasm is a reducing
     environment and for some molecules, this can result in the formation of insoluble
     inclusion bodies. Reducing agents such as dithiothreitol and   p-mercaptoethanol  and
     denaturants (e.g., such as guanidine-HCl and urea) can be used to resolubilize the
 15  proteins. An alternative approach is the expression diTPS polypeptides in the
     periplasmic space of bacteria which provides an oxidizing environment and
     chaperonin-like and disulfide isomerases leading to the production of soluble protein.
     Typically, a leader sequence is fused to the protein to be expressed which directs the
     protein to the periplasm. The leader is then removed by signal peptidases inside the
20   periplasm. Examples of periplasmic-targeting leader sequences include the pelB
     leader from the pectate lyase gene and the leader derived from the alkaline
     phosphatase gene. In some cases, periplasmic expression allows leakage of the
     expressed protein into the culture medium. The secretion of proteins allows quick and
     simple purification from the culture supernatant. Proteins that are not secreted can be
25   obtained from the periplasm by osmotic lysis. Similar to cytoplasmic expression, in
     some cases proteins can become insoluble and denaturants and reducing agents can be
     used to facilitate solubilization and refolding. Temperature of induction and growth
     also can influence expression levels and solubility. Typically, temperatures between
     25' C and 37' C are used. Mutations also can be used to increase solubility of
 30  expressed proteins. Typically, bacteria produce aglycosylated proteins.

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 62
                     b.       Yeast cells
              Yeast systems, such as, but not limited to, those from the Saccharomyces
     genus (e.g. Saccharomyces cerevisiae), Schizosaccharomycespombe, Yarrowia
     lipolytica, Kluyveromyces lactis, and Pichiapastoriscan be used to express the
  5  diterpene synthases, such as the diTPS polypeptides, provided herein. Yeast
     expression systems also can be used to produce diterpenes whose reactions are
     catalyzed by the synthases. Yeast can be transformed with episomal replicating
     vectors or by stable chromosomal integration by homologous recombination. In some
     examples, inducible promoters are used to regulate gene expression. Exemplary
 10  promoter sequences for expression of diTPS polypeptides in yeast include, among
     others, promoters for metallothionine, 3-phosphoglycerate kinase (Hitzeman et al.
     (1980) J. Biol. Chem. 255:2073), or other glycolytic enzymes (Hess et al. (1968) J.
     Adv. Enzyme Reg. 7:149; and Holland et al. (1978) Biochem. 17:4900), such as
     enolase, glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase, hexokinase, pyruvate
 15  decarboxylase, phosphofructokinase, glucose phosphate isomerase, 3
     phosphoglycerate mutase, pyruvate kinase, triosephosphate isomerase,
     phosphoglucose isomerase, and glucokinase.
              Other suitable vectors and promoters for use in yeast expression are further
     described in Hitzeman, EPA-73,657 or in Fleer et al. (1991) Gene, 107:285-195; and
20   van den Berg et al. (1990) Bio/Technology, 8:135-139. Another alternative includes,
     but is not limited to, the glucose-repressible ADH2 promoter described by Russell et
     al. (J. Biol. Chem. 258:2674, 1982) and Beier et al. (Nature 300:724, 1982), or a
     modified ADHI promoter. Shuttle vectors replicable in yeast and E. coli can be
     constructed by, for example, inserting DNA sequences from pBR322 for selection and
25   replication in E. coli (Amp' gene and origin of replication) into a yeast vector.
              Yeast expression vectors can include a selectable marker such as LEU2,
     TRP1, HIS3, and URA3 for selection and maintenance of the transformed DNA.
     Proteins expressed in yeast are often soluble and co-expression with chaperonins,
     such as Bip and protein disulfide isomerase, can improve expression levels and
 30  solubility. Additionally, proteins expressed in yeast can be directed for secretion using
     secretion signal peptide fusions such as the yeast mating type alpha-factor secretion
     signal from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and fusions with yeast cell surface proteins

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 63
     such as the Aga2p mating adhesion receptor or the Arxula adeninivorans
     glucoamylase. A protease cleavage site (e.g., the Kex-2 protease) can be engineered to
     remove the fused sequences from the polypeptides as they exit the secretion pathway.
              Yeast naturally express the required proteins, including GGPP synthase
  5  (BST1; which can produce GGPP) for the mevalonate-dependent isoprenoid
     biosynthetic pathway. Thus, expression of the diterpene synthases, including diTPS
     polypeptides provided herein, in yeast cells can result in the production of diterpenes,
     such as cis-abienol from GGPP. Exemplary yeast cells for the expression of terpene
     synthases, including diTPS polypeptides, include yeast modified to express increased
 10  levels of FPP and/or GGPP. For example, yeast cells can be modified to produce less
     squalene synthase or less active squalene synthase (e.g. erg9 mutants; see e.g. U.S.
     Patent Nos. 6,531,303 and 6,689,593). This results in accumulation of FPP in the host
     cell at higher levels compared to wild type yeast cells, which in turn can result in
     increased yields of GGPP and diterpenes (e.g. cis-abienol, isopimaradiene,
 15  abietadiene, levopimaradiene, palustradiene and/or neoabietadiene). In another
     example, yeast cells can be modified to produce more GGPP synthase by introduction
     of a GGPP synthase gene, such as BTS 1 from S. cerevisiae, crtE from Erwinia
     uredovora, crtE from Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous,al-3 from Neuspora crassa or
     ggs from Giverellafujiuroi(see U.S. Pat. No. 7,842,497). In some examples, the
20   native GGPP gene in such yeast can be deleted. Other modifications that enable
     increased production of GGPP in yeast include, for example, but are not limited to,
     modifications that increase production of acetyl CoA, inactivate genes that encode
     enzymes that use FPP and GPP as substrate and overexpress of HMG-CoA
     reductases, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,842,497. Exemplary modified yeast cells
25   include, but are not limited to, modified Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains CALI5-1
     (ura3, leu2, his3, trpl, A erg9:.HIS3, HMG2cat/TRP1:.rDNA, dppl, sue), ALX7-95
     (ura3, his3, trpl, Aerg9..HIS3, HMG2cat/TRP1..rDNA, dppl sue), ALX1 1-30 (ura3,
     trpl, erg9df25, HMG2cat/TRP1..rDNA, dppl, sue), which are known and described
     in one or more of U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,531,303, 6,689,593, 7,838,279, 7,842,497, and
 30  published U.S. Pat. Application Serial Nos. 20040249219 and 20110189717.

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 64
                      c. Plants and plant cells
             Transgenic plant cells and plants can be used for the expression of diterpene
     synthases, including diTPS polypeptides provided herein. Expression constructs are
     typically transferred to plants using direct DNA transfer such as microprojectile
  5  bombardment and PEG-mediated transfer into protoplasts, and with agrobacterium
     mediated transformation. Expression vectors can include promoter and enhancer
     sequences, transcriptional termination elements, and translational control elements.
     Expression vectors and transformation techniques are usually divided between dicot
     hosts, such as Arabidopsis and tobacco, and monocot hosts, such as corn and rice.
 10  Examples of plant promoters used for expression include the cauliflower mosaic virus
     promoter, the nopaline synthase promoter, the ribose bisphosphate carboxylase
     promoter and the ubiquitin and UBQ3 promoters. Selectable markers such as
     hygromycin, phosphomannose isomerase and neomycin phosphotransferase are often
     used to facilitate selection and maintenance of transformed cells. Transformed plant
 15  cells can be maintained in culture as cells, aggregates (callus tissue) or regenerated
     into whole plants. Transgenic plant cells also can include algae engineered to produce
     proteins (see, for example, Mayfield et al. (2003) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 100:438
     442). Transformed plants include, for example, plants selected from the genera Picea
     (spruce), Pinus (pine), Abies (fir), Physcomitrella,Funariaceae,Nicotiana,Solanum,
20   Sorghum, Arabidopsis, Medicago (alfalfa), Gossypium (cotton), Brassica(rape),
     Artemisia, Salvia and Mentha. In some examples, the plant belongs to the species of
     Nicotianatabacum, Nicotiana benthamiana or Physcomitrellapatens, and is
     transformed with vectors that overexpress a diTPS and optionally a a geranylgeranyl
     diphosphate synthase, such as described in U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 20090123984 and U.S.
25   Pat. No. 7,906,710.
                      d. Insects and insect cells
             Insects and insect cells, particularly a baculovirus expression system, can be
     used for expressing diterpene synthases, including diTPS polypeptides provided
     herein (see, for example, Muneta et al. (2003) J. Vet. Med. Sci. 65(2):219-223). Insect
 30  cells and insect larvae, including expression in the haemolymph, express high levels
     of protein and are capable of most of the post-translational modifications used by
     higher eukaryotes. Baculoviruses have a restrictive host range which improves the

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 65
     safety and reduces regulatory concerns of eukaryotic expression. Typically,
     expression vectors use a promoter such as the polyhedrin promoter of baculovirus for
     high level expression. Commonly used baculovirus systems include baculoviruses
     such as Autographacalfornicanuclear polyhedrosis virus (AcNPV), and the Bombyx
  5  mori nuclear polyhedrosis virus (BmNPV) and an insect cell line such as Sf9 derived
     from Spodopterafrugiperda,Pseudaletiaunipuncta (A7 S) and Danausplexippus
     (DpN1). For high level expression, the nucleotide sequence of the molecule to be
     expressed is fused immediately downstream of the polyhedrin initiation codon of the
     virus. Mammalian secretion signals are accurately processed in insect cells and can be
 10  used to secrete the expressed protein into the culture medium. In addition, the cell
     lines Pseudaletiaunipuncta (A7S) and Danausplexippus (DpN1) produce proteins
     with glycosylation patterns similar to mammalian cell systems.
             An alternative expression system in insect cells is the use of stably
     transformed cells. Cell lines such as the Schnieder 2 (S2) and Kc cells (Drosophila
 15  melanogaster)and C7 cells (Aedes albopictus) can be used for expression. The
     Drosophilametallothionein promoter can be used to induce high levels of expression
     in the presence of heavy metal induction with cadmium or copper. Expression vectors
     are typically maintained by the use of selectable markers such as neomycin and
     hygromycin.
20                    e. Mammalian expression
             Mammalian expression systems can be used to express diterpene synthases,
     including diTPS polypeptides provided herein and also can be used to produce
     diterpenes whose reactions are catalyzed by the synthases. Expression constructs can
     be transferred to mammalian cells by viral infection such as adenovirus or by direct
25   DNA transfer such as liposomes, calcium phosphate, DEAE-dextran and by physical
     means such as electroporation and microinjection. Expression vectors for mammalian
     cells typically include an mRNA cap site, a TATA box, a translational initiation
     sequence (Kozak consensus sequence) and polyadenylation elements. Such vectors
     often include transcriptional promoter-enhancers for high level expression, for
 30  example the SV40 promoter-enhancer, the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter,
     and the long terminal repeat of Rous sarcoma virus (RSV). These promoter-enhancers
     are active in many cell types. Tissue and cell-type promoters and enhancer regions

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 66
     also can be used for expression. Exemplary promoter/enhancer regions include, but
     are not limited to, those from genes such as elastase I, insulin, immunoglobulin,
     mouse mammary tumor virus, albumin, alpha-fetoprotein, alpha 1-antitrypsin,
     beta-globin, myelin basic protein, myosin light chain-2 and gonadotropic releasing
  5  hormone gene control. Selectable markers can be used to select for and maintain cells
     with the expression construct. Examples of selectable marker genes include, but are
     not limited to, hygromycin B phosphotransferase, adenosine deaminase, xanthine
     guanine phosphoribosyl transferase, aminoglycoside phosphotransferase,
     dihydrofolate reductase and thymidine kinase. Fusion with cell surface signaling
 10  molecules such as TCR-( and FcRI-y can direct expression of the proteins in an
     active state on the cell surface.
              Many cell lines are available for mammalian expression including mouse, rat
     human, monkey, and chicken and hamster cells. Exemplary cell lines include, but are
     not limited to, BHK (i.e. BHK-21 cells), 293-F, CHO, CHO Express (CHOX;
 15  Excellgene), Balb/3T3, HeLa, MT2, mouse NSO (non-secreting) and other myeloma
     cell lines, hybridoma and heterohybridoma cell lines, lymphocytes, fibroblasts, Sp2/0,
     COS, NIH3T3, HEK293, 293S, 293T, 2B8, and HKB cells. Cell lines also are
     available adapted to serum-free media which facilitates purification of secreted
     proteins from the cell culture media. One such example is the serum free EBNA-1 cell
20   line (Pham et al. (2003) Biotechnol. Bioeng. 84:332-342).
                     4. Purification
              Also provided is a method of producing the diTPS polypeptide. The diTPS
     polypeptide can be purified using standard chromatographic techniques.
              The polypeptide to be used when the method is carried out in vitro can be
25   obtained by extraction from any organism expressing it, using standard protein or
     enzyme extraction technologies. If the host organism is a unicellular organism or cell
     releasing the polypeptide of the invention into the culture medium, the polypeptide
     can simply be collected from the culture medium, for example by centrifugation,
     optionally followed by washing steps and re-suspension in suitable buffer solutions. If
 30  the organism or cell accumulates the polypeptide within its cells, the polypeptide can
     be obtained by disruption or lysis of the cells and further extraction of the polypeptide
     from the cell lysate.

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 67
             Methods for purification of diterpene synthases, such as diTPS polypeptides,
     from host cells depend on the chosen host cells and expression systems. For secreted
     molecules, proteins are generally purified from the culture media after removing the
     cells. For intracellular expression, cells can be lysed and the proteins purified from the
  5  extract. When transgenic organisms such as transgenic plants and animals are used for
     expression, tissues or organs can be used as starting material to make a lysed cell
     extract. Additionally, transgenic animal production can include the production of
     polypeptides in milk or eggs, which can be collected, and if necessary the proteins can
     be extracted and further purified using standard methods in the art.
 10          Diterpene synthases, including diTPS polypeptides provided herein, can be
     purified using standard protein purification techniques known in the art including but
     not limited to, SDS-PAGE, size fraction and size exclusion chromatography,
     ammonium sulfate precipitation, chelate chromatography and ionic exchange
     chromatography. Expression constructs also can be engineered to add an affinity tag
 15  such as a myc epitope, GST fusion or His6 and affinity purified with myc antibody,
     glutathione resin, and Ni-resin, respectively, to a protein. Purity can be assessed by
     any method known in the art including gel electrophoresis and staining and
     spectrophotometric techniques. The polypeptides, either in an isolated form or
     together with other proteins, for example in a crude protein extract obtained from
20   cultured cells or microorganisms, can then be suspended in a buffer solution at
     optimal pH. If adequate, salts, DTT, BSA and other kinds of enzymatic co-factors,
     can be added in order to optimize enzyme activity.
             5. Fusion Proteins
             Fusion proteins containing a diterpene synthase, including diTPS
25   polypeptides, and one or more other polypeptides also are provided. Linkage of a
     diterpene synthase polypeptide with another polypeptide can be effected directly or
     indirectly via a linker. In one example, linkage can be by chemical linkage, such as
     via heterobifunctional agents or thiol linkages or other such linkages. Fusion also can
     be effected by recombinant means. Fusion of a diterpene synthase, such as a diTPS
 30  polypeptide, e.g., AbIso, AbLAS and AbCAS, to another polypeptide can be to the N
     or C- terminus of the diTPS polypeptide.

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 68
             A fusion protein can be produced by standard recombinant techniques. For
     example, DNA fragments coding for the different polypeptide sequences can be
     ligated together in-frame in accordance with conventional techniques, e.g., by
     employing blunt-ended or stagger-ended termini for ligation, restriction enzyme
  5  digestion to provide for appropriate termini, filling-in of cohesive ends as appropriate,
     alkaline phosphatase treatment to avoid undesirable joining, and enzymatic ligation.
     In another embodiment, the fusion gene can be synthesized by conventional
     techniques including automated DNA synthesizers. Alternatively, PCR amplification
     of gene fragments can be carried out using anchor primers that give rise to
 10  complementary overhangs between two consecutive gene fragments that can
     subsequently be annealed and reamplified to generate a chimeric gene sequence (see,
     e.g., Ausubel et al. (eds.) Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley &
     Sons, 1992). Moreover, many expression vectors are commercially available that
     already encode a fusion moiety (e.g., a GST polypeptide). For example, an AbCAS
 15  polypeptide-encoding nucleic acid can be cloned into such an expression vector such
     that nucleic acid encoding AbCAS is linked in-frame to a polypeptide encoding a
     protein purification tag, such as a His tag. In another example, a nucleic acid
     molecule encoding a diTPS polypeptide can be linked in-frame to a polypeptide
     encoding a GGPP synthase. The diTPS polypeptide and additional polypeptide can be
20   linked directly, without a linker, or alternatively, linked indirectly in-frame with a
     linker.
     G.      EXAMPLES
             The following examples are included for illustrative purposes only and are not
     intended to limit the scope of the invention.
25                                           Example 1
                          Terpenoid Metabolic Profiling of Balsam Fir
             A diterpenoid metabolic profile was established for wood and xylem, bark and
     phloem, and needles of balsam fir sapling trees to determine if it is a suitable tissue
     source for transcriptome mining of synthase genes involved in diterpenoid
 30  biosynthesis. Mono- and sesquiterpenoids were also measured.
             A.      Methods
                     1.      Plant Material

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 69
              Two-year old saplings of Abies balsameavar. phanerolepsis(L.) Mill. were
     purchased from Arbutus Grove Nursery Ltd. (North Saanich, BC, Canada) and
     maintained in a greenhouse as previously described in Miller et al. (PlantPhysiol.
     137:369-382 (2005)). Needles, xylem/wood and phloem/bark were harvested from
  5  the upper interwhorls and used fresh or flash frozen in liquid N2 for metabolite and
     RNA extraction, respectively.
                      2.     Diterpene Standards
             Authentic diterpene resin acid standards were purchased from Orchid Celmark
     (New Westminster, BC, Canada). The corresponding diterpene olefins were
 10  synthesized from the acids at Best West Labs Inc. (Salt Lake City, UT, USA) as
     previously described (Ro et al. (2005) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102, 8060-8065).
                      3.     Metabolite Analysis
              Terpenoids were extracted from samples of 2 g of pulverized tissue with 1.5
     mL of diethyl ether for 16 h at room temperature. Water was removed by addition of
 15  anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 , and extracts were passed through 0.22 ptm GHP membrane filters
     (PALL Corporation, De Miniac, QC, Canada). GC-MS analysis was performed on an
     Agilent 6890N GC (Agilent Technologies Inc, Mississauga, ON, Canada), 7683B
     series autosampler, and a 5975 Inert XL MS Detector at 70 eV and 1 ml min-' He as
     carrier gas using a SGE Solgel-Wax column (polyethylene glycol, 30 m, 250 ptm i.d.,
20   0.25 ptm film) with the following GC temperature program: 40' C for 5 min, 3' C
     min-' to 80' C, 8' C min-' to 250' C, 10' C min-' to 270' C, hold 5 min, pulsed
     splitless injector held at 250'C.
              Diterpene resin acids were extracted from samples of approximately 150 mg
     tissue with 1.5 mL methyl tert-butyl ether following the method described in
25   Lewinsohn et al. (PlantPhysiol. 101:1021-1028 (1993)) and derivatized with 2 M
     trimethylsilyl diazomethane (Sigma, Oakville, ON, Canada). GC-MS analysis was
     performed using an Alltech AT-1000 column (polyethylene glycol-acid modified, 30
     m, 250 pm i.d., 0.25 pm film) and GC specifications as follows: 150' C initial
     temperature, 1.5' C min-' to 220' C, 20' C min-' to 240' C.
 30           Compound identification was achieved by comparison of mass spectra to those
     of authentic standards and reference mass spectral databases of the National Institute

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               -  70
     of Standards and Technology (NIST) MS library searches (Wiley W9N08).
     Quantifications were based on three independent biological replicates.
              B.      Results
              While only trace amounts of terpenoids were detected in wood tissue,
  5  bark/phloem and needle samples had similar total amounts of terpenoids, made up
     mostly of diterpenoids, with lesser amounts of monoterpenoids and relatively minor
     amounts of sesquiterpenoids (see Table 3 below). Both the bark/phloem and the
     needle samples contained the diterpene resin acids, abietic acid, isopimaric acid,
     dehydroabietic acid and palustric acid, as major diterpenoids. These diterpene acids
 10  are all commonly abundant in conifers. Cis-abienol was found almost exclusively in
     the bark/phloem tissue, where it was the most abundant terpenoid metabolite,
     accounting for more than 25% of the total amount of diterpenoids of balsam fir stem
     tissue.
     Table 3. Terpenoid metabolite profiles of Abies balsamea bark/phloem and
     needle tissues.
         Terpenoid Metabolite                              pig g 1 DW
     Monoterpenes                          BarklPhloem                     Needles
          a-Pinenel                              126 1                      72 19
          Camphenel                              18 15                      65 12
          p-Pinene'                            171 41                      100 36
          3-Carenel                            111 36                      188 ±23
          Myrcenel                               11 1                        10 0
          Limonene                             134 17                       25 5
          p-Phellandrenel                       67 13                       20 2
          Terpinolene'                           15 7                        15 2
          Borneol'                                2 1                        17 7
          Bornyl acetate'                     130 121                      305 29
     Total                                   785 253                      817 135
     Sesquiterpenes
          Longipinene'                           11 8                         5 2
          Longifolene'                          51 36                         2 1
          a-Humulene'                             5 3                       12 11
          p-Bisabolene'                         26 13                       34 19
          trans-Caryophyllene'                   11 7                      22 20
     Total                                    104 67                        75 53
     Diterpenes, 2
          Isopimaradienel                        16 ± 1                      traces
          (epi)-Manoyl oxide'                    33 3                        traces
         Abietadiene'                            15 5                         8 1
          cis-abienol 2                      3287 ± 25                        n.d.*

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               -71
         Abietadieneall                         35 20                        9 2
          Pimaric acid2                          traces                      n.d.*
                           2
          Isopimaric acid                    1751 422                     259 244
          Sandaracopimaric acid 2             437 298                      160 60
          Palustric acid 2                     1301 1                     640 243
          Levopimaric acid2                    682 56                    1364 704
         Abietic acid 2                      2037 830                     717 220
          Dehydroabietic acid  2             1262 742                    1617 ±199
     1 'Terpenoid metabolites extracted with diethyl ether' or methyl tert-butyl ether 2;
     *n.d., not detected
                                            Example 2
  5                 Isolation and Sequencing of Diterpene Synthases (diTPS)
              Bark/phloem of balsam fir sapling stems was used as source for the
     preparation of a non-normalized cDNA library and subsequent transcriptome
     sequencing for identification of diterpene synthases (diTPS).
             A. Identification of Candidate diTPS
 10           Total RNA was isolated from samples of 150 mg bark tissue according to the
     method of Kolosova et al. (BioTechniques 36:821-824 (2004)) and mRNA was
     purified on Dynabeads (Invitrogen, Burlington, ON, Canada). RNA integrity and
     amounts were determined on a Bioanalyzer 2100 using an RNA Pico Chip (Agilent).
              Construction of a non-normalized bark tissue cDNA library and subsequent
 15  454 transcriptome sequencing was conducted at the McGill University and Genome
     Quebec Innovations Centre (Montreal, QC, Canada). The cDNA library was
     constructed from 200 ng of fragmented mRNA using the cDNA Rapid Library
     Preparation kit, GS FLX Titanium series (Roche Diagnostics, Laval, QC, Canada)
     following manufacturer's protocols. Yield of cDNA and the size range of cDNA
20   fragments were assessed using a Bioanalyzer 2100 Pico Chip (Agilent), and 200 ng of
     the cDNA library were subjected to a half-plate reaction of 454 pyrosequencing using
     the Roche GS FLX Titanium technology. A half-plate reaction of Roche 454
     sequencing generated a total of 797,060 sequence reads with an average GC content
     of 46% and an average read length of 359 bp.
25           After adapter trimming, the remaining high quality reads were subjected to a
     de novo assembly in GS De novo Assembler 2.5pl with a size exclusion of 45 bp.

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 72
     The assembly contained 85% of all input reads, yielding 14,699 isogroups from
     17,122 isotigs of average size of 1,114 nucleotides.
              A subset of candidate isotigs were identified by comparing the assembled
     sequences against 146 known plant TPSs using a BLASTx search (Altschul et al.
  5  (1990) J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410). This resulted in a subset of isotigs that represented
     candidate genes for nine different putative mono- and sesqui TPSs and five putative
     diTPSs (see Table 4 below).
     Table 4: Summary of in silico annotation of putative TPS assemblies.
       Isotig      Reads             BlastX hit             Species      E-value     Identity
       04065        170      Isopimaradiene synthase        P. abies         0          70
       09468        170         6-Selinene synthase        A. grandis     1.8-          92
       00922
     (diTPS3)       167        Abietadiene synthase        A. grandis        0          94
       01412        165          Myrcene synthase           P. abies         0          70
       0091S9       163        Abietadiene synthase        A. grandis        0          97
       00921
     (diTPS2)       162        Abietadiene synthase        A. grandis        0          92
       04459        160      p-Phellandrene synthase A. grandis              0          92
       04736        157         a/p-Pinene synthase        A. grandis        0          97
       04513        155          Sabinene synthase        P. sitchensis      0          76
       09269        154       4S-Limonene synthase         A. grandis     9.8-1         93
       04902        153        y-Humulene synthase         A. grandis        0          92
       07269        145        ent-Kaurene synthase       P. sitchensis      0          91
       11523        141          Linalool synthase          P. abies      1.3-"         80
       14736        128         Limonene synthase         P. sitchensis   2.2-          91
     *Identity is given as amino acid sequence identity between isotig and Blast hit
              B.     Isolation of Full-length cDNAs of bifunctional class I/II
 10  gymnosperm diTPSs
              Of the diTPSs, four candidate isotigs (AbdiTPS1, AbdiTPS2, AbdiTPS3, and
     AbdiTPS4) resembled bifunctional class I/II gymnosperm diTPSs of the TPS-d group
     (Martin et al. (2004) PlantPhysiol 135:1908-1927; Keeling et al. (2011) BMC Plant
     Biol 11:43; Chen et al. (2011) The PlantJournal66:212-229) containing the
 15  characteristic DxDD, DDxxD and NSE/DTE motifs (SEQ ID NOS: 12-14,
     respectively) (see Peters et al. (2003) Biochemistry 42:2700-2707; Peters & Croteau
     (2002) Biochemistry 41:1836-1842; Zhou & Peters (2009) Phytochemistry 70:366-

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               -  73
     369). Reads corresponding to these four isotigs were reassembled in PHRAP (de la
     Bastide & McCombie (2007) Curr ProtocBioinformatics Chapter 11, Unit 11.4),
     from which three unique partial diTPS cDNA sequences (AbdiTPS1, AbdiTPS2,
     AbdiTPS3) and one FLcDNA sequence (AbdiTPS4) were obtained.
  5            A full length (FL) cDNA clone for AbdiTPS4 was amplified based on the in
     silico assembled full-length sequence. For the other synthases, synthesis of cDNA as
     template for PCR amplification of candidate genes was carried out with random
     hexamer oligonucleotides using the SMARTer cDNA RACE amplification kit
     (Clontech, Mountain View, CA, USA).         Completion of the 3'-sequences of
 10  A bdiTPS1 and A bdiTPS2 was achieved by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (3'
     RACE) using the SMARTer cDNA RACE cDNA amplification kit (Clontech) and
     Phusion DNA-polymerase (New England Biolabs, Pickering, ON, Canada) with
     primers set forth in Table 5. The following PCR program was used: Initial
     denaturation at 98' C for 30 sec, 5 cycles of denaturation at 98' C for 20 see and
 15  extension at 72' C for 90 see, 5 cycles of denaturation at 98' C for 20 sec, annealing
     at 70' C for 20 see and extension at 72' C for 90 see, 27 cycles of denaturation at
     98'C for 20 see, annealing at 65' C for 20 see and extension at 72' C for 90 see, and a
     final extension at 72' C for 3 min. The obtained amplicons were gel-purified, and
     ligated into pJET (SEQ ID NO:32) using the CloneJET kit (Clontech).
     Table 5. Primers for RACE cDNA amplification
     Primer                    Sequence                                              SEQ ID
                                                                                       NO
     AbdiTPS1-3'RACE           CTGAGAGAGGTCAAGGTGAGGAGGCTTCTG                           18
     AbdiTPS2-3'RACE           CAGAGAGAGGTCAAGGTGAGGTGGCTTCTG                           19
20
             Initial sequences of AbdiTPS1, AbdiTPS2, AbdiTPS3, and AbdiTPS4 were
     obtained based on the initial high-throughput (lower accuracy) transcriptome reads
     and are set forth in Figure 7. Higher accuracy Sanger sequencing of the cloned
     cDNAs was performed on the AbdiTPS1 and A bdiTPS2 to confirm the sequences,
25   which demonstrated some differences in the N-terminal sequences of AbdiTPS1 and
     AbdiTPS2 compared to that obtained from transcriptome reads. SEQ ID NOS
     corresponding to the protein and nucleic acid sequences of the isolated balsam fir
     diterpene synthases are set forth in Table 6 below. AbdiTPS1 and AbdiTPS4 are full

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 -  74
     length sequences. AbdiTPS2 is a near full-length sequencing lacking 40-50 basepair
     residues of the plastidial transit peptide and AbdiTPS3 is a partial sequence.
            Table 6. AbdiTPS Diterpene Synthases
              Diterpene Synthase               Protein               Nucleic Acid
                                             SEQ ID NO               SEQ ID NO
                   AbdiTPS1                          1                       2
                   AbdiTPS2                         3                        4
                   AbdiTPS3                         5                        6
                   AbdiTPS4                         7                        8
  5                                                Example 3
          Functional Characterization of Balsam Fir diTPSs and Discovery of a cis
                                          Abienol Synthase
             A.      Cloning and Expression of Pseudomature Enzyme
             For functional characterization ofAbdiTPS1, AbdiTPS2 and AbdiTPS4,
 10  pseudomature versions of these diTPSs starting at the conserved N/KRx6W motif
     (SEQ ID NO:15) were cloned lacking the putative plastidial transit peptide so that
     expression in Escherichiacoli (. coli) could be achieved (Keeling et al. (2008) Proc
     Natl Acad Sci USA 105:1085-1090). To generate pseudomature versions, cDNAs
     described in Example 2.B were amplified using primers set forth in Table 7 to
 15  generate products lacking the plastidial transit peptide. In addition, AbdiTPS4 with a
     less conserved 5' sequence was cloned as a full length gene. For the amplification,
     the following PCR program was used: initial denaturation at 98' C for 30 see
     followed by 30 cycles of denaturation at 98' C for 10 see, annealing at 65-68' C for
     30 see and extension at 72' C for 80 see, and final extension at 72' C for 10 min.
20   Amplified products were cloned into pJET (SEQ ID NO:32), and subcloned into the
     NheI/SalI and NotI restriction sites of pET28b(+) (SEQ ID NO:33; EMD Biosciences,
     San Diego, CA, USA). Using this expression vector, a 40 amino acid linker
     (MGRSHHHHHHSSGLVPRGSHMASMTGGQQMGRDPNSSSVD;                                SEQ ID
     NO:23) was added to the 5' end of the gene-specific sequence, including the 6xHis
25   tag, a T7-tag and a thrombin cleavage site. Hence, for the N-terminally tagged
     expression constructions, a methionine at which translation is initiated was located
     upstream of the His-tag. All cDNA constructs were sequence verified at the Nucleic

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 75
     Acid Protein Service Unit (NAPS; University of British Columbia, BC, Canada) prior
     to expression in E. coli.
              Recombinant proteins were expressed in E. coli BL21DE3-C41 cells, Ni
     affinity purified as described elsewhere (Keeling et al. (2008) ProcNatl Acad Sci
  5  USA 105:1085-1090), and desalted against 20 mM HEPES (pH 7.2), 150 mM NaCl,
     10% glycerol, 5 mM DTT using PD MiniTrap G-25 columns (GE Healthcare,
     Piscataway, NJ, USA), resulting in soluble proteins of the expected molecular weight
     of 90 to 91 kDa. SEQ ID NOS corresponding to the protein and encoding nucleic
     acid sequences of the expressed pseudomature form of AbdiTPS1, A bdiTPS2 and
 10  AbdiTPS4 are set forth in Table 8 below.
       Table 7. Primers for cDNA amplification
     Primer                    Sequence                                            SEQ ID
                                                                                     NO
     AbdiTPS4-For-FL-          TAGTCGACATGGCCCTGCCTGTCTATTC                          20
     SalI
     AbdiTPS4-ForA85-          TAGTCGACATGCGAGAATTTCCTCCTTCATTTTG                    21
     SalI
     AbdiTPS4-Rev-NotI         TAGCGGCCGCTTAGGTAGCCGGCTCGAAG                         22
     AbdiTPS2-ForA68-          TATGTCGACAAACGAGAATTTCCTCCAGGA                        24
     NheI
     AbdiTPS2-Rev-NotI         TGGGCGGCCGCTTACGCAATCGGTATGAAGAG                      25
     AbdiTPS1-For-A83-         TATGTCGACAAACGAGAATTTCCTCCAGGA                        26
     SalI
     AbdiTPS1-Rev-NotI         TGGGCGGCCGCCTAGGCAACTGGTTGGAAGAG                      27
             Table 8. Pseudomature Versions of diTPSs
              Diterpene Synthase             Protein                Nucleic Acid
                                           SEQ ID NO                 SEQ ID NO
                   AbdiTPS1                      47                      51
                   AbdiTPS2                      48                      52
                   AbdiTPS4                      55                      56
              B.     Characterization of Enzyme Activity
 15           Enzyme assays with geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) as substrate
     followed by GC-MS or LC-MS analysis of reaction products against controls and
     authentic standards was used to identify functions for AbdiTPS1, AbdiTPS2 and
     AbdiTPS4. Enzyme assays were carried out as described before (Keeling et al. (2008)

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 76
     Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 105:1085-1090). Assays were carried out in 50 mM HEPES
     (pH 7.2), 10 pM MgCl 2 , 5% glycerol, 5 mM DTT, using 100 ptg of purified protein
     (100 ptg each for coupled assays) and 15 pM of (E,E,E)-GGPP (Sigma) with
     incubation for 1 h at 300 C. After extraction of reaction products with 500 pL
  5  pentane, GC-MS analysis was conducted on an Agilent 7890A GC, 7683B series
     autosampler, and a 7000A Triple Quad MS Detector at 70 eV and 1.2 ml min- He
     flow using a HP5ms column (5% phenyl methyl siloxane, 30 m, 250 ptm i.d., 0.25
     ptm film) and the following GC temperature program: 40' C for 2 min, 20' C min-' to
     300' C, hold 2 min; pulsed splitless injection (injector held at 250' C).
 10           For the detection of diphosphate intermediates, reaction products were
     dephosphorylated prior to extraction by incubation with 10 U of calf intestinal
     alkaline phosphatase (Invitrogen) for 16 h at 370 C and analyzed on a Solgel-Wax
     column as described above in Example 1 with modified GC parameters: 40' C for 2
     min, 25' C min-1 to 250' C, hold 5 min, pulsed splitless injector held at 250 C.
 15  Analysis of reaction products via LC-MS was performed on an Agilent 1100 Series
     LC/MSD Trap XCT Plus MS with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI)
     in positive mode on an Agilent Zorbax RX-Sil silica column (4.6 mm ID x 150 mm x
     5 tm) as previously reported (Keeling et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem. 286, 21145-21153).
             Authentic standards of abietadiene, isopimaradiene, levopimaradiene,
20   neoabietadiene and palustradiene were used as positive controls. Empty vector was
     used as a negative control. As shown in Figure 2, the authentic standard of
     abietadiene contained an unknown contamination and the authentic standard of
     levopimaradiene contained 30% other diterpene isomers, which could not be
     removed.
25            Enzymatic activity assays were confirmed with three independent
     experiments. The product profile results are set forth in Figure 2, and summarized as
     follows:
                      1.     AbdiTPS1
              The product profile of AbdiTPS1 was identified by GC-MS to be made up of
 30  four peaks corresponding to abietadiene, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and
     palustradiene in a ratio of approximately 4:3:2:1 (see Figure 2). This profile closely
     matches that previously identified for grand fir A bies grandis abietadiene synthase

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 77
     (AgAS) (NCBI accession no. AAK83563, SEQ ID NO:40) (Peters et al. (2002)
     Biochemistry 39:15592-15602). As shown in Example 5 and Figure 7, AgAs is a
     diTPS that is 99% identical with AbdiTPS1 on the amino acid level. According to
     these patterns, AbdiTPS1 can be classified as an LAS-type bifunctional class 1/11
  5  diTPS (referred to herein also as AbLAS), which appears to be orthologous with
     AgAS (SEQ ID NO:40).
              Following the recent discovery of epimers of a tertiary alcohol, 13-hydroxy
     8(14)-abietene, as the initial enzyme products of Norway spruce Picea abies
     levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (PaLAS) (SEQ ID NO:37; Keeling et al.
 10  (2011) J. Biol. Chem. 286:21145-21153), the product of AbdiTPS1 (AbLAS) by LC
     MS was also investigated. As shown in Figure 3, the detected mass fragment of m/z
     273 in the LC-MS analysis corresponds to the dehydration product of 13-hydroxy
     8(14)-abietene, and is indicative of dehydration of the unstable diterpene alcohol
     compounds in the APCI interface, as detailed in Keeling et al. (Keeling et al. (2011)
 15  J. Biol. Chem. 286:21145-21153). Comparison with abietadiene standard showed
     separation of olefin compound and the polar hydroxylated diterpenes.
                     2.     AbdiTPS2
              The product profile of AbdiTPS2 was identified by GC-MS to be made up of a
     single peak demonstrating that AbdiTPS2 formed exclusively isopimaradiene (see
20   Figure 2). This product profile is similar to the previously characterized single
     product isopimaradiene synthases from Norway spruce (Palso; SEQ ID NO:35) and
     Sitka spruce (Pslso; SEQ ID NO:36) (Martin et al. (2004) PlantPhysiol 135:1908
     1927; Keeling et al. (2008) ProcNatl Acad Sci USA 105:1085-1090; Keeling et al.
     (2011) BMC PlantBiol 11:43). AbdiTPS2 was thereby identified as an Iso-type
25   bifunctional class I11 diTPS (referred to herein also as Ablso).
                     3.     AbdiTPS4
              The product profile of AbdiTPS4 was identified by GC-MS to be a unique
     single peak product profile (see Figure 2 and Figure 3). The product corresponded to
     cis-abienol according to retention time consistent with the compound extracted from
 30  plant tissue and shared characteristic mass fragments (e.g., m/z 290 [M+], m/z 272
     [M+-H20], and m/z 134) in comparison with reference mass spectra (Vlad et al.
     (1974) Khimiya Prirodnykh Soedinenii 1:30-35) and obtained from the National

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 78
     Institute of Standards and Technology MS library searches (Wiley W9N08). An
     authentic cis-abienol standard is not commercially available. When the product of
     AbdiTPS4 was analyzed by GC-MS, under a number of different conditions, poor
     resolution of the shape of the cis-abienol peak (see Figure 2) was observed, relative to
  5  the peak shape of diterpene olefins, and the occurrence of trace amounts of two
     additional compounds. This profile is likely due to degradation of cis-abienol during
     GC-MS as previously reported (Severson et al. (1984) JournalofAgriculturaland
     Food Chemistry 32:566-570; Ding et al. (2007) Chromatographia66:529-532;
     Carman & Duffield (1993) Aust. J. Chem. 46:1105-1114). LC-MS analysis
 10  confirmed cis-abienol as a single product of AbdiTPS4, with m/z 273 in the LC MS
     analysis corresponding to the predicted dehydration product of the diterpene alcohol
     (see Figure 3). AbdiTPS4 was thereby identified as a bifunctional class I/II cis
     abienol synthase (referred to herein also as AbCAS). AbCAS represents a new type of
     conifer diTPS, producing a bicyclic, tertiary diterpene alcohol, as opposed to tricyclic
 15  products of the LAS- and Iso-type diTPSs.
              Additional structural and stereochemical analysis by proton and carbon NMR
     and comparison to previously reported analyses (Ding et al. (2007) Chromatographia,
     66:529-532; Carman et al. (1993) Aust. J. Chem., 46:1105-1114) confirmed the
     identity of the AbdiTPS4 product as cis-abienol. For Nuclear magnetic resonance
20   (NMR) analysis, Cis-abienol was prepared from a pool of ten individual enzyme
     assays as described above using 20 ptM GGPP and an incubation time of 2 h to
     maximize product formation. To enhance product purity, pentane was purified on
     alumina prior to use and assays were performed in buffer pre-extracted with
     alumina-purified pentane. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectra were recorded
25   on a Bruker Avance 600 equipped with a QNP or TCI cryoprobe (600 MHz) using
     deuterochloroform (CDCl 3) as the solvent, which was neutralized by distillation and
     filtration through potassium carbonate prior to preparation of the sample. Signal
     positions (6) were calculated in parts per million (ppm) as compared to
     tetramethylsilane (6 0) and were measured relative to the signal of the solvent (CDCl 3 :
                                13
 30  6 7.26, 'H NMR; 6 77.0,       C NMR).
                                             Example 4

WO 2013/075239                                                          PCT/CA2012/050837
                                              - 79
            Phylogenetic Analysis of Bifunctional class I/II Gymnosperm diTPSs
             To perform phylogenetic analysis, the encoded amino acid sequences of
     AbdiTPS1, A bdiTPS2, AbdiTPS3 and AbdiTPS4 were compared to the amino acid
     sequence of other synthases. Multiple protein sequence alignments were performed
  5  using the CLC bio Main Workbench 5.7.1 (CLC bio, Arhus, Denmark). Phylogenetic
     analyses were conducted on the basis of the maximum likelihood algorithm using
     PhyML 3.0 (Guindon et al. (2010) Syst. Biol 59:307-321) with four rate substitution
     categories, LG substitution model, BIONJ starting tree and 100 bootstrap repetitions,
     and displayed as phylogram using treeview32 1.6.6, by rooting with the outgroup
 10  Physcomitrellapatens ent-copalyl diphosphate/ent-kaurene synthase (PpCPS/KS;
     NCBI accession no. BAF61135; SEQ ID NO:42) and diterpene synthases TbrTS,
     Taxus brevifolia taxadiene synthase (NCBI accession no. AAC493 10; SEQ ID
     NO:43); TcuTS, T. cuspidatataxadiene synthase (NCBI accession no. ABW82997;
     SEQ ID NO:44); TxmTS, T. x media taxadiene synthase (NCBI accession no.
 15  AAS18603; SEQ ID NO:45); Palso,Picea abies isopimaradiene synthase (NCBI
     accession no. AAS47690; SEQ ID NO:35); PsIso, Picea sitchensis isopimaradiene
     synthase (NCBI accession no. ADZ45512; SEQ ID NO:36); PaLAS, P. abies (NCBI
     accession no. AAS47691; SEQ DINO:37); PsLAS, P. sitchensis levopimaradiene/
     abietadiene synthase (NCBI accession no. ADZ45517; SEQ ID NO:38); PtLAS,
20   Pinus taeda levopimaradiene synthase (NCBI accession no. AY779541; SEQ ID
     NO:39); AgAS, Abies grandis abietadiene synthase (NCBI accession no. AAK83563;
     SEQ ID NO:40); and GbLS, Ginkgo biloba levopimaradiene synthase (NCBI
     accession no. AAL09965; SEQ ID NO:41).
             The encoded proteins ofAbdiTPS1, AbdiTPS2, and AbdiTPS3 showed highest
25   similarity with grand fir (Abies grandis) abietadiene synthase (AgAS; SEQ ID NO:40)
     (Stofer Vogel et al. (1996) J. Biol. Chem 271:23262-23268; Peters et al. (2000)
     Biochemistry 39:15592-15602), with more than 90% protein sequence identity. In
     contrast, the deduced protein sequence AbdiTPS4 showed highest similarity with
     Norway spruce (Piceaabies) isopimaradiene synthase (Palso; SEQ ID NO:35)
 30  (Martin et al. (2004) PlantPhysiol 135:1908-1927), although on a substantially lower
     level of sequence identity of only 75%, highlighting AbdiTPS4 as a unique candidate
     diTPS sequence.

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 80
              The results of the phylogentic analysis are shown in Figure 4. The results
     show that other conifers contain diTPSs of the levopimaradiene synthase (LAS) and
     isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) types. LAS- or Iso type diTPSs have now been
     identified in three different genera of the pine family, namely in true firs (Abies),
  5  spruce (Picea), and pine (Pinus), which allows for analysis of gene orthology within
     this family. It appears that gene duplications and neo-functionalization leading to
     paralogous pairs of LAS and Iso genes occurred independently in Abies and Picea,
     after the separation of these genera. Within the spruce genus, the dichotomy of LAS
     and Iso- genes happened apparently prior to the speciation of Norway spruce and
 10  Sitka spruce.
              Within the group of conifer class I/II diTPSs, the AbdiTPS4 (AbCAS) gene is
     separate from, and appears basal to, the clade of levopimaradiene synthase (LAS) and
     isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) genes from firs, spruces, and pine. The bifunctional
     class I/II AbCAS described here has only been cloned from balsam fir, matching the
 15  major diterpenoid produced by this species as described in Example 1 (see also Table
     3).
                                             Example 5
       Analysis of the Reaction Sequence of the Bifunctional Class I/II AbCAS by Site
20                                     Directed Mutagenesis
              A mechanism for the formation of cis-abienol requires hydroxylation via water
     quenching of a labda-13-en-8-yl carbocation at C-8 (see Figure 1A). In principle,
     hydroxylation can occur during reactions at the class II active site or at the class I
     active site. To delineate which of the two active sites of bifunctional AbCAS
25   (AbdiTPS4; SEQ ID NO:7) catalyzed the formation of the tertiary alcohol, a set of
     alanine substitutions of the DxDD (class II active site) (SEQ ID NO:12) and DDxxD
     (class I active site) (SEQ ID NO:13) motifs to obtain monofunctional AbCAS variants
     were generated.
              A.      Generation of Site Directed Protein Variants of AbdiTPS4
 30  (AbCAS)
              Amino acid mutations were generated and tested in the pseudomature form of
     SEQ ID NO:7 as described in Example 3 (i.e. set forth in SEQ ID NO:55 and encoded

WO 2013/075239                                                           PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 81
     by the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:56). Alanine substitutions of
     Asp402, Asp404 or Asp621 of AbdiTPS4 with reference to positions set forth in SEQ
     ID NO:58 (corresponding to residues Asp403, Asp405 or Asp 622 with reference to
     SEQ ID NO:7) were generated by QuikChange site directed mutagenesis (Stratagene,
  5  Mississauga, ON, Canada) of template cDNA corresponding to the pseudomature
     form (SEQ ID NO:56) in the vector pET28b(+) (SEQ ID NO:33) using primers as set
     forth in Table 9 below. Specifically, monofunctional AbCAS variants were generated
     that contained either a non-functional class II (AbCAS:D402A/D404A) or a non
     functional class I (AbCAS:D621A) active site. For the mutagenesis reaction, the
 10  following PCR program was used: Initial denaturation at 98' C for 90 see followed by
     29 cycles of denaturation at 98' C for 50 see, annealing at 60' C for 30 see and
     extension at 72' C for 4 min, and final extension at 72' C for 10 min.
     Table 9. Primers for cDNA amplification
     Primer                    Sequence                                              SEQ ID
                                                                                       NO
     D402A-D404A-sense         GACAGCCCTATAGCCGCTATTGCTGATACAGCCA                      28
                               TGGGC
     D402A-D404A-              GCCCATGGCTGTATCAGCAATAGCGGCTATAGGG                      29
     antisense                 CTGTC
     D621A-sense               TCTCCTCGTCATTTTAGCCGACCTTTACGATGGG                       30
     D621A-antisense           CCCATCGTAAAGGTCGGCTAAAATGACGAGGAGA                       31
             B.      Activity Analysis of Protein Variants
             Activity analysis of protein variants of AbdiTPS4 (AbCAS) was conducted
 15  with 20 ptM GGPP as substrate and dephosphorylation of the reaction products prior
     to GC-MS analysis. The results are set forth in Figure 5. The results showed that
     AbCAS:D621A converted GGPP (peak 9 in Figure 5) into trace amounts of CPP
     (peak 10 in Figure 5) and a product with a significantly longer retention time,
     indicative of a hydroxylated diphosphate (peak 13 in Figure 5). This compound was
20   identified, upon cleavage of the diphosphate group, as labda-13-en-8,15-diol based on
     characteristic mass fragments (m/z 290 [M+], m/z 275, m/z 257, m/z 192 and m/z 177)
     as compared to the mass spectrum of the authentic compound (Falara et al. (2010)
     PlantPhysiol. 154:301-310). Epi-manoyl oxide and manoyl oxide (peaks 11 and 12
     in Figure 5) were apparently not products of AbCAS, but rather result from ether
25   formation of the dephosphorylated labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate under GC-MS

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 82
     conditions, as they were not seen in the wild type enzyme product profile and did not
     occur under different GC conditions. Results from enzyme assays with
     AbCAS:D621A showed that the class II active site of AbCAS catalyzes protonation
     initiated formation of bicyclic labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate via water quenching of
  5  the parental carbocation.
             Alanine substitution of Asp402 and Asp404 (AbCAS:D402A/D404A) in the
     class II active site resulted in complete loss of enzymatic activity with GGPP as
     substrate. To determine if the activity could be restored, a coupled assay was
     performed combining the AbCAS:D621A variant with a point mutant of PaLAS
 10  (PaLAS:D61 1A; SEQ ID NO:34) containing a non-functional class I active site that
     accumulates (9S,10S)-CPP (peak 10 in Figure 5). Activity of AbCAS:D402A/D404A
     could not be restored by combining this mutant with a protein variant of PaLAS
     (PaLAS:D61 1A). This result shows that, unlike the LAS- and Iso-type enzymes, the
     class I active site of AbCAS is not active with (9S,10S)-CPP as an intermediate
 15  substrate.
              Coupled assays also were performed using the two monofunctional AbCAS
     class I and class II protein variants, AbCAS:D402A/D404A and AbCAS:D621A.
     Formation of cis-abienol (peak 8 in Figure 5) from GGPP was restored in coupled
     assays, confirming that the non-mutated active sites remained functional in the two
20   mutated proteins.
              The mutational analysis and complementation assays show that the class I
     active site of AbCAS is selective for labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate as a substrate, but
     does not convert (9S,10S)-CPP, which is the class I active site substrate of LAS-, and
     Iso type diTPSs (see Figure 5). Unlike LAS- and Iso-enzymes, the class I active site
25   ofAbCAS catalyzes the ionization of the diphosphate group without cyclization of a
     C-ring (see Figure 1). Together, the mutational analysis of class I and class II active
     sites of AbCAS demonstrated a reaction sequence of the bifunctional class 1/11 enzyme
     in which both the bicyclization and water capture occur in the class II active site,
     resulting in an intermediary labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate, which undergoes cleavage
 30  of the diphosphate group and final deprotonation at the class I active site (see Figure
     1).
                                             Example 6

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 83
                                Computational Structure Analysis
             Homology models of AbLAS (AbTPS 1), Ablso (AbTPS2) and AbCAS
     (AbTPS4) were built using the CPHmodels 3.0 server (Nielsen et al. (2010) Nucleic
     Acids Res. 38:W576-581) based on the tertiary structure of Taxus brevifolia taxadiene
  5  synthase (TbTXS; PDB-ID 3p5pA, chain A; SEQ ID NO:46) (K6ksal et al. (2011)
     Nature 469:116-120). The homology models were certified as high quality exceeding
     910%residues assigned to most favored regions in Ramachandran plot statistics using
     PROCHECK (Laskowski, et al. (1993) JApplied Crystallography26:283-29 1). Lack
     of structural errors in the models was validated using the ProSA-web server
 10  (Wiederstein & Sippl, (2007) Nucleic Acids Res. 35:W407-410). Pairwise
     comparison of these modeled structures with the DaliLite server (Holm & Park,
     (2000) Bioinformatics 16:566-567) demonstrated a high structural similarity of
     AbLAS, Ablso, AbCAS and TbTXS with root mean square deviations of < 1^ for the
     py domain   and the a domain, respectively, thus allowing for a structural comparison
 15  of the active sites.
             Using Molegro Virtual Docker 2010.4.0.0 (Thomsen & Christensen, (2006) J.
     Med. Chem. 49:3315-3321), a semi-automated docking approach was applied to place
     labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate in the class I and class II active site of AbCAS (see
     Figure 6). For this purpose, proposed active site cavities were identified using a probe
20   radius of 1.0 A and a grid resolution of 0.6 A with further manual optimization.
     Substrate docking was then restricted to the cavities, inclusive of the required Mg2
     complex. Energy minimized PDB coordinates of the ligands were generated using the
     PRODRG server (Schnattelkopf & van Aalten, (2004) Acta Crystallogr.D Biol.
     Crystallogr.60:1355-1363).
25           Structural modeling and molecular docking of labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate in
     the class I and class II active sites of AbCAS (Figure 6) revealed only one unique
     amino acid in the class II active site, namely Asp348 with reference to numbering set
     forth in SEQ ID NO:58 (corresponding to Asp349 as set forth in SEQ ID NO:7), in
     proximity of the docked intermediate. Its locations shows that Asp348 is likely to
 30  control this particular hydroxylation reaction. Located at the posterior of the active
     site opposite of the DIDD motif (SEQ ID NO:16) and Trp358, which have previously
     been reported to contribute to the AgAS-catalyzed class II reaction (Peters & Croteau

WO 2013/075239                                                             PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 84
     (2002) Biochemistry 41:1836-1842), the negatively charged side chain of Asp348 is
     positioned to stabilize the positive charge at C-8 for water quenching to occur in the
     formation of labda-13-en-8-ol diphosphate (Figure 6B). This local negative charge is
     not present in any LAS- or Iso-type enzymes, which contain a conserved histidine in
  5  this position (see Figure 7).
              Several unique residues were found in a radius of 7^ around the hydroxy
     group of labda-13-en-8 ol diphosphate docked within the class I active site ofAbCAS
     that are likely involved in the AbCAS reaction (see Figures 6C and 6D). Among
     these, Leu617, Phe696 and Gly723 with reference to numbering set forth in SEQ ID
 10  NO:58 (corresponding to residues Leu618, Phe697 and Gly 724 as set forth in SEQ
     ID NO:7) are of particular interest as they contribute to contour of the active site
     cavity. Leu617 and Phe696 are located in the class I active site cavity upstream of the
     DDxxD motif (SEQ ID NO: 13) on helix D, creating an expansion of the hydrophobic
     pocket relative to AbLAS and AbIso. Gly723 and Va1724 account for a change in the
 15  hinge region between helix GI and G2. These residues are likely to contribute to the
     release of a bicyclic product rather than facilitating a secondary cyclization.
     Interestingly, residues corresponding to Leu617, Phe696 and Gly723 have previously
     been shown to be critical for the catalytic plasticity of conifer diTPSs (Keeling et al.
     (2008) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 105:1085-1090; Wilderman & Peters (2007) J. Am.
20   Chem. Soc. 129:15736-15737; Peters & Croteau (2002) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
     99:580-584; Leonard et al. (2010) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 107:13654-13659), and
     thus appear to represent positions for the functional evolution of these enzymes.
                                             Example 7
                                      Production of Ambroxide
25            In this example, cis-abienol is produced from geranylgeranyl diphosphate
     (GGPP) in the presence of an AbCAS (AbTSP4) as described herein. Then, (-)
     ambroxide is produced from the produced cis-abienol as previously described in the
     art (see, e.g., Barrero et al. (1993) Tetrahedron 49(45): 10405-10412; Barrero et al.
     (1994) Tetrahedron 50:6653-6662; Barrero et al., (2004) Synthetic Communications
 30  34(19):3631-3643; and U.S. Pat. No. 5,525,728).
     A.       Scheme 1

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 85
              As shown in Figure 8A, Scheme I, cis-abienol is subjected to ozonolysis by
     reaction with ozone in methylene chloride at -78' C followed by reduction with
     lithium aluminum hydride affords the diol (9). The diol (9) is purified by washing the
     organic phase with 10% HCl, saturated NaHCO 3 and water, followed by drying with
  5  anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and evaporation of the organic solvent. The diol (9) is cyclized in
     the presence of tosylchloride and the weak base pyridine at room temperature for 1
     hour resulting in (-)-ambroxide. (-)-Ambroxide is purified by extraction with organic
     solvent.
     B.       Scheme 2
 10           The production of (-)-ambroxide from at starting compound of geranylgeranyl
     diphosphate (GGPP) is accomplished as described in Figure 8B, Scheme II. GGPP is
     converted to cis-abienol by the diterpene synthase AbCas (SEQ ID NO:7). Cis
     abienol is isolated by extraction with organic solvent. Cis-abienol is subjected to
     ozonolysis by reaction with ozone in methylene chloride at -78' C followed by
 15  reduction with lithium aluminum hydride affords the diol (9). The diol (1) is cyclized
     in the presence of tosylchloride and the weak base pyridine at room temperature for 1
     hour resulting in (-)-ambroxide. (-)-Ambroxide is purified by extraction with organic
     solvent.
20            Since modifications will be apparent to those of skill in this art, it is intended
     that this invention be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 86
     CLAIMS:
              1.     An isolated nucleic acid molecule, comprising a sequence of
     nucleotides encoding a bifunctional class I/II cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide
     or an active fragment, wherein:
  5           the encoded polypeptide or active fragment comprises a class II active site
     comprising a DxDD motif and a class I active site comprising a DDxxD motif; and
             the encoded polypeptide or active fragment catalyzes the formation of cis
     abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
             2.      An isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1, comprising the sequence
 10  of nucleotides encoding a cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID
     NO:7, an active fragment thereof, or a sequence that exhibits at least 75% sequence
     identity to SEQ ID NO:7, wherein the encoded polypeptide or active fragment
     catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
             3.      The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
 15  sequence of nucleotides encodes a CAS polypeptide that exhibits at least 80%, 85%,
     90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:7.
             4.      The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 1-3, wherein the
     sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that comprises the sequence of amino
     acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active fragment thereof.
20           5.      The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 1-3, wherein the
     sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that consists of the sequence of amino
     acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active fragment thereof.
             6.      The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 1-5, wherein the
     active fragment is a pseudomature form.
25           7.      The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 1-6, comprising
     the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8 or a sequence of nucleotides
     that exhibits at least 75% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:8 or the complement
     thereof, wherein the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or active fragment
     that catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
 30          8.      The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 7, comprising a sequence
     of nucleotides that exhibits at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to
     SEQ ID NO:8 or the complement thereof.

WO 2013/075239                                                                PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                  - 87
              9.       The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 1-8, comprising
     the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8, an active fragment thereof or
     the complement thereof.
               10.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 1-8, consisting of
  5  the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8, an active fragment thereof or
     the complement thereof.
               11.     A cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid
     molecule of any of claims 1-10.
               12.     A vector, comprising the nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 1-10.
 10            13.     A host cell, comprising the vector of claim 12.
               14.     The host cell of claim 13 that is a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell.
               15.     The host cell of claim 13 or claim 14, wherein the host cell is selected
     from among a bacterial, fungal, plant, insect, amphibian or animal cell.
               16.     The host cell of claim 15 that is an E. coli cell.
 15            17.     The host cell of claim 15 that is a yeast cell.
               18.     The host cell of any of claims 13-17 that produces GGPP.
               19.     The host cell of any of claims 13-18 that is transformed with one or
     more sequences that result in production of GGPP.
              20.      A method for producing a bicyclic terteriary diterpene alcohol,
20   comprising:
              i) contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a bifunctional
     class I/II synthase polypeptide having a diterpene synthase (diTPS) activity under
     conditions effective to produce bicyclic terteriary diterpene alcohols, wherein the
     bifunctional class I/II synthase is a conifer synthase;
25            ii) optionally, isolating the diterpenoids produced in step i).
              21.      A method of producing cis-abienol, comprising
              i) contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a bifunctional
     class I/II synthase polypeptide having a diterpene synthase (diTPS) activity under
     conditions effective to produce cis-abienol;
 30       ii) optionally, isolating the cis-abienol produced in step i).

WO 2013/075239                                                          PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 88
              22.    The method of claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the bifunctional class I/II
     synthase comprises a class II active site comprising a DxDD motif and a class I active
     site comprising a DDxxD motif.
              23.    The method of any of claims 20-22, wherein the bifunctional class I/II
  5  synthase is a cis-abienol synthase (CAS) polypeptide or active fragment that catalyzes
     the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
              24.    The method of claim 23, wherein the CAS polypeptide comprises the
     sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7, an active fragment thereof, or a
     sequence that exhibits at least 75% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:7, wherein the
 10  encoded polypeptide or active fragment catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
              25.    The method of claim 24, wherein sequence of amino acids exhibits at
     least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:7.
              26.    The method of any of claims 23-25, wherein the CAS polypeptide
 15  comprises the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active
     fragment thereof.
              27.    The method of any of claim 23-25, wherein the CAS polypeptide
     consists of the sequence of amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:7 or an active
     fragment thereof.
20            28.    The method of any of claims 23-27, wherein the active fragment is a
     pseudomature form.
              29.    The method of any of claims 23-28, wherein the CAS polypeptide is
     encoded by a sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:8 or a sequence of
     nucleotides that exhibits at least 75% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:8 or the
25   complement thereof, wherein the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or
     active fragment that catalyzes the formation of cis-abienol from geranylgeranyl
     diphosphate (GGPP).
              30.    The method of claim 29, wherein the sequence of nucleotides exhibits
     at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 98% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:8 or the
 30  complement thereof.

WO 2013/075239                                                          PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                - 89
             31.    The method of any of claims 23-30, wherein the CAS polypeptide is
     encoded by a sequence of nucleotides comprising the sequence set forth in SEQ ID
     NO:8 or an active fragment thereof.
             32.    The method of any of claims 23-30, wherein the CAS polypeptide is
  5  encoded by a sequence of nucleotides consisting of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID
     NO:8 or an active fragment thereof.
             33.    The method of any of claims 20-32, wherein the step of contacting
     E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a bifunctional class I/II synthase
     polypeptide is effected in vitro or in vivo.
 10          34.    The method of any of claims 20-33, comprising isolating the the cis
     abienol.
             35.    The method of any of claims 20-34, wherein the cis-abienol is used to
     produce (-)-ambroxide.
             36.    An isolated nucleic acid molecule, comprising the sequence of
 15  nucleotides encoding a levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) set forth in SEQ
     ID NO: 1, an active fragment thereof, or a sequence that exhibits greater than 99%
     sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1, wherein the encoded polypeptide or active
     fragment catalyzes the formation of epimers of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
20           37.    The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 36, wherein the sequence
     of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that comprises the sequence of amino acids set
     forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 or an active fragment thereof.
             38.    The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 36, wherein the sequence
     of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that consists of the sequence of amino acids set
25   forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 or an active fragment thereof.
             39.    The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 36-38, wherein the
     epimers are selected from among abietadine, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and
     plaustradiene.
             40.    The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 36-39, wherein the
 30  active fragment is a pseudomature form.
             41.    The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 36-40, comprising
     the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:2 or a sequence of nucleotides

WO 2013/075239                                                              PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                 - 90
     that exhibits greater than 99% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2 or the complement
     thereof, wherein the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or active fragment
     that catalyzes the formation of epimers of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene from
     geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
  5           42.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 41, comprising the
     sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:2, an active fragment thereof or the
     complement thereof.
              43.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 41, consisting of the
     sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:1, an active fragment thereof or the
 10  complement thereof.
              44.     A levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) polypeptide encoded
     by the nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 36-43.
              45.     A vector, comprising the nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 36-43.
              46.     A host cell, comprising the vector of claim 45.
 15           47.     The host cell of claim 46 that is a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell.
              48.     The host cell of claim 46 or claim 47, wherein the host cell is selected
     from among a bacterial, fungal, plant, insect, amphibian or animal cell.
              49.     The host cell of any of claims 46-48 that is an E. coli cell.
              50.     The host cell of any of claims 46-48 that is a yeast cell.
20            51.     The host cell of any of claims 46-50 that produces GGPP.
              52.     The host cell of any of claims 46-51 that is transformed with one or
     more sequences that result in production of GGPP.
              53.     A method of producing an epimer of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene,
     comprising
25            i) contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a
     levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase (LAS) polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid
     molecule of any of claims 36-43 under conditions effective to produce an epimer of
     13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene;
          ii) optionally, isolating the epimer of 13-hydroxy-8(14)-abietene produced in step
 30  i).
              54.     The method of claim 53, wherein the epimer is selected from among
     abietadine, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene and plaustradiene.

WO 2013/075239                                                            PCT/CA2012/050837
                                               - 91
             55.     The method of claim 53 or claim 54, wherein the step of contacting
     E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a levopimaradiene/abietadiene
     synthase (LAS) polypeptide is effected in vitro or in vivo.
             56.     The method of any of claims 53-55, comprising isolating one or more
  5  of the diterpenes selected from among abietadine, levopimaradiene, neoabietadiene
     and plaustradiene.
             57.     An isolated nucleic acid molecule, comprising the sequence of
     nucleotides encoding a isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide set forth in SEQ ID
     NO: 3, an active fragment thereof, or a sequence that exhibits at least 95% sequence
 10  identity to SEQ ID NO:3, wherein the encoded polypeptide or active fragment
     catalyzes the formation of isopimaradiene from geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP).
             58.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 57, wherein the sequence
     of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that exhibits at least 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or
     more sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:3.
 15          59.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 57 or claim 58, wherein
     the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that comprises the sequence of
     amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO: 3 or an active fragment thereof.
             60.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 57 or claim 58, wherein
     the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide that consists of the sequence of
20   amino acids set forth in SEQ ID NO:3 or an active fragment thereof.
             61.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 57-60, wherein the
     active fragment is a pseudomature form.
             62.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 57-61, comprising
     the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:4 or a sequence of nucleotides
25   that exhibits at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:4 or the complement
     thereof, wherein the sequence of nucleotides encodes a polypeptide or active fragment
     that catalyzes the formation of isopimaradiene from geranylgeranyl diphosphate
     (GGPP).
             63.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 62, comprising a sequence
 30  of nucleotides that exhibits at least 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more sequence identity to
     SEQ ID NO:4.

WO 2013/075239                                                               PCT/CA2012/050837
                                                  - 92
               64.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 62 or claim 63, comprising
     the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, an active fragment thereof or
     the complement thereof.
               65.     The isolated nucleic acid molecule of claim 62 or claim 63, consisting
  5  of the sequence of nucleotides set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, an active fragment thereof
     or the complement thereof.
               66.     A isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide encoded by the nucleic
     acid molecule of any of claims 57-65.
               67.     A vector, comprising the nucleic acid molecule of any of claims 57-65.
 10            68.     A host cell, comprising the vector of claim 67.
               69.     The host cell of claim 68 that is a prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell.
               70.     The host cell of claim 68 or claim 69, wherein the host cell is selected
     from among a bacterial, fungal, plant, insect, amphibian or animal cell.
               71.     The host cell of any of claims 68-70 that is an E. coli cell.
 15            72.     The host cell of any of claims 68-70 that is a yeast cell.
               73.     The host cell of any of claims 68-72 that produces GGPP.
               74.     The host cell of any of claims 68-73 that is transformed with one or
     more sequences that result in production of GGPP.
               75.     A method of producing isopimaradiene, comprising
20             i) contacting (E,E,E)-geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a
     isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide encoded by the nucleic acid molecule of
     any of claims 57-65 under conditions effective to produce isopimaradiene;
           ii) optionally, isolating the isopimaradiene produced in step i).
               76.     The method of claim 75, wherein the step of contacting E,E,E)
25   geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) with a isopimaradiene synthase (Iso) polypeptide
     is effected in vitro or in vivo.
               77.     The method of claim 75 or claim 76, comprising isolating
     isopimaradiene.
 30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                                                SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110> University of British Columbia
                    Bohlmann, Joerg
                    Zerbe, Philipp
              <120> DITERPENE SYNTHASES AND METHOD FOR
                PRODUCING DITERPENOIDS
<removed-apn>
              <130> 33322.00234.WO02/234PC
              <150> US 61/562,280
              <151> 2011<U+2701>11<U+2701>21
              <160> 59
              <170> FastSEQ for Windows Version 4.0
              <210>   1
              <211>   866
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS1
              <400> 1
              Met Ala Ser Met   Thr Gly Gly Gln Gln   Met Gly Arg Asp Pro   Asn Ser
               1                 5                    10                    15
              Ser Ser Val Asp   Asn Thr Gln Ser Ile   Pro His Phe Ser Thr   Thr Leu
                          20                    25                    30
              Asn Ala Gly Ser   Ser Ala Arg Lys Arg   Arg Ser Leu Tyr Leu   Arg Trp
                      35                    40                    45
              Gly Lys Gly Ser   Asn Lys Ile Ile Ala   Cys Val Gly Glu Gly   Ala Thr
                  50                    55                    60
              Ser Val Pro Tyr   Gln Ser Ala Glu Lys   Asn Asp Ser Leu Tyr   Ser Ser
              65                    70                    75                    80
              Thr Leu Val Lys   Arg Glu Phe Pro Pro   Gly Phe Trp Lys Asp   Asp Leu
                                85                    90                    95
              Ile Asp Ser Leu   Thr Ser Ser His Lys   Val Ala Ala Ser Asp   Glu Lys
                          100                   105                   110
              Arg Ile Glu Thr   Leu Ile Ser Glu Ile   Lys Asn Met Phe Arg   Cys Met
                      115                   120                   125
              Gly Tyr Gly Glu   Thr Asn Pro Ser Ala   Tyr Asp Thr Ala Trp   Val Ala
                  130                   135                   140
              Arg Ile Pro Ala   Leu Asp Gly Ser Asp   Asn Pro His Phe Pro   Glu Thr
              145                   150                   155                   160
              Val Glu Trp Ile   Leu Gln Asn Gln Leu   Lys Asp Gly Ser Trp   Gly Glu
                                165                   170                   175
              Gly Phe Tyr Phe   Leu Ala Tyr Asp Arg   Ile Leu Ala Thr Leu   Ala Cys
                          180                   185                   190
                                                       Page 1

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Ile Ile Thr   Leu Thr Leu Trp Arg   Thr Gly Glu Thr Gln    Val His Lys
                      195                   200                    205
              Gly Ile Glu   Phe Phe Arg Thr Gln   Ala Gly Lys Met Glu    Asp Glu Ala
                  210                   215                    220
              Asp Ser His   Arg Pro Ser Gly Phe   Glu Ile Val Phe Pro    Ala Met Leu
              225                   230                    235                   240
              Lys Glu Ala   Lys Ile Leu Gly Leu   Asp Leu Pro Tyr Asp    Leu Pro Phe
                                245                    250                   255
              Leu Lys Gln   Ile Ile Glu Lys Arg   Glu Ala Lys Leu Lys    Arg Ile Pro
<removed-apn>
                            260                   265                    270
              Thr Asp Val   Leu Tyr Ala Leu Pro   Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr    Ser Leu Glu
                      275                   280                    285
              Gly Leu Gln   Glu Ile Val Asp Trp   Gln Lys Ile Met Lys    Leu Gln Ser
                  290                   295                    300
              Lys Asp Gly   Ser Phe Leu Ser Ser   Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala    Ala Val Phe
              305                   310                    315                   320
              Met Arg Thr   Gly Asn Lys Lys Cys   Leu Asp Phe Leu Asn    Phe Val Leu
                                325                    330                   335
              Lys Lys Phe   Gly Asn His Val Pro   Cys His Tyr Pro Leu    Asp Leu Phe
                            340                   345                    350
              Glu Arg Leu   Trp Ala Val Asp Thr   Val Glu Arg Leu Gly    Ile Asp Arg
                      355                   360                    365
              His Phe Lys   Glu Glu Ile Lys Glu   Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val    Tyr Ser His
                  370                   375                    380
              Trp Asp Glu   Arg Gly Ile Gly Trp   Ala Arg Glu Asn Pro    Val Pro Asp
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Ile Asp Asp   Thr Ala Met Gly Leu   Arg Ile Leu Arg Leu    His Gly Tyr
                                405                    410                   415
              Asn Val Ser   Ser Asp Val Leu Lys   Thr Phe Arg Asp Glu    Asn Gly Glu
                            420                   425                    430
              Phe Phe Cys   Phe Leu Gly Gln Thr   Gln Arg Gly Val Thr    Asp Met Leu
                      435                   440                    445
              Asn Val Asn   Arg Cys Ser His Val   Ser Phe Pro Gly Glu    Thr Ile Met
                  450                   455                    460
              Glu Glu Ala   Lys Leu Cys Thr Glu   Arg Tyr Leu Arg Asn    Ala Leu Glu
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Asn Val Asp   Ala Phe Asp Lys Trp   Ala Phe Lys Lys Asn    Ile Arg Gly
                                485                    490                   495
              Glu Val Glu   Tyr Ala Leu Lys Tyr   Pro Trp His Lys Ser    Met Pro Arg
                            500                   505                    510
              Leu Glu Ala   Arg Ser Tyr Ile Glu   Asn Tyr Gly Pro Asp    Asp Val Trp
                      515                   520                    525
              Leu Gly Lys   Thr Val Tyr Met Met   Pro Tyr Ile Ser Asn    Glu Lys Tyr
                  530                   535                    540
              Leu Glu Leu   Ala Lys Leu Asp Phe   Asn Lys Val Gln Ser    Ile His Gln
              545                   550                    555                   560
              Thr Glu Leu   Gln Asp Leu Arg Arg   Trp Trp Lys Ser Ser    Gly Phe Thr
                                565                    570                   575
              Asp Leu Asn   Phe Thr Arg Glu Arg   Val Thr Glu Ile Tyr    Phe Ser Pro
                            580                   585                    590
              Ala Ser Phe   Ile Phe Glu Pro Glu   Phe Ser Lys Cys Arg    Glu Val Tyr
                      595                   600                    605
                                                      Page 2

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Thr Lys Thr Ser Asn   Phe Thr Val Ile Leu Asp Asp       Leu Tyr Asp Ala
                  610                   615                  620
              His Gly Ser Leu Asp   Asp Leu Lys Leu Phe Thr Glu      Ser Val Lys Arg
              625                   630                  635                     640
              Trp Asp Leu Ser Leu   Val Asp Gln Met Pro Gln Gln      Met Lys Ile Cys
                              645                    650                     655
              Phe Val Gly Phe Tyr   Asn Thr Phe Asn Glu Ile Ala      Lys Glu Gly Arg
                          660                   665                      670
              Glu Ser Gln Gly Arg   Asp Val Leu Gly Tyr Ile Gln      Asn Val Trp Lys
<removed-apn>
                      675                   680                      685
              Val Gln Leu Glu Ala   Tyr Thr Lys Glu Ala Glu Trp      Ser Glu Ala Lys
                  690                   695                  700
              Tyr Val Pro Ser Phe   Asn Glu Tyr Ile Glu Asn Ala      Ser Val Ser Ile
              705                   710                  715                     720
              Ala Leu Gly Thr Val   Val Leu Ile Ser Ala Leu Phe      Thr Gly Glu Val
                              725                    730                     735
              Leu Thr Asp Glu Val   Leu Ser Lys Ile Asp Arg Gly      Ser Arg Phe Leu
                          740                   745                      750
              Gln Leu Met Gly Leu   Thr Gly Arg Leu Val Asn Asp      Thr Lys Thr Tyr
                      755                   760                      765
              Gln Ala Glu Arg Gly   Gln Gly Glu Val Ala Ser Ala      Ile Gln Cys Tyr
                  770                   775                  780
              Met Lys Asp His Pro   Lys Ile Ser Glu Glu Glu Ala      Leu Lys His Val
              785                   790                  795                     800
              Tyr Thr Val Met Glu   Asn Ser Leu Glu Glu Leu Asn      Arg Glu Phe Val
                              805                    810                     815
              Asn Asn Lys Ile Pro   Asp Ile Tyr Arg Arg Leu Val      Phe Glu Thr Ala
                          820                   825                      830
              Arg Ile Met Gln Leu   Phe Tyr Met Gln Gly Asp Gly      Leu Thr Leu Ser
                      835                   840                      845
              His Asp Met Glu Ile   Lys Glu His Val Lys Asn Cys      Leu Phe Gln Pro
                  850                   855                  860
              Val Ala
              865
              <210>   2
              <211>   2601
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS1
              <400> 2
              atggctagca   tgactggtgg   acagcaaatg   ggtcgggatc   cgaattcgag   ctccgtcgac   60
              aacacacagt   ccattccgca   tttctccacg   acgctgaatg   ctggaagcag   tgctagaaaa   120
              cggagaagct   tgtacctacg   atggggtaaa   ggttcaaaca   agatcattgc   ctgtgttgga   180
              gaaggtgcaa   cctctgttcc   ttatcagtct   gctgaaaaga   atgattcgct   ttattcttct   240
              acattggtga   aacgagaatt   tcctccagga   ttttggaagg   atgatcttat   cgattctctg   300
              acgtcctctc   acaaggttgc   agcatcagac   gagaagcgta   tcgagacatt   aatatccgag   360
              attaagaata   tgtttagatg   tatgggctat   ggcgaaacga   atccctctgc   atatgacact   420
                                                        Page 3

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              gcttgggtag   caaggattcc   agcacttgat   ggctctgaca accctcactt   tcctgagaca   480
              gttgaatgga   ttcttcaaaa   tcagttgaaa   gatgggtctt ggggtgaagg   attctacttc   540
              ttggcatatg   acagaatact   ggctacactt   gcatgtatta ttacgcttac   cctctggcgt   600
              actggggaga   cacaagtaca   caaaggtatt   gaattcttca ggacacaagc   tggaaagatg   660
              gaagatgaag   ctgatagtca   taggccaagt   ggatttgaaa tagtatttcc   tgcaatgcta   720
              aaggaagcta   aaatcttagg   gttggatctg   ccttacgatt tgccattcct   gaaacaaatc   780
              atcgaaaagc   gggaggctaa   gcttaaaagg   attcccactg atgttctcta   tgcccttcca   840
              acaacgttat   tgtattcttt   ggaaggtttg   caagaaatag tagactggca   gaaaataatg   900
              aaacttcaat   ccaaggatgg   atcatttctc   agctctccgg catctacagc   ggctgtattc   960
<removed-apn>
              atgcgtacag   ggaacaaaaa   gtgcttggat   ttcttgaact ttgtcttgaa   gaaattcgga   1020
              aaccatgtgc   cttgtcacta   tccgcttgat   ctatttgaac gtttgtgggc   ggttgatacc   1080
              gttgagcggc   taggtatcga   tcgccatttc   aaagaggaga tcaaggaagc   attggattat   1140
              gtttacagcc   attgggacga   aagaggcatt   ggatgggcga gagagaatcc   tgttcctgat   1200
              attgatgata   cagccatggg   ccttcgaatc   ttgagactac atggatacaa   tgtatcctca   1260
              gatgttttaa   aaacatttag   agatgagaat   ggtgagttct tttgcttctt   gggtcaaaca   1320
              cagagaggag   ttaccgacat   gttaaacgtc   aatcgttgtt cacatgtttc   atttccggga   1380
              gaaacgatca   tggaagaagc   aaaactctgt   accgaaaggt atctgaggaa   tgctctggaa   1440
              aatgtggatg   cctttgacaa   atgggctttt   aaaaagaata ttcggggaga   ggtagagtat   1500
              gcactcaaat   atccctggca   taagagtatg   ccaaggttgg aggctagaag   ctatattgaa   1560
              aactatgggc   cagatgatgt   gtggcttgga   aaaactgtat atatgatgcc   atacatttcc   1620
              aatgaaaagt   atttagaact   agcgaaactg   gacttcaata aggtgcagtc   tatacaccaa   1680
              acagagcttc   aagatcttcg   aaggtggtgg   aaatcatccg gtttcacgga   tctgaatttc   1740
              actcgtgagc   gtgtgacgga   aatatatttc   tcaccggcat cctttatctt   tgagccggag   1800
              ttttctaagt   gcagagaagt   ttatacaaaa   acttccaatt tcactgttat   tttagatgat   1860
              ctttatgacg   cccatggatc   tttagacgat   cttaagttgt tcacagaatc   agtcaaaaga   1920
              tgggatctat   cattagtgga   ccaaatgcca   caacaaatga aaatatgctt   tgtgggtttc   1980
              tacaatactt   ttaatgaaat   agcaaaagaa   ggacgtgaga gccaagggcg   cgatgtgcta   2040
              ggctacattc   aaaatgtttg   gaaagtccaa   cttgaagctt acactaaaga   agcagaatgg   2100
              tctgaagcta   aatatgtgcc   atccttcaat   gaatacatag agaacgcgag   tgtgtcaata   2160
              gcattgggaa   cagtggttct   cattagtgct   cttttcactg gggaagttct   tacagatgaa   2220
              gtactctcca   aaattgatcg   cggatctaga   tttcttcaac tcatgggctt   aacagggcgt   2280
              ttggtgaatg   acaccaaaac   ttatcaggca   gagagaggtc aaggtgaggt   ggcttctgcc   2340
              atacaatgtt   atatgaaaga   ccatcctaaa   atctccgaag aagaagctct   caaacatgtc   2400
              tatactgtca   tggaaaattc   cctcgaagag   ttgaataggg agtttgtgaa   taacaaaata   2460
              ccggatattt   acagaagact   ggtttttgaa   actgcaagaa taatgcaact   gttttatatg   2520
              caaggggatg   gtttgacact   atcacatgat   atggaaatta aagagcatgt   caaaaattgc   2580
              ctcttccaac   cagttgccta   g                                                 2601
              <210>   3
              <211>   852
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS2
              <400> 3
              His His Leu Thr Ala Asn Thr Gln Ser Ile Pro His Phe      Ser Thr Thr
               1               5                  10                       15
              Leu Asn Ala Gly Ser Ser Ala Arg Lys Arg Arg Ser Leu      Tyr Leu Arg
                          20                  25                       30
              Trp Gly Lys Gly Ser Asn Lys Ile Ile Ala Cys Val Gly      Glu Gly Ala
                                                        Page 4

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                      35                    40                     45
              Thr Ser Val Pro Tyr Gln   Ser Ala Glu Lys Asn Asp    Ser Leu Tyr Ser
                  50                    55                   60
              Ser Thr Leu Val Lys Arg   Glu Phe Pro Pro Gly Phe    Trp Lys Asp Asp
              65                  70                     75                    80
              Leu Ile Asp Ser Leu Thr   Ser Ser His Lys Val Ala    Ala Ser Asp Glu
                              85                     90                    95
              Lys Arg Ile Glu Thr Leu   Ile Ser Glu Ile Lys Asn    Met Phe Arg Cys
                          100                   105                    110
<removed-apn>
              Met Gly Tyr Gly Glu Thr   Asn Pro Ser Ala Tyr Asp    Thr Ala Trp Val
                      115                   120                    125
              Ala Arg Ile Pro Ala Leu   Asp Gly Ser Asp Asn Pro    His Phe Pro Glu
                  130                   135                  140
              Thr Val Glu Trp Ile Leu   Gln Asn Gln Leu Lys Asp    Gly Ser Trp Gly
              145                 150                    155                   160
              Glu Gly Phe Tyr Phe Leu   Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Leu    Ala Thr Leu Ala
                              165                    170                   175
              Cys Ile Ile Thr Leu Thr   Leu Trp Arg Thr Gly Glu    Thr Gln Val His
                          180                   185                    190
              Lys Gly Ile Glu Phe Phe   Arg Thr Gln Ala Gly Lys    Met Glu Asp Glu
                      195                   200                    205
              Ala Asp Ser His Arg Pro   Ser Gly Phe Glu Ile Val    Phe Pro Ala Met
                  210                   215                  220
              Leu Lys Glu Ala Lys Ile   Leu Gly Leu Asp Leu Pro    Tyr Asp Leu Pro
              225                 230                    235                   240
              Phe Leu Lys Gln Ile Ile   Glu Lys Arg Glu Ala Lys    Leu Lys Arg Ile
                              245                    250                   255
              Pro Thr Asp Val Leu Tyr   Ala Leu Pro Thr Thr Leu    Leu Tyr Ser Leu
                          260                   265                    270
              Glu Gly Leu Gln Glu Ile   Val Asp Trp Gln Lys Ile    Met Lys Leu Gln
                      275                   280                    285
              Ser Lys Asp Gly Ser Phe   Leu Ser Ser Pro Ala Ser    Thr Ala Ala Val
                  290                   295                  300
              Phe Met Arg Thr Gly Asn   Lys Lys Cys Leu Asp Phe    Leu Asn Phe Val
              305                 310                    315                   320
              Leu Lys Lys Phe Gly Asn   His Val Pro Cys His Tyr    Pro Leu Asp Leu
                              325                    330                   335
              Phe Glu Arg Leu Trp Ala   Val Asp Thr Val Glu Arg    Leu Gly Ile Asp
                          340                   345                    350
              Arg His Phe Lys Glu Glu   Ile Lys Asp Ala Leu Asp    Tyr Val Tyr Ser
                      355                   360                    365
              His Trp Asp Glu Arg Gly   Ile Gly Trp Ala Arg Glu    Asn Pro Val Pro
                  370                   375                  380
              Asp Ile Asp Asp Thr Ala   Met Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu    Arg Leu His Gly
              385                 390                    395                   400
              Tyr Asn Val Ser Ser Asp   Val Leu Lys Thr Phe Arg    Asp Glu Asn Gly
                              405                    410                   415
              Glu Phe Phe Cys Phe Leu   Gly Gln Thr Gln Arg Gly    Val Thr Asp Met
                          420                   425                    430
              Leu Asn Val Asn Arg Cys   Ser His Val Ser Phe Pro    Gly Glu Thr Ile
                      435                   440                    445
              Met Glu Glu Ala Lys Leu   Cys Thr Glu Arg Tyr Leu    Arg Asn Ala Leu
                                                     Page 5

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                  450                   455                  460
              Glu Asn Val Asp Ala   Phe Asp Lys Trp Ala Phe Lys    Lys Asn Ile Arg
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Gly Glu Val Glu Tyr   Ala Leu Lys Tyr Thr Trp His    Lys Ser Met Pro
                              485                    490                   495
              Arg Leu Glu Ala Arg   Ser Tyr Ile Glu Asn Tyr Gly    Pro Asn Asp Ala
                          500                   505                    510
              Trp Leu Gly Lys Thr   Val Tyr Arg Met Pro Tyr Ile    Ser Asn Glu Lys
                      515                   520                    525
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Leu Glu Leu Ala   Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn Lys Leu    Gln Ser Ile His
                  530                   535                  540
              Gln Thr Glu Leu Gln   Asp Leu Arg Arg Trp Trp Lys    Ser Ser Gly Phe
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Ser Lys Leu Asn Phe   Thr Arg Glu Arg Val Thr Glu    Ile Tyr Phe Ser
                              565                    570                   575
              Ser Ala Ser Phe Met   Phe Glu Pro Glu Phe Ser Lys    Cys Arg Glu Val
                          580                   585                    590
              Tyr Thr Lys Ala Ser   Ile Phe Thr Leu Ile Phe Asp    Asp Leu Tyr Asp
                      595                   600                    605
              Ala His Gly Ser Leu   Asp Asp Leu Lys Leu Phe Ser    Glu Ala Val Lys
                  610                   615                  620
              Arg Trp Asp Leu Ser   Leu Leu Glu Arg Met Pro Gln    Glu Met Lys Ile
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Cys Phe Leu Gly Phe   Tyr Asn Thr Phe Asn Glu Ile    Ala Glu Glu Val
                              645                    650                   655
              His Lys Arg Gln Gly   Arg Asp Met Leu Gly His Ile    Gln Asn Val Trp
                          660                   665                    670
              Glu Ile Leu Leu Ala   Ala Tyr Thr Lys Glu Ala Glu    Trp Ser Lys Thr
                      675                   680                    685
              Lys Tyr Val Pro Ser   Phe Asp Glu Tyr Ile Glu Asn    Ala Ser Val Ser
                  690                   695                  700
              Ile Thr Leu Gly Thr   Ile Val Leu Ile Ser Thr Leu    Phe Ile Gly Glu
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Val Leu Thr Asp His   Val Leu Ser Lys Ile Asn His    Gly Ser Arg Phe
                              725                    730                   735
              Leu His Leu Met Gly   Leu Thr Gly Arg Leu Val Asn    Asp Thr Lys Thr
                          740                   745                    750
              Tyr Gln Ala Glu Arg   Gly Gln Gly Glu Glu Ala Ser    Ala Ile Gln Cys
                      755                   760                    765
              Tyr Met Lys Asp His   Pro Glu Ile Ser Glu Glu Glu    Ala Leu Asn His
                  770                   775                  780
              Val Tyr Asn Val Met   Glu Asn Ala Leu Gln Glu Leu    Asn Lys Glu Phe
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Val Asn Asn Lys Glu   Val Pro Pro Asn Cys Arg Arg    Leu Val Phe Asn
                              805                    810                   815
              Thr Ala Arg Ile Met   Gln Leu Phe Tyr Met Gln Gly    Asp Gly Leu Thr
                          820                   825                    830
              Leu Ser His Asp Met   Glu Ile Lys Asp His Val Lys    Thr Cys Leu Phe
                      835                   840                    845
              Ile Pro Ile Ala
                  850
                                                     Page 6

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <210>   4
              <211>   2559
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS2
<removed-apn>
              <400> 4
              catcatctaa   ctgctaacac   acagtccatt   ccgcatttct   ccacgacgct   gaatgctgga   60
              agcagtgcta   gaaaacggag   aagcttgtac   ctacgatggg   gtaaaggttc   aaacaagatc   120
              attgcctgtg   ttggagaagg   tgcaacctct   gttccttatc   agtctgctga   aaagaatgat   180
              tcgctttatt   cttctacatt   ggtgaaacga   gaatttcctc   caggattttg   gaaggatgat   240
              cttatcgatt   ctctgacgtc   ctctcacaag   gttgcagcat   cagacgagaa   gcgtatcgag   300
              acattaatat   ccgagattaa   gaatatgttt   agatgtatgg   gctatggcga   aacgaatccc   360
              tctgcatatg   acactgcttg   ggtagcaagg   attccagcac   ttgatggctc   tgacaaccct   420
              cactttcctg   agacagttga   atggattctt   caaaatcagt   tgaaagatgg   gtcttggggt   480
              gaaggattct   acttcttggc   atatgacaga   atactggcta   cacttgcatg   tattattacg   540
              cttaccctct   ggcgtactgg   ggagacacaa   gtacacaaag   gtattgaatt   cttcaggaca   600
              caagctggaa   agatggaaga   tgaagctgat   agtcataggc   caagtggatt   tgaaatagta   660
              tttcctgcaa   tgctaaagga   agctaaaatc   ttagggttgg   atctgcctta   cgatttgcca   720
              ttcctgaaac   aaatcatcga   aaagcgggag   gctaagctta   aaaggattcc   cactgatgtt   780
              ctctatgccc   ttccaacaac   gttattgtat   tctttggaag   gtttgcaaga   aatagtagac   840
              tggcagaaaa   taatgaaact   tcaatccaag   gatggatcat   ttctcagctc   tccggcatct   900
              acagcggctg   tattcatgcg   tacagggaac   aaaaagtgct   tggatttctt   gaactttgtc   960
              ttgaagaaat   tcggaaacca   tgtgccttgt   cactatccgc   ttgatctatt   tgaacgcttg   1020
              tgggccgttg   atactgttga   gcggctaggt   atcgatcgcc   atttcaaaga   ggagatcaag   1080
              gacgcattgg   attatgttta   cagccattgg   gacgaaagag   gcattggatg   ggcgagagag   1140
              aatcctgttc   ctgatattga   tgatacagcc   atgggccttc   gaatattgag   actgcatgga   1200
              tacaatgtat   cctcagatgt   tttaaaaaca   tttagagatg   agaatgggga   gttcttttgc   1260
              ttcttgggtc   aaacacagag   aggagttaca   gacatgttaa   acgtcaatcg   ttgttcacat   1320
              gtttcatttc   cgggagaaac   gatcatggaa   gaagcaaaac   tctgcaccga   aaggtatctg   1380
              aggaatgctc   tggaaaatgt   ggatgccttt   gacaaatggg   cttttaaaaa   gaatattcgg   1440
              ggagaggtgg   agtacgcact   caaatatact   tggcataaga   gtatgccaag   gctggaggct   1500
              agaagttaca   ttgaaaacta   tgggccaaat   gatgcgtggc   ttggcaaaac   tgtatatagg   1560
              atgccataca   tttccaatga   aaagtattta   gaactagcaa   aactggactt   caataagctc   1620
              cagtctatac   accaaacaga   gcttcaagat   cttcgaaggt   ggtggaaatc   atcgggtttc   1680
              tcaaagctaa   atttcactcg   cgagcgtgtc   acagaaatat   atttttcatc   cgcatctttt   1740
              atgtttgagc   cggagttttc   taagtgtaga   gaagtttata   caaaagcttc   cattttcaca   1800
              cttattttcg   atgatcttta   tgacgcccat   ggatctttag   acgatcttaa   gttgttttcc   1860
              gaagcagtca   aaagatggga   tctatcacta   ctagagagaa   tgccacaaga   aatgaaaata   1920
              tgcttcctgg   gtttctacaa   tacatttaat   gaaatagctg   aagaagtaca   caagaggcaa   1980
              gggcgtgaca   tgctaggtca   cattcaaaat   gtttgggaaa   tcttgctggc   agcttacacg   2040
              aaagaagcag   aatggtctaa   aactaaatat   gtgccatcct   tcgatgaata   catagagaat   2100
              gcgagtgtgt   caataacact   gggaacaatt   gttctcataa   gtactctttt   catcggggag   2160
              gttcttacag   atcatgtact   ctccaaaatt   aatcatggat   ccagatttct   acacctcatg   2220
              ggcttaacag   ggcgtttggt   gaatgacacc   aaaacttatc   aggctgagag   aggtcaaggt   2280
              gaggaggctt   ctgccataca   atgttatatg   aaggaccatc   ctgaaatctc   tgaagaagaa   2340
              gctctgaatc   atgtctataa   tgtcatggaa   aatgctctcc   aagagttgaa   taaggaattt   2400
              gtgaataaca   aagaagtccc   acccaattgt   aggaggttgg   tttttaacac   tgcaagaatc   2460
              atgcagttgt   tttatatgca   aggggatggt   ttgacacttt   cacatgacat   ggaaattaaa   2520
                                                        Page 7

                                                 234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              gatcatgtca aaacctgtct cttcataccg attgcgtag                              2559
              <210>   5
              <211>   724
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS3
<removed-apn>
              <400> 5
              Asn Thr Gln Ser   Ile Pro His Phe Ser   Thr Thr Leu Asn Ala   Gly Ser
               1                 5                    10                    15
              Ser Ala Arg Lys   Arg Arg Ser Leu Tyr   Leu Arg Trp Gly Lys   Gly Ser
                          20                    25                    30
              Asn Lys Ile Ile   Ala Cys Val Gly Glu   Gly Ala Thr Ser Val   Pro Tyr
                      35                    40                    45
              Gln Ser Ala Glu   Lys Asn Asp Ser Leu   Tyr Ser Ser Thr Leu   Val Lys
                  50                    55                    60
              Arg Glu Phe Pro   Pro Gly Phe Trp Lys   Asp Asp Leu Ile Asp   Ser Leu
              65                    70                    75                    80
              Thr Ser Ser His   Lys Val Ala Ala Ser   Asp Glu Lys Arg Ile   Glu Thr
                                85                    90                    95
              Leu Ile Ser Glu   Ile Lys Asn Met Phe   Arg Cys Met Gly Tyr   Gly Glu
                          100                   105                   110
              Thr Asn Pro Ser   Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp Val Ala Arg Ile   Pro Ala
                      115                   120                   125
              Leu Asp Gly Ser   Asp Asn Pro His Phe   Pro Glu Thr Val Glu   Trp Ile
                  130                   135                   140
              Leu Gln Asn Gln   Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser   Trp Gly Glu Gly Phe   Tyr Phe
              145                   150                   155                   160
              Leu Ala Tyr Asp   Arg Ile Leu Ala Thr   Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile   Thr Leu
                                165                   170                   175
              Thr Leu Trp Arg   Thr Gly Glu Thr Gln   Val His Lys Gly Ile   Glu Phe
                          180                   185                   190
              Phe Arg Thr Gln   Ala Gly Lys Met Glu   Asp Glu Ala Asp Ser   His Arg
                      195                   200                   205
              Pro Ser Gly Phe   Glu Ile Val Phe Pro   Ala Met Leu Lys Glu   Ala Lys
                  210                   215                   220
              Ile Leu Gly Leu   Asp Leu Pro Tyr Asp   Leu Pro Phe Leu Lys   Gln Ile
              225                   230                   235                   240
              Ile Glu Lys Arg   Glu Ala Lys Leu Lys   Arg Ile Pro Thr Asp   Val Leu
                                245                   250                   255
              Tyr Ala Leu Pro   Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr   Ser Leu Glu Gly Leu   Gln Glu
                          260                   265                   270
              Ile Val Asp Trp   Gln Lys Ile Met Lys   Leu Gln Ser Lys Asp   Gly Ser
                      275                   280                   285
              Phe Leu Ser Ser   Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala   Ala Val Phe Met Arg   Thr Gly
                  290                   295                   300
              Asn Lys Lys Cys   Leu Asp Phe Leu Asn   Phe Val Leu Lys Lys   Phe Gly
              305                   310                   315                   320
              Asn His Val Pro   Cys His Tyr Pro Leu   Asp Leu Phe Glu Arg   Leu Trp
                                                      Page 8

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                                325                    330                 335
              Ala   Val Asp Thr Val Glu Arg Leu   Gly Ile Asp Arg His Phe Lys    Glu
                            340                   345                  350
              Glu   Ile Lys Glu Ala Leu Asp Tyr   Val Tyr Ser His Trp Asp Glu    Arg
                        355                 360                    365
              Gly   Ile Gly Trp Ala Arg Glu Asn   Pro Val Pro Asp Ile Asp Asp    Thr
                    370                 375                    380
              Ala   Met Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu Arg   Leu His Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser    Ser
              385                   390                    395                   400
<removed-apn>
              Asp   Val Leu Lys Thr Phe Arg Asp   Glu Asn Gly Glu Phe Phe Cys    Phe
                                405                    410                 415
              Leu   Gly Gln Thr Gln Arg Gly Val   Thr Asp Met Leu Asn Val Asn    Arg
                            420                   425                  430
              Cys   Ser His Val Ser Phe Pro Gly   Glu Thr Ile Met Glu Glu Ala    Lys
                        435                 440                    445
              Leu   Cys Thr Glu Arg Tyr Leu Arg   Asn Ala Leu Glu Asn Val Asp    Ala
                    450                 455                    460
              Phe   Asp Lys Trp Ala Phe Lys Lys   Asn Ile Arg Gly Glu Val Glu    Tyr
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Ala   Leu Lys Tyr Pro Trp His Lys   Ser Met Pro Arg Leu Glu Ala    Arg
                                485                    490                 495
              Ser   Tyr Ile Glu Asn Tyr Gly Gln   Asn Asp Leu Trp Leu Gly Lys    Ser
                            500                   505                  510
              Leu   Tyr Met Met Pro Tyr Ile Ser   Asn Glu Lys Tyr Leu Glu Leu    Ala
                        515                 520                    525
              Lys   Leu Asp Phe Asn Lys Val Gln   Ser Ile His Gln Lys Glu Leu    Gln
                    530                 535                    540
              Asp   Leu Arg Arg Trp Trp Lys Ser   Ser Gly Phe Thr Asp Leu Asn    Phe
              545                   550                    555                   560
              Thr   Arg Glu Arg Val Thr Glu Ile   Tyr Phe Ser Pro Ala Ser Phe    Ile
                                565                    570                 575
              Phe   Glu Pro Glu Phe Ser Lys Cys   Arg Glu Val Tyr Thr Lys Thr    Ser
                            580                   585                  590
              Asn   Phe Thr Val Ile Leu Asp Asp   Leu Tyr Asp Ala His Gly Ser    Leu
                        595                 600                    605
              Asp   Asp Leu Lys Leu Phe Ser Glu   Ser Val Lys Arg Trp Asp Leu    Ser
                    610                 615                    620
              Leu   Ile Asp Gly Met Pro Gln Glu   Met Lys Thr Cys Phe Lys Gly    Leu
              625                   630                    635                   640
              Tyr   Asn Thr Phe Asn Glu Ile Ala   Glu Glu Gly Cys Lys Arg Gln    Gly
                                645                    650                 655
              His   Asp Val Leu Gly Tyr Ile Arg   Asn Val Trp Glu Ile Gln Leu    Ala
                            660                   665                  670
              Ala   Tyr Thr Lys Glu Ala Glu Trp   Ser Glu Ala Lys Tyr Val Pro    Ser
                        675                 680                    685
              Phe   Asn Glu Tyr Ile Glu Asn Ala   Ser Val Ser Ile Ala Leu Gly    Thr
                    690                 695                    700
              Val   Val Leu Ile Ser Val Leu Phe   Val Gly Ser Ser Tyr Arg Ser    Asn
              705                   710                    715                   720
              Thr   Phe Lys Asn
                                                      Page 9

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <210>   6
              <211>   2175
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS3
<removed-apn>
              <400> 6
              aacacacagt   ccattccgca   tttctccacg   acgctgaatg   ctggaagcag   tgctagaaaa   60
              cggagaagct   tgtacctacg   atggggtaaa   ggttcaaaca   agatcattgc   ctgtgttgga   120
              gaaggtgcaa   cctctgttcc   ttatcagtct   gctgaaaaga   atgattcgct   ttattcttct   180
              acattggtga   aacgagaatt   tcctccagga   ttttggaagg   atgatcttat   cgattctctg   240
              acgtcctctc   acaaggttgc   agcatcagac   gagaagcgta   tcgagacatt   aatatccgag   300
              attaagaata   tgtttagatg   tatgggctat   ggcgaaacga   atccctctgc   atatgacact   360
              gcttgggtag   caaggattcc   agcacttgat   ggctctgaca   accctcactt   tcctgagaca   420
              gttgaatgga   ttcttcaaaa   tcagttgaaa   gatgggtctt   ggggtgaagg   attctacttc   480
              ttggcatatg   acagaatact   ggctacactt   gcatgtatta   ttacgcttac   cctctggcgt   540
              actggggaga   cacaagtaca   caaaggtatt   gaattcttca   ggacacaagc   tggaaagatg   600
              gaagatgaag   ctgatagtca   taggccaagt   ggatttgaaa   tagtatttcc   tgcaatgcta   660
              aaggaagcta   aaatcttagg   gttggatctg   ccttacgatt   tgccattcct   gaaacaaatc   720
              atcgaaaagc   gggaggctaa   gcttaaaagg   attcccactg   atgttctcta   tgcccttcca   780
              acaacgttat   tgtattcttt   ggaaggtttg   caagaaatag   tagactggca   gaaaataatg   840
              aaacttcaat   ccaaggatgg   atcatttctc   agctctccgg   catctacagc   ggctgtattc   900
              atgcgtacag   ggaacaaaaa   gtgcttggat   ttcttgaact   ttgtcttgaa   gaaattcgga   960
              aaccatgtgc   cttgtcacta   tccgcttgat   ctatttgaac   gtttgtgggc   ggttgatacc   1020
              gttgagcggc   taggtatcga   tcgccatttc   aaagaggaga   tcaaggaagc   attggattat   1080
              gtttacagcc   attgggacga   aagaggcatt   ggatgggcga   gagagaatcc   tgttcctgat   1140
              attgatgata   cagccatggg   ccttcgaatc   ttgagactac   atggatacaa   tgtatcctca   1200
              gatgttttaa   aaacatttag   agatgagaat   ggtgagttct   tttgcttctt   gggtcaaaca   1260
              cagagaggag   ttaccgacat   gttaaacgtc   aatcgttgtt   cacatgtttc   atttccggga   1320
              gaaacgatca   tggaagaagc   aaaactctgt   accgaaaggt   atctgaggaa   tgctctggaa   1380
              aatgtggacg   cctttgacaa   atgggctttt   aaaaagaata   ttcggggaga   ggtggagtat   1440
              gcactcaaat   atccttggca   taagagtatg   ccaaggctgg   aggccagaag   ctacattgaa   1500
              aactatgggc   agaatgattt   gtggttgggc   aaaagtttat   atatgatgcc   atatatttcc   1560
              aatgaaaagt   atttagaact   agcgaaactg   gacttcaata   aggtgcagtc   tatacaccaa   1620
              aaagagcttc   aagatcttcg   aaggtggtgg   aaatcatccg   gtttcacgga   tctgaatttc   1680
              actcgtgagc   gtgtgacgga   aatatatttc   tcaccggcat   cctttatttt   tgagccggag   1740
              ttttctaagt   gcagagaagt   ttatacaaaa   acttccaatt   tcacagttat   tttagatgat   1800
              ctttatgacg   cccatggatc   tctagacgat   cttaagttgt   tttccgaatc   agtcaaaaga   1860
              tgggatctct   cactaataga   tggaatgcca   caagaaatga   aaacatgttt   caagggttta   1920
              tacaatactt   tcaatgaaat   agcagaagaa   ggatgcaaga   ggcaggggca   tgatgtccta   1980
              ggctacatta   gaaatgtttg   ggaaatccag   ttggcagctt   acacaaaaga   agcagaatgg   2040
              tctgaagcta   aatatgttcc   gtcctttaat   gaatacatag   agaatgcgag   tgtgtcaata   2100
              gcactcggaa   cggtcgttct   cattagtgtt   ctttttgtgg   ggagttctta   cagatcaaat   2160
              actttcaaaa   attaa                                                            2175
              <210>   7
              <211>   867
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
                                                        Page 10

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS4
              <400> 7
              Met Ala Leu Pro   Val Tyr Ser Leu Lys   Ser His Ile Pro Ile   Thr Thr
               1                 5                    10                    15
              Ile Ala Ser Ala   Lys Met Asn Tyr Thr   Pro Asn Lys Gly Met   Ile Thr
                          20                    25                    30
<removed-apn>
              Ala Asn Gly Arg   Ser Arg Arg Ile Arg   Leu Ser Pro Asn Lys   Ile Val
                      35                    40                    45
              Ala Cys Ala Gly   Glu Ala Asp Arg Thr   Phe Pro Ser Gln Ser   Leu Glu
                  50                    55                    60
              Lys Thr Ala Leu   Phe Pro Asp Gln Phe   Ser Glu Lys Asn Gly   Thr Pro
              65                    70                    75                    80
              Ser Asn Phe Thr   Pro Pro Asn Arg Glu   Phe Pro Pro Ser Phe   Trp Asn
                                85                    90                    95
              Asn Asp Ile Ile   Asn Ser Ile Thr Ala   Ser His Lys Val Gln   Thr Gly
                          100                   105                   110
              Asp Arg Lys Arg   Ile Gln Thr Leu Ile   Ser Glu Ile Lys Asn   Val Phe
                      115                   120                   125
              Asn Ser Met Gly   Asp Gly Glu Thr Ser   Pro Ser Ala Tyr Asp   Thr Ala
                  130                   135                   140
              Trp Val Ala Arg   Ile Pro Ala Val Asp   Gly Ser Glu Gln Pro   Gln Phe
              145                   150                   155                   160
              Pro Gln Thr Leu   Glu Trp Ile Leu Gln   Asn Gln Leu Lys Asp   Gly Ser
                                165                   170                   175
              Trp Gly Glu Glu   Phe Tyr Phe Leu Ala   Tyr Asp Arg Leu Leu   Ala Thr
                          180                   185                   190
              Leu Ala Cys Ile   Ile Thr Leu Thr Ile   Trp Arg Thr Gly Asn   Val Gln
                      195                   200                   205
              Leu His Lys Gly   Ile Glu Phe Phe Arg   Lys Gln Val Val Arg   Met Asp
                  210                   215                   220
              Asp Glu Ala Asp   Asn His Arg Pro Ser   Gly Phe Glu Ile Val   Phe Pro
              225                   230                   235                   240
              Ala Met Leu Asn   Glu Ala Lys Ser Leu   Gly Leu Asp Leu Pro   Tyr Glu
                                245                   250                   255
              Leu Pro Phe Ile   Glu Gln Met Val Lys   Lys Arg Glu Ala Lys   Leu Lys
                          260                   265                   270
              Met Ile Thr Thr   Asn Val Leu Tyr Thr   Ile Gln Thr Thr Leu   Leu Tyr
                      275                   280                   285
              Ser Leu Glu Gly   Leu His Glu Ile Val   Asp Phe Asp Lys Ile   Ile Lys
                  290                   295                   300
              Leu Gln Ser Lys   Asp Gly Ser Phe Leu   Gly Ser Pro Ala Ser   Thr Ala
              305                   310                   315                   320
              Ala Val Phe Met   Gln Thr Gly Asn Thr   Lys Cys Leu Glu Phe   Leu Glu
                                325                   330                   335
              Phe Val Leu Arg   Lys Phe Arg Asn His   Val Pro Ser Asp Tyr   Pro Leu
                          340                   345                   350
              Asp Leu Phe Glu   Arg Leu Trp Val Val   Asp Thr Val Glu Arg   Leu Gly
                      355                   360                   365
              Ile Asp Arg His   Phe Lys Lys Glu Ile   Lys Asp Ala Leu Asp   Tyr Val
                                                       Page 11

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                  370                   375                  380
              Tyr Ser Cys Trp Asp   Glu Arg Gly Ile Gly Trp Ala    Lys Asp Ser Pro
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Ile Ala Asp Ile Asp   Asp Thr Ala Met Gly Leu Arg    Ile Leu Arg Leu
                              405                    410                   415
              His Gly Tyr Asn Val   Ser Pro Asp Val Leu Lys Thr    Phe Lys Asp Glu
                          420                   425                    430
              Asn Gly Glu Phe Phe   Cys Phe Met Gly Gln Thr Gln    Arg Gly Val Thr
                      435                   440                    445
<removed-apn>
              Asp Met Leu Asn Val   Tyr Arg Cys Ser Gln Val Ala    Phe Pro Gly Glu
                  450                   455                  460
              Thr Ile Met Glu Glu   Ala Lys Leu Cys Thr Glu Arg    Tyr Leu Arg Asn
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Ala Leu Glu Asn Ala   Asp Ala Phe Asp Lys Trp Ala    Ile Lys Lys Asn
                              485                    490                   495
              Ile Arg Gly Glu Val   Glu Tyr Ala Leu Lys Tyr Pro    Trp His Arg Ser
                          500                   505                    510
              Met Pro Arg Leu Glu   Val Arg Ser Tyr Ile Gly Asn    Tyr Gly Pro Asn
                      515                   520                    525
              Asp Val Trp Leu Gly   Lys Ser Leu Tyr Met Met Pro    Tyr Ile Ser Asn
                  530                   535                  540
              Glu Lys Tyr Leu Glu   Leu Ala Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn    Ser Val Gln Ser
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Leu His Gln Glu Glu   Ile Arg Glu Leu Val Arg Trp    Cys Lys Ser Ser
                              565                    570                   575
              Gly Phe Thr Glu Leu   Lys Phe Thr Arg Asp Arg Val    Val Glu Thr Tyr
                          580                   585                    590
              Phe Ala Val Ala Ser   Ser Met Phe Glu Pro Glu Phe    Ser Thr Cys Arg
                      595                   600                    605
              Ala Val Tyr Thr Lys   Ile Ser Val Leu Leu Val Ile    Leu Asp Asp Leu
                  610                   615                  620
              Tyr Asp Gly Tyr Gly   Ser Pro Asp Glu Ile Lys Leu    Phe Ser Glu Ala
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Val Lys Arg Trp Asp   Leu Ser Leu Leu Glu Gln Met    Pro Asp His Met
                              645                    650                   655
              Lys Ile Cys Phe Leu   Gly Leu Tyr Asn Thr Val Asn    Glu Val Ala Glu
                          660                   665                    670
              Glu Gly Arg Lys Thr   Gln Gly His Asp Val Leu Gly    Tyr Ile Arg Asn
                      675                   680                    685
              Leu Trp Glu Ile Gln   Leu Ala Ala Phe Thr Arg Glu    Ala Glu Trp Ser
                  690                   695                  700
              Gln Gly Lys Tyr Val   Pro Ser Phe Asp Glu Tyr Ile    Glu Asn Ala Gln
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Val Ser Ile Gly Val   Ala Thr Ile Leu Leu Ile Thr    Ile Leu Phe Thr
                              725                    730                   735
              Glu Glu Asp Asp Ile   Leu Ser His Ile Asp Tyr Gly    Ser Lys Phe Leu
                          740                   745                    750
              Arg Leu Ala Ser Leu   Thr Ala Arg Leu Ala Asn Asp    Ile Lys Thr Tyr
                      755                   760                    765
              Gln Glu Glu Arg Ala   His Gly Glu Val Val Ser Ala    Ile Gln Cys Tyr
                  770                   775                  780
              Met Lys Asp Arg Pro   Glu Ile Thr Glu Glu Glu Ala    Leu Lys Tyr Val
                                                    Page 12

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              785                   790                  795                       800
              Tyr Gly Arg Met Val   Asn Asp Leu Ala Glu Leu Asn      Ser Glu Tyr   Leu
                              805                    810                     815
              Lys Ser Asn Glu Met   Pro Gln Asn Cys Lys Arg Leu      Val Phe Asp   Thr
                          820                   825                      830
              Ala Arg Val Ala Gln   Leu Phe Thr Met Glu Gly Asp      Gly Leu Thr    Tyr
                      835                   840                      845
              Ser Asp Thr Met Glu   Ile Lys Glu His Ile Lys Lys      Cys Leu Phe   Glu
                  850                   855                  860
<removed-apn>
              Pro Ala Thr
              865
              <210>   8
              <211>   2604
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS4
              <400> 8
              atggccctgc   ctgtctattc   gctgaaatcc   cacatcccca   ttactacaat   tgcctctgct   60
              aaaatgaatt   acacccctaa   caagggaatg   atcactgcca   acgggagaag   ccgccgcatc   120
              cgattgagtc   caaacaagat   cgttgcttgt   gctggagaag   ctgatcgcac   atttccttct   180
              caatctctcg   aaaagaccgc   tctgtttccc   gatcagtttt   ctgaaaagaa   tggaactcct   240
              tctaatttca   caccgcctaa   tcgagaattt   cctccttcat   tttggaataa   tgatattatc   300
              aattcaataa   cggcgtcaca   caaggttcaa   acaggggacc   ggaagcgtat   ccagacatta   360
              atatctgaaa   ttaaaaatgt   gtttaattct   atgggcgatg   gagaaacgag   tccctctgca   420
              tatgacaccg   cttgggtagc   gaggattcca   gcggttgatg   gctctgaaca   acctcagttt   480
              cctcagacac   ttgaatggat   tctacaaaat   cagttgaaag   atgggtcttg   gggtgaagaa   540
              ttctacttct   tagcatatga   cagattactg   gctacccttg   catgcattat   taccctcacc   600
              atatggagaa   ctggcaacgt   acaactgcat   aaaggcattg   aattcttcag   gaagcaagtt   660
              gtaaggatgg   atgatgaagc   tgataaccac   cggccaagtg   gatttgaaat   agtctttcct   720
              gctatgttaa   atgaagcaaa   aagtttagga   ttggatctgc   cttatgaatt   gccgttcatt   780
              gaacaaatgg   ttaaaaagcg   ggaggctaag   cttaaaatga   ttaccacgaa   tgtcctgtat   840
              accattcaaa   caacattact   ttactctctg   gaaggcttgc   atgaaatagt   agactttgat   900
              aaaataatca   aacttcaatc   caaggatgga   tcattcctcg   gctccccggc   atctacagcg   960
              gctgtattca   tgcaaacagg   gaacactaaa   tgcttggaat   tcttggagtt   cgttttaagg   1020
              aaatttagaa   accatgtgcc   tagcgactat   cccctcgatc   tatttgaacg   tctttgggtc   1080
              gttgacacgg   ttgaacgact   agggattgat   cgccatttca   aaaaggagat   caaggacgca   1140
              ttggattatg   tgtacagctg   ttgggacgaa   agaggcattg   gctgggcgaa   agacagccct   1200
              atagccgata   ttgatgatac   agccatgggc   cttcgaatct   tgaggctgca   tggatacaat   1260
              gtatccccag   atgttttaaa   aactttcaaa   gatgagaatg   gagagttctt   ttgcttcatg   1320
              ggtcaaacac   agaggggagt   tacggacatg   ctaaacgttt   atcgctgttc   acaagttgct   1380
              tttccgggag   aaacgatcat   ggaagaagca   aaactctgta   ctgaaaggta   tctgcgcaac   1440
              gctctggaaa   atgcggacgc   ctttgacaaa   tgggctatta   aaaagaatat   tcgaggggag   1500
              gtggagtacg   cactcaagta   tccctggcat   agaagtatgc   caaggctgga   ggtgagaagc   1560
              tacattggaa   attacgggcc   aaacgatgtc   tggcttggaa   agtctttgta   tatgatgcca   1620
              tacattagca   acgaaaaata   tttggaattg   gcaaaactgg   acttcaatag   tgtgcaatct   1680
              ctacaccaag   aggagattcg   agagcttgtg   aggtggtgta   aatcatcagg   tttcacagag   1740
              ctcaagttca   cacgcgaccg   tgtagttgaa   acatatttcg   cagttgcgtc   tagtatgttt   1800
                                                        Page 13

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              gagcccgagt   tctctacctg   tagagccgtt   tatacaaaaa tttccgttct   cctcgtcatt   1860
              ttagacgacc   tttacgatgg   gtatggatct   ccagacgaaa tcaaactgtt   ctcggaagca   1920
              gtcaaaagat   gggatctctc   tttgttagaa   caaatgcccg accacatgaa   aatctgcttc   1980
              ctgggattgt   acaacacagt   taatgaagta   gctgaagaag gacgcaagac   acagggccat   2040
              gatgtgctag   gctacattcg   aaacttgtgg   gagatccagc tcgcagcttt   caccagagaa   2100
              gcagaatggt   ctcaagggaa   atacgtgccg   tcttttgatg aatacataga   gaacgcccaa   2160
              gtatcaatag   gtgtagcaac   tatacttctt   ataactattc ttttcactga   agaggatgac   2220
              attctctccc   atattgatta   cggatccaaa   tttctccgtc tcgctagctt   gacagcacgt   2280
              ttagcgaacg   acatcaaaac   ataccaggag   gagagagctc atggcgaggt   ggtttcggct   2340
<removed-apn>
              atacagtgtt   atatgaagga   tcgtcctgaa   attacagagg aagaagctct   caaatatgtc   2400
              tatggtcgaa   tggttaacga   tctcgcagag   ttaaattctg aatacttgaa   atctaatgaa   2460
              atgccccaaa   attgcaagag   actggttttt   gacactgcaa gagtagcgca   gttgtttact   2520
              atggagggag   acggtttgac   atattcagat   actatggaaa ttaaagaaca   catcaaaaag   2580
              tgcctcttcg   agccggctac   ctaa                                              2604
              <210> 9
              <220>
              <223> AbCAS D402A/D404A
              <400> 9
               000
              <210> 10
              <220>
              <223> AbCAS D621A
              <400> 10
               000
              <210>   11
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Motif
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 1
              <223> Xaa = Asn or Lys
              <400> 11
              Xaa Arg Glu Phe Pro Pro
               1               5
              <210> 12
              <211> 4
              <212> PRT
                                                        Page 14

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Motif
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 2
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
<removed-apn>
              <400> 12
              Asp Xaa Asp Asp
               1
              <210>   13
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> motif
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> (2)...(3)
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
              <400> 13
              Asp Asp Xaa Xaa Asp
               1               5
              <210>   14
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> motif
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> 3, 4, 6, 7, 8
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
              <400> 14
              Asn Asp Xaa Xaa Thr Xaa Xaa Xaa Glu
               1               5
              <210> 15
                                                     Page 15

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <211> 9
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> motif
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
<removed-apn>
              <222> 1
              <223> Xaa = Asn or Lys
              <220>
              <221> VARIANT
              <222> (3)...(8)
              <223> Xaa = any amino acid
              <400> 15
              Xaa Arg Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa Trp
               1               5
              <210>   16
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> motif
              <400> 16
              Asp Ile Asp Asp
               1
              <210>   17
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> motif
              <400> 17
              Asp Asp Leu Tyr Asp
               1               5
              <210>   18
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                     Page 16

                                                  234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS1<U+2701>3'RACE primer
              <400> 18
              ctgagagagg tcaaggtgag gaggcttctg                30
              <210>   19
              <211>   30
<removed-apn>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS2<U+2701>3'RACE primer
              <400> 19
              cagagagagg tcaaggtgag gtggcttctg                30
              <210>   20
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS4<U+2701>For<U+2701>FL<U+2701>SalI primer
              <400> 20
              tagtcgacat ggccctgcct gtctattc                  28
              <210>   21
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS4<U+2701>For<U+2701>delta85<U+2701>SalI primer
              <400> 21
              tagtcgacat gcgagaattt cctccttcat tttg           34
              <210>   22
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS4<U+2701>Rev<U+2701>NotI primer
              <400> 22
              tagcggccgc ttaggtagcc ggctcgaag                 29
              <210> 23
                                                   Page 17

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <211> 40
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> N<U+2701>terminal His<U+2701>tag
              <400> 23
              Met Gly Arg Ser His His His His His His Ser Ser Gly Leu Val Pro
<removed-apn>
               1               5                  10                  15
              Arg Gly Ser His Met Ala Ser Met Thr Gly Gly Gln Gln Met Gly Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Pro Asn Ser Ser Ser Val Asp
                       35                 40
              <210>   24
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS2<U+2701>For<U+2701>delta68<U+2701>SalI primer
              <400> 24
              tatgtcgaca aacgagaatt tcctccagga                                  30
              <210>   25
              <211>   32
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS2<U+2701>Rev<U+2701>NotI primer
              <400> 25
              tgggcggccg cttacgcaat cggtatgaag ag                               32
              <210>   26
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS1<U+2701>For<U+2701>delta83<U+2701>Sall primer
              <400> 26
              tatgtcgaca aacgagaatt tcctccagga                                  30
              <210> 27
              <211> 32
              <212> DNA
                                                     Page 18

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS1<U+2701>Rev<U+2701>NotI primer
              <400> 27
              tgggcggccg cctaggcaac tggttggaag ag               32
              <210>   28
<removed-apn>
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> D402A<U+2701>D404A<U+2701>sense primer
              <400> 28
              gacagcccta tagccgctat tgctgataca gccatgggc        39
              <210>   29
              <211>   39
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> D402A<U+2701>D404A<U+2701>antisense primer
              <400> 29
              gcccatggct gtatcagcaa tagcggctat agggctgtc        39
              <210>   30
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> D621A<U+2701>sense primer
              <400> 30
              tctcctcgtc attttagccg acctttacga tggg             34
              <210>   31
              <211>   34
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> D621A<U+2701>antisense primer
              <400> 31
              cccatcgtaa aggtcggcta aaatgacgag gaga             34
                                                     Page 19

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <210>   32
              <211>   2974
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> pJET vector
              <400> 32
<removed-apn>
              gcccctgcag   ccgaattata   ttatttttgc   caaataattt   ttaacaaaag   ctctgaagtc   60
              ttcttcattt   aaattcttag   atgatacttc   atctggaaaa   ttgtcccaat   tagtagcatc   120
              acgctgtgag   taagttctaa   accatttttt   tattgttgta   ttatctctaa   tcttactact   180
              cgatgagttt   tcggtattat   ctctattttt   aacttggagc   aggttccatt   cattgttttt   240
              ttcatcatag   tgaataaaat   caactgcttt   aacacttgtg   cctgaacacc   atatccatcc   300
              ggcgtaatac   gactcactat   agggagagcg   gccgccagat   cttccggatg   gctcgagttt   360
              ttcagcaaga   tatctttcta   gaagatctcc   tacaatattc   tcagctgcca   tggaaaatcg   420
              atgttcttct   tttattctct   caagattttc   aggctgtata   ttaaaactta   tattaagaac   480
              tatgctaacc   acctcatcag   gaaccgttgt   aggtggcgtg   ggttttcttg   gcaatcgact   540
              ctcatgaaaa   ctacgagcta   aatattcaat   atgttcctct   tgaccaactt   tattctgcat   600
              tttttttgaa   cgaggtttag   agcaagcttc   aggaaactga   gacaggaatt   ttattaaaaa   660
              tttaaatttt   gaagaaagtt   cagggttaat   agcatccatt   ttttgctttg   caagttcctc   720
              agcattctta   acaaaagacg   tctcttttga   catgtttaaa   gtttaaacct   cctgtgtgaa   780
              attgttatcc   gctcacaatt   ccacacatta   tacgagccgg   aagcataaag   tgtaaagcct   840
              ggggtgccta   atgagtgagc   taactcacat   taattgcgtt   gcgctcactg   ccaattgctt   900
              tccagtcggg   aaacctgtcg   tgccagctgc   attaatgaat   cggccaacgc   gcggggagag   960
              gcggtttgcg   tattgggcgc   tcttccgctt   cctcgctcac   tgactcgctg   cgctcggtcg   1020
              ttcggctgcg   gcgagcggta   tcagctcact   caaaggcggt   aatacggtta   tccacagaat   1080
              caggggataa   cgcaggaaag   aacatgtgag   caaaaggcca   gcaaaaggcc   aggaaccgta   1140
              aaaaggccgc   gttgctggcg   tttttccata   ggctccgccc   ccctgacgag   catcacaaaa   1200
              atcgacgctc   aagtcagagg   tggcgaaacc   cgacaggact   ataaagatac   caggcgtttc   1260
              cccctggaag   ctccctcgtg   cgctctcctg   ttccgaccct   gccgcttacc   ggatacctgt   1320
              ccgcctttct   cccttcggga   agcgtggcgc   tttctcatag   ctcacgctgt   aggtatctca   1380
              gttcggtgta   ggtcgttcgc   tccaagctgg   gctgtgtgca   cgaacccccc   gttcagcccg   1440
              accgctgcgc   cttatccggt   aactatcgtc   ttgagtccaa   cccggtaaga   cacgacttat   1500
              cgccactggc   agcagccact   ggtaacagga   ttagcagagc   gaggtatgta   ggcggtgcta   1560
              cagagttctt   gaagtggtgg   cctaactacg   gctacactag   aaggacagta   tttggtatct   1620
              gcgctctgct   gaagccagtt   accttcggaa   aaagagttgg   tagctcttga   tccggcaaac   1680
              aaaccaccgc   tggtagcggt   ggtttttttg   tttgcaagca   gcagattacg   cgcagaaaaa   1740
              aaggatctca   agaagatcct   ttgatctttt   ctacggggtc   tgacgctcag   tggaacgaaa   1800
              actcacgtta   agggattttg   gtcatgagat   tatcaaaaag   gatcttcacc   tagatccttt   1860
              taaattaaaa   atgaagtttt   aaatcaatct   aaagtatata   tgagtaaact   tggtctgaca   1920
              gttaccaatg   cttaatcagt   gaggcaccta   tctcagcgat   ctgtctattt   cgttcatcca   1980
              tagttgcctg   actccccgtc   gtgtagataa   ctacgatacg   ggagggctta   ccatctggcc   2040
              ccagtgctgc   aatgataccg   cgagacccac   gctcaccggc   tccagattta   tcagcaataa   2100
              accagccagc   cggaagggcc   gagcgcagaa   gtggtcctgc   aactttatcc   gcctccatcc   2160
              agtctattaa   ttgttgccgg   gaagctagag   taagtagttc   gccagttaat   agtttgcgca   2220
              acgttgttgc   cattgctaca   ggcatcgtgg   tgtcacgctc   gtcgtttggt   atggcttcat   2280
              tcagctccgg   ttcccaacga   tcaaggcgag   ttacatgatc   ccccatgttg   tgcaaaaaag   2340
              cggttagctc   cttcggtcct   ccgatcgttg   tcagaagtaa   gttggccgca   gtgttatcac   2400
              tcatggttat   ggcagcactg   cataattctc   ttactgtcat   gccatccgta   agatgctttt   2460
              ctgtgactgg   tgagtactca   accaagtcat   tctgagaata   gtgtatgcgg   cgaccgagtt   2520
              gctcttgccc   ggcgtcaata   cgggataata   ccgcgccaca   tagcagaact   ttaaaagtgc   2580
                                                        Page 20

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              tcatcattgg   aaaacgttct   tcggggcgaa   aactctcaag gatcttaccg     ctgttgagat   2640
              ccagttcgat   gtaacccact   cgtgcaccca   actgatcttc agcatctttt     actttcacca   2700
              gcgtttctgg   gtgagcaaaa   acaggaaggc   aaaatgccgc aaaaaaggga     ataagggcga   2760
              cacggaaatg   ttgaatactc   atactcttcc   tttttcaata ttattgaagc     atttatcagg   2820
              gttattgtct   catgagcgga   tacatatttg   aatgtattta gaaaaataaa     caaatagggg   2880
              ttccgcgcac   atttccccga   aaagtgccac   ctgacgtcta agaaaccatt     attatcatga   2940
              cattaaccta   taaaaatagg   cgtatcacga   ggcc                                   2974
              <210>   33
<removed-apn>
              <211>   5368
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> pET28b(+) vector
              <400> 33
              atccggatat   agttcctcct   ttcagcaaaa   aacccctcaa   gacccgttta   gaggccccaa   60
              ggggttatgc   tagttattgc   tcagcggtgg   cagcagccaa   ctcagcttcc   tttcgggctt   120
              tgttagcagc   cggatctcag   tggtggtggt   ggtggtgctc   gagtgcggcc   gcaagcttgt   180
              cgacggagct   cgaattcgga   tcccgaccca   tttgctgtcc   accagtcatg   ctagccatat   240
              ggctgccgcg   cggcaccagg   ccgctgctgt   gatgatgatg   atgatggctg   ctgcccatgg   300
              tatatctcct   tcttaaagtt   aaacaaaatt   atttctagag   gggaattgtt   atccgctcac   360
              aattccccta   tagtgagtcg   tattaatttc   gcgggatcga   gatctcgatc   ctctacgccg   420
              gacgcatcgt   ggccggcatc   accggcgcca   caggtgcggt   tgctggcgcc   tatatcgccg   480
              acatcaccga   tggggaagat   cgggctcgcc   acttcgggct   catgagcgct   tgtttcggcg   540
              tgggtatggt   ggcaggcccc   gtggccgggg   gactgttggg   cgccatctcc   ttgcatgcac   600
              cattccttgc   ggcggcggtg   ctcaacggcc   tcaacctact   actgggctgc   ttcctaatgc   660
              aggagtcgca   taagggagag   cgtcgagatc   ccggacacca   tcgaatggcg   caaaaccttt   720
              cgcggtatgg   catgatagcg   cccggaagag   agtcaattca   gggtggtgaa   tgtgaaacca   780
              gtaacgttat   acgatgtcgc   agagtatgcc   ggtgtctctt   atcagaccgt   ttcccgcgtg   840
              gtgaaccagg   ccagccacgt   ttctgcgaaa   acgcgggaaa   aagtggaagc   ggcgatggcg   900
              gagctgaatt   acattcccaa   ccgcgtggca   caacaactgg   cgggcaaaca   gtcgttgctg   960
              attggcgttg   ccacctccag   tctggccctg   cacgcgccgt   cgcaaattgt   cgcggcgatt   1020
              aaatctcgcg   ccgatcaact   gggtgccagc   gtggtggtgt   cgatggtaga   acgaagcggc   1080
              gtcgaagcct   gtaaagcggc   ggtgcacaat   cttctcgcgc   aacgcgtcag   tgggctgatc   1140
              attaactatc   cgctggatga   ccaggatgcc   attgctgtgg   aagctgcctg   cactaatgtt   1200
              ccggcgttat   ttcttgatgt   ctctgaccag   acacccatca   acagtattat   tttctcccat   1260
              gaagacggta   cgcgactggg   cgtggagcat   ctggtcgcat   tgggtcacca   gcaaatcgcg   1320
              ctgttagcgg   gcccattaag   ttctgtctcg   gcgcgtctgc   gtctggctgg   ctggcataaa   1380
              tatctcactc   gcaatcaaat   tcagccgata   gcggaacggg   aaggcgactg   gagtgccatg   1440
              tccggttttc   aacaaaccat   gcaaatgctg   aatgagggca   tcgttcccac   tgcgatgctg   1500
              gttgccaacg   atcagatggc   gctgggcgca   atgcgcgcca   ttaccgagtc   cgggctgcgc   1560
              gttggtgcgg   atatctcggt   agtgggatac   gacgataccg   aagacagctc   atgttatatc   1620
              ccgccgttaa   ccaccatcaa   acaggatttt   cgcctgctgg   ggcaaaccag   cgtggaccgc   1680
              ttgctgcaac   tctctcaggg   ccaggcggtg   aagggcaatc   agctgttgcc   cgtctcactg   1740
              gtgaaaagaa   aaaccaccct   ggcgcccaat   acgcaaaccg   cctctccccg   cgcgttggcc   1800
              gattcattaa   tgcagctggc   acgacaggtt   tcccgactgg   aaagcgggca   gtgagcgcaa   1860
              cgcaattaat   gtaagttagc   tcactcatta   ggcaccggga   tctcgaccga   tgcccttgag   1920
              agccttcaac   ccagtcagct   ccttccggtg   ggcgcggggc   atgactatcg   tcgccgcact   1980
              tatgactgtc   ttctttatca   tgcaactcgt   aggacaggtg   ccggcagcgc   tctgggtcat   2040
              tttcggcgag   gaccgctttc   gctggagcgc   gacgatgatc   ggcctgtcgc   ttgcggtatt   2100
                                                        Page 21

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              cggaatcttg   cacgccctcg   ctcaagcctt   cgtcactggt cccgccacca   aacgtttcgg   2160
              cgagaagcag   gccattatcg   ccggcatggc   ggccccacgg gtgcgcatga   tcgtgctcct   2220
              gtcgttgagg   acccggctag   gctggcgggg   ttgccttact ggttagcaga   atgaatcacc   2280
              gatacgcgag   cgaacgtgaa   gcgactgctg   ctgcaaaacg tctgcgacct   gagcaacaac   2340
              atgaatggtc   ttcggtttcc   gtgtttcgta   aagtctggaa acgcggaagt   cagcgccctg   2400
              caccattatg   ttccggatct   gcatcgcagg   atgctgctgg ctaccctgtg   gaacacctac   2460
              atctgtatta   acgaagcgct   ggcattgacc   ctgagtgatt tttctctggt   cccgccgcat   2520
              ccataccgcc   agttgtttac   cctcacaacg   ttccagtaac cgggcatgtt   catcatcagt   2580
              aacccgtatc   gtgagcatcc   tctctcgttt   catcggtatc attaccccca   tgaacagaaa   2640
<removed-apn>
              tcccccttac   acggaggcat   cagtgaccaa   acaggaaaaa accgccctta   acatggcccg   2700
              ctttatcaga   agccagacat   taacgcttct   ggagaaactc aacgagctgg   acgcggatga   2760
              acaggcagac   atctgtgaat   cgcttcacga   ccacgctgat gagctttacc   gcagctgcct   2820
              cgcgcgtttc   ggtgatgacg   gtgaaaacct   ctgacacatg cagctcccgg   agacggtcac   2880
              agcttgtctg   taagcggatg   ccgggagcag   acaagcccgt cagggcgcgt   cagcgggtgt   2940
              tggcgggtgt   cggggcgcag   ccatgaccca   gtcacgtagc gatagcggag   tgtatactgg   3000
              cttaactatg   cggcatcaga   gcagattgta   ctgagagtgc accatatatg   cggtgtgaaa   3060
              taccgcacag   atgcgtaagg   agaaaatacc   gcatcaggcg ctcttccgct   tcctcgctca   3120
              ctgactcgct   gcgctcggtc   gttcggctgc   ggcgagcggt atcagctcac   tcaaaggcgg   3180
              taatacggtt   atccacagaa   tcaggggata   acgcaggaaa gaacatgtga   gcaaaaggcc   3240
              agcaaaaggc   caggaaccgt   aaaaaggccg   cgttgctggc gtttttccat   aggctccgcc   3300
              cccctgacga   gcatcacaaa   aatcgacgct   caagtcagag gtggcgaaac   ccgacaggac   3360
              tataaagata   ccaggcgttt   ccccctggaa   gctccctcgt gcgctctcct   gttccgaccc   3420
              tgccgcttac   cggatacctg   tccgcctttc   tcccttcggg aagcgtggcg   ctttctcata   3480
              gctcacgctg   taggtatctc   agttcggtgt   aggtcgttcg ctccaagctg   ggctgtgtgc   3540
              acgaaccccc   cgttcagccc   gaccgctgcg   ccttatccgg taactatcgt   cttgagtcca   3600
              acccggtaag   acacgactta   tcgccactgg   cagcagccac tggtaacagg   attagcagag   3660
              cgaggtatgt   aggcggtgct   acagagttct   tgaagtggtg gcctaactac   ggctacacta   3720
              gaaggacagt   atttggtatc   tgcgctctgc   tgaagccagt taccttcgga   aaaagagttg   3780
              gtagctcttg   atccggcaaa   caaaccaccg   ctggtagcgg tggttttttt   gtttgcaagc   3840
              agcagattac   gcgcagaaaa   aaaggatctc   aagaagatcc tttgatcttt   tctacggggt   3900
              ctgacgctca   gtggaacgaa   aactcacgtt   aagggatttt ggtcatgaac   aataaaactg   3960
              tctgcttaca   taaacagtaa   tacaaggggt   gttatgagcc atattcaacg   ggaaacgtct   4020
              tgctctaggc   cgcgattaaa   ttccaacatg   gatgctgatt tatatgggta   taaatgggct   4080
              cgcgataatg   tcgggcaatc   aggtgcgaca   atctatcgat tgtatgggaa   gcccgatgcg   4140
              ccagagttgt   ttctgaaaca   tggcaaaggt   agcgttgcca atgatgttac   agatgagatg   4200
              gtcagactaa   actggctgac   ggaatttatg   cctcttccga ccatcaagca   ttttatccgt   4260
              actcctgatg   atgcatggtt   actcaccact   gcgatccccg ggaaaacagc   attccaggta   4320
              ttagaagaat   atcctgattc   aggtgaaaat   attgttgatg cgctggcagt   gttcctgcgc   4380
              cggttgcatt   cgattcctgt   ttgtaattgt   ccttttaaca gcgatcgcgt   atttcgtctc   4440
              gctcaggcgc   aatcacgaat   gaataacggt   ttggttgatg cgagtgattt   tgatgacgag   4500
              cgtaatggct   ggcctgttga   acaagtctgg   aaagaaatgc ataaactttt   gccattctca   4560
              ccggattcag   tcgtcactca   tggtgatttc   tcacttgata accttatttt   tgacgagggg   4620
              aaattaatag   gttgtattga   tgttggacga   gtcggaatcg cagaccgata   ccaggatctt   4680
              gccatcctat   ggaactgcct   cggtgagttt   tctccttcat tacagaaacg   gctttttcaa   4740
              aaatatggta   ttgataatcc   tgatatgaat   aaattgcagt ttcatttgat   gctcgatgag   4800
              tttttctaag   aattaattca   tgagcggata   catatttgaa tgtatttaga   aaaataaaca   4860
              aataggggtt   ccgcgcacat   ttccccgaaa   agtgccacct gaaattgtaa   acgttaatat   4920
              tttgttaaaa   ttcgcgttaa   atttttgtta   aatcagctca ttttttaacc   aataggccga   4980
              aatcggcaaa   atcccttata   aatcaaaaga   atagaccgag atagggttga   gtgttgttcc   5040
              agtttggaac   aagagtccac   tattaaagaa   cgtggactcc aacgtcaaag   ggcgaaaaac   5100
              cgtctatcag   ggcgatggcc   cactacgtga   accatcaccc taatcaagtt   ttttggggtc   5160
              gaggtgccgt   aaagcactaa   atcggaaccc   taaagggagc ccccgattta   gagcttgacg   5220
                                                        Page 22

                                                 234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              gggaaagccg gcgaacgtgg cgagaaagga agggaagaaa gcgaaaggag cgggcgctag 5280
              ggcgctggca agtgtagcgg tcacgctgcg cgtaaccacc acacccgccg cgcttaatgc 5340
              gccgctacag ggcgcgtccc attcgcca                                    5368
              <210>   34
              <211>   859
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Picea abies
              <220>
              <223> PaLAS D611A variant
              <400> 34
              Met Ala Leu Leu Ser    Ser Ser Leu Ser Ser   Gln Ile Pro Thr Gly   Ala
               1                5                    10                    15
              His His Leu Thr Leu    Asn Ala Tyr Ala Asn   Thr Gln Cys Ile Pro   His
                           20                    25                    30
              Phe Phe Ser Thr Leu    Asn Ala Gly Thr Ser   Ala Gly Lys Arg Ser   Ser
                       35                    40                    45
              Leu Tyr Leu Arg Trp    Gly Lys Gly Ser Asn   Lys Ile Ile Ala Cys   Val
                  50                     55                    60
              Gly Glu Asp Ser Leu    Ser Ala Pro Thr Leu   Val Lys Arg Glu Phe   Pro
              65                     70                    75                    80
              Pro Gly Phe Trp Lys    Asp His Val Ile Asp   Ser Leu Thr Ser Ser   His
                               85                    90                    95
              Lys Val Ala Ala Ser    Asp Glu Lys Arg Ile   Glu Thr Leu Ile Ser   Glu
                           100                   105                   110
              Ile Lys Asn Met Phe    Arg Ser Met Gly Tyr   Gly Asp Thr Asn Pro   Ser
                       115                   120                   125
              Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala    Trp Val Ala Arg Ile   Pro Ala Val Asp Gly   Ser
                  130                    135                   140
              Glu Gln Pro Glu Phe    Pro Glu Thr Leu Glu   Trp Ile Leu Gln Asn   Gln
              145                    150                   155                   160
              Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser    Trp Gly Glu Gly Phe   Tyr Phe Leu Ala Tyr   Asp
                               165                   170                   175
              Arg Ile Leu Ala Thr    Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile   Thr Leu Thr Leu Trp   Arg
                           180                   185                   190
              Thr Gly Glu Ile Gln    Val Gln Lys Gly Ile   Glu Phe Phe Lys Thr   Gln
                       195                   200                   205
              Ala Gly Lys Ile Glu    Asp Glu Ala Asp Ser   His Arg Pro Ser Gly   Phe
                  210                    215                   220
              Glu Ile Val Phe Pro    Ala Met Leu Lys Glu   Ala Lys Val Leu Gly   Leu
              225                    230                   235                   240
              Asp Leu Pro Tyr Glu    Leu Pro Phe Ile Lys   Gln Ile Ile Glu Lys   Arg
                               245                   250                   255
              Glu Ala Lys Leu Glu    Arg Leu Pro Thr Asn   Ile Leu Tyr Ala Leu   Pro
                           260                   265                   270
              Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr    Ser Leu Glu Gly Leu   Gln Glu Ile Val Asp   Trp
                       275                   280                   285
              Gln Lys Ile Ile Lys    Leu Gln Ser Lys Asp   Gly Ser Phe Leu Ser   Ser
                                                     Page 23

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                  290                   295                  300
              Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala   Ala Val Phe Met Arg Thr Gly    Asn Lys Lys Cys
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Leu Glu Phe Leu Asn   Phe Val Leu Lys Lys Phe Gly    Asn His Val Pro
                              325                    330                   335
              Cys His Tyr Pro Leu   Asp Leu Phe Glu Arg Leu Trp    Ala Val Asp Thr
                          340                   345                    350
              Ile Glu Arg Leu Gly   Ile Asp Arg His Phe Lys Glu    Glu Ile Lys Asp
                      355                   360                    365
<removed-apn>
              Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val   Tyr Ser His Trp Asp Glu Arg    Gly Ile Gly Trp
                  370                   375                  380
              Ala Arg Glu Asn Pro   Val Pro Asp Ile Asp Asp Thr    Ala Met Gly Leu
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Arg Ile Leu Arg Leu   His Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser Ser    Asp Val Leu Lys
                              405                    410                   415
              Thr Phe Arg Asp Glu   Asn Gly Glu Phe Phe Cys Phe    Leu Gly Gln Thr
                          420                   425                    430
              Gln Arg Gly Val Thr   Asp Met Leu Asn Val Asn Arg    Cys Ser His Val
                      435                   440                    445
              Ala Phe Pro Gly Glu   Thr Ile Met Glu Glu Ala Lys    Thr Cys Thr Glu
                  450                   455                  460
              Arg Tyr Leu Arg Asn   Ala Leu Glu Asp Val Gly Ala    Phe Asp Lys Trp
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Ala Leu Lys Lys Asn   Ile Arg Gly Glu Val Glu Tyr    Ala Leu Lys Tyr
                              485                    490                   495
              Pro Trp His Arg Ser   Met Pro Arg Leu Glu Ala Arg    Ser Tyr Ile Glu
                          500                   505                    510
              His Tyr Gly Pro Asn   Asp Val Trp Leu Gly Lys Thr    Met Tyr Met Met
                      515                   520                    525
              Pro Tyr Ile Ser Asn   Glu Lys Tyr Leu Glu Leu Ala    Lys Leu Asp Phe
                  530                   535                  540
              Asn His Val Gln Ser   Leu His Gln Lys Glu Leu Arg    Asp Leu Arg Arg
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Trp Trp Thr Ser Ser   Gly Phe Thr Glu Leu Lys Phe    Thr Arg Glu Arg
                              565                    570                   575
              Val Thr Glu Ile Tyr   Phe Ser Pro Ala Ser Phe Met    Phe Glu Pro Glu
                          580                   585                    590
              Phe Ala Thr Cys Arg   Ala Val Tyr Thr Lys Thr Ser    Asn Phe Thr Val
                      595                   600                    605
              Ile Leu Ala Asp Leu   Tyr Asp Ala His Gly Thr Leu    Asp Asp Leu Lys
                  610                   615                  620
              Leu Phe Ser Asp Ser   Val Lys Lys Trp Asp Leu Ser    Leu Val Asp Arg
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Met Pro Gln Asp Met   Lys Ile Cys Phe Met Gly Phe    Tyr Asn Thr Phe
                              645                    650                   655
              Asn Glu Ile Ala Glu   Glu Gly Arg Lys Arg Gln Gly    Arg Asp Val Leu
                          660                   665                    670
              Gly Tyr Ile Arg Asn   Val Trp Glu Ile Gln Leu Glu    Ala Tyr Thr Lys
                      675                   680                    685
              Glu Ala Glu Trp Ser   Ala Ala Arg Tyr Val Pro Ser    Phe Asp Glu Tyr
                  690                   695                  700
              Ile Asp Asn Ala Ser   Val Ser Ile Ala Leu Gly Thr    Val Val Leu Ile
                                                    Page 24

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              705                   710                  715                     720
              Ser Ala Leu Phe Thr   Gly Glu Ile Leu Thr Asp Asp    Val Leu Ser   Lys
                              725                    730                   735
              Ile Gly Arg Gly Ser   Arg Phe Leu Gln Leu Met Gly    Leu Thr Gly   Arg
                          740                   745                    750
              Leu Val Asn Asp Thr   Lys Thr Tyr Glu Ala Glu Arg    Gly Gln Gly   Glu
                      755                   760                    765
              Val Ala Ser Ala Val   Gln Cys Tyr Met Lys Asp His    Pro Glu Ile   Ser
                  770                   775                  780
<removed-apn>
              Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu   Lys His Val Tyr Thr Val Met    Glu Asn Ala Leu
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Asp Glu Leu Asn Arg   Glu Phe Val Asn Asn Arg Glu    Val Pro Asp Ser
                              805                    810                   815
              Cys Arg Arg Leu Val   Phe Glu Thr Ala Arg Ile Met    Gln Leu Phe Tyr
                          820                   825                    830
              Met Asp Gly Asp Gly   Leu Thr Leu Ser His Glu Thr    Glu Ile Lys Glu
                      835                   840                    845
              His Val Lys Asn Cys   Leu Phe Gln Pro Val Ala
                  850                   855
              <210>   35
              <211>   867
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Picea abies
              <220>
              <223> Isopimaradiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank AAS47690
              <309> 2009<U+2701>04<U+2701>08
              <400> 35
              Met Ala Leu Leu Ser   Ser Ser Leu Ser Ser   Gln Ile Pro Thr Gly    Ser
               1                5                   10                    15
              His Pro Leu Thr His   Thr Gln Cys Ile Pro   His Phe Ser Thr Thr    Ile
                           20                   25                    30
              Asn Ala Gly Ile Ser   Ala Gly Lys Pro Arg   Ser Phe Tyr Leu Arg    Trp
                       35                   40                    45
              Gly Lys Gly Ser Asn   Lys Ile Ile Ala Cys   Val Gly Glu Gly Thr    Thr
                  50                    55                    60
              Ser Leu Pro Tyr Gln   Ser Ala Glu Lys Thr   Asp Ser Leu Ser Ala    Pro
              65                    70                    75                     80
              Thr Leu Val Lys Arg   Glu Phe Pro Pro Gly   Phe Trp Lys Asp His    Val
                               85                   90                    95
              Ile Asp Ser Leu Thr   Ser Ser His Lys Val   Ser Ala Ala Glu Glu    Lys
                           100                  105                   110
              Arg Met Glu Thr Leu   Ile Ser Glu Ile Lys   Asn Ile Phe Arg Ser    Met
                       115                  120                   125
              Gly Tyr Gly Glu Thr   Asn Pro Ser Ala Tyr   Asp Thr Ala Trp Val    Ala
                  130                   135                   140
                                                    Page 25

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Arg Ile Pro Ala Val   Asp Gly Ser Glu His Pro Glu    Phe Pro Glu Thr
              145                   150                  155                   160
              Leu Glu Trp Ile Leu   Gln Asn Gln Leu Lys Asp Gly    Ser Trp Gly Glu
                              165                    170                   175
              Gly Phe Tyr Phe Leu   Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Leu Ala    Thr Leu Ala Cys
                          180                   185                    190
              Ile Ile Thr Leu Thr   Leu Trp Arg Thr Gly Glu Thr    Gln Ile Arg Lys
                      195                   200                    205
              Gly Ile Glu Phe Phe   Lys Thr Gln Ala Gly Lys Ile    Glu Asp Glu Ala
<removed-apn>
                  210                   215                  220
              Asp Ser His Arg Pro   Ser Gly Phe Glu Ile Val Phe    Pro Ala Met Leu
              225                   230                  235                   240
              Lys Glu Ala Lys Val   Leu Gly Leu Asp Leu Pro Tyr    Glu Leu Pro Phe
                              245                    250                   255
              Ile Lys Gln Ile Ile   Glu Lys Arg Glu Ala Lys Leu    Glu Arg Leu Pro
                          260                   265                    270
              Thr Asn Ile Leu Tyr   Ala Leu Pro Thr Thr Leu Leu    Tyr Ser Leu Glu
                      275                   280                    285
              Gly Leu Gln Glu Ile   Val Asp Trp Glu Lys Ile Ile    Lys Leu Gln Ser
                  290                   295                  300
              Lys Asp Gly Ser Phe   Leu Thr Ser Pro Ala Ser Thr    Ala Ala Val Phe
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Met Arg Thr Gly Asn   Lys Lys Cys Leu Glu Phe Leu    Asn Phe Val Leu
                              325                    330                   335
              Lys Lys Phe Gly Asn   His Val Pro Cys His Tyr Pro    Leu Asp Leu Phe
                          340                   345                    350
              Glu Arg Leu Trp Ala   Val Asp Thr Val Glu Arg Leu    Gly Ile Asp His
                      355                   360                    365
              His Phe Lys Glu Glu   Ile Lys Asp Ala Leu Asp Tyr    Val Tyr Ser His
                  370                   375                  380
              Trp Asp Glu Arg Gly   Ile Gly Trp Ala Arg Glu Asn    Pro Ile Pro Asp
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Ile Asp Asp Thr Ala   Met Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu Arg    Leu His Gly Tyr
                              405                    410                   415
              Asn Val Ser Ser Asp   Val Leu Lys Thr Phe Arg Asp    Glu Asn Gly Glu
                          420                   425                    430
              Phe Phe Cys Phe Leu   Gly Gln Thr Gln Arg Gly Val    Thr Asp Met Leu
                      435                   440                    445
              Asn Val Asn Arg Cys   Ser His Val Ala Phe Pro Gly    Glu Thr Ile Met
                  450                   455                  460
              Gln Glu Ala Lys Leu   Cys Thr Glu Arg Tyr Leu Arg    Asn Ala Leu Glu
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Asp Val Gly Ala Phe   Asp Lys Trp Ala Leu Lys Lys    Asn Ile Arg Gly
                              485                    490                   495
              Glu Val Glu Tyr Ala   Leu Lys Tyr Pro Trp His Arg    Ser Met Pro Arg
                          500                   505                    510
              Leu Glu Ala Arg Ser   Tyr Ile Glu His Tyr Gly Pro    Asn Asp Val Trp
                      515                   520                    525
              Leu Gly Lys Thr Met   Tyr Met Met Pro Tyr Ile Ser    Asn Leu Lys Tyr
                  530                   535                  540
              Leu Glu Leu Ala Lys   Leu Asp Phe Asn His Val Gln    Ser Leu His Gln
              545                   550                  555                   560
                                                    Page 26

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Lys Glu Leu Arg Asp   Leu Arg Arg Trp Trp Lys Ser    Ser Gly Leu   Ser
                              565                    570                   575
              Glu Leu Lys Phe Thr   Arg Glu Arg Val Thr Glu Ile    Tyr Phe Ser   Ala
                          580                   585                    590
              Ala Ser Phe Ile Phe   Glu Pro Glu Phe Ala Thr Cys    Arg Asp Val   Tyr
                      595                   600                    605
              Thr Lys Ile Ser Ile   Phe Thr Val Ile Leu Asp Asp    Leu Tyr Asp   Ala
                  610                   615                  620
              His Gly Thr Leu Asp   Asn Leu Glu Leu Phe Ser Glu    Gly Val Lys Arg
<removed-apn>
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Trp Asp Leu Ser Leu   Val Asp Arg Met Pro Gln Asp    Met Lys Ile Cys
                              645                    650                   655
              Phe Thr Val Leu Tyr   Asn Thr Val Asn Glu Ile Ala    Val Glu Gly Arg
                          660                   665                    670
              Lys Arg Gln Gly Arg   Asp Val Leu Gly Tyr Ile Arg    Asn Val Leu Glu
                      675                   680                    685
              Ile Leu Leu Ala Ala   His Thr Lys Glu Ala Glu Trp    Ser Ala Ala Arg
                  690                   695                  700
              Tyr Val Pro Ser Phe   Asp Glu Tyr Ile Glu Asn Ala    Ser Val Ser Ile
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Ser Leu Gly Thr Leu   Val Leu Ile Ser Val Leu Phe    Thr Gly Glu Ile
                              725                    730                   735
              Leu Thr Asp Asp Val   Leu Ser Lys Ile Gly Arg Gly    Ser Arg Phe Leu
                          740                   745                    750
              Gln Leu Met Gly Leu   Thr Gly Arg Leu Val Asn Asp    Thr Lys Thr Tyr
                      755                   760                    765
              Glu Ala Glu Arg Gly   Gln Gly Glu Val Ala Ser Ala    Val Gln Cys Tyr
                  770                   775                  780
              Met Lys Glu His Pro   Glu Ile Ser Glu Glu Glu Ala    Leu Lys His Val
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Tyr Thr Val Met Glu   Asn Ala Leu Asp Glu Leu Asn    Arg Glu Phe Val
                              805                    810                   815
              Asn Asn Arg Asp Val   Pro Asp Ser Cys Arg Arg Leu    Val Phe Glu Thr
                          820                   825                    830
              Ala Arg Ile Met Gln   Leu Phe Tyr Met Glu Gly Asp    Gly Leu Thr Leu
                      835                   840                    845
              Ser His Glu Met Glu   Ile Lys Glu His Val Lys Asn    Cys Leu Phe Gln
                  850                   855                  860
              Pro Val Ala
              865
              <210>   36
              <211>   874
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Picea sitchensis
              <220>
              <223> Isopimaradiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank ADZ45512
                                                    Page 27

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <309> 2011<U+2701>03<U+2701>16
              <400> 36
              Met Ala Leu Pro Ser    Ser Ser Leu Ser Ser   Arg Ile Pro Thr Gly   Pro
               1                5                    10                    15
              His Pro Leu Thr His    Thr Gln Cys Ile Pro   His Phe Ser Thr Thr   Ile
                           20                    25                    30
              Asn Ala Gly Ile Ser    Ala Ala Lys Pro Arg   Ser Phe Tyr Leu Arg   Trp
                       35                    40                    45
<removed-apn>
              Gly Lys Asp Ser Gln    Pro Lys Asn Leu Gly   Ser Asn Lys Ile Ile   Ala
                  50                     55                    60
              Cys Val Gly Glu Gly    Thr Thr Ser Leu Pro   Tyr Gln Ser Ala Glu   Lys
              65                     70                    75                    80
              Thr Asp Ser Leu Ser    Ala Pro Thr Leu Val   Lys Arg Glu Phe Pro   Pro
                               85                    90                    95
              Gly Phe Trp Lys Asp    His Val Ile Asp Ser   Leu Thr Ser Ser His   Lys
                           100                   105                   110
              Val Ser Ala Ala Glu    Glu Lys Arg Ile Glu   Thr Leu Ile Ser Asp   Ile
                       115                   120                   125
              Lys Asn Ile Phe Arg    Ser Met Gly Tyr Gly   Glu Thr Asn Pro Ser   Ala
                  130                    135                   140
              Tyr Asp Thr Ala Trp    Val Ala Arg Ile Pro   Ala Val Asp Gly Ser   Glu
              145                    150                   155                   160
              Gln Pro Glu Phe Pro    Glu Thr Leu Glu Trp   Ile Leu Gln Asn Gln   Leu
                               165                   170                   175
              Lys Asp Gly Ser Trp    Gly Glu Gly Phe Tyr   Phe Leu Ala Tyr Asp   Arg
                           180                   185                   190
              Ile Leu Ala Thr Leu    Ala Cys Met Ile Thr   Leu Thr Leu Trp Arg   Thr
                      195                    200                   205
              Gly Glu Thr Gln Ile    Arg Lys Gly Ile Glu   Phe Phe Lys Thr Gln   Ala
                  210                    215                   220
              Gly Lys Ile Glu Asp    Glu Ala Asp Ser His   Arg Pro Ser Gly Phe   Glu
              225                    230                   235                   240
              Ile Val Phe Pro Ala    Met Leu Lys Glu Ala   Lys Val Leu Gly Leu   Asp
                               245                   250                   255
              Leu Pro Tyr Glu Leu    Ser Phe Ile Lys Gln   Ile Ile Glu Lys Arg   Glu
                           260                   265                   270
              Ala Lys Leu Glu Arg    Leu Pro Thr Asn Ile   Leu Tyr Ala Leu Pro   Thr
                      275                    280                   285
              Thr Leu Leu Tyr Ser    Leu Glu Gly Leu Gln   Glu Ile Val Asp Trp   Gln
                  290                    295                   300
              Lys Ile Ile Lys Leu    Gln Ser Lys Asp Gly   Ser Phe Leu Thr Ser   Pro
              305                    310                   315                   320
              Ala Ser Thr Ala Ala    Val Phe Met Arg Thr   Gly Asn Lys Lys Cys   Leu
                               325                   330                   335
              Glu Phe Leu Asn Phe    Val Leu Lys Lys Phe   Gly Asn His Val Pro   Cys
                           340                   345                   350
              His Tyr Pro Leu Asp    Leu Phe Glu Arg Leu   Trp Ala Val Asp Thr   Val
                      355                    360                   365
              Glu Arg Leu Gly Ile    Asp Arg His Phe Lys   Glu Glu Ile Lys Asp   Ala
                  370                    375                   380
              Leu Asp Tyr Val Tyr    Ser His Trp Asp Glu   Arg Gly Ile Gly Trp   Ala
                                                     Page 28

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              385                   390                  395                     400
              Arg Glu Asn Pro Val   Pro Asp Ile Asp Asp Thr Ala    Met Gly Leu   Arg
                              405                    410                   415
              Ile Leu Arg Leu His   Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser Ser Asp    Val Leu Lys   Thr
                          420                   425                    430
              Phe Arg Asp Glu Asn   Gly Glu Phe Phe Cys Phe Leu    Gly Gln Thr   Gln
                      435                   440                    445
              Arg Gly Val Thr Asp   Met Leu Asn Val Asn Arg Cys    Ser His Val   Ala
                  450                   455                  460
<removed-apn>
              Phe Pro Gly Glu Thr   Ile Met Gln Glu Ala Lys Leu    Cys Thr Glu Arg
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Tyr Leu Arg Asn Ala   Leu Glu Asp Val Gly Ala Phe    Asp Lys Trp Ala
                              485                    490                   495
              Leu Lys Lys Asn Ile   Arg Gly Glu Val Glu Tyr Ala    Leu Lys Tyr Pro
                          500                   505                    510
              Trp His Arg Ser Met   Pro Arg Leu Glu Ala Arg Ser    Tyr Ile Glu His
                      515                   520                    525
              Tyr Gly Pro Asn Asp   Val Trp Leu Gly Lys Thr Met    Tyr Met Met Pro
                  530                   535                  540
              Tyr Ile Ser Asn Glu   Lys Tyr Leu Glu Leu Ala Lys    Leu Asp Phe Asn
              545                   550                  555                   560
              His Val Gln Ser Leu   His Gln Lys Glu Leu Arg Asp    Leu Arg Arg Trp
                              565                    570                   575
              Trp Lys Ser Ser Gly   Phe Ser Asp Leu Lys Phe Thr    Arg Glu Arg Val
                          580                   585                    590
              Thr Glu Ile Tyr Phe   Ser Ala Ala Ser Phe Ile Phe    Glu Pro Glu Phe
                      595                   600                    605
              Ala Thr Cys Arg Tyr   Val Tyr Thr Lys Met Ser Ile    Phe Thr Val Ile
                  610                   615                  620
              Leu Asp Asp Leu Tyr   Asp Ala His Gly Thr Leu Asp    Asn Leu Asn Leu
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Phe Ser Glu Gly Val   Lys Arg Trp Asp Leu Ser Leu    Val Asp Arg Met
                              645                    650                   655
              Pro Gln Asp Met Lys   Ile Cys Phe Thr Val Leu Tyr    Asn Thr Val Asn
                          660                   665                    670
              Glu Ile Ala Val Glu   Gly Arg Lys Arg Gln Gly Arg    Asp Val Leu Gly
                      675                   680                    685
              Tyr Ile Arg Asn Val   Leu Glu Ile Leu Leu Ala Ala    His Thr Lys Glu
                  690                   695                  700
              Ala Glu Trp Ser Ala   Thr Arg Tyr Val Pro Ser Phe    Asp Glu Tyr Ile
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Glu Asn Ala Ser Val   Ser Ile Ser Leu Gly Thr Val    Val Leu Ile Ser
                              725                    730                   735
              Ala Leu Phe Thr Gly   Glu Ile Leu Thr Asp Asp Val    Leu Ser Lys Ile
                          740                   745                    750
              Gly Arg Gly Ser Arg   Phe Leu Gln Leu Met Asp Leu    Thr Gly Arg Leu
                      755                   760                    765
              Val Asn Asp Thr Lys   Thr Tyr Gln Ala Glu Arg Gly    Gln Gly Glu Val
                  770                   775                  780
              Ala Ser Ala Val Gln   Cys Tyr Met Lys Asp His Pro    Glu Ile Ser Glu
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Glu Glu Ala Leu Lys   His Val Tyr Thr Val Met Glu    Asn Ala Leu Asp
                                                    Page 29

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                                805                    810                 815
              Glu   Leu Asn Arg Glu Phe Val Asn   Asn Arg Glu Val Pro Asp Ser Cys
                            820                   825                  830
              Arg   Arg Leu Val Phe Glu Thr Ala   Arg Ile Met Gln Trp Phe Tyr Met
                        835                 840                    845
              Glu   Gly Asp Gly Phe Thr Val Ser   His Glu Met Glu Ile Lys Glu His
                    850                 855                    860
              Val   Lys Asn Cys Leu Phe Gln Pro   Val Ala
              865                   870
<removed-apn>
              <210>   37
              <211>   859
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Picea abies
              <220>
              <223> levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank AAS47691
              <309> 2009<U+2701>04<U+2701>08
              <400> 37
              Met Ala Leu Leu Ser    Ser Ser Leu Ser Ser   Gln Ile Pro Thr Gly   Ala
               1                5                    10                    15
              His His Leu Thr Leu    Asn Ala Tyr Ala Asn   Thr Gln Cys Ile Pro   His
                           20                    25                    30
              Phe Phe Ser Thr Leu    Asn Ala Gly Thr Ser   Ala Gly Lys Arg Ser   Ser
                       35                    40                    45
              Leu Tyr Leu Arg Trp    Gly Lys Gly Ser Asn   Lys Ile Ile Ala Cys   Val
                  50                     55                    60
              Gly Glu Asp Ser Leu    Ser Ala Pro Thr Leu   Val Lys Arg Glu Phe   Pro
              65                     70                    75                    80
              Pro Gly Phe Trp Lys    Asp His Val Ile Asp   Ser Leu Thr Ser Ser   His
                               85                    90                    95
              Lys Val Ala Ala Ser    Asp Glu Lys Arg Ile   Glu Thr Leu Ile Ser   Glu
                           100                   105                   110
              Ile Lys Asn Met Phe    Arg Ser Met Gly Tyr   Gly Asp Thr Asn Pro   Ser
                       115                   120                   125
              Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala    Trp Val Ala Arg Ile   Pro Ala Val Asp Gly   Ser
                  130                    135                   140
              Glu Gln Pro Glu Phe    Pro Glu Thr Leu Glu   Trp Ile Leu Gln Asn   Gln
              145                    150                   155                   160
              Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser    Trp Gly Glu Gly Phe   Tyr Phe Leu Ala Tyr   Asp
                               165                   170                   175
              Arg Ile Leu Ala Thr    Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile   Thr Leu Thr Leu Trp   Arg
                           180                   185                   190
              Thr Gly Glu Ile Gln    Val Gln Lys Gly Ile   Glu Phe Phe Lys Thr   Gln
                       195                   200                   205
              Ala Gly Lys Ile Glu    Asp Glu Ala Asp Ser   His Arg Pro Ser Gly   Phe
                  210                    215                   220
                                                      Page 30

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Glu Ile Val Phe Pro   Ala Met Leu Lys Glu Ala Lys    Val Leu Gly Leu
              225                   230                  235                   240
              Asp Leu Pro Tyr Glu   Leu Pro Phe Ile Lys Gln Ile    Ile Glu Lys Arg
                              245                    250                   255
              Glu Ala Lys Leu Glu   Arg Leu Pro Thr Asn Ile Leu    Tyr Ala Leu Pro
                          260                   265                    270
              Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr   Ser Leu Glu Gly Leu Gln Glu    Ile Val Asp Trp
                      275                   280                    285
              Gln Lys Ile Ile Lys   Leu Gln Ser Lys Asp Gly Ser    Phe Leu Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                  290                   295                  300
              Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala   Ala Val Phe Met Arg Thr Gly    Asn Lys Lys Cys
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Leu Glu Phe Leu Asn   Phe Val Leu Lys Lys Phe Gly    Asn His Val Pro
                              325                    330                   335
              Cys His Tyr Pro Leu   Asp Leu Phe Glu Arg Leu Trp    Ala Val Asp Thr
                          340                   345                    350
              Ile Glu Arg Leu Gly   Ile Asp Arg His Phe Lys Glu    Glu Ile Lys Asp
                      355                   360                    365
              Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val   Tyr Ser His Trp Asp Glu Arg    Gly Ile Gly Trp
                  370                   375                  380
              Ala Arg Glu Asn Pro   Val Pro Asp Ile Asp Asp Thr    Ala Met Gly Leu
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Arg Ile Leu Arg Leu   His Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser Ser    Asp Val Leu Lys
                              405                    410                   415
              Thr Phe Arg Asp Glu   Asn Gly Glu Phe Phe Cys Phe    Leu Gly Gln Thr
                          420                   425                    430
              Gln Arg Gly Val Thr   Asp Met Leu Asn Val Asn Arg    Cys Ser His Val
                      435                   440                    445
              Ala Phe Pro Gly Glu   Thr Ile Met Glu Glu Ala Lys    Thr Cys Thr Glu
                  450                   455                  460
              Arg Tyr Leu Arg Asn   Ala Leu Glu Asp Val Gly Ala    Phe Asp Lys Trp
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Ala Leu Lys Lys Asn   Ile Arg Gly Glu Val Glu Tyr    Ala Leu Lys Tyr
                              485                    490                   495
              Pro Trp His Arg Ser   Met Pro Arg Leu Glu Ala Arg    Ser Tyr Ile Glu
                          500                   505                    510
              His Tyr Gly Pro Asn   Asp Val Trp Leu Gly Lys Thr    Met Tyr Met Met
                      515                   520                    525
              Pro Tyr Ile Ser Asn   Glu Lys Tyr Leu Glu Leu Ala    Lys Leu Asp Phe
                  530                   535                  540
              Asn His Val Gln Ser   Leu His Gln Lys Glu Leu Arg    Asp Leu Arg Arg
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Trp Trp Thr Ser Ser   Gly Phe Thr Glu Leu Lys Phe    Thr Arg Glu Arg
                              565                    570                   575
              Val Thr Glu Ile Tyr   Phe Ser Pro Ala Ser Phe Met    Phe Glu Pro Glu
                          580                   585                    590
              Phe Ala Thr Cys Arg   Ala Val Tyr Thr Lys Thr Ser    Asn Phe Thr Val
                      595                   600                    605
              Ile Leu Asp Asp Leu   Tyr Asp Ala His Gly Thr Leu    Asp Asp Leu Lys
                  610                   615                  620
              Leu Phe Ser Asp Ser   Val Lys Lys Trp Asp Leu Ser    Leu Val Asp Arg
              625                   630                  635                   640
                                                    Page 31

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Met Pro Gln Asp Met   Lys Ile Cys Phe Met Gly Phe    Tyr Asn Thr   Phe
                              645                    650                   655
              Asn Glu Ile Ala Glu   Glu Gly Arg Lys Arg Gln Gly    Arg Asp Val   Leu
                          660                   665                    670
              Gly Tyr Ile Arg Asn   Val Trp Glu Ile Gln Leu Glu    Ala Tyr Thr   Lys
                      675                   680                    685
              Glu Ala Glu Trp Ser   Ala Ala Arg Tyr Val Pro Ser    Phe Asp Glu   Tyr
                  690                   695                  700
              Ile Asp Asn Ala Ser   Val Ser Ile Ala Leu Gly Thr    Val Val Leu Ile
<removed-apn>
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Ser Ala Leu Phe Thr   Gly Glu Ile Leu Thr Asp Asp    Val Leu Ser Lys
                              725                    730                   735
              Ile Gly Arg Gly Ser   Arg Phe Leu Gln Leu Met Gly    Leu Thr Gly Arg
                          740                   745                    750
              Leu Val Asn Asp Thr   Lys Thr Tyr Glu Ala Glu Arg    Gly Gln Gly Glu
                      755                   760                    765
              Val Ala Ser Ala Val   Gln Cys Tyr Met Lys Asp His    Pro Glu Ile Ser
                  770                   775                  780
              Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu   Lys His Val Tyr Thr Val Met    Glu Asn Ala Leu
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Asp Glu Leu Asn Arg   Glu Phe Val Asn Asn Arg Glu    Val Pro Asp Ser
                              805                    810                   815
              Cys Arg Arg Leu Val   Phe Glu Thr Ala Arg Ile Met    Gln Leu Phe Tyr
                          820                   825                    830
              Met Asp Gly Asp Gly   Leu Thr Leu Ser His Glu Thr    Glu Ile Lys Glu
                      835                   840                    845
              His Val Lys Asn Cys   Leu Phe Gln Pro Val Ala
                  850                   855
              <210>   38
              <211>   859
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Picea sitchensis
              <220>
              <223> levopimaradiene/abietadiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank ADZ45517
              <309> 2011<U+2701>03<U+2701>16
              <400> 38
              Met Ala Leu Leu Ser   Ser Ser Leu Ser Ser   His Ile Pro Thr Gly    Ala
               1               5                    10                    15
              His His Leu Thr Leu   Asn Ala Tyr Ala Asn   Thr Gln Cys Ile Pro    His
                          20                    25                    30
              Phe Phe Ser Thr Leu   Asn Ala Gly Thr Ser   Ala Gly Lys Arg Ser    Ser
                       35                   40                    45
              Leu Tyr Leu Arg Trp   Gly Lys Gly Ser Asn   Lys Ile Ile Ala Cys    Val
                  50                    55                    60
              Gly Glu Asp Ser Val   Ser Ala Pro Thr Leu   Leu Lys Arg Glu Phe    Pro
                                                    Page 32

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              65                    70                   75                      80
              Pro Gly Phe Trp Lys   Asp His Val Ile Asp Ser Leu    Thr Ser Ser   His
                              85                     90                    95
              Lys Val Ala Ala Ser   Asp Glu Lys Arg Ile Glu Thr    Leu Ile Ser   Glu
                          100                   105                    110
              Ile Lys Asn Met Phe   Arg Ser Met Gly Tyr Gly Glu    Thr Asn Pro   Ser
                      115                   120                    125
              Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp Val Ala Arg Ile Pro Ala    Val Asp Gly   Ser
                  130                   135                  140
<removed-apn>
              Glu Gln Pro Glu Phe   Pro Glu Thr Leu Glu Trp Ile    Leu Gln Asn Gln
              145                   150                  155                   160
              Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser   Trp Gly Glu Gly Phe Tyr Phe    Leu Ala Tyr Asp
                              165                    170                   175
              Arg Ile Leu Ala Thr   Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile Thr Leu    Thr Leu Trp Arg
                          180                   185                    190
              Thr Gly Glu Ile Gln   Val Gln Lys Gly Ile Glu Phe    Phe Lys Thr Gln
                      195                   200                    205
              Ala Val Lys Ile Glu   Asp Glu Ala Asp Ser His Arg    Pro Ser Gly Phe
                  210                   215                  220
              Glu Ile Val Phe Pro   Ala Met Leu Lys Glu Ala Lys    Val Leu Gly Leu
              225                   230                  235                   240
              Asp Leu Pro Tyr Glu   Leu Pro Phe Ile Lys Lys Ile    Ile Glu Lys Arg
                              245                    250                   255
              Glu Ala Lys Leu Glu   Arg Leu Pro Thr Asn Ile Leu    Tyr Ala Leu Pro
                          260                   265                    270
              Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr   Ser Leu Glu Gly Leu Gln Glu    Ile Val Asp Trp
                      275                   280                    285
              Gln Lys Ile Ile Lys   Leu Gln Ser Lys Asp Gly Ser    Phe Leu Thr Ser
                  290                   295                  300
              Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala   Ala Val Phe Met Arg Thr Gly    Asn Lys Lys Cys
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Leu Glu Phe Leu Asn   Phe Val Leu Lys Lys Phe Gly    Asn His Val Pro
                              325                    330                   335
              Cys His Tyr Pro Leu   Asp Leu Phe Glu Arg Leu Trp    Ala Val Asp Thr
                          340                   345                    350
              Val Glu Arg Leu Gly   Ile Asp Arg His Phe Lys Glu    Glu Ile Lys Asp
                      355                   360                    365
              Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val   Tyr Ser His Trp Asp Glu Arg    Gly Ile Gly Trp
                  370                   375                  380
              Ala Arg Glu Asn Leu   Val Pro Asp Ile Asp Asp Thr    Ala Met Gly Leu
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Arg Ile Leu Arg Leu   His Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser Ser    Asp Val Leu Lys
                              405                    410                   415
              Thr Phe Arg Asp Glu   Asn Gly Glu Phe Phe Cys Phe    Leu Gly Gln Thr
                          420                   425                    430
              Gln Arg Gly Val Thr   Asp Met Leu Asn Val Asn Arg    Cys Ser His Val
                      435                   440                    445
              Ala Phe Pro Gly Glu   Thr Ile Met Glu Glu Ala Lys    Thr Cys Thr Glu
                  450                   455                  460
              Arg Tyr Leu Arg Asn   Ala Leu Glu Asp Val Gly Ala    Phe Asp Lys Trp
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Ala Leu Lys Lys Asn   Ile Arg Gly Glu Val Glu Tyr    Ala Leu Lys Tyr
                                                    Page 33

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                                485                    490                 495
              Pro   Trp His Arg Ser Met Pro Arg   Leu Glu Ala Arg Ser Tyr Ile    Glu
                            500                   505                  510
              His   Tyr Gly Pro Asn Asp Val Trp   Leu Gly Lys Thr Met Tyr Met    Met
                        515                 520                    525
              Pro   Tyr Ile Ser Asn Glu Lys Tyr   Leu Glu Leu Ala Lys Leu Asp    Phe
                    530                 535                    540
              Asn   His Val Gln Ser Leu His Gln   Lys Glu Leu Arg Asp Leu Arg    Arg
              545                   550                    555                   560
<removed-apn>
              Trp   Trp Thr Ser Ser Gly Phe Thr   Glu Leu Lys Phe Thr Arg Glu    Arg
                                565                    570                 575
              Val   Thr Glu Ile Tyr Phe Ser Pro   Ala Ser Phe Met Phe Glu Pro    Glu
                            580                   585                  590
              Phe   Ala Thr Cys Arg Ala Val Tyr   Thr Lys Thr Ser Asn Phe Thr    Val
                        595                 600                    605
              Ile   Leu Asp Asp Leu Tyr Asp Ala   His Gly Thr Leu Asp Asp Leu    Lys
                    610                 615                    620
              Leu   Phe Ser Asp Ser Val Lys Lys   Trp Asp Leu Ser Leu Val Asp    Arg
              625                   630                    635                   640
              Met   Pro Glu Asp Met Lys Ile Cys   Phe Met Gly Phe Tyr Asn Thr    Phe
                                645                    650                 655
              Asn   Glu Ile Ala Glu Glu Gly Arg   Lys Arg Gln Gly Arg Asp Val    Leu
                            660                   665                  670
              Gly   Tyr Ile Arg Asn Val Trp Glu   Ile Gln Leu Glu Ala Tyr Thr    Lys
                        675                 680                    685
              Glu   Ala Glu Trp Ser Ala Ala Arg   Tyr Val Pro Ser Phe Asp Glu    Tyr
                    690                 695                    700
              Ile   Glu Asn Ala Ser Val Ser Ile   Ala Leu Gly Thr Val Val Leu    Ile
              705                   710                    715                   720
              Ser   Ala Leu Phe Thr Gly Glu Ile   Leu Thr Asp Asp Val Leu Ser    Lys
                                725                    730                 735
              Ile   Gly Arg Gly Ser Arg Phe Leu   Gln Leu Met Gly Leu Thr Gly    Arg
                            740                   745                  750
              Leu   Val Asn Asp Thr Lys Thr Tyr   Glu Ala Glu Arg Gly Gln Gly    Glu
                        755                 760                    765
              Val   Ala Ser Ala Val Gln Cys Tyr   Met Lys Asp His Pro Glu Ile    Ser
                    770                 775                    780
              Glu   Glu Glu Ala Leu Lys His Val   Tyr Thr Val Met Glu Asn Ala    Leu
              785                   790                    795                   800
              Asp   Glu Leu Asn Arg Glu Phe Val   Asn Asn Arg Glu Val Pro Asp    Ser
                                805                    810                 815
              Cys   Arg Arg Leu Val Phe Glu Thr   Ala Arg Ile Met Gln Leu Phe    Tyr
                            820                   825                  830
              Met   Asp Gly Asp Gly Leu Thr Leu   Ser His Glu Thr Glu Ile Lys    Glu
                        835                 840                    845
              His   Val Lys Asn Cys Leu Phe His   Pro Val Ala
                    850                 855
              <210> 39
              <211> 850
              <212> PRT
                                                      Page 34

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <213> Pinus taeda
              <220>
              <223> diterpene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank AAX07435
              <309> 2005<U+2701>06<U+2701>02
<removed-apn>
              <400> 39
              Met Ala Leu Pro Ser    Ser Ser Leu Ser Ser   Gln Ile His Thr Gly   Ala
               1                5                    10                    15
              Thr Thr Gln Cys Ile    Pro His Phe His Gly   Ser Leu Asn Ala Gly   Thr
                           20                    25                    30
              Ser Ala Gly Lys Arg    Arg Ser Leu Tyr Leu   Arg Trp Gly Lys Gly   Pro
                       35                    40                    45
              Ser Lys Ile Val Ala    Cys Ala Gly Gln Asp   Pro Phe Ser Val Pro   Thr
                  50                     55                    60
              Leu Val Lys Arg Glu    Phe Pro Pro Gly Phe   Trp Lys Asp His Val   Ile
              65                     70                    75                    80
              Glu Ser Leu Met Pro    Ser Tyr Lys Val Ala   Pro Ser Asp Glu Lys   Arg
                               85                    90                    95
              Ile Glu Thr Leu Ile    Thr Glu Ile Lys Asn   Met Phe Arg Ser Met   Gly
                           100                   105                   110
              Tyr Gly Glu Thr Asn    Pro Ser Ala Tyr Asp   Thr Ala Trp Val Ala   Arg
                       115                   120                   125
              Ile Pro Ala Val Asp    Gly Ser Glu Lys Pro   Gln Phe Pro Glu Thr   Leu
                  130                    135                   140
              Glu Trp Ile Leu Gln    Asn Gln Leu Lys Asp   Gly Ser Trp Gly Glu   Glu
              145                    150                   155                   160
              Phe Tyr Phe Leu Ala    Tyr Asp Arg Ile Leu   Ala Thr Leu Ala Cys   Ile
                               165                   170                   175
              Ile Thr Leu Thr Ile    Trp Gln Thr Gly Asp   Thr Gln Val Gln Lys   Gly
                           180                   185                   190
              Ile Glu Phe Phe Lys    Thr Gln Ala Gly Lys   Ile Glu Glu Glu Ala   Asp
                       195                   200                   205
              Ser His Arg Pro Ser    Gly Phe Glu Ile Val   Phe Pro Ala Met Leu   Lys
                  210                    215                   220
              Glu Ala Lys Ala Leu    Gly Leu Ala Leu Pro   Tyr Glu Leu Pro Phe   Ile
              225                    230                   235                   240
              Gln Gln Ile Ile Glu    Lys Arg Glu Ala Lys   Leu Gln Arg Leu Pro   Pro
                               245                   250                   255
              Asp Leu Leu Tyr Ala    Leu Pro Thr Thr Leu   Leu Tyr Ser Leu Glu   Gly
                           260                   265                   270
              Leu Gln Glu Ile Val    Asp Trp Glu Lys Ile   Met Lys Leu Gln Ser   Lys
                       275                   280                   285
              Asp Gly Ser Phe Leu    Ser Ser Pro Ala Ser   Thr Ala Ala Val Phe   Met
                  290                    295                   300
              Arg Thr Gly Asn Lys    Lys Cys Leu Glu Phe   Leu Asn Phe Val Leu   Lys
              305                    310                   315                   320
              Lys Phe Gly Asn His    Val Pro Cys His Tyr   Pro Leu Asp Leu Phe   Glu
                               325                   330                   335
                                                     Page 35

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Arg Leu Trp Ala   Val Asp Thr Val Glu    Arg Leu Gly Ile Asp   His His
                          340                   345                    350
              Phe Lys Glu Glu   Ile Lys Asp Ala Leu    Asp Tyr Val Tyr Ser   His Trp
                      355                   360                    365
              Asp Glu Arg Gly   Ile Gly Trp Ala Arg    Glu Asn Pro Val Pro   Asp Ile
                  370                   375                    380
              Asp Asp Thr Ala   Met Gly Leu Arg Ile    Leu Arg Leu His Gly   Tyr Asn
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Val Ser Ser Asp   Val Leu Lys Thr Phe    Arg Asp Glu Asn Gly   Glu Phe
<removed-apn>
                                405                    410                   415
              Phe Cys Phe Leu   Gly Gln Thr Gln Arg    Gly Val Thr Asp Met   Leu Asn
                          420                   425                    430
              Val Asn Arg Cys   Ser His Val Ala Phe    Pro Gly Glu Thr Ile   Met Glu
                      435                   440                    445
              Glu Ala Lys Leu   Cys Thr Glu Arg Tyr    Leu Arg Asn Ala Leu   Glu Asp
                  450                   455                    460
              Gly Gly Ala Ser   Asp Lys Trp Ala Leu    Lys Lys Asn Ile Arg   Gly Glu
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Val Glu Tyr Ala   Leu Lys Tyr Pro Trp    His Arg Ser Met Pro   Arg Leu
                                485                    490                   495
              Glu Ala Arg Ser   Tyr Ile Glu Asn Tyr    Gly Pro Asn Asp Val   Trp Leu
                          500                   505                    510
              Gly Lys Thr Met   Tyr Met Met Pro Asn    Ile Ser Asn Glu Lys   Tyr Leu
                      515                   520                    525
              Glu Leu Ala Lys   Leu Asp Phe Asn Arg    Val Gln Phe Phe His   Arg Gln
                  530                   535                    540
              Glu Leu Gln Asp   Ile Arg Arg Trp Trp    Asn Ser Ser Gly Phe   Ser Gln
              545                   550                    555                   560
              Leu Gly Phe Thr   Arg Glu Arg Val Ala    Glu Ile Tyr Phe Ser   Pro Ala
                                565                    570                   575
              Ser Phe Leu Phe   Glu Pro Glu Phe Ala    Thr Cys Arg Ala Val   Tyr Thr
                          580                   585                    590
              Lys Thr Ser Asn   Phe Thr Val Ile Leu    Asp Asp Leu Tyr Asp   Ala His
                      595                   600                    605
              Gly Thr Leu Asp   Asn Leu Lys Leu Phe    Ser Glu Ser Val Lys   Arg Trp
                  610                   615                    620
              Asp Leu Ser Leu   Val Asp Gln Met Pro    Gln Asp Met Lys Ile   Cys Phe
              625                   630                    635                   640
              Lys Gly Phe Tyr   Asn Thr Phe Asn Glu    Ile Ala Glu Glu Gly   Arg Lys
                                645                    650                   655
              Arg Gln Gly Arg   Asp Val Leu Ser Tyr    Ile Gln Lys Val Trp   Glu Val
                          660                   665                    670
              Gln Leu Glu Ala   Tyr Thr Lys Glu Ala    Glu Trp Ser Ala Val   Arg Tyr
                      675                   680                    685
              Val Pro Ser Tyr   Asp Glu Tyr Ile Gly    Asn Ala Ser Val Ser   Ile Ala
                  690                   695                    700
              Leu Gly Thr Val   Val Leu Ile Ser Ala    Leu Phe Thr Gly Glu   Ile Leu
              705                   710                    715                   720
              Thr Asp Asp Ile   Leu Ser Lys Ile Gly    Arg Asp Ser Arg Phe   Leu Tyr
                                725                    730                   735
              Leu Met Gly Leu   Thr Gly Arg Leu Val    Asn Asp Thr Lys Thr   Tyr Gln
                          740                   745                    750
                                                       Page 36

                                                     234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Ala Glu Arg Gly Gln Gly Glu Val    Ala Ser Ala Val Gln    Cys Tyr Met
                      755                 760                     765
              Lys Asp His Pro Glu Ile Ser Glu    Glu Glu Ala Leu Lys    His Val Tyr
                  770                 775                     780
              Thr Ile Met Asp Asn Ala Leu Asp    Glu Leu Asn Arg Glu    Phe Val Asn
              785                 790                     795                   800
              Asn Arg Asp Val Pro Asp Thr Cys    Arg Arg Leu Val Phe    Glu Thr Ala
                              805                     810                   815
              Arg Ile Met Gln Leu Phe Tyr Met    Asp Gly Asp Gly Leu    Thr Leu Ser
<removed-apn>
                          820                    825                    830
              His Asn Met Glu Ile Lys Glu His    Val Lys Asn Cys Leu    Phe Gln Pro
                      835                 840                     845
              Val Ala
                  850
              <210>   40
              <211>   853
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies grandis
              <220>
              <223> abietadiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank AAK83563
              <309> 2001<U+2701>08<U+2701>03
              <400> 40
              Ala His His Leu Thr     Ala Asn Thr Gln Ser   Ile Pro His Phe Ser   Thr
               1                5                     10                    15
              Thr Leu Asn Ala Gly     Ser Ser Ala Ser Lys   Arg Arg Ser Leu Tyr   Leu
                           20                     25                    30
              Arg Trp Gly Lys Gly     Ser Asn Lys Ile Ile   Ala Cys Val Gly Glu   Gly
                       35                     40                    45
              Gly Ala Thr Ser Val     Pro Tyr Gln Ser Ala   Glu Lys Asn Asp Ser   Leu
                  50                      55                    60
              Ser Ser Ser Thr Leu     Val Lys Arg Glu Phe   Pro Pro Gly Phe Trp   Lys
              65                      70                    75                    80
              Asp Asp Leu Ile Asp     Ser Leu Thr Ser Ser   His Lys Val Ala Ala   Ser
                               85                     90                    95
              Asp Glu Lys Arg Ile     Glu Thr Leu Ile Ser   Glu Ile Lys Asn Met   Phe
                           100                    105                   110
              Arg Cys Met Gly Tyr     Gly Glu Thr Asn Pro   Ser Ala Tyr Asp Thr   Ala
                       115                    120                   125
              Trp Val Ala Arg Ile     Pro Ala Val Asp Gly   Ser Asp Asn Pro His   Phe
                  130                     135                   140
              Pro Glu Thr Val Glu     Trp Ile Leu Gln Asn   Gln Leu Lys Asp Gly   Ser
              145                     150                   155                   160
              Trp Gly Glu Gly Phe     Tyr Phe Leu Ala Tyr   Asp Arg Ile Leu Ala   Thr
                               165                    170                   175
              Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile     Thr Leu Thr Leu Trp   Arg Thr Gly Glu Thr   Gln
                                                      Page 37

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                          180                   185                    190
              Val Gln Lys Gly Ile Glu Ser   Phe Arg Thr Gln Ala    Gly Lys Met Glu
                      195                   200                    205
              Asp Glu Ala Asp Ser His Arg   Pro Ser Gly Phe Glu    Ile Val Phe Pro
                  210                 215                    220
              Ala Met Leu Lys Glu Ala Lys   Ile Leu Gly Leu Asp    Leu Pro Tyr Asp
              225                 230                    235                   240
              Leu Pro Phe Leu Lys Gln Ile   Ile Glu Lys Arg Glu    Ala Lys Leu Lys
                              245                    250                   255
<removed-apn>
              Arg Ile Pro Thr Asp Val Leu   Tyr Ala Leu Pro Thr    Thr Leu Leu Tyr
                          260                   265                    270
              Ser Leu Glu Gly Leu Gln Glu   Ile Val Glu Trp Glu    Lys Ile Met Lys
                      275                   280                    285
              Leu Gln Ser Lys Asp Gly Ser   Phe Leu Ser Ser Pro    Ala Ser Thr Ala
                  290                 295                    300
              Ala Val Phe Met Arg Thr Gly   Asn Lys Lys Cys Leu    Asp Phe Leu Asn
              305                 310                    315                   320
              Phe Val Leu Lys Lys Phe Gly   Asn His Val Pro Cys    His Tyr Pro Leu
                              325                    330                   335
              Asp Leu Phe Glu Arg Leu Trp   Ala Val Asp Thr Val    Glu Arg Leu Gly
                          340                   345                    350
              Ile Asp Arg His Phe Lys Glu   Glu Ile Lys Glu Ala    Leu Asp Tyr Val
                      355                   360                    365
              Tyr Ser His Trp Asp Glu Arg   Gly Ile Gly Trp Ala    Arg Glu Asn Pro
                  370                 375                    380
              Val Pro Asp Ile Asp Asp Thr   Ala Met Gly Leu Arg    Ile Leu Arg Leu
              385                 390                    395                   400
              His Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser Ser   Asp Val Leu Lys Thr    Phe Arg Asp Glu
                              405                    410                   415
              Asn Gly Glu Phe Phe Cys Phe   Leu Gly Gln Thr Gln    Arg Gly Val Thr
                          420                   425                    430
              Asp Met Leu Asn Val Asn Arg   Cys Ser His Val Ser    Phe Pro Gly Glu
                      435                   440                    445
              Thr Ile Met Glu Glu Ala Lys   Leu Cys Thr Glu Arg    Tyr Leu Arg Asn
                  450                 455                    460
              Ala Leu Glu Asn Val Asp Ala   Phe Asp Lys Trp Ala    Phe Lys Lys Asn
              465                 470                    475                   480
              Ile Arg Gly Glu Val Glu Tyr   Ala Leu Lys Tyr Pro    Trp His Lys Ser
                              485                    490                   495
              Met Pro Arg Leu Glu Ala Arg   Ser Tyr Ile Glu Asn    Tyr Gly Pro Asp
                          500                   505                    510
              Asp Val Trp Leu Gly Lys Thr   Val Tyr Met Met Pro    Tyr Ile Ser Asn
                      515                   520                    525
              Glu Lys Tyr Leu Glu Leu Ala   Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn    Lys Leu Gln Ser
                  530                 535                    540
              Ile His Gln Thr Glu Leu Gln   Asp Leu Arg Arg Trp    Trp Lys Ser Ser
              545                 550                    555                   560
              Gly Phe Thr Glu Leu Asn Phe   Thr Arg Glu Arg Val    Thr Glu Ile Tyr
                              565                    570                   575
              Phe Ser Pro Ala Ser Phe Ile   Phe Glu Pro Glu Phe    Ser Lys Cys Arg
                          580                   585                    590
              Glu Val Tyr Thr Lys Thr Ser   Asn Phe Thr Val Ile    Leu Asp Asp Leu
                                                    Page 38

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                      595                   600                    605
              Tyr Asp Ala His Gly Ser   Leu Asp Asp Leu Lys Leu    Phe Thr Glu Ser
                  610                   615                  620
              Val Lys Arg Trp Asp Leu   Ser Leu Val Asp Gln Met    Pro Lys Gln Met
              625                 630                    635                   640
              Lys Ile Cys Phe Val Gly   Phe Tyr Asn Thr Phe Asn    Asp Ile Ala Lys
                              645                    650                   655
              Glu Gly Arg Glu Arg Gln   Gly Arg Asp Val Leu Gly    Tyr Ile Gln Asn
                          660                   665                    670
<removed-apn>
              Val Trp Lys Val Gln Leu   Glu Ala Tyr Thr Lys Glu    Ala Glu Trp Ser
                      675                   680                    685
              Glu Ala Lys Tyr Val Pro   Ser Phe Asn Glu Tyr Ile    Glu Asn Ala Ser
                  690                   695                  700
              Val Ser Ile Ala Leu Gly   Thr Val Val Leu Ile Ser    Ala Leu Phe Thr
              705                 710                    715                   720
              Gly Glu Val Leu Thr Asp   Glu Val Leu Ser Lys Ile    Asp Arg Glu Ser
                              725                    730                   735
              Arg Phe Leu Gln Leu Met   Gly Leu Thr Gly Arg Leu    Val Asn Asp Thr
                          740                   745                    750
              Lys Thr Tyr Gln Ala Glu   Arg Gly Gln Gly Glu Val    Ala Ser Ala Ile
                      755                   760                    765
              Gln Cys Tyr Met Lys Asp   His Pro Lys Ile Ser Glu    Glu Glu Ala Leu
                  770                   775                  780
              Gln His Val Tyr Ser Val   Met Glu Asn Ala Leu Glu    Glu Leu Asn Arg
              785                 790                    795                   800
              Glu Phe Val Asn Asn Lys   Ile Pro Asp Ile Tyr Lys    Arg Leu Val Phe
                              805                    810                   815
              Glu Thr Ala Arg Ile Met   Gln Leu Phe Tyr Met Gln    Gly Asp Gly Leu
                          820                   825                    830
              Thr Leu Ser His Asp Met   Glu Ile Lys Glu His Val    Lys Asn Cys Leu
                      835                   840                    845
              Phe Gln Pro Val Ala
                  850
              <210>   41
              <211>   873
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ginkgo biloba
              <220>
              <223> levopimaradiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank AAL09965
              <309> 2001<U+2701>10<U+2701>03
              <400> 41
              Met Ala Gly Val Leu Phe Ala Asn Leu Pro Cys Ser Leu Gln Leu Ser
               1               5                  10                  15
              Pro Lys Val Pro Phe Arg Gln Ser Thr Asn Ile Leu Ile Pro Phe His
                          20                  25                  30
                                                    Page 39

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Lys Arg Ser   Ser Phe Gly Phe Asn   Ala Gln His Cys Val    Arg Ser His
                      35                    40                     45
              Leu Arg Leu   Arg Trp Asn Cys Val   Gly Ile His Ala Ser    Ala Ala Glu
                  50                    55                     60
              Thr Arg Pro   Asp Gln Leu Pro Gln   Glu Glu Arg Phe Val    Ser Arg Leu
              65                    70                     75                    80
              Asn Ala Asp   Tyr His Pro Ala Val   Trp Lys Asp Asp Phe    Ile Asp Ser
                                85                     90                    95
              Leu Thr Ser   Pro Asn Ser His Ala   Thr Ser Lys Ser Ser    Val Asp Glu
<removed-apn>
                            100                   105                    110
              Thr Ile Asn   Lys Arg Ile Gln Thr   Leu Val Lys Glu Ile    Gln Cys Met
                      115                   120                    125
              Phe Gln Ser   Met Gly Asp Gly Glu   Thr Asn Pro Ser Ala    Tyr Asp Thr
                  130                   135                    140
              Ala Trp Val   Ala Arg Ile Pro Ser   Ile Asp Gly Ser Gly    Ala Pro Gln
              145                   150                    155                   160
              Phe Pro Gln   Thr Leu Gln Trp Ile   Leu Asn Asn Gln Leu    Pro Asp Gly
                                165                    170                   175
              Ser Trp Gly   Glu Glu Cys Ile Phe   Leu Ala Tyr Asp Arg    Val Leu Asn
                            180                   185                    190
              Thr Leu Ala   Cys Leu Leu Thr Leu   Lys Ile Trp Asn Lys    Gly Asp Ile
                      195                   200                    205
              Gln Val Gln   Lys Gly Val Glu Phe   Val Arg Lys His Met    Glu Glu Met
                  210                   215                    220
              Lys Asp Glu   Ala Asp Asn His Arg   Pro Ser Gly Phe Glu    Val Val Phe
              225                   230                    235                   240
              Pro Ala Met   Leu Asp Glu Ala Lys   Ser Leu Gly Leu Asp    Leu Pro Tyr
                                245                    250                   255
              His Leu Pro   Phe Ile Ser Gln Ile   His Gln Lys Arg Gln    Lys Lys Leu
                            260                   265                    270
              Gln Lys Ile   Pro Leu Asn Val Leu   His Asn His Gln Thr    Ala Leu Leu
                      275                   280                    285
              Tyr Ser Leu   Glu Gly Leu Gln Asp   Val Val Asp Trp Gln    Glu Ile Thr
                  290                   295                    300
              Asn Leu Gln   Ser Arg Asp Gly Ser   Phe Leu Ser Ser Pro    Ala Ser Thr
              305                   310                    315                   320
              Ala Cys Val   Phe Met His Thr Gln   Asn Lys Arg Cys Leu    His Phe Leu
                                325                    330                   335
              Asn Phe Val   Leu Ser Lys Phe Gly   Asp Tyr Val Pro Cys    His Tyr Pro
                            340                   345                    350
              Leu Asp Leu   Phe Glu Arg Leu Trp   Ala Val Asp Thr Val    Glu Arg Leu
                      355                   360                    365
              Gly Ile Asp   Arg Tyr Phe Lys Lys   Glu Ile Lys Glu Ser    Leu Asp Tyr
                  370                   375                    380
              Val Tyr Arg   Tyr Trp Asp Ala Glu   Arg Gly Val Gly Trp    Ala Arg Cys
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Asn Pro Ile   Pro Asp Val Asp Asp   Thr Ala Met Gly Leu    Arg Ile Leu
                                405                    410                   415
              Arg Leu His   Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser   Ser Asp Val Leu Glu    Asn Phe Arg
                            420                   425                    430
              Asp Glu Lys   Gly Asp Phe Phe Cys   Phe Ala Gly Gln Thr    Gln Ile Gly
                      435                   440                    445
                                                      Page 40

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Val Thr Asp Asn Leu   Asn Leu Tyr Arg Cys Ser Gln    Val Cys Phe Pro
                  450                   455                  460
              Gly Glu Lys Ile Met   Glu Glu Ala Lys Thr Phe Thr    Thr Asn His Leu
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Gln Asn Ala Leu Ala   Lys Asn Asn Ala Phe Asp Lys    Trp Ala Val Lys
                              485                    490                   495
              Lys Asp Leu Pro Gly   Glu Val Glu Tyr Ala Ile Lys    Tyr Pro Trp His
                          500                   505                    510
              Arg Ser Met Pro Arg   Leu Glu Ala Arg Ser Tyr Ile    Glu Gln Phe Gly
<removed-apn>
                      515                   520                    525
              Ser Asn Asp Val Trp   Leu Gly Lys Thr Val Tyr Lys    Met Leu Tyr Val
                  530                   535                  540
              Ser Asn Glu Lys Tyr   Leu Glu Leu Ala Lys Leu Asp    Phe Asn Met Val
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Gln Ala Leu His Gln   Lys Glu Thr Gln His Ile Val    Ser Trp Trp Arg
                              565                    570                   575
              Glu Ser Gly Phe Asn   Asp Leu Thr Phe Thr Arg Gln    Arg Pro Val Glu
                          580                   585                    590
              Met Tyr Phe Ser Val   Ala Val Ser Met Phe Glu Pro    Glu Phe Ala Ala
                      595                   600                    605
              Cys Arg Ile Ala Tyr   Ala Lys Thr Ser Cys Leu Ala    Val Ile Leu Asp
                  610                   615                  620
              Asp Leu Tyr Asp Thr   His Gly Ser Leu Asp Asp Leu    Lys Leu Phe Ser
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Glu Ala Val Arg Arg   Trp Asp Ile Ser Val Leu Asp    Ser Val Arg Asp
                              645                    650                   655
              Asn Gln Leu Lys Val   Cys Phe Leu Gly Leu Tyr Asn    Thr Val Asn Gly
                          660                   665                    670
              Phe Gly Lys Asp Gly   Leu Lys Glu Gln Gly Arg Asp    Val Leu Gly Tyr
                      675                   680                    685
              Leu Arg Lys Val Trp   Glu Gly Leu Leu Ala Ser Tyr    Thr Lys Glu Ala
                  690                   695                  700
              Glu Trp Ser Ala Ala   Lys Tyr Val Pro Thr Phe Asn    Glu Tyr Val Glu
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Asn Ala Lys Val Ser   Ile Ala Leu Ala Thr Val Val    Leu Asn Ser Ile
                              725                    730                   735
              Phe Phe Thr Gly Glu   Leu Leu Pro Asp Tyr Ile Leu    Gln Gln Val Asp
                          740                   745                    750
              Leu Arg Ser Lys Phe   Leu His Leu Val Ser Leu Thr    Gly Arg Leu Ile
                      755                   760                    765
              Asn Asp Thr Lys Thr   Tyr Gln Ala Glu Arg Asn Arg    Gly Glu Leu Val
                  770                   775                  780
              Ser Ser Val Gln Cys   Tyr Met Arg Glu Asn Pro Glu    Cys Thr Glu Glu
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Glu Ala Leu Ser His   Val Tyr Gly Ile Ile Asp Asn    Ala Leu Lys Glu
                              805                    810                   815
              Leu Asn Trp Glu Leu   Ala Asn Pro Ala Ser Asn Ala    Pro Leu Cys Val
                          820                   825                    830
              Arg Arg Leu Leu Phe   Asn Thr Ala Arg Val Met Gln    Leu Phe Tyr Met
                      835                   840                    845
              Tyr Arg Asp Gly Phe   Gly Ile Ser Asp Lys Glu Met    Lys Asp His Val
                  850                   855                  860
                                                    Page 41

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Ser Arg Thr Leu Phe Asp Pro Val Ala
              865                 870
              <210>   42
              <211>   881
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Physcomitrella patens
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> ent<U+2701>kaurene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank BAF61135
              <309> 2007<U+2701>05<U+2701>09
              <400> 42
              Met Ala Ser Ser Thr    Leu Ile Gln Asn Arg   Ser Cys Gly Val Thr   Ser
               1                5                    10                    15
              Ser Met Ser Ser Phe    Gln Ile Phe Arg Gly   Gln Pro Leu Arg Phe   Pro
                           20                    25                    30
              Gly Thr Arg Thr Pro    Ala Ala Val Gln Cys   Leu Lys Lys Arg Arg   Cys
                       35                    40                    45
              Leu Arg Pro Thr Glu    Ser Val Leu Glu Ser   Ser Pro Gly Ser Gly   Ser
                  50                     55                    60
              Tyr Arg Ile Val Thr    Gly Pro Ser Gly Ile   Asn Pro Ser Ser Asn   Gly
              65                     70                    75                    80
              His Leu Gln Glu Gly    Ser Leu Thr His Arg   Leu Pro Ile Pro Met   Glu
                               85                    90                    95
              Lys Ser Ile Asp Asn    Phe Gln Ser Thr Leu   Tyr Val Ser Asp Ile   Trp
                           100                   105                   110
              Ser Glu Thr Leu Gln    Arg Thr Glu Cys Leu   Leu Gln Val Thr Glu   Asn
                       115                   120                   125
              Val Gln Met Asn Glu    Trp Ile Glu Glu Ile   Arg Met Tyr Phe Arg   Asn
                  130                    135                   140
              Met Thr Leu Gly Glu    Ile Ser Met Ser Pro   Tyr Asp Thr Ala Trp   Val
              145                    150                   155                   160
              Ala Arg Val Pro Ala    Leu Asp Gly Ser His   Gly Pro Gln Phe His   Arg
                               165                   170                   175
              Ser Leu Gln Trp Ile    Ile Asp Asn Gln Leu   Pro Asp Gly Asp Trp   Gly
                           180                   185                   190
              Glu Pro Ser Leu Phe    Leu Gly Tyr Asp Arg   Val Cys Asn Thr Leu   Ala
                       195                   200                   205
              Cys Val Ile Ala Leu    Lys Thr Trp Gly Val   Gly Ala Gln Asn Val   Glu
                  210                    215                   220
              Arg Gly Ile Gln Phe    Leu Gln Ser Asn Ile   Tyr Lys Met Glu Glu   Asp
              225                    230                   235                   240
              Asp Ala Asn His Met    Pro Ile Gly Phe Glu   Ile Val Phe Pro Ala   Met
                               245                   250                   255
              Met Glu Asp Ala Lys    Ala Leu Gly Leu Asp   Leu Pro Tyr Asp Ala   Thr
                           260                   265                   270
              Ile Leu Gln Gln Ile    Ser Ala Glu Arg Glu   Lys Lys Met Lys Lys   Ile
                                                     Page 42

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                      275                   280                    285
              Pro Met Ala Met Val Tyr   Lys Tyr Pro Thr Thr Leu    Leu His Ser Leu
                  290                   295                  300
              Glu Gly Leu His Arg Glu   Val Asp Trp Asn Lys Leu    Leu Gln Leu Gln
              305                 310                    315                   320
              Ser Glu Asn Gly Ser Phe   Leu Tyr Ser Pro Ala Ser    Thr Ala Cys Ala
                              325                    330                   335
              Leu Met Tyr Thr Lys Asp   Val Lys Cys Phe Asp Tyr    Leu Asn Gln Leu
                          340                   345                    350
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ile Lys Phe Asp His   Ala Cys Pro Asn Val Tyr    Pro Val Asp Leu
                      355                   360                    365
              Phe Glu Arg Leu Trp Met   Val Asp Arg Leu Gln Arg    Leu Gly Ile Ser
                  370                   375                  380
              Arg Tyr Phe Glu Arg Glu   Ile Arg Asp Cys Leu Gln    Tyr Val Tyr Arg
              385                 390                    395                   400
              Tyr Trp Lys Asp Cys Gly   Ile Gly Trp Ala Ser Asn    Ser Ser Val Gln
                              405                    410                   415
              Asp Val Asp Asp Thr Ala   Met Ala Phe Arg Leu Leu    Arg Thr His Gly
                          420                   425                    430
              Phe Asp Val Lys Glu Asp   Cys Phe Arg Gln Phe Phe    Lys Asp Gly Glu
                      435                   440                    445
              Phe Phe Cys Phe Ala Gly   Gln Ser Ser Gln Ala Val    Thr Gly Met Phe
                  450                   455                  460
              Asn Leu Ser Arg Ala Ser   Gln Thr Leu Phe Pro Gly    Glu Ser Leu Leu
              465                 470                    475                   480
              Lys Lys Ala Arg Thr Phe   Ser Arg Asn Phe Leu Arg    Thr Lys His Glu
                              485                    490                   495
              Asn Asn Glu Cys Phe Asp   Lys Trp Ile Ile Thr Lys    Asp Leu Ala Gly
                          500                   505                    510
              Glu Val Glu Tyr Asn Leu   Thr Phe Pro Trp Tyr Ala    Ser Leu Pro Arg
                      515                   520                    525
              Leu Glu His Arg Thr Tyr   Leu Asp Gln Tyr Gly Ile    Asp Asp Ile Trp
                  530                   535                  540
              Ile Gly Lys Ser Leu Tyr   Lys Met Pro Ala Val Thr    Asn Glu Val Phe
              545                 550                    555                   560
              Leu Lys Leu Ala Lys Ala   Asp Phe Asn Met Cys Gln    Ala Leu His Lys
                              565                    570                   575
              Lys Glu Leu Glu Gln Val   Ile Lys Trp Asn Ala Ser    Cys Gln Phe Arg
                          580                   585                    590
              Asp Leu Glu Phe Ala Arg   Gln Lys Ser Val Glu Cys    Tyr Phe Ala Gly
                      595                   600                    605
              Ala Ala Thr Met Phe Glu   Pro Glu Met Val Gln Ala    Arg Leu Val Trp
                  610                   615                  620
              Ala Arg Cys Cys Val Leu   Thr Thr Val Leu Asp Asp    Tyr Phe Asp His
              625                 630                    635                   640
              Gly Thr Pro Val Glu Glu   Leu Arg Val Phe Val Gln    Ala Val Arg Thr
                              645                    650                   655
              Trp Asn Pro Glu Leu Ile   Asn Gly Leu Pro Glu Gln    Ala Lys Ile Leu
                          660                   665                    670
              Phe Met Gly Leu Tyr Lys   Thr Val Asn Thr Ile Ala    Glu Glu Ala Phe
                      675                   680                    685
              Met Ala Gln Lys Arg Asp   Val His His His Leu Lys    His Tyr Trp Asp
                                                    Page 43

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                  690                   695                  700
              Lys Leu Ile Thr Ser   Ala Leu Lys Glu Ala Glu Trp    Ala Glu Ser Gly
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Tyr Val Pro Thr Phe   Asp Glu Tyr Met Glu Val Ala    Glu Ile Ser Val
                              725                    730                   735
              Ala Leu Glu Pro Ile   Val Cys Ser Thr Leu Phe Phe    Ala Gly His Arg
                          740                   745                    750
              Leu Asp Glu Asp Val   Leu Asp Ser Tyr Asp Tyr His    Leu Val Met His
                      755                   760                    765
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Asn Arg Val   Gly Arg Ile Leu Asn Asp Ile    Gln Gly Met Lys
                  770                   775                  780
              Arg Glu Ala Ser Gln   Gly Lys Ile Ser Ser Val Gln    Ile Tyr Met Glu
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Glu His Pro Ser Val   Pro Ser Glu Ala Met Ala Ile    Ala His Leu Gln
                              805                    810                   815
              Glu Leu Val Asp Asn   Ser Met Gln Gln Leu Thr Tyr    Glu Val Leu Arg
                          820                   825                    830
              Phe Thr Ala Val Pro   Lys Ser Cys Lys Arg Ile His    Leu Asn Met Ala
                      835                   840                    845
              Lys Ile Met His Ala   Phe Tyr Lys Asp Thr Asp Gly    Phe Ser Ser Leu
                  850                   855                  860
              Thr Ala Met Thr Gly   Phe Val Lys Lys Val Leu Phe    Glu Pro Val Pro
              865                   870                  875                   880
              Glu
              <210>   43
              <211>   862
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Taxus brevifolia
              <220>
              <223> taxadiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank AAC49310
              <309> 1996<U+2701>06<U+2701>05
              <400> 43
              Met Ala Gln Leu Ser   Phe Asn Ala Ala Leu   Lys Met Asn Ala Leu   Gly
               1               5                    10                    15
              Asn Lys Ala Ile His   Asp Pro Thr Asn Cys   Arg Ala Lys Ser Glu   Arg
                          20                    25                    30
              Gln Met Met Trp Val   Cys Ser Arg Ser Gly   Arg Thr Arg Val Lys   Met
                       35                   40                    45
              Ser Arg Gly Ser Gly   Gly Pro Gly Pro Val   Val Met Met Ser Ser   Ser
                  50                    55                    60
              Thr Gly Thr Ser Lys   Val Val Ser Glu Thr   Ser Ser Thr Ile Val   Asp
              65                    70                    75                    80
              Asp Ile Pro Arg Leu   Ser Ala Asn Tyr His   Gly Asp Leu Trp His   His
                              85                    90                    95
                                                    Page 44

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Asn Val Ile Gln   Thr Leu Glu Thr Pro    Phe Arg Glu Ser Ser   Thr Tyr
                          100                   105                    110
              Gln Glu Arg Ala   Asp Glu Leu Val Val    Lys Ile Lys Asp Met   Phe Asn
                      115                   120                    125
              Ala Leu Gly Asp   Gly Asp Ile Ser Pro    Ser Ala Tyr Asp Thr   Ala Trp
                  130                   135                    140
              Val Ala Arg Leu   Ala Thr Ile Ser Ser    Asp Gly Ser Glu Lys   Pro Arg
              145                   150                    155                   160
              Phe Pro Gln Ala   Leu Asn Trp Val Phe    Asn Asn Gln Leu Gln   Asp Gly
<removed-apn>
                                165                    170                   175
              Ser Trp Gly Ile   Glu Ser His Phe Ser    Leu Cys Asp Arg Leu   Leu Asn
                          180                   185                    190
              Thr Thr Asn Ser   Val Ile Ala Leu Ser    Val Trp Lys Thr Gly   His Ser
                      195                   200                    205
              Gln Val Gln Gln   Gly Ala Glu Phe Ile    Ala Glu Asn Leu Arg   Leu Leu
                  210                   215                    220
              Asn Glu Glu Asp   Glu Leu Ser Pro Asp    Phe Gln Ile Ile Phe   Pro Ala
              225                   230                    235                   240
              Leu Leu Gln Lys   Ala Lys Ala Leu Gly    Ile Asn Leu Pro Tyr   Asp Leu
                                245                    250                   255
              Pro Phe Ile Lys   Tyr Leu Ser Thr Thr    Arg Glu Ala Arg Leu   Thr Asp
                          260                   265                    270
              Val Ser Ala Ala   Ala Asp Asn Ile Pro    Ala Asn Met Leu Asn   Ala Leu
                      275                   280                    285
              Glu Gly Leu Glu   Glu Val Ile Asp Trp    Asn Lys Ile Met Arg   Phe Gln
                  290                   295                    300
              Ser Lys Asp Gly   Ser Phe Leu Ser Ser    Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala   Cys Val
              305                   310                    315                   320
              Leu Met Asn Thr   Gly Asp Glu Lys Cys    Phe Thr Phe Leu Asn   Asn Leu
                                325                    330                   335
              Leu Asp Lys Phe   Gly Gly Cys Val Pro    Cys Met Tyr Ser Ile   Asp Leu
                          340                   345                    350
              Leu Glu Arg Leu   Ser Leu Val Asp Asn    Ile Glu His Leu Gly   Ile Gly
                      355                   360                    365
              Arg His Phe Lys   Gln Glu Ile Lys Gly    Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val   Tyr Arg
                  370                   375                    380
              His Trp Ser Glu   Arg Gly Ile Gly Trp    Gly Arg Asp Ser Leu   Val Pro
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Asp Leu Asn Thr   Thr Ala Leu Gly Leu    Arg Thr Leu Arg Met   His Gly
                                405                    410                   415
              Tyr Asn Val Ser   Ser Asp Val Leu Asn    Asn Phe Lys Asp Glu   Asn Gly
                          420                   425                    430
              Arg Phe Phe Ser   Ser Ala Gly Gln Thr    His Val Glu Leu Arg   Ser Val
                      435                   440                    445
              Val Asn Leu Phe   Arg Ala Ser Asp Leu    Ala Phe Pro Asp Glu   Arg Ala
                  450                   455                    460
              Met Asp Asp Ala   Arg Lys Phe Ala Glu    Pro Tyr Leu Arg Glu   Ala Leu
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Ala Thr Lys Ile   Ser Thr Asn Thr Lys    Leu Phe Lys Glu Ile   Glu Tyr
                                485                    490                   495
              Val Val Glu Tyr   Pro Trp His Met Ser    Ile Pro Arg Leu Glu   Ala Arg
                          500                   505                    510
                                                       Page 45

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Ser Tyr Ile   Asp Ser Tyr Asp Asp   Asn Tyr Val Trp Gln    Arg Lys Thr
                      515                   520                    525
              Leu Tyr Arg   Met Pro Ser Leu Ser   Asn Ser Lys Cys Leu    Glu Leu Ala
                  530                   535                    540
              Lys Leu Asp   Phe Asn Ile Val Gln   Ser Leu His Gln Glu    Glu Leu Lys
              545                   550                    555                   560
              Leu Leu Thr   Arg Trp Trp Lys Glu   Ser Gly Met Ala Asp    Ile Asn Phe
                                565                    570                   575
              Thr Arg His   Arg Val Ala Glu Val   Tyr Phe Ser Ser Ala    Thr Phe Glu
<removed-apn>
                            580                   585                    590
              Pro Glu Tyr   Ser Ala Thr Arg Ile   Ala Phe Thr Lys Ile    Gly Cys Leu
                      595                   600                    605
              Gln Val Leu   Phe Asp Asp Met Ala   Asp Ile Phe Ala Thr    Leu Asp Glu
                  610                   615                    620
              Leu Lys Ser   Phe Thr Glu Gly Val   Lys Arg Trp Asp Thr    Ser Leu Leu
              625                   630                    635                   640
              His Glu Ile   Pro Glu Cys Met Gln   Thr Cys Phe Lys Val    Trp Phe Lys
                                645                    650                   655
              Leu Met Glu   Glu Val Asn Asn Asp   Val Val Lys Val Gln    Gly Arg Asp
                            660                   665                    670
              Met Leu Ala   His Ile Arg Lys Pro   Trp Glu Leu Tyr Phe    Asn Cys Tyr
                      675                   680                    685
              Val Gln Glu   Arg Glu Trp Leu Glu   Ala Gly Tyr Ile Pro    Thr Phe Glu
                  690                   695                    700
              Glu Tyr Leu   Lys Thr Tyr Ala Ile   Ser Val Gly Leu Gly    Pro Cys Thr
              705                   710                    715                   720
              Leu Gln Pro   Ile Leu Leu Met Gly   Glu Leu Val Lys Asp    Asp Val Val
                                725                    730                   735
              Glu Lys Val   His Tyr Pro Ser Asn   Met Phe Glu Leu Val    Ser Leu Ser
                            740                   745                    750
              Trp Arg Leu   Thr Asn Asp Thr Lys   Thr Tyr Gln Ala Glu    Lys Ala Arg
                      755                   760                    765
              Gly Gln Gln   Ala Ser Gly Ile Ala   Cys Tyr Met Lys Asp    Asn Pro Gly
                  770                   775                    780
              Ala Thr Glu   Glu Asp Ala Ile Lys   His Ile Cys Arg Val    Val Asp Arg
              785                   790                    795                   800
              Ala Leu Lys   Glu Ala Ser Phe Glu   Tyr Phe Lys Pro Ser    Asn Asp Ile
                                805                    810                   815
              Pro Met Gly   Cys Lys Ser Phe Ile   Phe Asn Leu Arg Leu    Cys Val Gln
                            820                   825                    830
              Ile Phe Tyr   Lys Phe Ile Asp Gly   Tyr Gly Ile Ala Asn    Glu Glu Ile
                      835                   840                    845
              Lys Asp Tyr   Ile Arg Lys Val Tyr   Ile Asp Pro Ile Gln    Val
                  850                   855                    860
              <210>   44
              <211>   343
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Taxus cuspidata
              <220>
                                                      Page 46

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <223> taxadiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> Genbank ABW82997
              <309> 2009<U+2701>08<U+2701>13
              <400> 44
              Met Ala Gln Leu Ser    Phe Asn Ala Ala Leu   Lys Met Asn Ala Leu   Gly
               1                5                    10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Asn Lys Ala Ile His    Asp Pro Thr Asn Cys   Arg Ala Lys Ser Glu   Gly
                           20                    25                    30
              Gln Met Met Trp Val    Cys Ser Lys Ser Gly   Arg Thr Arg Val Lys   Met
                       35                    40                    45
              Ser Arg Gly Ser Gly    Gly Pro Gly Pro Val   Val Met Met Ser Ser   Ser
                  50                     55                    60
              Thr Gly Thr Ser Lys    Val Val Ser Glu Thr   Ser Ser Thr Ile Val   Asp
              65                     70                    75                    80
              Asp Ile Pro Arg Leu    Ser Ala Asn Tyr His   Gly Asp Leu Trp His   His
                               85                    90                    95
              Asn Val Ile Gln Thr    Leu Glu Thr Pro Phe   Arg Glu Ser Ser Thr   Phe
                           100                   105                   110
              Gln Lys Arg Ala Asp    Glu Leu Val Val Lys   Ile Lys Asp Met Phe   Asn
                       115                   120                   125
              Ala Leu Gly Asp Gly    Asp Ile Ser Pro Ser   Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp
                  130                    135                   140
              Val Ala Arg Val Ala    Thr Ile Ser Ser Asp   Gly Ser Glu Lys Pro   Arg
              145                    150                   155                   160
              Phe Pro Gln Ala Leu    Asn Trp Val Phe Asn   Asn Gln Leu Gln Asp   Gly
                               165                   170                   175
              Ser Trp Gly Ile Glu    Ser His Phe Ser Leu   Cys Asp Arg Leu Leu   Asn
                           180                   185                   190
              Thr Thr Asn Ser Val    Ile Ala Leu Ser Val   Trp Lys Thr Gly His   Ser
                       195                   200                   205
              Gln Val Glu Gln Gly    Thr Glu Phe Ile Ala   Glu Asn Leu Arg Leu   Leu
                  210                    215                   220
              Asn Glu Glu Asp Glu    Leu Ser Pro Asp Phe   Glu Ile Ile Phe Pro   Ala
              225                    230                   235                   240
              Leu Leu Gln Lys Ala    Lys Ala Leu Gly Ile   Asn Leu Pro Tyr Asp   Leu
                               245                   250                   255
              Pro Phe Ile Lys Ser    Leu Ser Thr Thr Arg   Glu Ala Arg Leu Thr   Asp
                           260                   265                   270
              Val Ser Ala Ala Ala    Asp Asn Ile Pro Ala   Asn Met Leu Asn Ala   Leu
                       275                   280                   285
              Glu Gly Leu Glu Glu    Val Ile Asp Trp Asn   Lys Ile Met Arg Phe   Gln
                  290                    295                   300
              Ser Lys Asp Gly Ser    Phe Leu Ser Ser Pro   Ala Ser Thr Ala Cys   Val
              305                    310                   315                   320
              Leu Met Asn Thr Gly    Asp Glu Lys Cys Phe   Thr Phe Leu Asn Asn   Leu
                               325                   330                   335
              Leu Asp Lys Phe Gly    Gly Cys
                           340
                                                     Page 47

                                                     234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <210>   45
              <211>   862
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Taxus x media
              <220>
              <223> taxadiene synthase
<removed-apn>
              <300>
              <308> Genbank AAS18603
              <309> 2007<U+2701>08<U+2701>17
              <400> 45
              Met Ala Gln Leu Ser     Phe Asn Ala Ala Leu   Lys Met Asn Ala Leu   Gly
               1                5                     10                    15
              Asn Lys Ala Ile His     Asp Pro Thr Asn Cys   Arg Ala Lys Ser Glu   Gly
                           20                     25                    30
              Gln Met Met Trp Val     Cys Ser Lys Ser Gly   Arg Thr Arg Val Lys   Met
                       35                     40                    45
              Ser Arg Gly Ser Gly     Gly Pro Gly Pro Val   Val Met Met Ser Ser   Ser
                  50                      55                    60
              Thr Gly Thr Ser Lys     Val Val Ser Glu Thr   Ser Ser Thr Ile Val   Asp
              65                      70                    75                    80
              Asp Ile Pro Arg Leu     Ser Ala Asn Tyr His   Gly Asp Leu Trp His   His
                               85                     90                    95
              Asn Val Ile Gln Thr     Leu Glu Thr Pro Phe   Arg Glu Ser Ser Thr   Phe
                           100                    105                   110
              Gln Glu Arg Ala Asp     Glu Leu Val Val Lys   Ile Lys Asp Met Phe   Asn
                       115                    120                   125
              Ala Leu Gly Asp Gly     Asp Ile Ser Pro Ser   Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp
                  130                     135                   140
              Val Ala Arg Val Ala     Thr Val Ser Ser Asp   Gly Ser Glu Lys Pro   Arg
              145                     150                   155                   160
              Phe Pro Gln Ala Leu     Asn Trp Val Leu Asn   Asn Gln Leu Gln Asp   Gly
                               165                    170                   175
              Ser Trp Gly Ile Glu     Ser His Phe Ser Leu   Cys Asp Arg Leu Leu   Asn
                           180                    185                   190
              Thr Val Asn Ser Val     Ile Ala Leu Ser Val   Trp Lys Thr Gly His   Ser
                       195                    200                   205
              Gln Val Glu Gln Gly     Thr Glu Phe Ile Ala   Glu Asn Leu Arg Leu   Leu
                  210                     215                   220
              Asn Glu Glu Asp Glu     Leu Ser Pro Asp Phe   Glu Ile Ile Phe Pro   Ala
              225                     230                   235                   240
              Leu Leu Gln Lys Ala     Lys Ala Leu Gly Ile   Asn Leu Pro Tyr Asp   Leu
                               245                    250                   255
              Pro Phe Ile Lys Ser     Leu Ser Thr Thr Arg   Glu Ala Arg Leu Thr   Asp
                           260                    265                   270
              Val Ser Ala Val Ala     Asp Asn Ile Pro Ala   Asn Met Leu Asn Ala   Leu
                       275                    280                   285
              Glu Gly Leu Glu Glu     Val Ile Asp Trp Asn   Lys Ile Met Arg Phe   Gln
                  290                     295                   300
                                                      Page 48

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Ser Lys Asp Gly Ser   Phe Leu Ser Ser Pro Ala Ser    Thr Ala Cys Val
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Leu Met Asn Thr Gly   Asp Glu Lys Cys Phe Thr Leu    Leu Asn Asn Leu
                              325                    330                   335
              Leu Asp Lys Phe Gly   Gly Cys Val Pro Cys Met Tyr    Ser Ile Asp Leu
                          340                   345                    350
              Leu Glu Arg Leu Ser   Leu Val Asp Asn Ile Glu His    Leu Gly Ile Gly
                      355                   360                    365
              Arg His Phe Lys Gln   Glu Ile Lys Val Ala Leu Asp    Tyr Val Tyr Arg
<removed-apn>
                  370                   375                  380
              His Trp Ser Glu Arg   Gly Ile Gly Trp Gly Arg Asp    Ser Leu Val Pro
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Asp Leu Asn Thr Thr   Ala Leu Gly Leu Arg Thr Leu    Arg Thr His Gly
                              405                    410                   415
              Tyr Asp Val Ser Ser   Asp Val Leu Asn Asn Phe Lys    Asp Glu Asn Gly
                          420                   425                    430
              Arg Phe Phe Ser Ser   Ala Gly Gln Thr His Val Glu    Leu Arg Ser Val
                      435                   440                    445
              Val Asn Leu Phe Arg   Ala Ser Asp Leu Ala Phe Pro    Asp Glu Gly Ala
                  450                   455                  460
              Met Asp Asp Ala Arg   Lys Phe Ala Glu Pro Tyr Leu    Arg Asp Ala Leu
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Ala Thr Lys Ile Ser   Thr Asn Thr Lys Leu Tyr Lys    Glu Ile Glu Tyr
                              485                    490                   495
              Val Val Glu Tyr Pro   Trp His Met Ser Ile Pro Arg    Leu Glu Ala Arg
                          500                   505                    510
              Ser Tyr Ile Asp Ser   Tyr Asp Asp Asp Tyr Val Trp    Gln Arg Lys Thr
                      515                   520                    525
              Leu Tyr Arg Met Pro   Ser Leu Ser Asn Ser Lys Cys    Leu Glu Leu Ala
                  530                   535                  540
              Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn   Ile Val Gln Ser Leu His Gln    Glu Glu Leu Lys
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Leu Leu Thr Arg Trp   Trp Lys Glu Ser Gly Met Ala    Asp Ile Asn Phe
                              565                    570                   575
              Thr Arg His Arg Val   Ala Glu Val Tyr Phe Ser Ser    Ala Thr Phe Glu
                          580                   585                    590
              Pro Glu Tyr Ser Ala   Thr Arg Ile Ala Phe Thr Lys    Ile Gly Cys Leu
                      595                   600                    605
              Gln Val Leu Phe Asp   Asp Met Ala Asp Ile Phe Ala    Thr Leu Asp Glu
                  610                   615                  620
              Leu Lys Ser Phe Thr   Glu Gly Val Lys Arg Trp Asp    Thr Ser Leu Leu
              625                   630                  635                   640
              His Glu Ile Pro Glu   Cys Met Gln Thr Cys Phe Lys    Val Trp Phe Lys
                              645                    650                   655
              Leu Met Glu Glu Val   Asn Asn Asp Val Val Lys Val    Gln Gly Arg Asp
                          660                   665                    670
              Met Leu Ala His Ile   Arg Lys Pro Trp Glu Leu Tyr    Phe Asn Cys Tyr
                      675                   680                    685
              Val Gln Glu Arg Glu   Trp Leu Glu Ala Gly Tyr Ile    Pro Thr Phe Glu
                  690                   695                  700
              Glu Tyr Leu Lys Thr   Tyr Ala Ile Ser Val Gly Leu    Gly Pro Cys Thr
              705                   710                  715                   720
                                                    Page 49

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Leu Gln Pro Ile Leu   Leu Met Gly Glu Leu Val Lys    Asp Asp Val   Val
                              725                    730                   735
              Glu Lys Val His Tyr   Pro Ser Asn Met Phe Glu Leu    Val Ser Leu   Ser
                          740                   745                    750
              Trp Arg Leu Thr Asn   Asp Thr Lys Thr Tyr Gln Ala    Glu Lys Ala   Arg
                      755                   760                    765
              Gly Gln Gln Ala Ser   Gly Ile Ala Cys Tyr Met Lys    Asp Asn Pro   Gly
                  770                   775                  780
              Ala Thr Glu Glu Asp   Ala Ile Lys His Ile Cys Arg    Val Val Asp Arg
<removed-apn>
              785                   790                  795                   800
              Ala Leu Lys Glu Ala   Ser Phe Glu Tyr Phe Lys Pro    Ser Asn Asp Ile
                              805                    810                   815
              Pro Met Gly Cys Lys   Ser Phe Ile Phe Asn Leu Arg    Leu Cys Val Gln
                          820                   825                    830
              Ile Phe Tyr Lys Phe   Ile Asp Gly Tyr Gly Ile Ala    Asn Glu Glu Ile
                      835                   840                    845
              Lys Asp Tyr Ile Arg   Lys Val Tyr Ile Asp Pro Ile    Gln Val
                  850                   855                  860
              <210>   46
              <211>   764
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Taxus brevifolia
              <220>
              <223> taxadiene synthase
              <300>
              <308> PDB 3p5pa
              <309> 2012<U+2701>10<U+2701>10
              <400> 46
              Met Glu Ser Ser Thr   Tyr Gln Glu Arg Ala   Asp Glu Leu Val Val    Lys
               1                5                   10                    15
              Ile Lys Asp Met Phe   Asn Ala Leu Gly Asp   Gly Asp Ile Ser Pro    Ser
                           20                   25                    30
              Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp Val Ala Arg Leu   Ala Thr Ile Ser Ser    Asp
                       35                   40                    45
              Gly Ser Glu Lys Pro   Arg Phe Pro Gln Ala   Leu Asn Trp Val Phe    Asn
                  50                    55                    60
              Asn Gln Leu Gln Asp   Gly Ser Trp Gly Ile   Glu Ser His Phe Ser    Leu
              65                    70                    75                     80
              Cys Asp Arg Leu Leu   Asn Thr Thr Asn Ser   Val Ile Ala Leu Ser    Val
                               85                   90                    95
              Trp Lys Thr Gly His   Ser Gln Val Gln Gln   Gly Ala Glu Phe Ile    Ala
                           100                  105                   110
              Glu Asn Leu Arg Leu   Leu Asn Glu Glu Asp   Glu Leu Ser Pro Asp    Phe
                       115                  120                   125
              Gln Ile Ile Phe Pro   Ala Leu Leu Gln Lys   Ala Lys Ala Leu Gly    Ile
                  130                   135                   140
              Asn Leu Pro Tyr Asp   Leu Pro Phe Ile Lys   Tyr Leu Ser Thr Thr    Arg
                                                    Page 50

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              145                   150                  155                     160
              Glu Ala Arg Leu Thr   Asp Val Ser Ala Ala Ala Asp    Asn Ile Pro   Ala
                              165                    170                   175
              Asn Met Leu Asn Ala   Leu Glu Gly Leu Glu Glu Val    Ile Asp Trp   Asn
                          180                   185                    190
              Lys Ile Met Arg Phe   Gln Ser Lys Asp Gly Ser Phe    Leu Ser Ser   Pro
                      195                   200                    205
              Ala Ser Thr Ala Cys   Val Leu Met Asn Thr Gly Asp    Glu Lys Cys   Phe
                  210                   215                  220
<removed-apn>
              Thr Phe Leu Asn Asn   Leu Leu Asp Lys Phe Gly Gly    Cys Val Pro Cys
              225                   230                  235                   240
              Met Tyr Ser Ile Asp   Leu Leu Glu Arg Leu Ser Leu    Val Asp Asn Ile
                              245                    250                   255
              Glu His Leu Gly Ile   Gly Arg His Phe Lys Gln Glu    Ile Lys Gly Ala
                          260                   265                    270
              Leu Asp Tyr Val Tyr   Arg His Trp Ser Glu Arg Gly    Ile Gly Trp Gly
                      275                   280                    285
              Arg Asp Ser Leu Val   Pro Asp Leu Asn Thr Thr Ala    Leu Gly Leu Arg
                  290                   295                  300
              Thr Leu Arg Met His   Gly Tyr Asn Val Ser Ser Asp    Val Leu Asn Asn
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Phe Lys Asp Glu Asn   Gly Arg Phe Phe Ser Ser Ala    Gly Gln Thr His
                              325                    330                   335
              Val Glu Leu Arg Ser   Val Val Asn Leu Phe Arg Ala    Ser Asp Leu Ala
                          340                   345                    350
              Phe Pro Asp Glu Arg   Ala Met Asp Asp Ala Arg Lys    Phe Ala Glu Pro
                      355                   360                    365
              Tyr Leu Arg Glu Ala   Leu Ala Thr Lys Ile Ser Thr    Asn Thr Lys Leu
                  370                   375                  380
              Phe Lys Glu Ile Glu   Tyr Val Val Glu Tyr Pro Trp    His Met Ser Ile
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Pro Arg Leu Glu Ala   Arg Ser Tyr Ile Asp Ser Tyr    Asp Asp Asn Tyr
                              405                    410                   415
              Val Trp Gln Arg Lys   Thr Leu Tyr Arg Met Pro Ser    Leu Ser Asn Ser
                          420                   425                    430
              Lys Cys Leu Glu Leu   Ala Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn Ile    Val Gln Ser Leu
                      435                   440                    445
              His Gln Glu Glu Leu   Lys Leu Leu Thr Arg Trp Trp    Lys Glu Ser Gly
                  450                   455                  460
              Met Ala Asp Ile Asn   Phe Thr Arg His Arg Val Ala    Glu Val Tyr Phe
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Ser Ser Ala Thr Phe   Glu Pro Glu Tyr Ser Ala Thr    Arg Ile Ala Phe
                              485                    490                   495
              Thr Lys Ile Gly Cys   Leu Gln Val Leu Phe Asp Asp    Met Ala Asp Ile
                          500                   505                    510
              Phe Ala Thr Leu Asp   Glu Leu Lys Ser Phe Thr Glu    Gly Val Lys Arg
                      515                   520                    525
              Trp Asp Thr Ser Leu   Leu His Glu Ile Pro Glu Cys    Met Gln Thr Cys
                  530                   535                  540
              Phe Lys Val Trp Phe   Lys Leu Met Glu Glu Val Asn    Asn Asp Val Val
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Lys Val Gln Gly Arg   Asp Met Leu Ala His Ile Arg    Lys Pro Trp Glu
                                                    Page 51

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                                565                    570                 575
              Leu   Tyr Phe Asn Cys Tyr Val Gln   Glu Arg Glu Trp Leu Glu Ala    Gly
                            580                   585                  590
              Tyr   Ile Pro Thr Phe Glu Glu Tyr   Leu Lys Thr Tyr Ala Ile Ser    Val
                        595                 600                    605
              Gly   Leu Gly Pro Cys Thr Leu Gln   Pro Ile Leu Leu Met Gly Glu    Leu
                    610                 615                    620
              Val   Lys Asp Asp Val Val Glu Lys   Val His Tyr Pro Ser Asn Met    Phe
              625                   630                    635                   640
<removed-apn>
              Glu   Leu Val Ser Leu Ser Trp Arg   Leu Thr Asn Asp Thr Lys Thr    Tyr
                                645                    650                 655
              Gln   Ala Glu Lys Ala Arg Gly Gln   Gln Ala Ser Gly Ile Ala Cys    Tyr
                            660                   665                  670
              Met   Lys Asp Asn Pro Gly Ala Thr   Glu Glu Asp Ala Ile Lys His    Ile
                        675                 680                    685
              Cys   Arg Val Val Asp Arg Ala Leu   Lys Glu Ala Ser Phe Glu Tyr    Phe
                    690                 695                    700
              Lys   Pro Ser Asn Asp Ile Pro Met   Gly Cys Lys Ser Phe Ile Phe    Asn
              705                   710                    715                   720
              Leu   Arg Leu Cys Val Gln Ile Phe   Tyr Lys Phe Ile Asp Gly Tyr    Gly
                                725                    730                 735
              Ile   Ala Asn Glu Glu Ile Lys Asp   Tyr Ile Arg Lys Val Tyr Ile    Asp
                            740                   745                  750
              Pro   Ile Gln Val Gly Ser His His   His His His His
                        755                 760
              <210>   47
              <211>   783
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS1
              <400> 47
              Lys Arg Glu Phe Pro   Pro Gly Phe Trp Lys   Asp Asp Leu Ile Asp    Ser
               1                5                   10                    15
              Leu Thr Ser Ser His   Lys Val Ala Ala Ser   Asp Glu Lys Arg Ile    Glu
                           20                   25                    30
              Thr Leu Ile Ser Glu   Ile Lys Asn Met Phe   Arg Cys Met Gly Tyr    Gly
                       35                   40                    45
              Glu Thr Asn Pro Ser   Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp Val Ala Arg Ile    Pro
                  50                    55                    60
              Ala Leu Asp Gly Ser   Asp Asn Pro His Phe   Pro Glu Thr Val Glu    Trp
              65                    70                    75                     80
              Ile Leu Gln Asn Gln   Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser   Trp Gly Glu Gly Phe    Tyr
                               85                   90                    95
              Phe Leu Ala Tyr Asp   Arg Ile Leu Ala Thr   Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile    Thr
                           100                  105                   110
              Leu Thr Leu Trp Arg   Thr Gly Glu Thr Gln   Val His Lys Gly Ile    Glu
                       115                  120                   125
                                                      Page 52

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Phe Phe Arg Thr Gln   Ala Gly Lys Met Glu Asp Glu    Ala Asp Ser His
                  130                   135                  140
              Arg Pro Ser Gly Phe   Glu Ile Val Phe Pro Ala Met    Leu Lys Glu Ala
              145                   150                  155                   160
              Lys Ile Leu Gly Leu   Asp Leu Pro Tyr Asp Leu Pro    Phe Leu Lys Gln
                              165                    170                   175
              Ile Ile Glu Lys Arg   Glu Ala Lys Leu Lys Arg Ile    Pro Thr Asp Val
                          180                   185                    190
              Leu Tyr Ala Leu Pro   Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr Ser Leu    Glu Gly Leu Gln
<removed-apn>
                      195                   200                    205
              Glu Ile Val Asp Trp   Gln Lys Ile Met Lys Leu Gln    Ser Lys Asp Gly
                  210                   215                  220
              Ser Phe Leu Ser Ser   Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala Ala Val    Phe Met Arg Thr
              225                   230                  235                   240
              Gly Asn Lys Lys Cys   Leu Asp Phe Leu Asn Phe Val    Leu Lys Lys Phe
                              245                    250                   255
              Gly Asn His Val Pro   Cys His Tyr Pro Leu Asp Leu    Phe Glu Arg Leu
                          260                   265                    270
              Trp Ala Val Asp Thr   Val Glu Arg Leu Gly Ile Asp    Arg His Phe Lys
                      275                   280                    285
              Glu Glu Ile Lys Glu   Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val Tyr Ser    His Trp Asp Glu
                  290                   295                  300
              Arg Gly Ile Gly Trp   Ala Arg Glu Asn Pro Val Pro    Asp Ile Asp Asp
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Thr Ala Met Gly Leu   Arg Ile Leu Arg Leu His Gly    Tyr Asn Val Ser
                              325                    330                   335
              Ser Asp Val Leu Lys   Thr Phe Arg Asp Glu Asn Gly    Glu Phe Phe Cys
                          340                   345                    350
              Phe Leu Gly Gln Thr   Gln Arg Gly Val Thr Asp Met    Leu Asn Val Asn
                      355                   360                    365
              Arg Cys Ser His Val   Ser Phe Pro Gly Glu Thr Ile    Met Glu Glu Ala
                  370                   375                  380
              Lys Leu Cys Thr Glu   Arg Tyr Leu Arg Asn Ala Leu    Glu Asn Val Asp
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Ala Phe Asp Lys Trp   Ala Phe Lys Lys Asn Ile Arg    Gly Glu Val Glu
                              405                    410                   415
              Tyr Ala Leu Lys Tyr   Pro Trp His Lys Ser Met Pro    Arg Leu Glu Ala
                          420                   425                    430
              Arg Ser Tyr Ile Glu   Asn Tyr Gly Pro Asp Asp Val    Trp Leu Gly Lys
                      435                   440                    445
              Thr Val Tyr Met Met   Pro Tyr Ile Ser Asn Glu Lys    Tyr Leu Glu Leu
                  450                   455                  460
              Ala Lys Leu Asp Phe   Asn Lys Val Gln Ser Ile His    Gln Thr Glu Leu
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Gln Asp Leu Arg Arg   Trp Trp Lys Ser Ser Gly Phe    Thr Asp Leu Asn
                              485                    490                   495
              Phe Thr Arg Glu Arg   Val Thr Glu Ile Tyr Phe Ser    Pro Ala Ser Phe
                          500                   505                    510
              Ile Phe Glu Pro Glu   Phe Ser Lys Cys Arg Glu Val    Tyr Thr Lys Thr
                      515                   520                    525
              Ser Asn Phe Thr Val   Ile Leu Asp Asp Leu Tyr Asp    Ala His Gly Ser
                  530                   535                  540
                                                    Page 53

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Leu Asp Asp Leu Lys   Leu Phe Thr Glu Ser Val Lys    Arg Trp Asp Leu
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Ser Leu Val Asp Gln   Met Pro Gln Gln Met Lys Ile    Cys Phe Val Gly
                              565                    570                   575
              Phe Tyr Asn Thr Phe   Asn Glu Ile Ala Lys Glu Gly    Arg Glu Ser Gln
                          580                   585                    590
              Gly Arg Asp Val Leu   Gly Tyr Ile Gln Asn Val Trp    Lys Val Gln Leu
                      595                   600                    605
              Glu Ala Tyr Thr Lys   Glu Ala Glu Trp Ser Glu Ala    Lys Tyr Val Pro
<removed-apn>
                  610                   615                  620
              Ser Phe Asn Glu Tyr   Ile Glu Asn Ala Ser Val Ser    Ile Ala Leu Gly
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Thr Val Val Leu Ile   Ser Ala Leu Phe Thr Gly Glu    Val Leu Thr Asp
                              645                    650                   655
              Glu Val Leu Ser Lys   Ile Asp Arg Gly Ser Arg Phe    Leu Gln Leu Met
                          660                   665                    670
              Gly Leu Thr Gly Arg   Leu Val Asn Asp Thr Lys Thr    Tyr Gln Ala Glu
                      675                   680                    685
              Arg Gly Gln Gly Glu   Val Ala Ser Ala Ile Gln Cys    Tyr Met Lys Asp
                  690                   695                  700
              His Pro Lys Ile Ser   Glu Glu Glu Ala Leu Lys His    Val Tyr Thr Val
              705                   710                  715                   720
              Met Glu Asn Ser Leu   Glu Glu Leu Asn Arg Glu Phe    Val Asn Asn Lys
                              725                    730                   735
              Ile Pro Asp Ile Tyr   Arg Arg Leu Val Phe Glu Thr    Ala Arg Ile Met
                          740                   745                    750
              Gln Leu Phe Tyr Met   Gln Gly Asp Gly Leu Thr Leu    Ser His Asp Met
                      755                   760                    765
              Glu Ile Lys Glu His   Val Lys Asn Cys Leu Phe Gln    Pro Val Ala
                  770                   775                  780
              <210>   48
              <211>   784
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS2
              <400> 48
              Lys Arg Glu Phe Pro   Pro Gly Phe Trp Lys   Asp Asp Leu Ile Asp   Ser
               1               5                    10                    15
              Leu Thr Ser Ser His   Lys Val Ala Ala Ser   Asp Glu Lys Arg Ile   Glu
                          20                    25                    30
              Thr Leu Ile Ser Glu   Ile Lys Asn Met Phe   Arg Cys Met Gly Tyr   Gly
                       35                   40                    45
              Glu Thr Asn Pro Ser   Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp Val Ala Arg Ile   Pro
                  50                    55                    60
              Ala Leu Asp Gly Ser   Asp Asn Pro His Phe   Pro Glu Thr Val Glu   Trp
              65                    70                    75                    80
              Ile Leu Gln Asn Gln   Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser   Trp Gly Glu Gly Phe   Tyr
                                                    Page 54

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                                85                     90                  95
              Phe   Leu Ala Tyr Asp Arg Ile Leu   Ala Thr Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile    Thr
                            100                   105                  110
              Leu   Thr Leu Trp Arg Thr Gly Glu   Thr Gln Val His Lys Gly Ile    Glu
                        115                 120                    125
              Phe   Phe Arg Thr Gln Ala Gly Lys   Met Glu Asp Glu Ala Asp Ser    His
                    130                 135                    140
              Arg   Pro Ser Gly Phe Glu Ile Val   Phe Pro Ala Met Leu Lys Glu    Ala
              145                   150                    155                   160
<removed-apn>
              Lys   Ile Leu Gly Leu Asp Leu Pro   Tyr Asp Leu Pro Phe Leu Lys    Gln
                                165                    170                 175
              Ile   Ile Glu Lys Arg Glu Ala Lys   Leu Lys Arg Ile Pro Thr Asp    Val
                            180                   185                  190
              Leu   Tyr Ala Leu Pro Thr Thr Leu   Leu Tyr Ser Leu Glu Gly Leu    Gln
                        195                 200                    205
              Glu   Ile Val Asp Trp Gln Lys Ile   Met Lys Leu Gln Ser Lys Asp    Gly
                    210                 215                    220
              Ser   Phe Leu Ser Ser Pro Ala Ser   Thr Ala Ala Val Phe Met Arg    Thr
              225                   230                    235                   240
              Gly   Asn Lys Lys Cys Leu Asp Phe   Leu Asn Phe Val Leu Lys Lys    Phe
                                245                    250                 255
              Gly   Asn His Val Pro Cys His Tyr   Pro Leu Asp Leu Phe Glu Arg    Leu
                            260                   265                  270
              Trp   Ala Val Asp Thr Val Glu Arg   Leu Gly Ile Asp Arg His Phe    Lys
                        275                 280                    285
              Glu   Glu Ile Lys Asp Ala Leu Asp   Tyr Val Tyr Ser His Trp Asp    Glu
                    290                 295                    300
              Arg   Gly Ile Gly Trp Ala Arg Glu   Asn Pro Val Pro Asp Ile Asp    Asp
              305                   310                    315                   320
              Thr   Ala Met Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu   Arg Leu His Gly Tyr Asn Val    Ser
                                325                    330                 335
              Ser   Asp Val Leu Lys Thr Phe Arg   Asp Glu Asn Gly Glu Phe Phe    Cys
                            340                   345                  350
              Phe   Leu Gly Gln Thr Gln Arg Gly   Val Thr Asp Met Leu Asn Val    Asn
                        355                 360                    365
              Arg   Cys Ser His Val Ser Phe Pro   Gly Glu Thr Ile Met Glu Glu    Ala
                    370                 375                    380
              Lys   Leu Cys Thr Glu Arg Tyr Leu   Arg Asn Ala Leu Glu Asn Val    Asp
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Ala   Phe Asp Lys Trp Ala Phe Lys   Lys Asn Ile Arg Gly Glu Val    Glu
                                405                    410                 415
              Tyr   Ala Leu Lys Tyr Thr Trp His   Lys Ser Met Pro Arg Leu Glu    Ala
                            420                   425                  430
              Arg   Ser Tyr Ile Glu Asn Tyr Gly   Pro Asn Asp Ala Trp Leu Gly    Lys
                        435                 440                    445
              Thr   Val Tyr Arg Met Pro Tyr Ile   Ser Asn Glu Lys Tyr Leu Glu    Leu
                    450                 455                    460
              Ala   Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn Lys Leu   Gln Ser Ile His Gln Thr Glu    Leu
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Gln   Asp Leu Arg Arg Trp Trp Lys   Ser Ser Gly Phe Ser Lys Leu    Asn
                                485                    490                 495
              Phe   Thr Arg Glu Arg Val Thr Glu   Ile Tyr Phe Ser Ser Ala Ser    Phe
                                                      Page 55

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                          500                   505                    510
              Met Phe Glu Pro Glu Phe Ser   Lys Cys Arg Glu Val    Tyr Thr Lys Ala
                      515                   520                    525
              Ser Ile Phe Thr Leu Ile Phe   Asp Asp Leu Tyr Asp    Ala His Gly Ser
                  530                 535                    540
              Leu Asp Asp Leu Lys Leu Phe   Ser Glu Ala Val Lys    Arg Trp Asp Leu
              545                 550                    555                   560
              Ser Leu Leu Glu Arg Met Pro   Gln Glu Met Lys Ile    Cys Phe Leu Gly
                              565                    570                   575
<removed-apn>
              Phe Tyr Asn Thr Phe Asn Glu   Ile Ala Glu Glu Val    His Lys Arg Gln
                          580                   585                    590
              Gly Arg Asp Met Leu Gly His   Ile Gln Asn Val Trp    Glu Ile Leu Leu
                      595                   600                    605
              Ala Ala Tyr Thr Lys Glu Ala   Glu Trp Ser Lys Thr    Lys Tyr Val Pro
                  610                 615                    620
              Ser Phe Asp Glu Tyr Ile Glu   Asn Ala Ser Val Ser    Ile Thr Leu Gly
              625                 630                    635                   640
              Thr Ile Val Leu Ile Ser Thr   Leu Phe Ile Gly Glu    Val Leu Thr Asp
                              645                    650                   655
              His Val Leu Ser Lys Ile Asn   His Gly Ser Arg Phe    Leu His Leu Met
                          660                   665                    670
              Gly Leu Thr Gly Arg Leu Val   Asn Asp Thr Lys Thr    Tyr Gln Ala Glu
                      675                   680                    685
              Arg Gly Gln Gly Glu Glu Ala   Ser Ala Ile Gln Cys    Tyr Met Lys Asp
                  690                 695                    700
              His Pro Glu Ile Ser Glu Glu   Glu Ala Leu Asn His    Val Tyr Asn Val
              705                 710                    715                   720
              Met Glu Asn Ala Leu Gln Glu   Leu Asn Lys Glu Phe    Val Asn Asn Lys
                              725                    730                   735
              Glu Val Pro Pro Asn Cys Arg   Arg Leu Val Phe Asn    Thr Ala Arg Ile
                          740                   745                    750
              Met Gln Leu Phe Tyr Met Gln   Gly Asp Gly Leu Thr    Leu Ser His Asp
                      755                   760                    765
              Met Glu Ile Lys Asp His Val   Lys Thr Cys Leu Phe    Ile Pro Ile Ala
                  770                 775                    780
              <210>   49
              <211>   661
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS3
              <400> 49
              Lys Arg Glu Phe Pro Pro Gly Phe   Trp Lys Asp Asp Leu    Ile Asp Ser
               1               5                    10                     15
              Leu Thr Ser Ser His Lys Val Ala   Ala Ser Asp Glu Lys    Arg Ile Glu
                          20                    25                     30
              Thr Leu Ile Ser Glu Ile Lys Asn   Met Phe Arg Cys Met    Gly Tyr Gly
                       35                 40                    45
                                                    Page 56

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Glu Thr Asn Pro Ser   Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala Trp Val    Ala Arg Ile Pro
                  50                    55                   60
              Ala Leu Asp Gly Ser   Asp Asn Pro His Phe Pro Glu    Thr Val Glu Trp
              65                    70                   75                    80
              Ile Leu Gln Asn Gln   Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser Trp Gly    Glu Gly Phe Tyr
                              85                     90                    95
              Phe Leu Ala Tyr Asp   Arg Ile Leu Ala Thr Leu Ala    Cys Ile Ile Thr
                          100                   105                    110
              Leu Thr Leu Trp Arg   Thr Gly Glu Thr Gln Val His    Lys Gly Ile Glu
<removed-apn>
                      115                   120                    125
              Phe Phe Arg Thr Gln   Ala Gly Lys Met Glu Asp Glu    Ala Asp Ser His
                  130                   135                  140
              Arg Pro Ser Gly Phe   Glu Ile Val Phe Pro Ala Met    Leu Lys Glu Ala
              145                   150                  155                   160
              Lys Ile Leu Gly Leu   Asp Leu Pro Tyr Asp Leu Pro    Phe Leu Lys Gln
                              165                    170                   175
              Ile Ile Glu Lys Arg   Glu Ala Lys Leu Lys Arg Ile    Pro Thr Asp Val
                          180                   185                    190
              Leu Tyr Ala Leu Pro   Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr Ser Leu    Glu Gly Leu Gln
                      195                   200                    205
              Glu Ile Val Asp Trp   Gln Lys Ile Met Lys Leu Gln    Ser Lys Asp Gly
                  210                   215                  220
              Ser Phe Leu Ser Ser   Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala Ala Val    Phe Met Arg Thr
              225                   230                  235                   240
              Gly Asn Lys Lys Cys   Leu Asp Phe Leu Asn Phe Val    Leu Lys Lys Phe
                              245                    250                   255
              Gly Asn His Val Pro   Cys His Tyr Pro Leu Asp Leu    Phe Glu Arg Leu
                          260                   265                    270
              Trp Ala Val Asp Thr   Val Glu Arg Leu Gly Ile Asp    Arg His Phe Lys
                      275                   280                    285
              Glu Glu Ile Lys Glu   Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val Tyr Ser    His Trp Asp Glu
                  290                   295                  300
              Arg Gly Ile Gly Trp   Ala Arg Glu Asn Pro Val Pro    Asp Ile Asp Asp
              305                   310                  315                   320
              Thr Ala Met Gly Leu   Arg Ile Leu Arg Leu His Gly    Tyr Asn Val Ser
                              325                    330                   335
              Ser Asp Val Leu Lys   Thr Phe Arg Asp Glu Asn Gly    Glu Phe Phe Cys
                          340                   345                    350
              Phe Leu Gly Gln Thr   Gln Arg Gly Val Thr Asp Met    Leu Asn Val Asn
                      355                   360                    365
              Arg Cys Ser His Val   Ser Phe Pro Gly Glu Thr Ile    Met Glu Glu Ala
                  370                   375                  380
              Lys Leu Cys Thr Glu   Arg Tyr Leu Arg Asn Ala Leu    Glu Asn Val Asp
              385                   390                  395                   400
              Ala Phe Asp Lys Trp   Ala Phe Lys Lys Asn Ile Arg    Gly Glu Val Glu
                              405                    410                   415
              Tyr Ala Leu Lys Tyr   Pro Trp His Lys Ser Met Pro    Arg Leu Glu Ala
                          420                   425                    430
              Arg Ser Tyr Ile Glu   Asn Tyr Gly Gln Asn Asp Leu    Trp Leu Gly Lys
                      435                   440                    445
              Ser Leu Tyr Met Met   Pro Tyr Ile Ser Asn Glu Lys    Tyr Leu Glu Leu
                  450                   455                  460
                                                    Page 57

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Ala Lys Leu Asp Phe   Asn Lys Val Gln Ser Ile His    Gln Lys Glu Leu
              465                   470                  475                   480
              Gln Asp Leu Arg Arg   Trp Trp Lys Ser Ser Gly Phe    Thr Asp Leu Asn
                              485                    490                   495
              Phe Thr Arg Glu Arg   Val Thr Glu Ile Tyr Phe Ser    Pro Ala Ser Phe
                          500                   505                    510
              Ile Phe Glu Pro Glu   Phe Ser Lys Cys Arg Glu Val    Tyr Thr Lys Thr
                      515                   520                    525
              Ser Asn Phe Thr Val   Ile Leu Asp Asp Leu Tyr Asp    Ala His Gly Ser
<removed-apn>
                  530                   535                  540
              Leu Asp Asp Leu Lys   Leu Phe Ser Glu Ser Val Lys    Arg Trp Asp Leu
              545                   550                  555                   560
              Ser Leu Ile Asp Gly   Met Pro Gln Glu Met Lys Thr    Cys Phe Lys Gly
                              565                    570                   575
              Leu Tyr Asn Thr Phe   Asn Glu Ile Ala Glu Glu Gly    Cys Lys Arg Gln
                          580                   585                    590
              Gly His Asp Val Leu   Gly Tyr Ile Arg Asn Val Trp    Glu Ile Gln Leu
                      595                   600                    605
              Ala Ala Tyr Thr Lys   Glu Ala Glu Trp Ser Glu Ala    Lys Tyr Val Pro
                  610                   615                  620
              Ser Phe Asn Glu Tyr   Ile Glu Asn Ala Ser Val Ser    Ile Ala Leu Gly
              625                   630                  635                   640
              Thr Val Val Leu Ile   Ser Val Leu Phe Val Gly Ser    Ser Tyr Arg Ser
                              645                    650                   655
              Asn Thr Phe Lys Asn
                          660
              <210>   50
              <211>   781
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS4
              <400> 50
              Asn Arg Glu Phe Pro   Pro Ser Phe Trp Asn   Asn Asp Ile Ile Asn   Ser
               1               5                    10                    15
              Ile Thr Ala Ser His   Lys Val Gln Thr Gly   Asp Arg Lys Arg Ile   Gln
                          20                    25                    30
              Thr Leu Ile Ser Glu   Ile Lys Asn Val Phe   Asn Ser Met Gly Asp   Gly
                       35                   40                    45
              Glu Thr Ser Pro Ser   Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp Val Ala Arg Ile   Pro
                  50                    55                    60
              Ala Val Asp Gly Ser   Glu Gln Pro Gln Phe   Pro Gln Thr Leu Glu   Trp
              65                    70                    75                    80
              Ile Leu Gln Asn Gln   Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser   Trp Gly Glu Glu Phe   Tyr
                              85                    90                    95
              Phe Leu Ala Tyr Asp   Arg Leu Leu Ala Thr   Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile   Thr
                          100                   105                   110
              Leu Thr Ile Trp Arg   Thr Gly Asn Val Gln   Leu His Lys Gly Ile   Glu
                                                    Page 58

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                      115                   120                    125
              Phe Phe Arg Lys Gln Val   Val Arg Met Asp Asp Glu    Ala Asp Asn His
                  130                   135                  140
              Arg Pro Ser Gly Phe Glu   Ile Val Phe Pro Ala Met    Leu Asn Glu Ala
              145                 150                    155                   160
              Lys Ser Leu Gly Leu Asp   Leu Pro Tyr Glu Leu Pro    Phe Ile Glu Gln
                              165                    170                   175
              Met Val Lys Lys Arg Glu   Ala Lys Leu Lys Met Ile    Thr Thr Asn Val
                          180                   185                    190
<removed-apn>
              Leu Tyr Thr Ile Gln Thr   Thr Leu Leu Tyr Ser Leu    Glu Gly Leu His
                      195                   200                    205
              Glu Ile Val Asp Phe Asp   Lys Ile Ile Lys Leu Gln    Ser Lys Asp Gly
                  210                   215                  220
              Ser Phe Leu Gly Ser Pro   Ala Ser Thr Ala Ala Val    Phe Met Gln Thr
              225                 230                    235                   240
              Gly Asn Thr Lys Cys Leu   Glu Phe Leu Glu Phe Val    Leu Arg Lys Phe
                              245                    250                   255
              Arg Asn His Val Pro Ser   Asp Tyr Pro Leu Asp Leu    Phe Glu Arg Leu
                          260                   265                    270
              Trp Val Val Asp Thr Val   Glu Arg Leu Gly Ile Asp    Arg His Phe Lys
                      275                   280                    285
              Lys Glu Ile Lys Asp Ala   Leu Asp Tyr Val Tyr Ser    Cys Trp Asp Glu
                  290                   295                  300
              Arg Gly Ile Gly Trp Ala   Lys Asp Ser Pro Ile Ala    Asp Ile Asp Asp
              305                 310                    315                   320
              Thr Ala Met Gly Leu Arg   Ile Leu Arg Leu His Gly    Tyr Asn Val Ser
                              325                    330                   335
              Pro Asp Val Leu Lys Thr   Phe Lys Asp Glu Asn Gly    Glu Phe Phe Cys
                          340                   345                    350
              Phe Met Gly Gln Thr Gln   Arg Gly Val Thr Asp Met    Leu Asn Val Tyr
                      355                   360                    365
              Arg Cys Ser Gln Val Ala   Phe Pro Gly Glu Thr Ile    Met Glu Glu Ala
                  370                   375                  380
              Lys Leu Cys Thr Glu Arg   Tyr Leu Arg Asn Ala Leu    Glu Asn Ala Asp
              385                 390                    395                   400
              Ala Phe Asp Lys Trp Ala   Ile Lys Lys Asn Ile Arg    Gly Glu Val Glu
                              405                    410                   415
              Tyr Ala Leu Lys Tyr Pro   Trp His Arg Ser Met Pro    Arg Leu Glu Val
                          420                   425                    430
              Arg Ser Tyr Ile Gly Asn   Tyr Gly Pro Asn Asp Val    Trp Leu Gly Lys
                      435                   440                    445
              Ser Leu Tyr Met Met Pro   Tyr Ile Ser Asn Glu Lys    Tyr Leu Glu Leu
                  450                   455                  460
              Ala Lys Leu Asp Phe Asn   Ser Val Gln Ser Leu His    Gln Glu Glu Ile
              465                 470                    475                   480
              Arg Glu Leu Val Arg Trp   Cys Lys Ser Ser Gly Phe    Thr Glu Leu Lys
                              485                    490                   495
              Phe Thr Arg Asp Arg Val   Val Glu Thr Tyr Phe Ala    Val Ala Ser Ser
                          500                   505                    510
              Met Phe Glu Pro Glu Phe   Ser Thr Cys Arg Ala Val    Tyr Thr Lys Ile
                      515                   520                    525
              Ser Val Leu Leu Val Ile   Leu Asp Asp Leu Tyr Asp    Gly Tyr Gly Ser
                                                    Page 59

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                  530                   535                  540
              Pro Asp Glu Ile Lys   Leu Phe Ser Glu Ala Val Lys      Arg Trp Asp Leu
              545                   550                  555                     560
              Ser Leu Leu Glu Gln   Met Pro Asp His Met Lys Ile      Cys Phe Leu Gly
                              565                    570                     575
              Leu Tyr Asn Thr Val   Asn Glu Val Ala Glu Glu Gly      Arg Lys Thr Gln
                          580                   585                      590
              Gly His Asp Val Leu   Gly Tyr Ile Arg Asn Leu Trp      Glu Ile Gln Leu
                      595                   600                      605
<removed-apn>
              Ala Ala Phe Thr Arg   Glu Ala Glu Trp Ser Gln Gly      Lys Tyr Val Pro
                  610                   615                  620
              Ser Phe Asp Glu Tyr   Ile Glu Asn Ala Gln Val Ser      Ile Gly Val Ala
              625                   630                  635                     640
              Thr Ile Leu Leu Ile   Thr Ile Leu Phe Thr Glu Glu      Asp Asp Ile Leu
                              645                    650                     655
              Ser His Ile Asp Tyr   Gly Ser Lys Phe Leu Arg Leu      Ala Ser Leu Thr
                          660                   665                      670
              Ala Arg Leu Ala Asn   Asp Ile Lys Thr Tyr Gln Glu      Glu Arg Ala His
                      675                   680                      685
              Gly Glu Val Val Ser   Ala Ile Gln Cys Tyr Met Lys      Asp Arg Pro Glu
                  690                   695                  700
              Ile Thr Glu Glu Glu   Ala Leu Lys Tyr Val Tyr Gly      Arg Met Val Asn
              705                   710                  715                     720
              Asp Leu Ala Glu Leu   Asn Ser Glu Tyr Leu Lys Ser      Asn Glu Met Pro
                              725                    730                     735
              Gln Asn Cys Lys Arg   Leu Val Phe Asp Thr Ala Arg      Val Ala Gln Leu
                          740                   745                      750
              Phe Thr Met Glu Gly   Asp Gly Leu Thr Tyr Ser Asp      Thr Met Glu Ile
                      755                   760                      765
              Lys Glu His Ile Lys   Lys Cys Leu Phe Glu Pro Ala      Thr
                  770                   775                  780
              <210>   51
              <211>   2352
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS1
              <400> 51
              aaacgagaat   ttcctccagg   attttggaag   gatgatctta   tcgattctct   gacgtcctct   60
              cacaaggttg   cagcatcaga   cgagaagcgt   atcgagacat   taatatccga   gattaagaat   120
              atgtttagat   gtatgggcta   tggcgaaacg   aatccctctg   catatgacac   tgcttgggta   180
              gcaaggattc   cagcacttga   tggctctgac   aaccctcact   ttcctgagac   agttgaatgg   240
              attcttcaaa   atcagttgaa   agatgggtct   tggggtgaag   gattctactt   cttggcatat   300
              gacagaatac   tggctacact   tgcatgtatt   attacgctta   ccctctggcg   tactggggag   360
              acacaagtac   acaaaggtat   tgaattcttc   aggacacaag   ctggaaagat   ggaagatgaa   420
              gctgatagtc   ataggccaag   tggatttgaa   atagtatttc   ctgcaatgct   aaaggaagct   480
              aaaatcttag   ggttggatct   gccttacgat   ttgccattcc   tgaaacaaat   catcgaaaag   540
              cgggaggcta   agcttaaaag   gattcccact   gatgttctct   atgcccttcc   aacaacgtta   600
                                                        Page 60

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              ttgtattctt   tggaaggttt   gcaagaaata   gtagactggc agaaaataat     gaaacttcaa   660
              tccaaggatg   gatcatttct   cagctctccg   gcatctacag cggctgtatt     catgcgtaca   720
              gggaacaaaa   agtgcttgga   tttcttgaac   tttgtcttga agaaattcgg     aaaccatgtg   780
              ccttgtcact   atccgcttga   tctatttgaa   cgtttgtggg cggttgatac     cgttgagcgg   840
              ctaggtatcg   atcgccattt   caaagaggag   atcaaggaag cattggatta     tgtttacagc   900
              cattgggacg   aaagaggcat   tggatgggcg   agagagaatc ctgttcctga     tattgatgat   960
              acagccatgg   gccttcgaat   cttgagacta   catggataca atgtatcctc     agatgtttta   1020
              aaaacattta   gagatgagaa   tggtgagttc   ttttgcttct tgggtcaaac     acagagagga   1080
              gttaccgaca   tgttaaacgt   caatcgttgt   tcacatgttt catttccggg     agaaacgatc   1140
<removed-apn>
              atggaagaag   caaaactctg   taccgaaagg   tatctgagga atgctctgga     aaatgtggat   1200
              gcctttgaca   aatgggcttt   taaaaagaat   attcggggag aggtagagta     tgcactcaaa   1260
              tatccctggc   ataagagtat   gccaaggttg   gaggctagaa gctatattga     aaactatggg   1320
              ccagatgatg   tgtggcttgg   aaaaactgta   tatatgatgc catacatttc     caatgaaaag   1380
              tatttagaac   tagcgaaact   ggacttcaat   aaggtgcagt ctatacacca     aacagagctt   1440
              caagatcttc   gaaggtggtg   gaaatcatcc   ggtttcacgg atctgaattt     cactcgtgag   1500
              cgtgtgacgg   aaatatattt   ctcaccggca   tcctttatct ttgagccgga     gttttctaag   1560
              tgcagagaag   tttatacaaa   aacttccaat   ttcactgtta ttttagatga     tctttatgac   1620
              gcccatggat   ctttagacga   tcttaagttg   ttcacagaat cagtcaaaag     atgggatcta   1680
              tcattagtgg   accaaatgcc   acaacaaatg   aaaatatgct ttgtgggttt     ctacaatact   1740
              tttaatgaaa   tagcaaaaga   aggacgtgag   agccaagggc gcgatgtgct     aggctacatt   1800
              caaaatgttt   ggaaagtcca   acttgaagct   tacactaaag aagcagaatg     gtctgaagct   1860
              aaatatgtgc   catccttcaa   tgaatacata   gagaacgcga gtgtgtcaat     agcattggga   1920
              acagtggttc   tcattagtgc   tcttttcact   ggggaagttc ttacagatga     agtactctcc   1980
              aaaattgatc   gcggatctag   atttcttcaa   ctcatgggct taacagggcg     tttggtgaat   2040
              gacaccaaaa   cttatcaggc   agagagaggt   caaggtgagg tggcttctgc     catacaatgt   2100
              tatatgaaag   accatcctaa   aatctccgaa   gaagaagctc tcaaacatgt     ctatactgtc   2160
              atggaaaatt   ccctcgaaga   gttgaatagg   gagtttgtga ataacaaaat     accggatatt   2220
              tacagaagac   tggtttttga   aactgcaaga   ataatgcaac tgttttatat     gcaaggggat   2280
              ggtttgacac   tatcacatga   tatggaaatt   aaagagcatg tcaaaaattg     cctcttccaa   2340
              ccagttgcct   ag                                                               2352
              <210>   52
              <211>   2355
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS2
              <400> 52
              aaacgagaat   ttcctccagg   attttggaag   gatgatctta   tcgattctct   gacgtcctct   60
              cacaaggttg   cagcatcaga   cgagaagcgt   atcgagacat   taatatccga   gattaagaat   120
              atgtttagat   gtatgggcta   tggcgaaacg   aatccctctg   catatgacac   tgcttgggta   180
              gcaaggattc   cagcacttga   tggctctgac   aaccctcact   ttcctgagac   agttgaatgg   240
              attcttcaaa   atcagttgaa   agatgggtct   tggggtgaag   gattctactt   cttggcatat   300
              gacagaatac   tggctacact   tgcatgtatt   attacgctta   ccctctggcg   tactggggag   360
              acacaagtac   acaaaggtat   tgaattcttc   aggacacaag   ctggaaagat   ggaagatgaa   420
              gctgatagtc   ataggccaag   tggatttgaa   atagtatttc   ctgcaatgct   aaaggaagct   480
              aaaatcttag   ggttggatct   gccttacgat   ttgccattcc   tgaaacaaat   catcgaaaag   540
              cgggaggcta   agcttaaaag   gattcccact   gatgttctct   atgcccttcc   aacaacgtta   600
              ttgtattctt   tggaaggttt   gcaagaaata   gtagactggc   agaaaataat   gaaacttcaa   660
              tccaaggatg   gatcatttct   cagctctccg   gcatctacag   cggctgtatt   catgcgtaca   720
                                                        Page 61

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              gggaacaaaa   agtgcttgga   tttcttgaac   tttgtcttga agaaattcgg     aaaccatgtg   780
              ccttgtcact   atccgcttga   tctatttgaa   cgcttgtggg ccgttgatac     tgttgagcgg   840
              ctaggtatcg   atcgccattt   caaagaggag   atcaaggacg cattggatta     tgtttacagc   900
              cattgggacg   aaagaggcat   tggatgggcg   agagagaatc ctgttcctga     tattgatgat   960
              acagccatgg   gccttcgaat   attgagactg   catggataca atgtatcctc     agatgtttta   1020
              aaaacattta   gagatgagaa   tggggagttc   ttttgcttct tgggtcaaac     acagagagga   1080
              gttacagaca   tgttaaacgt   caatcgttgt   tcacatgttt catttccggg     agaaacgatc   1140
              atggaagaag   caaaactctg   caccgaaagg   tatctgagga atgctctgga     aaatgtggat   1200
              gcctttgaca   aatgggcttt   taaaaagaat   attcggggag aggtggagta     cgcactcaaa   1260
<removed-apn>
              tatacttggc   ataagagtat   gccaaggctg   gaggctagaa gttacattga     aaactatggg   1320
              ccaaatgatg   cgtggcttgg   caaaactgta   tataggatgc catacatttc     caatgaaaag   1380
              tatttagaac   tagcaaaact   ggacttcaat   aagctccagt ctatacacca     aacagagctt   1440
              caagatcttc   gaaggtggtg   gaaatcatcg   ggtttctcaa agctaaattt     cactcgcgag   1500
              cgtgtcacag   aaatatattt   ttcatccgca   tcttttatgt ttgagccgga     gttttctaag   1560
              tgtagagaag   tttatacaaa   agcttccatt   ttcacactta ttttcgatga     tctttatgac   1620
              gcccatggat   ctttagacga   tcttaagttg   ttttccgaag cagtcaaaag     atgggatcta   1680
              tcactactag   agagaatgcc   acaagaaatg   aaaatatgct tcctgggttt     ctacaataca   1740
              tttaatgaaa   tagctgaaga   agtacacaag   aggcaagggc gtgacatgct     aggtcacatt   1800
              caaaatgttt   gggaaatctt   gctggcagct   tacacgaaag aagcagaatg     gtctaaaact   1860
              aaatatgtgc   catccttcga   tgaatacata   gagaatgcga gtgtgtcaat     aacactggga   1920
              acaattgttc   tcataagtac   tcttttcatc   ggggaggttc ttacagatca     tgtactctcc   1980
              aaaattaatc   atggatccag   atttctacac   ctcatgggct taacagggcg     tttggtgaat   2040
              gacaccaaaa   cttatcaggc   tgagagaggt   caaggtgagg aggcttctgc     catacaatgt   2100
              tatatgaagg   accatcctga   aatctctgaa   gaagaagctc tgaatcatgt     ctataatgtc   2160
              atggaaaatg   ctctccaaga   gttgaataag   gaatttgtga ataacaaaga     agtcccaccc   2220
              aattgtagga   ggttggtttt   taacactgca   agaatcatgc agttgtttta     tatgcaaggg   2280
              gatggtttga   cactttcaca   tgacatggaa   attaaagatc atgtcaaaac     ctgtctcttc   2340
              ataccgattg   cgtag                                                            2355
              <210>   53
              <211>   1986
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS3
              <400> 53
              aaacgagaat   ttcctccagg   attttggaag   gatgatctta   tcgattctct   gacgtcctct   60
              cacaaggttg   cagcatcaga   cgagaagcgt   atcgagacat   taatatccga   gattaagaat   120
              atgtttagat   gtatgggcta   tggcgaaacg   aatccctctg   catatgacac   tgcttgggta   180
              gcaaggattc   cagcacttga   tggctctgac   aaccctcact   ttcctgagac   agttgaatgg   240
              attcttcaaa   atcagttgaa   agatgggtct   tggggtgaag   gattctactt   cttggcatat   300
              gacagaatac   tggctacact   tgcatgtatt   attacgctta   ccctctggcg   tactggggag   360
              acacaagtac   acaaaggtat   tgaattcttc   aggacacaag   ctggaaagat   ggaagatgaa   420
              gctgatagtc   ataggccaag   tggatttgaa   atagtatttc   ctgcaatgct   aaaggaagct   480
              aaaatcttag   ggttggatct   gccttacgat   ttgccattcc   tgaaacaaat   catcgaaaag   540
              cgggaggcta   agcttaaaag   gattcccact   gatgttctct   atgcccttcc   aacaacgtta   600
              ttgtattctt   tggaaggttt   gcaagaaata   gtagactggc   agaaaataat   gaaacttcaa   660
              tccaaggatg   gatcatttct   cagctctccg   gcatctacag   cggctgtatt   catgcgtaca   720
              gggaacaaaa   agtgcttgga   tttcttgaac   tttgtcttga   agaaattcgg   aaaccatgtg   780
              ccttgtcact   atccgcttga   tctatttgaa   cgtttgtggg   cggttgatac   cgttgagcgg   840
                                                        Page 62

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              ctaggtatcg   atcgccattt   caaagaggag   atcaaggaag cattggatta     tgtttacagc   900
              cattgggacg   aaagaggcat   tggatgggcg   agagagaatc ctgttcctga     tattgatgat   960
              acagccatgg   gccttcgaat   cttgagacta   catggataca atgtatcctc     agatgtttta   1020
              aaaacattta   gagatgagaa   tggtgagttc   ttttgcttct tgggtcaaac     acagagagga   1080
              gttaccgaca   tgttaaacgt   caatcgttgt   tcacatgttt catttccggg     agaaacgatc   1140
              atggaagaag   caaaactctg   taccgaaagg   tatctgagga atgctctgga     aaatgtggac   1200
              gcctttgaca   aatgggcttt   taaaaagaat   attcggggag aggtggagta     tgcactcaaa   1260
              tatccttggc   ataagagtat   gccaaggctg   gaggccagaa gctacattga     aaactatggg   1320
              cagaatgatt   tgtggttggg   caaaagttta   tatatgatgc catatatttc     caatgaaaag   1380
<removed-apn>
              tatttagaac   tagcgaaact   ggacttcaat   aaggtgcagt ctatacacca     aaaagagctt   1440
              caagatcttc   gaaggtggtg   gaaatcatcc   ggtttcacgg atctgaattt     cactcgtgag   1500
              cgtgtgacgg   aaatatattt   ctcaccggca   tcctttattt ttgagccgga     gttttctaag   1560
              tgcagagaag   tttatacaaa   aacttccaat   ttcacagtta ttttagatga     tctttatgac   1620
              gcccatggat   ctctagacga   tcttaagttg   ttttccgaat cagtcaaaag     atgggatctc   1680
              tcactaatag   atggaatgcc   acaagaaatg   aaaacatgtt tcaagggttt     atacaatact   1740
              ttcaatgaaa   tagcagaaga   aggatgcaag   aggcaggggc atgatgtcct     aggctacatt   1800
              agaaatgttt   gggaaatcca   gttggcagct   tacacaaaag aagcagaatg     gtctgaagct   1860
              aaatatgttc   cgtcctttaa   tgaatacata   gagaatgcga gtgtgtcaat     agcactcgga   1920
              acggtcgttc   tcattagtgt   tctttttgtg   gggagttctt acagatcaaa     tactttcaaa   1980
              aattaa                                                                        1986
              <210>   54
              <211>   2346
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS4
              <400> 54
              aatcgagaat   ttcctccttc   attttggaat   aatgatatta   tcaattcaat   aacggcgtca   60
              cacaaggttc   aaacagggga   ccggaagcgt   atccagacat   taatatctga   aattaaaaat   120
              gtgtttaatt   ctatgggcga   tggagaaacg   agtccctctg   catatgacac   cgcttgggta   180
              gcgaggattc   cagcggttga   tggctctgaa   caacctcagt   ttcctcagac   acttgaatgg   240
              attctacaaa   atcagttgaa   agatgggtct   tggggtgaag   aattctactt   cttagcatat   300
              gacagattac   tggctaccct   tgcatgcatt   attaccctca   ccatatggag   aactggcaac   360
              gtacaactgc   ataaaggcat   tgaattcttc   aggaagcaag   ttgtaaggat   ggatgatgaa   420
              gctgataacc   accggccaag   tggatttgaa   atagtctttc   ctgctatgtt   aaatgaagca   480
              aaaagtttag   gattggatct   gccttatgaa   ttgccgttca   ttgaacaaat   ggttaaaaag   540
              cgggaggcta   agcttaaaat   gattaccacg   aatgtcctgt   ataccattca   aacaacatta   600
              ctttactctc   tggaaggctt   gcatgaaata   gtagactttg   ataaaataat   caaacttcaa   660
              tccaaggatg   gatcattcct   cggctccccg   gcatctacag   cggctgtatt   catgcaaaca   720
              gggaacacta   aatgcttgga   attcttggag   ttcgttttaa   ggaaatttag   aaaccatgtg   780
              cctagcgact   atcccctcga   tctatttgaa   cgtctttggg   tcgttgacac   ggttgaacga   840
              ctagggattg   atcgccattt   caaaaaggag   atcaaggacg   cattggatta   tgtgtacagc   900
              tgttgggacg   aaagaggcat   tggctgggcg   aaagacagcc   ctatagccga   tattgatgat   960
              acagccatgg   gccttcgaat   cttgaggctg   catggataca   atgtatcccc   agatgtttta   1020
              aaaactttca   aagatgagaa   tggagagttc   ttttgcttca   tgggtcaaac   acagagggga   1080
              gttacggaca   tgctaaacgt   ttatcgctgt   tcacaagttg   cttttccggg   agaaacgatc   1140
              atggaagaag   caaaactctg   tactgaaagg   tatctgcgca   acgctctgga   aaatgcggac   1200
              gcctttgaca   aatgggctat   taaaaagaat   attcgagggg   aggtggagta   cgcactcaag   1260
              tatccctggc   atagaagtat   gccaaggctg   gaggtgagaa   gctacattgg   aaattacggg   1320
                                                        Page 63

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              ccaaacgatg   tctggcttgg   aaagtctttg   tatatgatgc catacattag   caacgaaaaa   1380
              tatttggaat   tggcaaaact   ggacttcaat   agtgtgcaat ctctacacca   agaggagatt   1440
              cgagagcttg   tgaggtggtg   taaatcatca   ggtttcacag agctcaagtt   cacacgcgac   1500
              cgtgtagttg   aaacatattt   cgcagttgcg   tctagtatgt ttgagcccga   gttctctacc   1560
              tgtagagccg   tttatacaaa   aatttccgtt   ctcctcgtca ttttagacga   cctttacgat   1620
              gggtatggat   ctccagacga   aatcaaactg   ttctcggaag cagtcaaaag   atgggatctc   1680
              tctttgttag   aacaaatgcc   cgaccacatg   aaaatctgct tcctgggatt   gtacaacaca   1740
              gttaatgaag   tagctgaaga   aggacgcaag   acacagggcc atgatgtgct   aggctacatt   1800
              cgaaacttgt   gggagatcca   gctcgcagct   ttcaccagag aagcagaatg   gtctcaaggg   1860
<removed-apn>
              aaatacgtgc   cgtcttttga   tgaatacata   gagaacgccc aagtatcaat   aggtgtagca   1920
              actatacttc   ttataactat   tcttttcact   gaagaggatg acattctctc   ccatattgat   1980
              tacggatcca   aatttctccg   tctcgctagc   ttgacagcac gtttagcgaa   cgacatcaaa   2040
              acataccagg   aggagagagc   tcatggcgag   gtggtttcgg ctatacagtg   ttatatgaag   2100
              gatcgtcctg   aaattacaga   ggaagaagct   ctcaaatatg tctatggtcg   aatggttaac   2160
              gatctcgcag   agttaaattc   tgaatacttg   aaatctaatg aaatgcccca   aaattgcaag   2220
              agactggttt   ttgacactgc   aagagtagcg   cagttgttta ctatggaggg   agacggtttg   2280
              acatattcag   atactatgga   aattaaagaa   cacatcaaaa agtgcctctt   cgagccggct   2340
              acctaa                                                                      2346
              <210>   55
              <211>   781
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS4
              <400> 55
              Met Arg Glu Phe Pro    Pro Ser Phe Trp Asn   Asn Asp Ile Ile Asn    Ser
               1                5                    10                    15
              Ile Thr Ala Ser His    Lys Val Gln Thr Gly   Asp Arg Lys Arg Ile    Gln
                           20                    25                    30
              Thr Leu Ile Ser Glu    Ile Lys Asn Val Phe   Asn Ser Met Gly Asp   Gly
                       35                    40                    45
              Glu Thr Ser Pro Ser    Ala Tyr Asp Thr Ala   Trp Val Ala Arg Ile   Pro
                  50                     55                    60
              Ala Val Asp Gly Ser    Glu Gln Pro Gln Phe   Pro Gln Thr Leu Glu   Trp
              65                     70                    75                    80
              Ile Leu Gln Asn Gln    Leu Lys Asp Gly Ser   Trp Gly Glu Glu Phe   Tyr
                               85                    90                    95
              Phe Leu Ala Tyr Asp    Arg Leu Leu Ala Thr   Leu Ala Cys Ile Ile    Thr
                           100                   105                   110
              Leu Thr Ile Trp Arg    Thr Gly Asn Val Gln   Leu His Lys Gly Ile   Glu
                       115                   120                   125
              Phe Phe Arg Lys Gln    Val Val Arg Met Asp   Asp Glu Ala Asp Asn   His
                  130                    135                   140
              Arg Pro Ser Gly Phe    Glu Ile Val Phe Pro   Ala Met Leu Asn Glu   Ala
              145                    150                   155                   160
              Lys Ser Leu Gly Leu    Asp Leu Pro Tyr Glu   Leu Pro Phe Ile Glu   Gln
                               165                   170                   175
              Met Val Lys Lys Arg    Glu Ala Lys Leu Lys   Met Ile Thr Thr Asn   Val
                           180                   185                   190
                                                        Page 64

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Leu Tyr Thr   Ile Gln Thr Thr Leu   Leu Tyr Ser Leu Glu    Gly Leu His
                      195                   200                    205
              Glu Ile Val   Asp Phe Asp Lys Ile   Ile Lys Leu Gln Ser    Lys Asp Gly
                  210                   215                    220
              Ser Phe Leu   Gly Ser Pro Ala Ser   Thr Ala Ala Val Phe    Met Gln Thr
              225                   230                    235                   240
              Gly Asn Thr   Lys Cys Leu Glu Phe   Leu Glu Phe Val Leu    Arg Lys Phe
                                245                    250                   255
              Arg Asn His   Val Pro Ser Asp Tyr   Pro Leu Asp Leu Phe    Glu Arg Leu
<removed-apn>
                            260                   265                    270
              Trp Val Val   Asp Thr Val Glu Arg   Leu Gly Ile Asp Arg    His Phe Lys
                      275                   280                    285
              Lys Glu Ile   Lys Asp Ala Leu Asp   Tyr Val Tyr Ser Cys    Trp Asp Glu
                  290                   295                    300
              Arg Gly Ile   Gly Trp Ala Lys Asp   Ser Pro Ile Ala Asp    Ile Asp Asp
              305                   310                    315                   320
              Thr Ala Met   Gly Leu Arg Ile Leu   Arg Leu His Gly Tyr    Asn Val Ser
                                325                    330                   335
              Pro Asp Val   Leu Lys Thr Phe Lys   Asp Glu Asn Gly Glu    Phe Phe Cys
                            340                   345                    350
              Phe Met Gly   Gln Thr Gln Arg Gly   Val Thr Asp Met Leu    Asn Val Tyr
                      355                   360                    365
              Arg Cys Ser   Gln Val Ala Phe Pro   Gly Glu Thr Ile Met    Glu Glu Ala
                  370                   375                    380
              Lys Leu Cys   Thr Glu Arg Tyr Leu   Arg Asn Ala Leu Glu    Asn Ala Asp
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Ala Phe Asp   Lys Trp Ala Ile Lys   Lys Asn Ile Arg Gly    Glu Val Glu
                                405                    410                   415
              Tyr Ala Leu   Lys Tyr Pro Trp His   Arg Ser Met Pro Arg    Leu Glu Val
                            420                   425                    430
              Arg Ser Tyr   Ile Gly Asn Tyr Gly   Pro Asn Asp Val Trp    Leu Gly Lys
                      435                   440                    445
              Ser Leu Tyr   Met Met Pro Tyr Ile   Ser Asn Glu Lys Tyr    Leu Glu Leu
                  450                   455                    460
              Ala Lys Leu   Asp Phe Asn Ser Val   Gln Ser Leu His Gln    Glu Glu Ile
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Arg Glu Leu   Val Arg Trp Cys Lys   Ser Ser Gly Phe Thr    Glu Leu Lys
                                485                    490                   495
              Phe Thr Arg   Asp Arg Val Val Glu   Thr Tyr Phe Ala Val    Ala Ser Ser
                            500                   505                    510
              Met Phe Glu   Pro Glu Phe Ser Thr   Cys Arg Ala Val Tyr    Thr Lys Ile
                      515                   520                    525
              Ser Val Leu   Leu Val Ile Leu Asp   Asp Leu Tyr Asp Gly    Tyr Gly Ser
                  530                   535                    540
              Pro Asp Glu   Ile Lys Leu Phe Ser   Glu Ala Val Lys Arg    Trp Asp Leu
              545                   550                    555                   560
              Ser Leu Leu   Glu Gln Met Pro Asp   His Met Lys Ile Cys    Phe Leu Gly
                                565                    570                   575
              Leu Tyr Asn   Thr Val Asn Glu Val   Ala Glu Glu Gly Arg    Lys Thr Gln
                            580                   585                    590
              Gly His Asp   Val Leu Gly Tyr Ile   Arg Asn Leu Trp Glu    Ile Gln Leu
                      595                   600                    605
                                                      Page 65

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Ala Ala Phe Thr Arg   Glu Ala Glu Trp Ser Gln Gly       Lys Tyr Val Pro
                  610                   615                  620
              Ser Phe Asp Glu Tyr   Ile Glu Asn Ala Gln Val Ser      Ile Gly Val Ala
              625                   630                  635                     640
              Thr Ile Leu Leu Ile   Thr Ile Leu Phe Thr Glu Glu      Asp Asp Ile Leu
                              645                    650                     655
              Ser His Ile Asp Tyr   Gly Ser Lys Phe Leu Arg Leu      Ala Ser Leu Thr
                          660                   665                      670
              Ala Arg Leu Ala Asn   Asp Ile Lys Thr Tyr Gln Glu      Glu Arg Ala His
<removed-apn>
                      675                   680                      685
              Gly Glu Val Val Ser   Ala Ile Gln Cys Tyr Met Lys      Asp Arg Pro Glu
                  690                   695                  700
              Ile Thr Glu Glu Glu   Ala Leu Lys Tyr Val Tyr Gly      Arg Met Val Asn
              705                   710                  715                     720
              Asp Leu Ala Glu Leu   Asn Ser Glu Tyr Leu Lys Ser      Asn Glu Met Pro
                              725                    730                     735
              Gln Asn Cys Lys Arg   Leu Val Phe Asp Thr Ala Arg      Val Ala Gln Leu
                          740                   745                      750
              Phe Thr Met Glu Gly   Asp Gly Leu Thr Tyr Ser Asp      Thr Met Glu Ile
                      755                   760                      765
              Lys Glu His Ile Lys   Lys Cys Leu Phe Glu Pro Ala      Thr
                  770                   775                  780
              <210>   56
              <211>   2346
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> pseudomature AbdiTPS4
              <400> 56
              atgcgagaat   ttcctccttc   attttggaat   aatgatatta   tcaattcaat   aacggcgtca   60
              cacaaggttc   aaacagggga   ccggaagcgt   atccagacat   taatatctga   aattaaaaat   120
              gtgtttaatt   ctatgggcga   tggagaaacg   agtccctctg   catatgacac   cgcttgggta   180
              gcgaggattc   cagcggttga   tggctctgaa   caacctcagt   ttcctcagac   acttgaatgg   240
              attctacaaa   atcagttgaa   agatgggtct   tggggtgaag   aattctactt   cttagcatat   300
              gacagattac   tggctaccct   tgcatgcatt   attaccctca   ccatatggag   aactggcaac   360
              gtacaactgc   ataaaggcat   tgaattcttc   aggaagcaag   ttgtaaggat   ggatgatgaa   420
              gctgataacc   accggccaag   tggatttgaa   atagtctttc   ctgctatgtt   aaatgaagca   480
              aaaagtttag   gattggatct   gccttatgaa   ttgccgttca   ttgaacaaat   ggttaaaaag   540
              cgggaggcta   agcttaaaat   gattaccacg   aatgtcctgt   ataccattca   aacaacatta   600
              ctttactctc   tggaaggctt   gcatgaaata   gtagactttg   ataaaataat   caaacttcaa   660
              tccaaggatg   gatcattcct   cggctccccg   gcatctacag   cggctgtatt   catgcaaaca   720
              gggaacacta   aatgcttgga   attcttggag   ttcgttttaa   ggaaatttag   aaaccatgtg   780
              cctagcgact   atcccctcga   tctatttgaa   cgtctttggg   tcgttgacac   ggttgaacga   840
              ctagggattg   atcgccattt   caaaaaggag   atcaaggacg   cattggatta   tgtgtacagc   900
              tgttgggacg   aaagaggcat   tggctgggcg   aaagacagcc   ctatagccga   tattgatgat   960
              acagccatgg   gccttcgaat   cttgaggctg   catggataca   atgtatcccc   agatgtttta   1020
              aaaactttca   aagatgagaa   tggagagttc   ttttgcttca   tgggtcaaac   acagagggga   1080
              gttacggaca   tgctaaacgt   ttatcgctgt   tcacaagttg   cttttccggg   agaaacgatc   1140
                                                        Page 66

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              atggaagaag   caaaactctg   tactgaaagg   tatctgcgca acgctctgga   aaatgcggac   1200
              gcctttgaca   aatgggctat   taaaaagaat   attcgagggg aggtggagta   cgcactcaag   1260
              tatccctggc   atagaagtat   gccaaggctg   gaggtgagaa gctacattgg   aaattacggg   1320
              ccaaacgatg   tctggcttgg   aaagtctttg   tatatgatgc catacattag   caacgaaaaa   1380
              tatttggaat   tggcaaaact   ggacttcaat   agtgtgcaat ctctacacca   agaggagatt   1440
              cgagagcttg   tgaggtggtg   taaatcatca   ggtttcacag agctcaagtt   cacacgcgac   1500
              cgtgtagttg   aaacatattt   cgcagttgcg   tctagtatgt ttgagcccga   gttctctacc   1560
              tgtagagccg   tttatacaaa   aatttccgtt   ctcctcgtca ttttagacga   cctttacgat   1620
              gggtatggat   ctccagacga   aatcaaactg   ttctcggaag cagtcaaaag   atgggatctc   1680
<removed-apn>
              tctttgttag   aacaaatgcc   cgaccacatg   aaaatctgct tcctgggatt   gtacaacaca   1740
              gttaatgaag   tagctgaaga   aggacgcaag   acacagggcc atgatgtgct   aggctacatt   1800
              cgaaacttgt   gggagatcca   gctcgcagct   ttcaccagag aagcagaatg   gtctcaaggg   1860
              aaatacgtgc   cgtcttttga   tgaatacata   gagaacgccc aagtatcaat   aggtgtagca   1920
              actatacttc   ttataactat   tcttttcact   gaagaggatg acattctctc   ccatattgat   1980
              tacggatcca   aatttctccg   tctcgctagc   ttgacagcac gtttagcgaa   cgacatcaaa   2040
              acataccagg   aggagagagc   tcatggcgag   gtggtttcgg ctatacagtg   ttatatgaag   2100
              gatcgtcctg   aaattacaga   ggaagaagct   ctcaaatatg tctatggtcg   aatggttaac   2160
              gatctcgcag   agttaaattc   tgaatacttg   aaatctaatg aaatgcccca   aaattgcaag   2220
              agactggttt   ttgacactgc   aagagtagcg   cagttgttta ctatggaggg   agacggtttg   2280
              acatattcag   atactatgga   aattaaagaa   cacatcaaaa agtgcctctt   cgagccggct   2340
              acctaa                                                                      2346
              <210>   57
              <211>   803
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS1 transcriptome sequence
              <400> 57
              Met Ala Ser Met Thr   Gly Gly Gln Gln Met    Gly Arg Asp Pro Asn    Ser
               1                5                   10                     15
              Ser Ser Val Asp Lys   Arg Glu Phe Pro Pro    Gly Phe Trp Lys Asp   Asp
                           20                   25                     30
              Leu Ile Asp Ser Leu   Thr Ser Ser His Lys    Val Ala Ala Ser Asp   Glu
                       35                   40                     45
              Lys Arg Ile Glu Thr   Leu Ile Ser Glu Ile    Lys Asn Met Phe Arg    Cys
                  50                    55                     60
              Met Gly Tyr Gly Glu   Thr Asn Pro Ser Ala    Tyr Asp Thr Ala Trp   Val
              65                    70                     75                    80
              Ala Arg Ile Pro Ala   Leu Asp Gly Ser Asp    Asn Pro His Phe Pro   Glu
                               85                   90                     95
              Thr Val Glu Trp Ile   Leu Gln Asn Gln Leu    Lys Asp Gly Ser Trp   Gly
                           100                  105                    110
              Glu Gly Phe Tyr Phe   Leu Ala Tyr Asp Arg    Ile Leu Ala Thr Leu   Ala
                       115                  120                    125
              Cys Ile Ile Thr Leu   Thr Leu Trp Arg Thr    Gly Glu Thr Gln Val    His
                  130                   135                    140
              Lys Gly Ile Glu Phe   Phe Arg Thr Gln Ala    Gly Lys Met Glu Asp   Glu
              145                   150                    155                   160
              Ala Asp Ser His Arg   Pro Ser Gly Phe Glu    Ile Val Phe Pro Ala   Met
                                                        Page 67

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                                165                    170                 175
              Leu   Lys Glu Ala Lys Ile Leu Gly   Leu Asp Leu Pro Tyr Asp Leu    Pro
                            180                   185                  190
              Phe   Leu Lys Gln Ile Ile Glu Lys   Arg Glu Ala Lys Leu Lys Arg    Ile
                        195                 200                    205
              Pro   Thr Asp Val Leu Tyr Ala Leu   Pro Thr Thr Leu Leu Tyr Ser    Leu
                    210                 215                    220
              Glu   Gly Leu Gln Glu Ile Val Asp   Trp Gln Lys Ile Met Lys Leu    Gln
              225                   230                    235                   240
<removed-apn>
              Ser   Lys Asp Gly Ser Phe Leu Ser   Ser Pro Ala Ser Thr Ala Ala    Val
                                245                    250                 255
              Phe   Met Arg Thr Gly Asn Lys Lys   Cys Leu Asp Phe Leu Asn Phe    Val
                            260                   265                  270
              Leu   Lys Lys Phe Gly Asn His Val   Pro Cys His Tyr Pro Leu Asp    Leu
                        275                 280                    285
              Phe   Glu Arg Leu Trp Ala Val Asp   Thr Val Glu Arg Leu Gly Ile    Asp
                    290                 295                    300
              Arg   His Phe Lys Glu Glu Ile Lys   Glu Ala Leu Asp Tyr Val Tyr    Ser
              305                   310                    315                   320
              His   Trp Asp Glu Arg Gly Ile Gly   Trp Ala Arg Glu Asn Pro Val    Pro
                                325                    330                 335
              Asp   Ile Asp Asp Thr Ala Met Gly   Leu Arg Ile Leu Arg Leu His    Gly
                            340                   345                  350
              Tyr   Asn Val Ser Ser Asp Val Leu   Lys Thr Phe Arg Asp Glu Asn    Gly
                        355                 360                    365
              Glu   Phe Phe Cys Phe Leu Gly Gln   Thr Gln Arg Gly Val Thr Asp    Met
                    370                 375                    380
              Leu   Asn Val Asn Arg Cys Ser His   Val Ser Phe Pro Gly Glu Thr    Ile
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Met   Glu Glu Ala Lys Leu Cys Thr   Glu Arg Tyr Leu Arg Asn Ala    Leu
                                405                    410                 415
              Glu   Asn Val Asp Ala Phe Asp Lys   Trp Ala Phe Lys Lys Asn Ile    Arg
                            420                   425                  430
              Gly   Glu Val Glu Tyr Ala Leu Lys   Tyr Pro Trp His Lys Ser Met    Pro
                        435                 440                    445
              Arg   Leu Glu Ala Arg Ser Tyr Ile   Glu Asn Tyr Gly Pro Asp Asp    Val
                    450                 455                    460
              Trp   Leu Gly Lys Thr Val Tyr Met   Met Pro Tyr Ile Ser Asn Glu    Lys
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Tyr   Leu Glu Leu Ala Lys Leu Asp   Phe Asn Lys Val Gln Ser Ile    His
                                485                    490                 495
              Gln   Thr Glu Leu Gln Asp Leu Arg   Arg Trp Trp Lys Ser Ser Gly    Phe
                            500                   505                  510
              Thr   Asp Leu Asn Phe Thr Arg Glu   Arg Val Thr Glu Ile Tyr Phe    Ser
                        515                 520                    525
              Pro   Ala Ser Phe Ile Phe Glu Pro   Glu Phe Ser Lys Cys Arg Glu    Val
                    530                 535                    540
              Tyr   Thr Lys Thr Ser Asn Phe Thr   Val Ile Leu Asp Asp Leu Tyr    Asp
              545                   550                    555                   560
              Ala   His Gly Ser Leu Asp Asp Leu   Lys Leu Phe Thr Glu Ser Val    Lys
                                565                    570                 575
              Arg   Trp Asp Leu Ser Leu Val Asp   Gln Met Pro Gln Gln Met Lys    Ile
                                                      Page 68

                                                    234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
                          580                   585                    590
              Cys Phe Val Gly Phe Tyr Asn   Thr Phe Asn Glu Ile    Ala Lys Glu Gly
                      595                   600                    605
              Arg Glu Ser Gln Gly Arg Asp   Val Leu Gly Tyr Ile    Gln Asn Val Trp
                  610                 615                    620
              Lys Val Gln Leu Glu Ala Tyr   Thr Lys Glu Ala Glu    Trp Ser Glu Ala
              625                 630                    635                   640
              Lys Tyr Val Pro Ser Phe Asn   Glu Tyr Ile Glu Asn    Ala Ser Val Ser
                              645                    650                   655
<removed-apn>
              Ile Ala Leu Gly Thr Val Val   Leu Ile Ser Ala Leu    Phe Thr Gly Glu
                          660                   665                    670
              Val Leu Thr Asp Glu Val Leu   Ser Lys Ile Asp Arg    Gly Ser Arg Phe
                      675                   680                    685
              Leu Gln Leu Met Gly Leu Thr   Gly Arg Leu Val Asn    Asp Thr Lys Thr
                  690                 695                    700
              Tyr Gln Ala Glu Arg Gly Gln   Gly Glu Val Ala Ser    Ala Ile Gln Cys
              705                 710                    715                   720
              Tyr Met Lys Asp His Pro Lys   Ile Ser Glu Glu Glu    Ala Leu Lys His
                              725                    730                   735
              Val Tyr Thr Val Met Glu Asn   Ser Leu Glu Glu Leu    Asn Arg Glu Phe
                          740                   745                    750
              Val Asn Asn Lys Ile Pro Asp   Ile Tyr Arg Arg Leu    Val Phe Glu Thr
                      755                   760                    765
              Ala Arg Ile Met Gln Leu Phe   Tyr Met Gln Gly Asp    Gly Leu Thr Leu
                  770                 775                    780
              Ser His Asp Met Glu Ile Lys   Glu His Val Lys Asn    Cys Leu Phe Gln
              785                 790                    795                   800
              Pro Val Ala
              <210>   58
              <211>   866
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Abies balsamea
              <220>
              <223> AbdiTPS4 transcriptome sequence
              <400> 58
              Met Ala Leu Pro Val   Cys Ser Ile Lys Ser   His Ile Pro Ile Thr   Thr
               1               5                    10                    15
              Ile Ala Ser Ala Lys   Met His Tyr Thr Ser   Asn Lys Gly Ile Thr   Ala
                          20                    25                    30
              Lys Gly Arg Ser Arg   Cys Ile Arg Leu Ser   Pro Asn Lys Ile Val   Ala
                       35                   40                    45
              Cys Ala Gly Glu Ala   Asp Arg Thr Phe Pro   Ser Gln Ser Leu Glu   Lys
                  50                    55                    60
              Thr Ala Leu Phe Pro   Asp Pro Phe Ser Glu   Lys Asn Gly Thr Pro   Ser
              65                    70                    75                    80
              Asn Phe Thr Pro Pro   Asn Arg Glu Phe Pro   Pro Ser Phe Trp Asn   Asn
                              85                    90                    95
                                                    Page 69

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Asp Ile Ile Asn   Ser Ile Thr Ala Ser    His Lys Val Gln Thr   Gly Asp
                          100                   105                    110
              Arg Lys Arg Ile   Gln Thr Leu Ile Ser    Glu Ile Lys Asn Val   Phe Asn
                      115                   120                    125
              Ser Met Gly Asp   Gly Glu Thr Ser Pro    Ser Ala Tyr Asp Thr   Ala Trp
                  130                   135                    140
              Val Ala Arg Ile   Pro Ala Val Asp Gly    Ser Glu Gln Pro Gln   Phe Pro
              145                   150                    155                   160
              Gln Thr Leu Glu   Trp Ile Leu Gln Asn    Gln Leu Lys Asp Gly   Ser Trp
<removed-apn>
                                165                    170                   175
              Gly Glu Glu Phe   Tyr Phe Leu Ala Tyr    Asp Arg Leu Leu Ala   Thr Leu
                          180                   185                    190
              Ala Cys Ile Ile   Thr Leu Thr Ile Trp    Arg Thr Gly Asn Val   Gln Leu
                      195                   200                    205
              His Lys Gly Ile   Glu Phe Phe Arg Lys    Gln Val Val Arg Met   Asp Asp
                  210                   215                    220
              Glu Ala Asp Asn   His Arg Pro Ser Gly    Phe Glu Ile Val Phe   Pro Ala
              225                   230                    235                   240
              Met Leu Asn Glu   Ala Lys Ser Leu Gly    Leu Asp Leu Pro Tyr   Glu Leu
                                245                    250                   255
              Pro Phe Ile Glu   Gln Met Val Lys Lys    Arg Glu Ala Lys Leu   Lys Met
                          260                   265                    270
              Ile Thr Thr Asn   Val Leu Tyr Thr Ile    Gln Thr Thr Leu Leu   Tyr Ser
                      275                   280                    285
              Leu Glu Gly Leu   His Glu Ile Val Asp    Phe Asp Lys Ile Ile   Lys Leu
                  290                   295                    300
              Gln Ser Lys Asp   Gly Ser Phe Leu Gly    Ser Pro Ala Ser Thr   Ala Ala
              305                   310                    315                   320
              Val Phe Met Gln   Thr Gly Asn Thr Lys    Cys Leu Glu Phe Leu   Glu Phe
                                325                    330                   335
              Val Leu Arg Lys   Phe Arg Asn His Val    Pro Ser Asp Tyr Pro   Leu Asp
                          340                   345                    350
              Leu Phe Glu Arg   Leu Trp Val Val Asp    Thr Val Glu Arg Leu   Gly Ile
                      355                   360                    365
              Asp Arg His Phe   Lys Lys Glu Ile Lys    Asp Ala Leu Asp Tyr   Val Tyr
                  370                   375                    380
              Ser Cys Trp Asp   Glu Arg Gly Ile Gly    Trp Ala Lys Asp Ser   Pro Ile
              385                   390                    395                   400
              Ala Asp Ile Asp   Asp Thr Ala Met Gly    Leu Arg Ile Leu Arg   Leu His
                                405                    410                   415
              Gly Tyr Asn Val   Ser Pro Asp Val Leu    Lys Thr Phe Lys Asp   Glu Asn
                          420                   425                    430
              Gly Glu Phe Phe   Cys Phe Met Gly Gln    Thr Gln Arg Gly Val   Thr Asp
                      435                   440                    445
              Met Leu Asn Val   Tyr Arg Cys Ser Gln    Val Ala Phe Pro Gly   Glu Thr
                  450                   455                    460
              Ile Met Glu Glu   Ala Lys Leu Cys Thr    Glu Arg Tyr Leu Arg   Asn Ala
              465                   470                    475                   480
              Leu Glu Asn Ala   Asp Ala Phe Asp Lys    Trp Ala Ile Lys Lys   Asn Ile
                                485                    490                   495
              Arg Gly Glu Val   Glu Tyr Ala Leu Lys    Tyr Pro Trp His Arg   Ser Met
                          500                   505                    510
                                                       Page 70

                                                      234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              Pro Arg Leu   Glu Val Arg Ser Tyr   Ile Gly Asn Tyr Gly    Pro Asn Asp
                      515                   520                    525
              Val Trp Leu   Gly Lys Ser Leu Tyr   Met Met Pro Tyr Ile    Ser Asn Glu
                  530                   535                    540
              Lys Tyr Leu   Glu Leu Ala Lys Leu   Asp Phe Asn Ser Val    Gln Ser Leu
              545                   550                    555                   560
              His Gln Glu   Glu Ile Arg Glu Leu   Val Arg Trp Cys Lys    Ser Ser Gly
                                565                    570                   575
              Phe Thr Glu   Leu Lys Phe Thr Arg   Asp Arg Val Val Glu    Thr Tyr Phe
<removed-apn>
                            580                   585                    590
              Ala Val Ala   Ser Ser Met Phe Glu   Pro Glu Phe Ser Thr    Cys Arg Ala
                      595                   600                    605
              Val Tyr Thr   Lys Ile Ser Val Leu   Leu Val Ile Leu Asp    Asp Leu Tyr
                  610                   615                    620
              Asp Gly Tyr   Gly Ser Pro Asp Glu   Ile Lys Leu Phe Ser    Glu Ala Val
              625                   630                    635                   640
              Lys Arg Trp   Asp Leu Ser Leu Leu   Glu Gln Met Pro Asp    His Met Lys
                                645                    650                   655
              Ile Cys Phe   Leu Gly Leu Tyr Asn   Thr Val Asn Glu Val    Ala Glu Glu
                            660                   665                    670
              Gly Arg Lys   Thr Gln Gly His Asp   Val Leu Gly Tyr Ile    Arg Asn Leu
                      675                   680                    685
              Trp Glu Ile   Gln Leu Ala Ala Phe   Thr Arg Glu Ala Glu    Trp Ser Gln
                  690                   695                    700
              Gly Lys Tyr   Val Pro Ser Phe Asp   Glu Tyr Ile Glu Asn    Ala Gln Val
              705                   710                    715                   720
              Ser Ile Gly   Val Ala Thr Ile Leu   Leu Ile Thr Ile Leu    Phe Thr Glu
                                725                    730                   735
              Glu Asp Asp   Ile Leu Ser His Ile   Asp Tyr Gly Ser Lys    Phe Leu Arg
                            740                   745                    750
              Leu Ala Ser   Leu Thr Ala Arg Leu   Ala Asn Asp Ile Lys    Thr Tyr Gln
                      755                   760                    765
              Glu Glu Arg   Ala His Gly Glu Val   Val Ser Ala Ile Gln    Cys Tyr Met
                  770                   775                    780
              Lys Asp Arg   Pro Glu Ile Thr Glu   Glu Glu Ala Leu Lys    Tyr Val Tyr
              785                   790                    795                   800
              Gly Arg Met   Val Asn Asp Leu Ala   Glu Leu Asn Ser Glu    Tyr Leu Lys
                                805                    810                   815
              Ser Asn Glu   Met Pro Gln Asn Cys   Lys Arg Leu Val Phe    Asp Thr Ala
                            820                   825                    830
              Arg Val Ala   Gln Leu Phe Thr Met   Glu Gly Asp Gly Leu    Thr Tyr Ser
                      835                   840                    845
              Asp Thr Met   Glu Ile Lys Glu His   Ile Lys Lys Cys Leu    Phe Glu Pro
                  850                   855                    860
              Ala Thr
              865
              <210>   59
              <211>   1131
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Xanthophyllomyces dendrorhous
                                                      Page 71

                                                       234SEQPC1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> crtE GGPP synthase
              <400> 59
              atggattacg   cgaacatcct   cacagcaatt   ccactcgagt   ttactcctca   ggatgatatc   60
              gtgctccttg   aaccgtatca   ctacctagga   aagaaccctg   gaaaagaaat   tcgatcacaa   120
              ctcatcgagg   ctttcaacta   ttggttggat   gtcaagaagg   aggatctcga   ggtcatccag   180
              aacgttgttg   gcatgctaca   taccgctagc   ttattaatgg   acgatgtgga   ggattcatcg   240
<removed-apn>
              gtcctcaggc   gtgggtcgcc   tgtggcccat   ctaatttacg   ggattccgca   gacaataaac   300
              actgcaaact   acgtctactt   tctggcttat   caagagatct   tcaagcttcg   cccaacaccg   360
              atacccatgc   ctgtaattcc   tccttcatct   gcttcgcttc   aatcatccgt   ctcctctgca   420
              tcctcctcct   cctcggcctc   gtctgaaaac   gggggcacgt   caactcctaa   ttcgcagatt   480
              ccgttctcga   aagatacgta   tcttgataaa   gtgatcacag   acgagatgct   ttccctccat   540
              agagggcaag   gcctggagct   attctggaga   gatagtctga   cgtgtcctag   cgaagaggaa   600
              tatgtgaaaa   tggttcttgg   aaagacggga   ggtttgttcc   gtatagcggt   cagattgatg   660
              atggcaaagt   cagaatgtga   catagacttt   gtccagcttg   tcaacttgat   ctcaatatac   720
              ttccagatca   gggatgacta   tatgaacctt   cagtcttctg   agtatgccca   taataagaat   780
              tttgcagagg   acctcacaga   aggaaaattc   agttttccca   ctatccactc   gattcatgcc   840
              aacccctcat   cgagactcgt   catcaatacg   ttgcagaaga   aatcgacctc   tcctgagatc   900
              cttcaccact   gtgtaaacta   catgcgcaca   gaaacccact   cattcgaata   tactcaggaa   960
              gtcctcaaca   ccttgtcagg   tgcactcgag   agagaactag   gaaggcttca   aggagagttc   1020
              gcagaagcta   actcaaagat   tgatcttgga   gacgtagagt   cggaaggaag   aacggggaag   1080
              aacgtcaaat   tggaagcgat   cctgaaaaag   ctagccgata   tccctctgtg   a            1131
                                                        Page 72

