                                                  24
TRANSFERRING AUTHORIZATION FROM AN AUTHENTICATED
DEVICE TO AN UNAUTHENTICATED DEVICE
ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A method and system for transferring authorization to play content from an authenticated device
to an unauthenticated device, including receiving an indication that a user of a user device
wishes to play a content item on a playback device, wherein the indication is associated with a
content ID for a content item, a user credential for the user, and a playback device identifier for
a playback device, and verifying the content ID and the user credential. Upon verifying the
content ID and the user credential, a token for the content ID, the user ID and the playback
device identifier is generated and sent to the playback device.

                                                   1
TRANSFERRING AUTHORIZATION FROM AN AUTHENTICATED
DEVICE TO AN UNAUTHENTICATED DEVICE
RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]    This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015218600, filed on 24 February 2015 and claims priority from U.S. Patent Application No.
14/279533, filed on 24 February 2014 and U.S. Patent Application No. 14/629211, filed on 23
February 2015, where the contents of all these applications are incorporated by reference in their
entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to the field of content watching services
and, more particularly, to a method for sharing of content.
BACKGROUND
[0003]    On the Internet, content sharing services allow users to connect to and share
information with each other. Many content sharing services allow users to upload, view, and
share content, such as video content, image content, audio content, and so on. The content may
include content from professional content creators, e.g., movie clips, TV clips, and music
videos, as well as content from amateur content creators, e.g., video blogging and short original
videos.
[0004]    A user may want to use a mobile phone to request that certain content stored by a
content sharing service be played on a television or a similar device. Currently, sharing content,
such as a private video, from a device, such as a mobile phone or tablet, to another device that
cannot be authenticated, such as a television or other type of display, is difficult, if not
impossible, for a user to accomplish since the other device cannot be authenticated.
SUMMARY
[0005]    In one embodiment, a method for content sharing where authorization is transferred
from an authenticated device to an unauthenticated device is performed. The method includes
receiving an indication that a user of a user device wishes to play a content item on a playback
device, wherein the indication is associated with a content ID for the content item, a user
credential for the user, and a playback device identifier for a playback device, and verifying the

                                                  2
content ID, and the user credential. Upon verifying the content ID and the user credential, a
token for the content ID, the user identified by the user credential and the playback device
identifier is generated and sent to the playback device, wherein the token authorizes play of the
content item on the playback device.
[0006]    In implementations, access rights with respect the content item can be defined based on
one or more criteria. The one or more criteria can include at least one of a limited list of viewers
having access to the content item, a payment of a fee for viewing the content item, or a viewer
age.
[0007]    In implementations, the method can further include receiving, from a content sharing
platform associated with the content item, a request to verify the token, wherein the playback
device sent a request to play the content item with the token to the content sharing platform, and
upon verification of the token, sending notification of the verification of the token to the content
sharing platform. The method can also include verifying that the user is authorized to view the
content associated with the content ID.
[0008]    In implementations, the token can be a non-cryptographic token. The indication can
further be associated with a time period for which the playback device is authorized to play the
content.
[0009]    In additional embodiments, computing devices for performing the operations of the
above described embodiments are also implemented. Additionally, in embodiments of the
disclosure, a computer readable storage media stores methods for performing the operations of
the above described embodiments.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0010]    The present disclosure will be understood more fully from the detailed description
given below and from the accompanying drawings of various embodiments of the disclosure.
[0011]    Figure 1 illustrates example system architecture, in accordance with one embodiment
of the present disclosure.
[0012]    Figure 2 illustrates a token system, in accordance with one embodiment of the present
disclosure.

                                                   3
[0013]    Figure 3 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment for a method of content
sharing, in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0014]    Figure 4 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment for another method of content
sharing, in accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure.
[0015]    Figure 5 is a block diagram of an exemplary computer system that may perform one or
more of the operations described herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0016]    Content providing services allow users to share content, such as media items or data
content, with other users. For example, a user could have content, e.g., a video, which resides
on a content sharing platform. The user can view this content on a device where the user can be
authenticated, e.g., a mobile phone where the user can log in to the content sharing platform, but
the user could desire that the content be played on another device where the user cannot be
authenticated, e.g., a playback device such as a television. For example, a user attending a party
at a friend's house may want to share a private video on the user's phone by displaying the
video on a television so that the other people at the party can see the video on the larger screen.
However, unlike the user's phone, the television is not an authenticated device. In other words,
the television is not authorized to play the private content of the user (e.g., because the television
is the device of the user's friend and is not associated with the user, and/or because the
television does not have a keyboard and cannot be authenticated for the user).
[0017]    A method according to an embodiment provides for transferring authorization from the
authenticated user device to the unauthenticated playback device. For example, when a user
desires to stream a video from the content sharing platform to a television using an authenticated
user device such as a smartphone or tablet, the user may submit a request via the authenticated
user device (e.g., by adding the video to a playlist). This request may be received by a token
server that can generate a token (e.g., a video verification token) representing authorization to
play the video on the television. In particular, the request can be associated with an identifier of
the content, e.g., content ID, that the user desires to share and an IP address for the desired
playback device. The token server can then send the requested token to the desired playback
device, where the token indicates that the particular user (e.g., as identified by the user's
credentials and/or user ID) authorizes the particular playback device (e.g., as identified by the IP

                                                   4
address) to play the particular content (e.g., a particular video). In one embodiment, the
playback device can be authorized to play the content for a particular time period, which can be
indicated by the user or automatically determined. In some implementations, the authenticated
device such as a user smart phone or tablet may not be online and/or turned on during
verification (e.g., while a verification token is being verified by the token server) and/or during
playback of the content. For example, a user may add a private video to a shared playlist on a
television, and then turn the user's smart phone off. The video can then play correctly on the
television, even though the user's smart phone is off.
[0018]    At playback time, the playback device can send the token with a request for the content
to the content sharing platform. The content sharing platform can verify whether the token is
valid, e.g., via the token server, and the user has access rights with respect to the requested
content. If the token is valid (e.g., the IP address and the content ID within the request
correspond to the IP address and the content ID associated with the token, and the token has not
been revoked) and the user was authorized to grant permission to play the content, then
playback is authorized on the playback device.
[0019]    Methods according to embodiments provide a desirable user experience because the
user can easily play content (e.g., a private or public video) on a playback device without
needing to log in to the playback device. Embodiments also provide a method for a user to give
limited access to the playback device to play particular content for a particular time, rather than
giving the playback device unlimited access to all of the user's content for an unlimited period
of time. For example, if the user is wanting to send content to a public playback device, the user
might only want the public playback device to be able to display the indicated content for a
limited period of time.
[0020]    In an embodiment, the token can be a code of a certain length (e.g., a random nonce)
that is associated with the other necessary information (e.g., IP address, content ID, etc.) that is
stored in a data store accessible to the token server. Therefore, if an unauthorized party
intercepts the token, the unauthorized party cannot use the token to view the content. Here, if
the unauthorized party sends the token along with a request to view content to a content sharing
platform, the token server will be able to determine that the IP address sending the request does
not match the IP address associated with the token. Therefore, the token server will not verify

                                                   5
the token and the content sharing platform will not authorize playback of the content indicated
by the token.
[0021]    In an embodiment, the method uses a non-cryptographic token, where no meaningful
information, such as user IDs, content IDs, etc., is included within the token itself. A non
cryptographic token can be a random string of characters (e.g., numbers, letters, symbols, etc.)
associated with information stored in a data store (e.g., a user ID, a content ID, an IP address of
a playback device, a token validity period, etc.).
[0022]    In an embodiment, expired tokens (i.e., tokens that are associated with a token validity
period that has passed) can be purged from the data store.
[0023]    In an embodiment, if access rights for the content are modified between the time that
the token is issued and the content is played, the token can be invalidated. For example, if the
user no longer has permission to access the content at the time the playback device attempts to
play the content, then the token will not be verified and the playback device will not be
authorized to play the content.
[0024]    Embodiments of the present disclosure pertain to content sharing, such that the user is
able to share content via a mobile device. The mobile device (using either a mobile application
of the content sharing platform, a mobile application of a social networking service, a browser
application, etc.) can send a request to share content associated with a content sharing platform.
From the perspective of the user submitting the request, the sharing process is complete once the
user has submitted sharing of the content. Accordingly, aspects of the present disclosure allow
for transferring authorization to view content from an authenticated device to an unauthenticated
device. Therefore, the user can share the content, and not get frustrated because the playback
device is not authenticated to play the content.
[0025]    Aspects of the present disclosure allow users to stream videos from the Internet to a
playback device, irrespective of whether the video is public, private, age-restricted or represents
paid content. The above users can be video owners and any other authenticated users with view
access rights to the video.
[0026]    It should be noted that although some aspects of the present disclosure are described
with reference to video and/or pages, the present disclosure pertains to various types of content

                                                  6
(e.g., media content, such as video, audio, text, images, executable instructions, etc.) and/or
various types of GUI documents (e.g., web pages, mobile app documents, etc.).
[0027]    FIG. 1 illustrates exemplary system architecture 100, in accordance with one
implementation of the disclosure, for content sharing. The system architecture 100 includes a
user device 105, a playback device 108, a network 102, a data store 150, a content sharing
platform 120, a token server 110, and a verification server 115. In one implementation, network
102 may include a public network (e.g., the Internet), a private network (e.g., a local area
network (LAN) or wide area network (WAN)), a wired network (e.g., Ethernet network), a
wireless network (e.g., an 802.11 network or a Wi-Fi network), a cellular network (e.g., a Long
Term Evolution (LTE) network), routers, hubs, switches, server computers, and/or a
combination thereof. In one implementation, the data store 150 may be a memory (e.g., random
access memory), a cache, a drive (e.g., a hard drive), a flash drive, a database system, or another
type of component or device capable of storing data. The data store 150 may also include
multiple storage components (e.g., multiple drives or multiple databases) that may also span
multiple computing devices (e.g., multiple server computers).
[0028]    In one implementation, the content sharing platform 120 may be one or more
computing devices (such as a rackmount server, a router computer, a server computer, a
personal computer, a mainframe computer, a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a desktop
computer, etc.), data stores (e.g., hard disks, memories, databases), networks, software
components, and/or hardware components that may be used to provide a user with access to
media items and/or provide the media items to the user. For example, the content sharing
platform 120 may allow a user to consume, upload, search for, approve of ("like"), dislike,
and/or comment on content items. The content sharing platform 120 may also include a website
(e.g., a webpage) that may be used to provide a user with access to the content items.
[0029]    The content sharing platform 120 may include one or more content items 121A-121Z.
Examples of a content item 121A-121Z can include, and are not limited to, digital video, digital
movies, digital photos, digital music, website content, social media updates, electronic books
(ebooks), electronic magazines, digital newspapers, digital audio books, electronic journals, web
blogs, real simple syndication (RSS) feeds, electronic comic books, software applications, etc.
In some implementations, content items 121A-121Z can also referred to as media items.

                                                  7
[0030]    A content item 121A-121Z may be consumed via the Internet and/or via a mobile
device application. For brevity and simplicity, an online video (also hereinafter referred to as a
video) is used as an example of a content item 121A-121Z throughout this document. As used
herein, "media," media item," "online media item," "digital media," "digital media item,"
"content," and "content item" can include an electronic file that can be executed or loaded using
software, firmware or hardware configured to present the digital media item to an entity. In one
implementation, the content sharing platform 120 may store the content items 121A-Z using the
data store 150.
[0031]    In general, functions described in one implementation as being performed by the
content sharing platform 120 can also be performed on the user devices 105 in other
implementations if appropriate. In addition, the functionality attributed to a particular
component can be performed by different or multiple components operating together. The
content sharing platform 120 can also be accessed as a service provided to other systems or
devices through appropriate application programming interfaces, and thus is not limited to use in
websites.
[0032]    In one implementation, verification server 115 may be one or more computing devices
(such as a rackmount server, a router computer, a server computer, a personal computer, a
mainframe computer, a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a desktop computer, etc.), data
stores (e.g., hard disks, memories, databases), networks, software components, and/or hardware
components that may be used to allow a user to share or comment on media items. The
verification server 115 can be an authorization service. For example, the verification server 115
can be utilized to authorize user credentials.
[0033]    The user device 105 can be a computing device such as personal computer (PCs),
laptop, mobile phone, smart phone, tablet computer, netbook computer, etc. In some
implementations, user device 105 may also be referred to as a "client device."
[0034]    The playback device 108 can be any suitable display device that is capable of being
connected to a network. For example, the playback device 108 can be a television (e.g., a smart
television) or a display monitor connected to a computer device. In one embodiment, the
playback device 108 is a television with a dongle plugged into the television, e.g., via an HDMI

                                                  8
port, that allows the television to communicate (or pair) with other devices (such as a tablet or a
mobile phone), e.g., via a wireless network.
[0035]    The user device 105 and the playback device 108 can each include a content viewer
111. In one implementation, the content viewer 111 may be an application that allows users to
view content, such as images, videos, web pages, documents, etc. For example, the content
viewer 111 may be a web browser that can access, retrieve, present, and/or navigate content
(e.g., web pages such as Hyper Text Markup Language (HTML) pages, digital media items,
etc.) served by a web server. The content viewer 111 may render, display, and/or present the
content (e.g., a web page, a media viewer) to a user. The content viewer 111 may represent or
include an embedded media player (e.g., a Flash® player or an HTML5 player) that is
embedded in a web page (e.g., a web page that may provide information about a product sold by
an online merchant). In another example, the content viewer 111 may be a standalone
application that allows users to view digital media items (e.g., digital videos, digital images,
electronic books, etc.).
[0036]    The content viewer 111 may be provided to the user device 105 and the playback
device 108by the content sharing platform 120. For example, the content viewer 111 may be an
embedded content player that is embedded in web pages provided by the content sharing
platform 120. In another example, the content viewer 111 may be an application that is
downloaded from the server 130. In yet another example, different content viewers can be used
for the user device 105 and the playback device 108.
[0037]    In an embodiment, a user of the user device 105 desires to play content (e.g., a private
video, such as content 121A-121Z) from a content sharing platform 120 on the playback device
108, where the user is authorized to play the content on the content viewer 111 on the user
device 105, but not on the content viewer 111 on the playback device 108. The user can use the
user device 105 to determine an IP address of the playback device 108, e.g., via a wireless
network 152, or by manual entry. The user device 105 can request a token (e.g., a video
verification token) from a token system 112 on the token server 110 via the network 102, where
the token can be used to authorize play of the content on the playback device 108. The request
for the token can include a user credential that may include or identify a user ID, a content ID
indicating the content that the user would like to share, and the IP address of the playback

                                                    9
device 108. The request can also include a validity period indicating the period over which the
user would like for the playback device 108 to be able to play the content.
[0038]     The token system 112 can verify the user credential (e.g., with respect to the user ID).
For example, the token system 108 can submit the user credential of the user to the verification
server 115 for verification. The verification server 115 can verify the received user credential
and notify the token system 112 that the user credential has been verified. In an embodiment,
the token system 112 can also verify that the user associated with the user ID is authorized to
view the content indicated by the content ID. Once the user credential has been verified, the
token can be generated, where the content ID, the IP address of the playback device 108, and,
optionally, the validity period are associated with the token, and the token can be sent to the
playback device 108 at the IP address via the network 102. For example, the token can be a
code (e.g., including a certain number of randomly generated characters), and the code can be
associated with the content IP, the IP address, the user ID, and the validity period in a database
in the data store 150.
[0039]     At playback time, the playback device 108 can send a request to play the content to the
content sharing platform 120 along with the token. The content sharing platform 120 can verify
the token in view of the request through the token system 112 via the network 102. For
example, the token system 112 can verify that the IP address of the playback device 108 that
sent the request is the same IP address associated with the token. In an embodiment, the token
system 112 can also verify that content that the playback device 108 has requested to play
matches the content ID associated with the token. In an embodiment, the token system 112 can
also verify that the request to play the content was received within the validity period. The
token system 112 or the content sharing platform can also verify that the user associated with
the user ID is authorized to view the embodiment at the time of the request, in one embodiment.
This verification can be done based on access rights associated with the content item (e.g., as
identified in access content list(s) or ACL(s) of the content item). The access content rights can
be based on one or more criteria such as a limited list of viewers (as defined by the owner of the
content item) having access to the content item, a payment of a fee for viewing the content item
(e.g., if the content item is a paid item), or a viewer age (e.g., if the content item is an age
restricted item).

                                                   10
[0040]    Once the token system 112 has verified the token, the token system 112 can send
notification of the verification to the content sharing platform 120. Upon receipt of notification
of the verification, the content sharing platform 120 can authorize the playback device 108 to
play the content on the content viewer 111. The playback device 108 can now play the content.
[0041]    Although implementations of the disclosure are discussed in terms of content sharing
platforms, implementations may also be generally applied to any type of network providing
connections between users. Implementations of the disclosure are not limited to content sharing
platforms.
[0042]    FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating a token system 210 in accordance with one
implementation of the disclosure. In one implementation, the token system 210 includes a
request receiving module 201, a request verification module 202, a token generating module
203, and a token verification module 204. More or less components may be included in the
token system 210 without loss of generality. For example, two of the modules may be
combined into a single module, or one of the modules may be divided into two or more
modules. In one implementation, one or more of the modules may reside on different
computing devices (e.g., different server computers). In an embodiment, the token system 210
can be the token system 112 of FIG. 1.
[0043]    The token system 210 is communicatively coupled to data store 250. The data store 250
may be a memory (e.g., random access memory), a cache, a drive (e.g., a hard drive), a flash
drive, a database system, or another type of component or device capable of storing data. The
data store 250 may also include multiple storage components (e.g., multiple drives or multiple
databases) that may also span multiple computing devices (e.g., multiple server computers).
The data store 250 can be data store 150 of Figure 1.
[0044]    As discussed above, the token system 210 facilitates sharing of content from an
authorized device to an unauthorized device, such that a user can use an authorized device to
select content to be displayed on an unauthorized device. In an embodiment, the request
receiving module 201 receives a request from a user for a token (e.g., from a user device, such
as a mobile phone), where the request includes a content ID associated with particular content
(e.g., a video) that the user wants displayed and an IP address of a playback device (e.g., a
television) where the user wants the content to be displayed. The request can also include a user

                                                  11
credential (e.g., a user ID) associated with the user. Because the user has been authenticated on
the user device (e.g., has logged in on the user device), the user credential can be sent with the
request.
[0045]    In an embodiment, the request can also indicate a token validity period. In another
embodiment, a token validity period can be automatically applied or determined.
[0046]    The request verification module 202 can then verify the request. The request
verification module 202 can authenticate the user credential (e.g., via a verification server), and
can also verify that the user is authorized to view the content (e.g., via a content sharing
platform). Upon verifying the request, the request verification module 202 can store the content
ID in a content ID list 251 in the data store 250, the user ID in a user ID list 252 in the data store
250, and the IP address of the playback device in an IP address list 253 in the data store 250.
[0047]    The token generation module 203 can then generate a token (e.g., a video verification
token) that is associated with the user ID, the content ID, and the IP address, and store the token
in the token list 254. For example, the token can a code (e.g., a random nonce including
randomly selected characters). The token generation module 204 can then send the token to the
IP address for the playback device.
[0048]    In order to play the content, the playback device can send the token along with a
request to play the content to the content sharing platform where the content resides. For
example, the request can include the content ID or the content ID can be determined via the
token. The content sharing platform can also determine the IP address of the playback device
sending the request.
[0049]    The content sharing platform can then verify the token via the token verification
module 204 of the token system 210. For example, the content sharing platform can send the
token along with the IP address of the playback device to the token system. The token
verification module 204 can determine the playback IP address in the IP address list 253 that is
associated with the token in the token list 253. In an embodiment, the token verification module
can also determine the content ID in the content ID list 251 that is associated with the token in
the token list 253. If the IP address associated with the token matches the IP address received in
the request (and, optionally, the content ID associated with the token matches the content ID
received in the request), then the token verification module 204 can verify the token. The token

                                                   12
verification module 204 can also verify that the user ID in the user ID list 252 associated with
the token still has authority to access the content. If token verification module 204 verifies the
token, the token verification module 204 can then send the verification to the content sharing
platform. If the request did not include a content ID, then the token verification module 204 can
also send the content ID to the content sharing platform.
[0050]     Once the content sharing platform has received notification of verification of the token,
the content sharing platform can authorized (or allow) the playback device to play the content.
[0051]     FIG. 3 is a flow diagram illustrating an embodiment for a method 300 of content
sharing. The method 300 may be performed by processing logic that may include hardware
(e.g., circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, etc.), software (e.g.,
instructions run on a processing device to perform hardware simulation), or a combination
thereof. In one embodiment, the method 300 is performed by a token system (e.g., the token
system 112 of FIG. 1).
[0052]     For simplicity of explanation, the methods of this disclosure are depicted and described
as a series of acts. However, acts in accordance with this disclosure can occur in various orders
and/or concurrently, and with other acts not presented and described herein. Furthermore, not
all illustrated acts may be required to implement the methods in accordance with the disclosed
subject matter. In addition, those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the
methods could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states via a state diagram or
events. Additionally, it should be appreciated that the methods disclosed in this specification
are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and
transferring such methods to computing devices. The term "article of manufacture," as used
herein, is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer-readable
device or storage media.
[0053]      At block 302, processing logic receives an indication that a user of a user device
wishes to play a content item on a playback device. The indication may be associated with a
content ID for the content item, a user credential that may include or identify a user ID for the
user, and a playback device identifier for a playback device. For example, an indication may be
generated by the user device when the user submits a request to stream a video from the content
sharing service using a smart phone or a tablet (e.g. by adding a video to a playlist). In

                                                  13
response, the user device may submit an authorization request to a token server. The request
may include a content ID for the content item, a user credential that may include or identify a
user ID for the user, and a playback device identifier (e.g., an IP address, a name, etc.) for a
playback device. Alternatively, the request may not initially include the user credential. Rather,
the token server can request a user credential after receiving the authorization request from the
user device. The user credential may be, for example, an authorization token (e.g., an OAuth
token) or a cookie identifying the user device.
[0054]    In some implementations, the request can also include a validity period. For example, a
user associated with the user ID is logged into (or authenticated on) a user device where the user
can view content, such as a video, associated with the content ID that is hosted by a content
sharing platform. However, the user would prefer to have the content played on a playback
device, such as a television.
[0055]    In one example, the user might be speaking at a conference and may want to share a
video with conference attendees on a television in a conference room. However, the user does
not want to grant permission for any other video to be shown on the television and only wants
permission to be granted to this particular television for a particular period of time. Therefore, a
token can be requested via the user's mobile phone (where the user is already authenticated) that
will allow the video to be played on the television in the conference room for a certain period of
time, e.g., 24 hours.
[0056]    At block 304, processing logic verifies the content ID and the user credential to ensure
that the user identified by the user credential has access to the content identified by the content
ID. For example, the user credential can be verified via a verification server. Processing logic
can also verify whether the user associated with the user ID is authorized to play the content
item associated with the content ID (based on the user's access rights with respect to the content
item).
[0057]    In an embodiment, processing logic can determine whether the request was submitted
by a user that was authenticated by verifying whether the user logged into the content hosting
platform using a mobile application or a browser session. For example, processing logic can
verify whether the user logged into the content hosting platform using the mobile application or
browser session by accessing state information (e.g., cookies) stored by the mobile application

                                                   14
or browser session. If the state information (e.g., cookies) includes an authentication or
identification of the user, processing logic can determine that the request was submitted by a
user that was previously authenticated.
[0058]     At block 306, upon verification of the content ID, the user credential with the user ID,
processing logic generates a token for the content ID, the user ID and the playback device
identifier. In one example, the token can be a code (e.g., a random nonce including a certain
number of random characters). The token can then be associated with the user ID, the content
ID, and the IP address in a data store. In another example, the token can be an encrypted token,
where the user ID, the content ID, and the IP address are encrypted for inclusion as part of the
token.
[0059]     At block 308, processing logic sends the token to the playback device using the
identifier of the playback device (e.g., the IP address included in the request). Once the
playback device receives the token, the playback device can immediately request authorization
to play the content. Alternatively, the playback device can place the request in a queue, and a
period of time can pass prior to the playback device seeking authorization to play the content.
[0060]     Further to the example above, the token can be sent to the television in the conference
room, such that play of the content on the television in the conference room can be authorized
via the token during the selected period of time.
[0061]     FIG. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating an embodiment for a method 400 of content
sharing. The method 400 may be performed by processing logic that may include hardware
(e.g., circuitry, dedicated logic, programmable logic, microcode, etc.), software (e.g.,
instructions run on a processing device to perform hardware simulation), or a combination
thereof. In one embodiment, the method 400 is performed by a token system (e.g., the token
system 112 of FIG. 1).
[0062]     At block 402, processing logic receives a request to verify a token from a content
sharing platform, where the content sharing platform has received a request from a playback
device for authorization to play certain content along with the token. The request can also
include an IP address of playback device and a content ID associated with the content.

                                                   15
[0063]     Further to the example above, when the user would like to play the video on the
television in the conference room, the user can cause a request to be sent to the content sharing
platform where the video resides, where the request includes the token. The content sharing
platform can request that the token system verify the token.
[0064]     At block 404, processing logic attempts to verify the token. For example, processing
logic determines whether the IP address included with the request matches the IP address
associated with the token in a data store. Processing logic can also determine whether the
content ID included with the request matches the content ID associated with the token in the
data store, if the request included a content ID. Processing logic can also verify that the user
that initially requested that the token be generated is still authorized to play the content.
Additionally, processing logic can also verify that a validity period has not expired.
[0065]     At block 406, upon verification of the token, processing logic sends notification of the
verification of the token to the content sharing platform such that the content sharing platform
can authorized play of the content. If the request did not include a content ID, processing logic
can also send the content ID associated with the token to the content sharing platform.
[0066]     Further to the example above, once the token is verified, the user can now play the
desired video on the television in the conference room so that the attendees can see the video.
However, the user can feel secure that the attendees cannot see any of the user's other private
videos and that the attendees will not be able to see the desired video any more after 24 hours
have passed.
[0067]     At block 408, upon determining that the token cannot be verified, processing logic
sends notification to the content sharing platform that the token was not verified such that the
content sharing platform does not authorized play of the content.
[0068]     Further to the example above, if the user requested the token two days before the
conference, the user will no longer be able to play the desired content on the television in the
conference room. Here, the user will have to use the user's mobile phone to request another
token be sent to the television in the conference room.
[0069]     Figure 5 illustrates a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the exemplary form
of a computer system 500 within which a set of instructions, for causing the machine to perform

                                                  16
any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein, may be executed. In alternative
embodiments, the machine may be connected (e.g., networked) to other machines in a LAN, an
intranet, an extranet, or the Internet. The machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a
client machine in client-server network environment, or as a peer machine in a peer-to-peer (or
distributed) network environment. The machine may be a personal computer (PC), a tablet PC,
a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a
server, a network router, switch or bridge, or any machine capable of executing a set of
instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further,
while only a single machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to include any
collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions
to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
[0070]    The exemplary computer system 500 includes a processing device (processor) 502, a
main memory 504 (e.g., read-only memory (ROM), flash memory, dynamic random access
memory (DRAM) such as synchronous DRAM (SDRAM) or Rambus DRAM (RDRAM), etc.),
a static memory 506 (e.g., flash memory, static random access memory (SRAM), etc.), and a
data storage device 518, which communicate with each other via a bus 530.
[0071]    Processor 502 represents one or more general-purpose processing devices such as a
microprocessor, central processing unit, or the like. More particularly, the processor 502 may
be a complex instruction set computing (CISC) microprocessor, reduced instruction set
computing (RISC) microprocessor, very long instruction word (VLIW) microprocessor, or a
processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of
instruction sets. The processor 502 may also be one or more special-purpose processing devices
such as an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a field programmable gate array
(FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), network processor, or the like. The processor 502 is
configured to execute instructions 522 for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.
[0072]    The computer system 500 may further include a network interface device 508. The
computer system 500 also may include a video display 510 (e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD)
or a cathode ray tube (CRT)), an alphanumeric input device 512 (e.g., a keyboard), a cursor
control device 514 (e.g., a mouse), and a signal generation device 516 (e.g., a speaker).

                                                  17
[0073]    The data storage device 518 may include a machine-readable (or computer-readable)
storage medium 528 on which is stored one or more sets of instructions 522 (e.g., software)
embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The
instructions 522 may also reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory 504
and/or within the processor 502 during execution thereof by the computer system 500, the main
memory 504 and the processor 502 also constituting computer-readable storage media. The
instructions 522 may further be transmitted or received over a network 516 via the network
interface device 508.
[0074]    In one embodiment, the instructions 522 include instructions for a token system 550,
which may correspond to token system 112 of Figure 1, and/or a software library containing
methods that performs offline content sharing. While the machine-readable storage medium 528
is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium, the term "computer-readable
storage medium" should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a
centralized or distributed database, and/or associated caches and servers) that store the one or
more sets of instructions. The terms "machine-readable storage medium" or "computer
readable storage medium" shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing,
encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the
machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The terms
"machine-readable storage medium" or "computer-readable storage medium" shall accordingly
be taken to include, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, optical media, and magnetic
media.
[0075]    In the foregoing description, numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent,
however, to one of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure, that the present
disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances, well-known
structures and devices are shown in block diagram form, rather than in detail, in order to avoid
obscuring the present disclosure.
[0076]    Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms
and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These
algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data
processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.
An algorithm is here, and generally, conceived to be a self-consistent sequence of steps leading

                                                  18
to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.
Usually, though not necessarily, these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals
capable of being stored, transferred, combined, compared, and otherwise manipulated. It has
proven convenient at times, principally for reasons of common usage, to refer to these signals as
bits, values, elements, symbols, characters, terms, numbers, or the like.
[0077]    It should be borne in mind, however, that all of these and similar terms are to be
associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to
these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion,
it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions utilizing terms such as
"determining", "computing", "calculating", "obtaining", "identifying", "presenting,"
"receiving," "modifying", "subscribing", "providing" or the like, refer to the actions and
processes of a computer system, or similar electronic computing device, that manipulates and
transforms data represented as physical (e.g., electronic) quantities within the computer system's
registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the
computer system memories or registers or other such information storage, transmission or
display devices.
[0078]    The present disclosure also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein.
This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes, or it may comprise a
general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in
the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium,
such as, but not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks, optical disks, CD-ROMs,
and magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), random access memories (RAMs),
EPROMs, EEPROMs, magnetic or optical cards, or any type of media suitable for storing
electronic instructions.
[0079]    Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment"
means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus, the appearances of the phrase "in
one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not
necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. In addition, the term "or" is intended to mean
an inclusive "or" rather than an exclusive "or."

                                                  19
[0080]    It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative, and not
restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading
and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosure should, therefore, be
determined with reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to
which such claims are entitled.

                                                 20
CLAIMS
1.      A method comprising:
receiving, by a processing device, an indication that a first user of a user device intends to play a
content item on a playback device of a second user, the indication being received from the user
device and being associated with a user credential for the first user and a playback device
identifier for the playback device, wherein the first user is authenticated with the user device;
        verifying, by the processing device, the user credential;
        generating, by the processing device, a token for the-playback device, wherein the token
authorizes play of the content item on the playback device; and
        sending, by the processing device, the token to the playback device.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the verifying comprises determining access rights with
respect to the content item based on one or more criteria.
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more criteria comprise at least one of a
limited list of viewers having access to the content item, a payment of a fee for viewing the
content item, or a viewer age.
4.      The method of claim 1 further comprising:
        receiving, from a content sharing platform associated with the content item, a request to
verify the token, wherein the playback device sent a request to play the content item with the
token to the content sharing platform; and
upon verification of the token, sending notification of the verification of the token to the content
sharing platform.
5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the token is a non-cryptographic token.
6.      The method of claim 4, further comprising verifying that the first user is authorized to
view the content associated with the content ID.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the indication is further associated with a time period
for which the playback device is authorized to play the content.

                                                     21
8.        A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions that, when
executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to perform operations comprising:
          receiving an indication that a first user of a user device intends to play a content item on
a playback device of a second user, the indication being received from the user device and being
associated with a user credential for the first user and a playback device identifier for the
playback device wherein the first user is authenticated with the user device;
          verifying the user credential;
          generating a token for the playback device, wherein the token authorizes play of the
content item on the playback device; and
          sending the token to the playback device.
9.        The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the verifying
comprises determining access rights with respect to the content item based on one or more
criteria.
10.       The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the one or
more criteria comprise at least one of a limited list of viewers having access to the content item,
a payment of a fee for viewing the content item, or a viewer age.
11.       The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the operations
further comprise:
          receiving, from a content sharing platform associated with the content item, a request to
verify the token, wherein the playback device sent a request to play the content item with the
token to the content sharing platform; and
          upon verification of the token, sending notification of the verification of the token to the
content sharing platform.
12.       The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the token is a
non-cryptographic token.
13.       The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the operations
further comprise verifying that the first user is authorized to view the content associated with the
content ID.

                                                    22
14.      The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the indication
is further associated with a time period for which the playback device is authorized to play the
content.
15.      A computing device comprising:
         a memory; and
         a processing device coupled to the memory, wherein the processing device is to:
         receive an indication that a first user of a user device intends to play a content item on a
playback device of a second user, the indication being received from the user device and being
associated with a user credential for the first user and a playback device identifier for the
playback device, wherein the first user is authenticated with the user device;
         verify the user credential;
         generate a token for the playback device, wherein the token authorizes play of the
content item on the playback device; and
         send the token to the playback device.
16.      The computing device of claim 15, wherein to verify comprises the processing device to
determine access rights with respect the content item based on one or more criteria.
17.      The computing device of claim 16, wherein the one or more criteria comprise at least
one of a limited list of viewers having access to the content item, a payment of a fee for viewing
the content item, or a viewer age.
18.      The computing device of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further to:
         receive, from a content sharing platform associated with the content item, a request to
verify the token, wherein the playback device sent a request to play the content item with the
token to the content sharing platform; and
         upon verification of the token, send notification of the verification of the token to the
content sharing platform.
19.      The computing device of claim 15, wherein the token is a non-cryptographic token.
20.      The computing device of claim 15, wherein the processing device is further to verify that
the first user is authorized to view the content associated with the content ID.

                          23
                     Google LLC
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
             SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     1/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      3/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     4/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     5/5

