ABSTRACT
The present invention relaets to a steering assembly for a vehicle, comprising two rotatable
rods, oriented vertically and having a wheel attachment means on one end wherein wheels
can be rotatably secured. The rods are connected to a first cross bar in such a way that
enables the steering assembly to be attached to the vehicle frame and allows the rods to
rotate. The rods are also rotatably attached to a second cross bar on the opposite end of the
rod in such a way as to allow the rods to rotate. The rods are also attached to a steering
means in a manner that enables them to be manually roated in unison and which in turn
pivots the wheels and steers the vehicle.

            FIG. I.
          104
105
      jiK
    103
             115

Steering Mechanism       for Pedal Driven Vehicle
Cross-Reference      to Related Application
This application claims priority to US Provisional Application having Ser. No. 61/779,701
filed March 13, 2013, the contents of which are entirely incorporated by reference.
The present application is divided from Australian Patent Application No. 2014248684, the
contents of which are entirely incorporated by reference.
Background of Invention
Each document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is expressly incorporated
herein in their entirety by reference, which means that it should be read and considered by the reader
as part of this text. That the document, reference, patent application or patent cited in this text is not
repeated in this text is merely for reasons of conciseness.
The following discussion of the background to the invention is intended to facilitate an understanding
of the present invention only. It should be appreciated that the discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to was published, known or part of the common general
knowledge of the person skilled in the art in any jurisdiction as at the priority date of the invention.
The world today is experiencing        some significant changes to the climate, some of it is believed
to be caused by the emission of carbon dioxide by burning fossil fuels. The burning of carbon
based fuels coverts carbon to carbon dioxide which leads to increased concentrations             of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere which is believed to contribute to climate change.            Certainly one of
the biggest users of fossil fuels are vehicles used for transportation of people and things. Most of
these vehicles are propelled by internal combustion engines which burn fossil fuels. Therefore,
any practical reduction in the number of these type of vehicles would possibly mitigate future
climate damage.
One of the ways to reduce the use of such vehicles is to increase the use of self-propelled non
carbon dioxide emitting vehicles such as bicycles.        However, bicycles have their limitations.
Bicycles sometimes can be difficult to see when sharing the roads with cars and trucks. With the
exception of recumbent bicycles, most bicycle seats are not comfortable.           In addition, with most
bicycles you are exposed to the elements.
A need exists for a non-pollution       emitting vehicle that can be both self-propelled and/or
propelled by a non-polluting motor.
                                                        1

Summary of Invention
According to a principal aspect, there is provided a steering assembly for a vehicle, the steering
assembly comprising:
          a. two rods each having distal and proximal ends, each rod oriented essentially vertically and
rotatable about a respective X axis, each rod further attached to a wheel attachment means on the distal
end thereof to which a wheel can be rotatably secured;
          b. a first cross bar located between the distal end of each rod, which enables the steering
assembly to be attached to a frame of the vehicle and allows each of the rods to rotate about the
respective X axis;
          c. a second cross bar connected to the proximal end of each rod in such a way as to allow each
of the rods to rotate about the respective X axis; and
          d. a steering means attached to and located between the rods in a manner that enables the
rods to be manually rotated in unison about the respective X axes which in turn pivots each of the
respective wheels and steers the vehicle, wherein the wheel attachment means coupled to the first
cross bar through the rods at a position that is lower than an upper rim of each of the wheels, and
wherein a plane formed by the first cross bar and the frame is substantially perpendicular to the rods.
In one embodiment, the rods are made of aluminum.
In another embodiment, the first cross bar has a C shape.
In a further embodiment, the steering assembly includes a protective shell.
In one embodiment, the first cross bar is essentially horizontal and attached to the rods in a manner in
which enables each rod to be rotated about the X axis in unison.
According to another principal aspect, there is provided a steering assembly for a pedal driven
vehicle, the steering assembly comprising:
          a first rod having a first distal end and a first proximal end, the first rod is rotatable about a
first axis;
          a second rod having a second distal end and a second proximal end, the second rod is
rotatable about a second axis;
          a first cross bar attached to both the first distal end and the second distal end, the first cross
bar further attached to a frame of the vehicle;
                                                           2

          a second cross bar attached to both the first proximal end and the second proximal end; and
          a steering mechanism attached to the second cross bar and configured to manually rotate the
first rod about the first axis and the second rod about the second axis concurrently, wherein a plane
formed by the first cross bar and the frame is substantially perpendicular to the rods.
In one embodiment, the steering assembly further comprises a first wheel attachment coupled to the
first distal end of the first rod and a second wheel attachment coupled to the second distal end of the
second rod, the first wheel attachment is configured to rotatably secure a first wheel and the second
wheel attachment is configured to rotatably secure a second wheel.
In another embodiment, when the first rod is rotate about the first axis, the first wheel is rotate
accordingly, and wherein when the second rod is rotate about the second axis, the second wheel is
rotate accordingly.
In a further embodiment, the steering assembly includes a protective shell configured to substantially
enclose both the steering assembly and the first and second wheels.
In one embodiment, the first cross bar and the second cross bar are coupled only through the first and second
rods.
In another embodiment, the steering assembly is not foldable.
In a further embodiment, the frame has two horizontal support beams, each of the horizontal support
beams has two ends with the steering mechanism located at one of the two ends on each of the
horizontal support beams.
In one embodiment, the steering assembly further comprises a wheel positioned and attached
between the two support beams.
In another embodiment, the frame has two horizontal support beams, each of the horizontal support
beams has two ends with the steering mechanism located at one of the two ends on each of the
horizontal support beams.
In a further embodiment, the steering assembly further comprises a third wheel positioned and
attached between the two support beams.
According to a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a steering assembly for a
pedal driven vehicle, the steering assembly comprising:
          a first rod having a first distal end and a first proximal end, the first rod is rotatable about a
first axis;
                                                           3

         a second rod having a second distal end and a second proximal end, the second rod is
rotatable about a second axis, the second axis is parallel to the first axis;
         a first cross bar attached to both the first distal end and the second distal end;
         a second cross bar attached to both the first proximal end and the second proximal end;
         a first wheel attachment coupled to the first distal end of the first rod and a second wheel
attachment coupled to the second distal end of the second rod, the first wheel attachment is
configured to rotatably secure a first wheel and the second wheel attachment is configured to
rotatably secure a second wheel;
         a frame attached to the first cross bar, the frame comprising two horizontal support beams;
and
         a third wheel positioned and coupled between the two horizontal support beams.
In one embodiment, the steering assembly includes a protective shell configured to substantially
enclose both the steering assembly and the first and second wheels.
In another embodiment, a plane formed by the first cross bar and the frame is substantially perpendicular to the
rods.
Another aspect of the present invention relates generally to a steering assembly for a vehicle,
comprising two rods, rotatable and oriented essentially vertically and having a wheel
attachment means on one end wherein wheels can be rotatably secured. The rods are
connected to a first cross bar in such a way that enables the steering assembly to be attached to
the vehicle frame and allows the rods to rotate. The rods are also rotatably attached to a
second cross bar on the opposite end of the rod in such a way as to allow the rods to rotate.
The rods are also attached to a steering means in a manner that enables them to be manually
rotated in unison and which in turn pivots the wheels and steers the vehicle.
Brief Description of the Drawings
Implementation      of the invention will become more apparent from the detailed description set
forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings, in which like elements bear like
reference numbers.
FIG. 1 is a perspective view of the steering assembly of an embodiment of the present invention.
FIG. 2 is a view of the rods and wheel attachment means of an embodiment of the present
invention.
FIG. 3 is a view of the rods and wheel attachment as position within a vehicle.
                                                          4

FIG. 4 is a view of a C shaped first cross bar attached to the vehicle frame.
FIG. 5 is a view of one embodiment of the steering assembly means.
Detailed Description
It should be understood that the above description discloses specific embodiments of the
present invention and are for purposes of illustration only. There may be other modifications
and changes obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art which fall within the scope of the
present invention which should be limited only by the following claims and their legal
equivalents.
The steering assembly can be attached to any type of self-propelled or motor propelled vehicle.
Such self-propelled vehicle could be a pedal type bicycle such as a recumbent type tricycle.
The rods (100A & B) of an embodiment of the present invention have a distal and proximal ends
and are preferably cylindrical in shape. The rods should preferably be made of light and
strong material such as metal, metal composite or plastic. Other materials of equal weight and
strength may be suitable as well as certain grades of aluminum. The rods may also be solid
or hollow such as a tube.
The rods have a wheel attachment means (101A & B) on its distal end. The wheel attachment
means provides a hub for the rotatable attachment of a wheel.     Such attachment means should
be made of strong and light material such as metal wherein wheels can be rotatably secured.
The wheels can be bicycle wheels like that found on street pedal road bike.
The first cross bar (103) as referred to herein is positioned between the distal and proximal
ends of the rods. The cross bar enables the steering assembly to be attached to the vehicle
frame and also allows the rods to rotate about the X axis,
The second cross bar (105) as referred to herein is connected to the proximal end of the rods in
such a way as to allow the rods to rotate about the X axis. In addition, the bar is connected to
the steering means (104) in such a manner that enables the manual rotation of the two rods in
unison about the X axis, which in turn pivots the wheels and steers the vehicle.
As used herein the steering means (104) refers to a steering mechanism which enables the
manual rotation of the rods in unison about the X axis, which in turn pivots the wheels and
steers the vehicle. Such steering mean can consist of a steering device like a bike handle bars
as in shown in FIG. 1 and 5 connected through a column positioned essentially perpendicular
to two bars connected to the rods in such a way that the rods are rotated in unison about their X
axes.
                                                  5

Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations
such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or
group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
Furthermore, throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "include" or
variations such as "includes" or "including", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a skilled addressee are deemed to be within
the scope of the present invention.
                                                      6

The Claims Defining the Invention are as Follows:
1. A steering assembly for a vehicle, the steering assembly comprising:
          a. two rods each having distal and proximal ends, each rod oriented essentially vertically
and rotatable about a respective X axis, each rod further attached to a wheel attachment means
on the distal end thereof to which a wheel can be rotatably secured;
          b. a first cross bar located between the distal end of each rod, which enables the steering
assembly to be attached to a frame of the vehicle and allows each of the rods to rotate about the
respective X axis;
          c. a second cross bar connected to the proximal end of each rod in such a way as to allow
each of the rods to rotate about the respective X axis; and
          d. a steering means attached to and located between the rods in a manner that enables the
rods to be manually rotated in unison about the respective X axes which in turn pivots each of the
respective wheels and steers the vehicle, wherein the wheel attachment means coupled to the first
cross bar through the rods at a position that is lower than an upper rim of each of the wheels, and
wherein a plane formed by the first cross bar and the frame is substantially perpendicular to the
rods.
2. The steering assembly of claim 1, wherein the rods are made of aluminum.
3. The steering assembly of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first cross bar has a C shape.
4. The steering assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the steering assembly
includes a protective shell.
5. The steering assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first cross bar is
essentially horizontal and attached to the rods in a manner in which enables each rod to be
rotated about the X axis in unison.
6. A steering assembly for a pedal driven vehicle, the steering assembly comprising:
          a first rod having a first distal end and a first proximal end, the first rod is rotatable about
a first axis;
          a second rod having a second distal end and a second proximal end, the second rod is
rotatable about a second axis;
                                                      7

          a first cross bar attached to both the first distal end and the second distal end, the first
cross bar further attached to a frame of the vehicle;
          a second cross bar attached to both the first proximal end and the second proximal end;
and
          a steering mechanism attached to the second cross bar and configured to manually rotate
the first rod about the first axis and the second rod about the second axis concurrently, wherein a
plane formed by the first cross bar and the frame is substantially perpendicular to the rods.
7. The steering assembly of claim 6, further comprising a first wheel attachment coupled to the
first distal end of the first rod and a second wheel attachment coupled to the second distal end of
the second rod, the first wheel attachment is configured to rotatably secure a first wheel and the
second wheel attachment is configured to rotatably secure a second wheel.
8. The steering assembly of claim 7, wherein when the first rod is rotate about the first axis, the
first wheel is rotate accordingly, and wherein when the second rod is rotate about the second
axis, the second wheel is rotate accordingly.
9. The steering assembly of claim 8, wherein the steering assembly includes a protective shell
configured to substantially enclose both the steering assembly and the first and second wheels.
10. The steering assembly of claim 6, wherein the first cross bar and the second cross bar are
coupled only through the first and second rods.
11. The steering assembly of claim 6, wherein the steering assembly is not foldable.
12. The steering assembly of claim 6, wherein the frame has two horizontal support beams, each
of the horizontal support beams has two ends with the steering mechanism located at one of the
two ends on each of the horizontal support beams.
13. The steering assembly of claim 12, further comprising a wheel positioned and attached
between the two support beams.
14. The steering assembly of claim 7, wherein the frame has two horizontal support beams, each
of the horizontal support beams has two ends with the steering mechanism located at one of the
two ends on each of the horizontal support beams.
15. The steering assembly of claim 14, further comprising a third wheel positioned and attached
between the two support beams.
                                                      8

16. A steering assembly for a pedal driven vehicle, the steering assembly comprising:
          a first rod having a first distal end and a first proximal end, the first rod is rotatable about
a first axis;
          a second rod having a second distal end and a second proximal end, the second rod is
rotatable about a second axis, the second axis is parallel to the first axis;
          a first cross bar attached to both the first distal end and the second distal end;
          a second cross bar attached to both the first proximal end and the second proximal end;
          a first wheel attachment coupled to the first distal end of the first rod and a second wheel
attachment coupled to the second distal end of the second rod, the first wheel attachment is
configured to rotatably secure a first wheel and the second wheel attachment is configured to
rotatably secure a second wheel;
          a frame attached to the first cross bar, the frame comprising two horizontal support
beams; and
          a third wheel positioned and coupled between the two horizontal support beams.
17. The steering assembly of claim 16, wherein the steering assembly includes a protective shell
configured to substantially enclose both the steering assembly and the first and second wheels.
18. The steering assembly of claim 16 or 17, wherein a plane formed by the first cross bar and
the frame is substantially perpendicular to the rods.
                                                      9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
