       Abstract
       Blood Brain Barrier Shuttle
        The present invention relates to blood brain barrier shuttles that bind receptors on the blood
brain barrier (R/BBB) and methods of using the same.
1AQ12-l72   1-hin

                                                   1
                              BLOOD BRAIN BARRIER SHUTTLE
       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
       The present application claims priority to EP12182181.3 filed on 29 August 2012. The
present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2013307406, which is the Australian National Phase of PCT/EP2013/067595. The entire
contents of each of these applications which is incorporated herein by reference.
         BACKGROUND
         Brain penetration of neurological disorder drugs such as e.g. large biotherapeutic drugs
or small molecule drugs having a low brain penetration, is strictly limited by the extensive and
impermeable blood-brain barrier (BBB) together with the other cell component in the
neurovascular unit (NVU). Many strategies to overcome this obstacle have been tested and one
is to utilize transcytosis pathways mediated by endogenous receptors expressed on the brain
capillary endothelium. Recombinant proteins such as monoclonal antibodies or peptides have
been designed against these receptors to enable receptor-mediated delivery of biotherapeutics
to the brain. However, strategies to maximize brain uptake while minimizing miss-sorting
within the brain endothelial cells (BECs), and the extent of accumulation within certain
organelles (especially organelles that leads to degradation of the biotherapeutic) in BECs,
remain unexplored.
         Monoclonal antibodies and other biotherapeutics have huge therapeutic potential for
treatment of pathology in the central nervous system (CNS). However, their route into the brain
is prevented by BBB. Previous studies have illustrated that a very small percentage
(approximately 0. 1%) of an IgG injected in the bloodstream are able to penetrate into the CNS
compartment (Felgenhauer, Klin. Wschr. 52: 1158-1164 (1974)). This will certainly limit any
pharmacological effect due to the low concentration within CNS of the antibody.
         Therefore, there is a need for delivery systems of neurological disorder drugs across the
BBB to shuttle the drugs into the brain efficiently.
       SUMMARY
       In a first aspect, the present invention provides a blood brain barrier shuttle comprising
a brain effector entity, a linker and one monovalent binding entity which binds to a blood
brain barrier receptor, wherein the linker couples the effector entity to the monovalent
binding entity which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor.
14681563v1:hjg

                                                     -2
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the monovalent binding entity
   which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor is selected from the group consisting of proteins,
   polypeptides and peptides.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the monovalent binding entity
 5 which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor comprises a molecule selected from the group
   consisting of a blood brain barrier receptor ligand, scFv, Fv, sFab, VHH, preferably a sFab.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the blood brain receptor is se
   lected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor, insulin receptor, insulin-like growth fac
   tor receptor, low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 8, low density lipoprotein receptor
10 related protein 1 and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor, preferably
   transferrin receptor.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the monovalent binding entity
   which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor comprises one scFab directed to the transferrin
   receptor, more particular a scFab recognizing an epitope in the transferrin receptor comprised
15 within the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 14, 15 or 16.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the brain effector entity is se
   lected from the group consisting of neurological disorder drugs, neurotrophic factors, growth
   factors, enzymes, cytotoxic agents, antibodies directed to a brain target, monoclonal antibodies
   directed to a brain target, peptides directed to a brain target.
20        In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the brain target is selected
   from the group consisting of P-secretase 1, AP, epidermal growth factor, epidermal growth factor
   receptor 2, Tau, phosphorylated Tau, apolipoprotein E4, alpha synuclein, oligomeric fragments
   of alpha synuclein, CD20, huntingtin, prion protein, leucine rich repeat kinase 2, parkin, prese
   nilin 2, gamma secretase, death receptor 6, amyloid precursor protein, p75 neurotrophin receptor
25 and caspase 6.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the brain effector entity is se
   lected from the group consisting of proteins, polypeptides and peptides.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the monovalent binding entity
   which binds to the blood brain receptor is selected from the group consisting of proteins, poly
30 peptides and peptides and said monovalent binding entity is coupled to the C-terminal end of the
   brain effector entity by the linker.

                                                     -3
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the brain effector entity com
   prises a full length antibody directed to a brain target, preferably a full length IgG.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the blood brain barrier shuttle
   comprises a full length IgG antibody as brain effector entity, the linker and one scFab as the
 5 monovalent binding entity which binds the blood brain receptor, wherein the scFab is coupled by
   the linker to the C-terminal end of the Fc part of one of the heavy chains of the IgG antibody.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the effector entity is a full
   length antibody directed to AP.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the antibody directed to AP
10 comprises (a) H-CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 5, (b) H-CDR2 com
   prising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 6, (c) H-CDR3 comprising the amino acid se
   quence of Seq. Id. No. 7, (d) L-CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 8, (e)
   L-CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 9 and (f) L-CDR3 comprising the
   amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 10.
15        In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the antibody directed to
   Abeta comprises a VH domain comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 11 and a VL
   domain comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 12.
          In a particular embodiment of blood brain barrier shuttle, the effector entity is a full length
   antibody directed to AP and the monovalent binding entity is a scFab directed to the transferrin
20 receptor, more particular a scFab recognizing an epitope in the transferrin receptor comprised
   within the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 14, 15 or 16.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the first heavy chain of the
   antibody of the blood brain barrier shuttle directed to a brain target comprises a first dimerization
   module and the second heavy chain of the antibody of the blood brain barrier shuttle to a brain
25 target comprises a second dimerization module allowing heterodimerization of the two heavy
   chains.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the first dimerization module
   of the first heavy chain of the antibody of the blood brain barrier shuttle directed to the brain tar
   get comprises knobs and the dimerization module of the second heavy chain of the antibody of
30 the blood brain barrier shuttle directed to the brain target comprises holes according to the knobs
   into holes strategy.

                                                     -4
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the effector entity is a full
   length antibody directed to phosphorylated Tau and the monovalent binding entity is one scFab
   directed to the transferrin receptor.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the effector entity is a full
 5 length antibody directed to alpha synuclein and the monovalent binding entity is one scFab di
   rected to the transferrin receptor.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the linker is a peptide linker,
   preferably a peptide which is an amino acid sequence with a length of at least 25 amino acids,
   more preferably with a length of 30 to 50 amino acids, in particular said linker is (G 4 S) 6G2 or
10 (G 4S) 4.
          The following three embodiments of the invention relate to a blood brain barrier shuttle
   wherein the brain effector entity is a protein, polypeptide or peptide with the proviso that the
   brain effector entity is not a full length antibody, in particular a full length IgG.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the monovalent binding entity
15 which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor comprises a CH2-CH3 Ig entity and one sFab
   which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor, wherein the sFab is coupled to a C-terminal end
   of the CH2-CH3 Ig entity by a second linker.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the blood brain barrier shuttle
   comprises the brain effector entity, the linker, the CH2-CH3 Ig domain, the second linker and
20 one sFab which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor, wherein the brain effector entity is cou
   pled by the first linker to a N-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig domain and the sFab is coupled to
   a C-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig domain by the second linker.
          In a particular embodiment of the blood brain barrier shuttle, the CH2-CH3 Ig entity is a
   CH2-CH3 IgG entity.
25        Furthermore, the present invention relates to an isolated nucleic acid encoding the blood
   brain barrier shuttle of the present invention, a host cell comprising the isolated nucleic acid en
   coding the blood brain barrier shuttle and a pharmaceutical formulation comprising the blood
   brain barrier shuttle.
          The blood brain barrier shuttle of the present invention can be used as a medicament, in
30 particular it can be used for the treatment of a neurological disorder such as e.g. Alzheimer's dis
   ease.

                                                     -5
          The blood brain barrier shuttle of the present invention can be used to transport the brain
   effector entity across the blood brain barrier.
          In a particular embodiment, the heavy chain of the IgG antibody of the blood brain barrier
   shuttle of the present invention coupled at its C-terminal end of the Fc part to the scFab as mon
 5 ovalent binding entity which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor has the following structure:
                * IgG heavy chain,
                * Linker coupling the C-terminal end of the Fc part of the IgG heavy chain to the
                    N-terminal end of the VL domain of the scFab,
                * Variable light chain domain (VL) and C-kappa light chain domain of the scFab,
10              e   Linker coupling the C-terminal end of the C-kappa light chain domain of the
                    scFab to the N-terminal end of the VH domain of the scFab,
                * Variable heavy chain domain (VH) of the scFab antibody and IgG CH3 heavy
                    chain domain.
          In a second aspect the present invention provides a fusion protein to transport a brain effec
15 tor entity across the blood brain barrier comprising a CH2-CH3 Ig entity, a linker and one sFab
   directed to a blood brain barrier receptor, wherein the sFab is coupled to a C-terminal end of the
   CH2-CH3 Ig entity by the linker.
          In a particular embodiment of the fusion protein of the present invention, the fusion protein
   of the present invention further comprises a linker at the N-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig enti
20 ty to couple the brain effector entity to the N-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig entity.
          In a particular embodiment of the fusion protein of the present invention,the brain effector
   entity is selected from the group consisting of neurological disorder drugs, neurotrophic factors,
   growth factors, enzymes, cytotoxic agents, antibody fragments or peptides directed to a brain
   target selected from the group consisting of scFv, Fv, scFab, Fab, VHH, F(ab') 2 .
25        In a particular embodiment of the fusion protein of the present invention, the sFab directed
   to the blood brain barrier receptor is a sFab directed to the transferrin receptor, preferably a
   scFab recognizing an epitope in the transferrin receptor comprised within the amino acid se
   quence of Seq. Id. No. 14, 15 or 16.
          In a particular embodiment of the fusion protein of the present invention, the linker is a
30 peptide linker, in particular a peptide which is an amino acid sequence with a length of at least

                                                     -6
   15 amino acids, more particularly with a length of 20 to 50 amino acids, most particularly said
   linker has the amino acid sequence (G4 S) 6G 2 (Seq. Id. No. 13) or (G 4 S) 4 (Seq. Id. No. 17).
          In a particular embodiment of the fusion protein of the present invention, the CH2-CH3 Ig
   entity is a CH2-CH3 IgG entity.
 5        Furthermore, the present invention provides an isolated nucleic acid encoding the fusion
   protein of the present invention and a host cell comprising the nucleic acid encoding the fusion
   protein of the present invention.
          In a third aspect the present invention provides a conjugate comprising a fusion protein of
   the present invention and a brain effector entity coupled to a N-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig
10 entity of the fusion protein of the present invention by a linker.
          In a particular embodiment of the conjugate of the present invention, the brain effector en
   tity is a neurotrophic factor and wherein the linker coupling the neurotrophic factor to the N
   terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig entity is a peptide linker.
          Furthermore, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical formulation comprising the
15 conjugate of the present invention and a pharmaceutical carrier, the use of the conjugate as a me
   dicament, in particular the use of the conjugate for the treatment of a neurodegenerative disorder,
   in particular Alzheimer's disease.
            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            Fig. 1: Different format of blood brain barrier shuttles (fusion proteins) used in the ex
20 amples. 1A: IgG directed to AP (mAb3 1). 1B: single Fab (sFab) directed to TfR coupled to the
   Fc part of an IgG directed to AP (mAb3 1). 1C: double Fab (dFab) directed to TfR coupled to the
   Fc part of an IgG directed to AP (mAb3 1). The scFab structure is fused to the C-terminal end of
   the heavy chain of the IgG antibody.
            Fig. 2: Binding properties of the fusion proteins towards AP structures. The binding af
25 finity was measured using an ELISA setup which shows that the Fab constructs have preserved
   AP binding properties. Binding of mAb31-8D3 constructs to Abeta fibrils. While 8D3 (open
   squares) does not bind to immobilized Abeta fibrils, mAb31-8D3-dFab (filled squares), mAb3 1
   8D3-sFab (open triangles) and mAb31 (filled triangles) bind with comparable affinities.
            Fig. 3: Binding properties of the constructs towards the Transferrin receptor (TfR). The
30 binding affinity was measure using an ELISA setup which shows that only the Fab constructs
   binds the Transferrin receptor (TfR) and the double Fab construct have slightly higher apparent
   affinity due to the bivalent binding mode. Binding of mAb31-8D3 constructs to mTfR. While

                                                      -7
   mAb31 (filled triangles) does not bind to immobilized mTfR, mAb31-8D3-dFab (filled squares)
   binds with an affinity comparable to that of the 8D3 parent antibody (open squares). The mono
   valent construct mAb31-8D3-sFab (open triangles) shows an intermediate binding affinity.
           Fig. 4: Plaque decoration of anti-Ap monoclonal antibody mAb31 (Fig. 4A), single Fab
 5 mAb3l (single Fab fused to the C-terminal end of mAb31) (Fig. 4B) and double Fab mAb3l
   (double Fabs fused to the C-terminal end of mAb3 1) (Fig. 4C). Construct injected in PS2APP
   mice (n=3/construct), single intravenous dose 10 mg/kg and then brain perfusion 8 hours post
   dose. Analysis included immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy for plaque binding. Da
   ta shows that only the single Fab-mAb31 construct are able to cross the BBB and bind to the
10 plaques. The figure shows one representative area of the brain from all animals.
           Fig. 5: Shows the quantification of the double Fab-mAb31 construct. The plaque and ca
   pillary staining was quantified in all three treated animals in three different regions (9 areas in
   total for each construct). The data shows that there is only an increase in the capillaries for the
   double Fab-mAb31 construct compared to mAb3 1. No increased levels of the double Fab
15 mAb31 at the plaque (inside the brain) were detected. Quantification of mab31 (HEK control) vs
   double Fab-mab3, 10 mg/kg, 8h post dose.
           Fig. 6: Shows the quantification of the single Fab-mAb31 construct. The plaque and ca
   pillary staining was quantified in all three treated animals in three different regions (9 areas in
   total for each construct). The data shows that there is a massive increase at the plaques for the
20 single Fab-mAb31 construct compare to mAb3 1. Quantification of the fluorescence signal indi
   cates more that 50-fold increase of the single Fab-mAb31 compare to the mAb31 construct.
   There is also a transient staining in the capillaries for the single Fab-mAb31 construct compare
   to mAb31 indicating the crossing over the BBB. Quantification of mab31 (HEK control) vs sin
   gle Fab-mab31 10 mg/kg, 8h post dose and 25 mg/kg, 24h post dose.
25         Fig. 7: Plaque decoration of anti-Ap monoclonal antibody mAb31 at two different doses
   and single Fab mAb31 (single Fab fused to the C-terminal end of mAb3 1) at a very low dose.
   Construct injected in PS2APP mice (n=3/construct), single intravenous dose and then brain per
   fusion at various time points post dose. Analysis included immunohistochemistry and confocal
   microscopy for plaque binding. Data shows that only the single Fab-mAb31 construct are able to
30 cross the BBB and bind to the plaques. The brain exposure is very rapid for the single Fab
   mAb31 construct and the plaque decoration is sustainable over at least one week from a single
   administration.
           Fig. 8: Quantification of cell surface expression of TfR treated with single Fab-mab31 or
   double Fab-mAb3 1.Transferrin receptor (TfR) cell surface down-regulation by the double Fab
35 mAb31 construct. Brain endothelial cells expressing the TfR were incubated for 24 hours with

                                                      -8
   either the single Fab-mAb31 construct (Fig. 8A) or the double Fab-mAb31 construct (Fig. 8B).
   Only the double Fab-mAb31 construct lowered the level of cell surface expressed TfR.
           Fig. 9: In vivo cell trafficking of TfR treated with single Fab-mab31 or double Fab
   mAb3 1. Early time points investigating capillary and plaque staining in vivo. Both sFab-MAb31
 5 (Fig. 9A) and dFab-MAb31 (Fig. 9B) decorates the brain vasculature 15 minutes after injection
   with no difference in their distribution. 8 hours post-injection, sFab-MAb31 reaches the paren
   chyma and decorates amyloid plaques (arrows, Fig 9C) whereas dFab-MAb31 stays within brain
   vasculature similarly to the 15 minutes time point (Fig. 9D). No amyloid plaques in the paren
   chyma are detected for the dFab-MAb3 1.
10         Fig. 10: In vivo cell trafficking of TfR treated with single Fab-mab31 or double Fab
   mAb3 1. To control the integrity of all constructs used in the study, staining of 18 months mouse
   APP transgenic brain cryosections was done using MAb31 (Fig. 10 A), sFab-MAb31 (Fig. 1GB)
   or dFab-MAB31 (Fig. 1GC). Fig. 1GD shows the results of the control. Results showed that all 3
   constructs detected amyloid plaques in the brain of transgenic mice.
15         Fig. 11: In vivo cell trafficking of TfR treated with single Fab-mab3 1. High resolution
   confocal microscopy on in vivo treated samples shows that sFab-MAb31 do not decorate the lu
   minal side of brain capillaries but are contained within vesicle-like structures crossing the lu
   minal membrane of endothelial cells and within the endothelial cell cytosol. Arrows in Fig 11
   indicate vesicles containing sFab-MAb31 constructs on the abluminal side of endothelial cell
20 nuclei. These data suggest that both sFab-MAb31 can enter the brain endothelial cells and cross
   the vasculature and reach amyloid plaques within the parenchyma space of the brain (Compare
   with Figure 9A and C).
           Fig. 12: In vivo cell trafficking of TfR treated with double Fab-mab3 1. High resolution
   confocal microscopy on in vivo treated samples shows dFab-MAb31 do not decorate the luminal
25 side of brain capillaries but are contained within vesicle-like structures crossing the luminal
   membrane of endothelial cells and within the endothelial cell cytosol. Arrows in Fig 12 indicate
   vesicles containing dFab-MAb31 constructs on the abluminal side of endothelial cell nuclei.
   These data suggest that dFab-MAb31 can enter the brain endothelial cells but are trapped not
   able to cross the vasculature and therefore not reach the amyloid plaques within the parenchyma
30 space of the brain (Compare with Figure 9B and D).
           Fig. 13: Brain exposure and plaque decoration after i.v. administration. Fig. 13A: mAb3 1,
   dFab and sFab constructs were intravenously injected in PS2APP transgenic animals at 10 mg/kg,
   animals were perfused and sacrificed 8 hours post injection. No significant increase in plaque
   decoration was detected for the dFab compared to mAb3 1. For the sFab construct a 55-fold
35 higher plaque decoration was detected than the parent mAb31 based on fluorescence intensity at

                                                      -9
   555 nm from the detection antibody. Representative immunohistochemistry staining in cortex of
   mAb31 (Fig. 13B), dFab (Fig. 13C) and sFab (Fig. 13D) 8 hour post injection. The dFab shows
   only microvessel staining while the sFab decorates the amyloid-3 plaques extensively. Fig. 13E:
   Demonstration that a low dose of the sFab construct (2.66 mg/kg) rapidly and significantly
 5 reaches the plaques in the brain compared to both 2 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg of mAb3 1. The target
   engagement of the sFab construct is sustainable over at least one week post injection. Immuno
   histochemistry staining shows plaque decoration for mAb31 at 2 mg/kg (Fig. 13F) and sFab at
   2.66 mg/kg (Fig. 13G) 7 days post injection.
           Fig. 14: In vivo efficacy in a chronic study in plaque bearing PS2APP mice treated by 14
10 weekly i.v. injections. Target plaque binding of administrated constructs bound to residual
   plaques at the end of the study are shown for low dose mAb3 1, mid dose mAb3 1, low dose sFab
   and mid dose sFab, respectively (Fig. 14A-D). Quantitative morphometric analysis after im
   munohistochemical staining of plaques is shown for cortex and hippocampus (Fig. 14 E). Plaque
   load of untreated animals sacrificed at an age of 4.5 months is shown as baseline level of amy
15 loidosis at the start of the study. A significant reduction in plaque numbers is evident after treat
   ment with mid dose sFab compared to the progressive plaque formation seen in vehicle treated
   animals; a trend of reduced plaque formation appears even at the low dose sFab. Thus, sFab con
   struct significantly reduces plaque numbers in both cortex and hippocampus. Analysis of plaque
   sizes revealed reduction of plaque numbers most pronounced for small plaque sizes. *p<0.05,
20 **p<0.01, ***p<0.001.
           Fig. 15: Antibody multimeric with TfR scFab fragments fused to the Fc C-terminus do
   not induce ADCC. NK92-mediated killing of BA/F3 mouse erythroleukemia cells was measured
   by quantifying LDH release. Only multimeric constructs with the TfR-binding Fab moiety in the
   "conventional" "N-terminal to Fc" orientation induce significant ADCC, while the brain shuttle
25 constructs in reverse orientation are silent.
           Fig. 16: scFab 8D3 directed to the transferrin receptor binds to three distinct peptides in
   the extracellular domain of mouse transferrin receptor. Binding of antibody 8D3 to 15mer pep
   tides overlapping by three amino acids was revealed by chemiluminescent detection of antibody
   incubated on a CelluSpot slide carrying immobilized mTfR peptides. Box: Peptides #373, 374
30 and 376 bound by 8D3 (Seq. Id. No. 15, 16 and 17).
           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
           DEFINITIONS
           The "blood-brain barrier" or "BBB" refers to the physiological barrier between the pe
   ripheral circulation and the brain and spinal cord which is formed by tight junctions within the

                                                    -10
   brain capillary endothelial plasma membranes, creating a tight barrier that restricts the transport
   of molecules into the brain, even very small molecules such as urea (60 Daltons). The BBB with
   in the brain, the blood-spinal cord barrier within the spinal cord, and the blood-retinal barrier
   within the retina are contiguous capillary barriers within the CNS, and are herein collectively
 5 referred to an the blood-brain barrier or BBB. The BBB also encompasses the blood-CSF barrier
   (choroid plexus) where the barrier is comprised of ependymal cells rather than capillary endothe
   lial cells.
            The knobs into holes dimerization modules and their use in antibody engineering are de
   scribed in Carter P.; Ridgway J.B.B.; Presta L.G.: Immunotechnology, Volume 2, Number 1,
10 February 1996 , pp. 73-73(1)).
            The "central nervous system" or "CNS" refers to the complex of nerve tissues that control
   bodily function, and includes the brain and spinal cord.
            A "blood-brain barrier receptor" (abbreviated "R/BBB" herein) is an extracellular mem
   brane-linked receptor protein expressed on brain endothelial cells which is capable of transport
15 ing molecules across the BBB or be used to transport exogenous administrated molecules. Ex
   amples of R/BBB herein include: transferrin receptor (TfR), insulin receptor, insulin-like growth
   factor receptor (IGF-R), low density lipoprotein receptors including without limitation low den
   sity lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) and low density lipoprotein receptor-related
   protein 8 (LRP8), and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF).
20 An exemplary R/BBB herein is transferrin receptor (TfR).
            The "brain effector entity" refers to a molecule that is to be transported to the brain
   across the BBB. The effector entity typically has a characteristic therapeutic activity that is de
   sired to be delivered to the brain. Effector entities include neurologically disorder drugs and cy
   totoxic agents such as e.g. peptides, proteins and antibodies, in particular monoclonal antibodies
25 or fragments thereof directed to a brain target.
            The "monovalent binding entity" refers to a molecule able to bind specifically and in a
   monovalent binding mode to an R/BBB. The blood brain shuttle and/or conjugate of the present
   invention are characterized by the presence of a single unit of a monovalent binding entity i.e.
   the blood brain shuttle and/or conjugate of the present invention comprise one unit of the mono
30 valent binding entity. The monovalent binding entity includes but is not limited to proteins, poly
   peptides, peptides and antibody fragments including Fab, Fab', Fv fragments, single-chain anti
   body molecules such as e.g. single chain Fab, scFv. The monovalent binding entity can for ex
   ample be a scaffold protein engineered using state of the art technologies like phage display or
   immunization. The monovalent binding entity can also be a peptide. In certain embodiments, the
35 monovalent binding entity comprises a CH2-CH3 Ig domain and a single Fab (sFab) directed to

                                                    -11
   a blood brain barrier receptor. The sFab is coupled to the C-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig
   domain by a linker. In certain embodiments, the sFab is directed to the transferrin receptor.
           The "monovalent binding mode" refers to a specific binding to the R/BBB where the in
   teraction between the monovalent binding entity and the R/BBB take place through one single
 5 epitope. The monovalent binding mode prevents any dimerization/multimerization of the R/BBB
   due to a single epitope interaction point. The monovalent binding mode prevents that the intra
   cellular sorting of the R/BBB is changed.
           The term "epitope" includes any polypeptide determinant capable of specific binding to
   an antibody. In certain embodiments, epitope determinant include chemically active surface
10 groupings of molecules such as amino acids, sugar side chains, phosphoryl, or sulfonyl, and, in
   certain embodiments, may have specific three dimensional structural characteristics, and or spe
   cific charge characteristics. An epitope is a region of an antigen that is bound by an antibody.
           The "transferrin receptor" ("TfR") is a transmembrane glycoprotein (with a molecular
   weight of about 180,000) composed of two disulphide-bonded sub-units (each of apparent mo
15 lecular weight of about 90,000) involved in iron uptake in vertebrates. In one embodiment, the
   TfR herein is human TfR comprising the amino acid sequence as in Schneider et al. Nature 311
   675 - 678 (1984), for example.
           A "neurological disorder" as used herein refers to a disease or disorder which affects the
   CNS and/or which has an etiology in the CNS. Exemplary CNS diseases or disorders include,
20 but are not limited to, neuropathy, amyloidosis, cancer, an ocular disease or disorder, viral or mi
   crobial infection, inflammation, ischemia, neurodegenerative disease, seizure, behavioral disor
   ders, and a lysosomal storage disease. For the purposes of this application, the CNS will be un
   derstood to include the eye, which is normally sequestered from the rest of the body by the
   blood-retina barrier. Specific examples of neurological disorders include, but are not limited to,
25 neurodegenerative diseases (including, but not limited to, Lewy body disease, postpoliomyelitis
   syndrome, Shy-Draeger syndrome, olivopontocerebellar atrophy, Parkinson's disease, multiple
   system atrophy, striatonigral degeneration, tauopathies (including, but not limited to, Alzheimer
   disease and supranuclear palsy), prion diseases (including, but not limited to, bovine spongiform
   encephalopathy, scrapie, Creutzfeldt- Jakob syndrome, kuru, Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker
30 disease, chronic wasting disease, and fatal familial insomnia), bulbar palsy, motor neuron disease,
   and nervous system heterodegenerative disorders (including, but not limited to, Canavan disease,
   Huntington's disease, neuronal ceroid- lipofuscinosis, Alexander's disease, Tourette's syndrome,
   Menkes kinky hair syndrome, Cockayne syndrome, Halervorden-Spatz syndrome, lafora disease,
   Rett syndrome,       hepatolenticular degeneration,   Lesch-Nyhan syndrome,        and Unverricht
35 Lundborg syndrome), dementia (including, but not limited to, Pick's disease, and spinocerebellar

                                                   -12
   ataxia), cancer (e.g. of the CNS and/or brain, including brain metastases resulting from cancer
   elsewhere in the body).
            A "neurological disorder drug" is a drug or therapeutic agent that treats one or more neu
   rological disorder(s). Neurological disorder drugs of the invention include, but are not limited to,
 5 small molecule compounds, antibodies, peptides, proteins, natural ligands of one or more CNS
   target(s), modified versions of natural ligands of one or more CNS target(s), aptamers, inhibitory
   nucleic acids (i.e., small inhibitory RNAs (siRNA) and short hairpin RNAs (shRNA)), ribo
   zymes, and small molecules, or active fragments of any of the foregoing. Exemplary neurologi
   cal disorder drugs of the invention are described herein and include, but are not limited to: anti
10 bodies, aptamers, proteins, peptides, inhibitory nucleic acids and small molecules and active
   fragments of any of the foregoing that either are themselves or specifically recognize and/or act
   upon (i.e., inhibit, activate, or detect) a CNS antigen or target molecule such as, but not limited
   to, amyloid precursor protein or portions thereof, amyloid beta, beta-secretase, gamma-secretase,
   tau, alpha-synuclein, parkin, huntingtin, DR6, presenilin, ApoE, glioma or other CNS cancer
15 markers, and neurotrophins. Non-limiting examples of neurological disorder drugs and the corre
   sponding disorders they may be used to treat: Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), Chron
   ic brain injury (Neurogenesis), Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2), Anti-Epidermal Growth Fac
   tor Receptor Brain cancer, (EGFR)-antibody, Glial cell-line derived neural factor Parkinson's
   disease, (GDNF), Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, de
20 pression, Lysosomal enzyme Lysosomal storage disorders of the brain, Ciliary neurotrophic fac
   tor (CNTF) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Neuregulin-1 Schizophrenia, Anti-HER2 antibody
   (e.g. trastuzumab) Brain metastasis from HER2 -positive cancer.
            An "imaging agent" is a compound that has one or more properties that permit its pres
   ence and/or location to be detected directly or indirectly. Examples of such imaging agents in
25 clude proteins and small molecule compounds incorporating a labeled entity that permits detec
   tion.
            A "CNS antigen" or "brain target" is an antigen and/or molecule expressed in the CNS,
   including the brain, which can be targeted with an antibody or small molecule. Examples of such
   antigen and/or molecule include, without limitation: beta-secretase 1 (BACEl), amyloid beta
30 (Abeta), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
   (HER2), Tau, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), alpha-synuclein, CD20, huntingtin, prion protein
   (PrP), leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), parkin, presenilin 1, presenilin 2, gamma secretase,
   death receptor 6 (DR6), amyloid precursor protein (APP), p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR),
   and caspase 6. In one embodiment, the antigen is BACEl.

                                                   -13
            A "native sequence" protein herein refers to a protein comprising the amino acid se
   quence of a protein found in nature, including naturally occurring variants of the protein. The
   term as used herein includes the protein as isolated from a natural source thereof or as recombi
   nantly produced.
 5          The term "antibody" herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers mono
   clonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, multispecific antibodies {e.g. bispecific antibodies)
   formed from at least two intact antibodies, and antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the
   desired biological activity.
            "Antibody fragments" herein comprise a portion of an intact antibody which retains the
10 ability to bind antigen. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, and Fv frag
   ments; diabodies; linear antibodies; single-chain antibody molecules such as e.g. single chain
   Fab, scFv and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments. The "Single chain Fab"
   format is e.g. described in Hust M. et al. BMC Biotechnol. 2007 Mar 8;7:14.
            The term "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a
15 population of substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the individual antibodies comprising
   the population are identical and/or bind the same epitope, except for possible variants that may
   arise during production of the monoclonal antibody, such variants generally being present in mi
   nor amounts. In contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations that typically include different anti
   bodies directed against different determinants (epitopes), each monoclonal antibody is directed
20 against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their specificity, the monoclonal anti
   bodies are advantageous in that they are uncontaminated by other immunoglobulins. The modifi
   er "monoclonal" indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially
   homogeneous population of antibodies, and is not to be construed as requiring production of the
   antibody by any particular method. For example, the monoclonal antibodies to be used in ac
25 cordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma method first described by
   Kohler et al., Nature, 256:495 (1975), or may be made by recombinant DNA methods (see, e.g.,
   U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567). The "monoclonal antibodies" may also be isolated from phage anti
   body libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al., Nature, 352:624-628 (1991) and
   Marks et al., J. Mol. Biol., 222:581-597 (1991), for example. Specific examples of monoclonal
30 antibodies herein include chimeric antibodies, humanized antibodies, and human antibodies, in
   cluding antigen-binding fragments thereof The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically in
   clude "chimeric" antibodies (immunoglobulins) in which a portion of the heavy and/or light
   chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a
   particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of
35 the chain(s) is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived
   from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass, as well as fragments of

                                                    -14
   such antibodies, so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity (U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567;
   Morrison et al, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 81 :6851-6855 (1984)). Chimeric antibodies of inter
   est herein include "primatized" antibodies comprising variable domain antigen-binding sequenc
   es derived from a non-human primate {e.g. Old World Monkey, such as baboon, rhesus or
 5 cynomolgus monkey) and human constant region sequences (US Pat No. 5,693,780).
           "Humanized" forms of non-human {e.g., murine) antibodies are chimeric antibodies that
   contain minimal sequence derived from non-human immunoglobulin. For the most part, human
   ized antibodies are human immunoglobulins (recipient antibody) in which residues from a hy
   pervariable region of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non
10 human species (donor antibody) such as mouse, rat, rabbit or nonhuman primate having the de
   sired specificity, affinity, and capacity. In some instances, framework region (FR) residues of the
   human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non-human residues. Furthermore, hu
   manized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the
   donor antibody. These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance. In general,
15 the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one, and typically two, variable
   domains, in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable regions correspond to those of a
   non-human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FRs are those of a human immu
   noglobulin sequence, except for FR substitution(s) as noted above. The humanized antibody op
   tionally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region, typically that
20 of a human immunoglobulin. For further details, see Jones et al, Nature 321 :522-525 (1986);
   Riechmann et al, Nature 332:323-329 (1988); and Presta, Curr. Op. Struct. Biol 2:593-596
   (1992).
           A "human antibody" herein is one comprising an amino acid sequence structure that cor
   responds with the amino acid sequence structure of an antibody obtainable from a human B- cell,
25 and includes antigen-binding fragments of human antibodies. Such antibodies can be identified
   or made by a variety of techniques, including, but not limited to: production by transgenic ani
   mals {e.g., mice) that are capable, upon immunization, of producing human antibodies in the ab
   sence of endogenous immunoglobulin production (see, e.g., Jakobovits et al, Proc. Natl Acad.
   Sci. USA, 90:2551 (1993); Jakobovits et al, Nature, 362:255-258 (1993); Bruggermann et al,
30 Year in Immuno., 7:33 (1993); and US Patent Nos. 5,591,669, 5,589,369 and 5,545,807)); selec
   tion from phage display libraries expressing human antibodies or human antibody fragments (see,
   for example, McCafferty et al, Nature 348:552-553 (1990); Johnson et al, Current Opinion in
   Structural Biology 3:564-571 (1993); Clackson et al, Nature, 352:624-628 (1991); Marks et al, J.
   Mol. Biol. 222:581-597 (1991); Griffith et al, EMBO J. 12:725-734 (1993);US Patent Nos.
35 5,565,332 and 5,573,905); generation via in vitro activated B cells (see US Patents 5,567,610
   and 5,229,275); and isolation from human antibody producing hybridomas.

                                                     -15
            A "multispecific antibody" herein is an antibody having binding specificities for at least
   two different epitopes. Exemplary multispecific antibodies may bind both an R/BBB and a brain
   antigen. Multispecific antibodies can be prepared as full-length antibodies or antibody fragments
   (e.g. F(ab')2 bispecific antibodies). Engineered antibodies with two, three or more (e.g. four)
 5 functional antigen binding sites are also contemplated            (see, e.g., US Appln No. US
   2002/0004587 Al, Miller et al.). Multispecific antibodies can be prepared as full length antibod
   ies or antibody fragments.
            Antibodies herein include "amino acid sequence variants" with altered antigen-binding or
   biological activity. Examples of such amino acid alterations include antibodies with enhanced
10 affinity for antigen (e.g. "affinity matured" antibodies), and antibodies with altered Fc region, if
   present, e.g. with altered (increased or diminished) antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity
   (ADCC) and/or complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) (see, for example, WO 00/42072,
   Presta, L. and WO 99/51642, Iduosogie et al); and/or increased or diminished serum half-life
   (see, for example, WOOO/42072, Presta, L.).
15          An "affinity modified variant" has one or more substituted hypervariable region or
   framework residues of a parent antibody (e.g. of a parent chimeric, humanized, or human anti
   body) that alter (increase or reduce) affinity. In one embodiment, the resulting variant(s) selected
   for further development will have reduced affinity for the R/BBB according to the present inven
   tion. A convenient way for generating such substitutional variants uses phage display. Briefly,
20 several hypervariable region sites (e.g. 6-7 sites) are mutated to generate all possible amino sub
   stitutions at each site. The antibody variants thus generated are displayed in a monovalent fash
   ion from filamentous phage particles as fusions to the gene III product of Ml 3 packaged within
   each particle. The phage-displayed variants are then screened for their biological activity (e.g.
   binding affinity). In order to identify candidate hypervariable region sites for modification, ala
25 nine scanning mutagenesis can be performed to identify hypervariable region residues contrib
   uting significantly to antigen binding. Alternatively, or additionally, it may be beneficial to ana
   lyze a crystal structure of the antigen-antibody complex to identify contact points between the
   antibody and its target. Such contact residues and neighboring residues are candidates for substi
   tution according to the techniques elaborated herein. Once such variants are generated, the panel
30 of variants is subjected to screening and antibodies with altered affinity may be selected for fur
   ther development.
            The antibody herein may be a "glycosylation variant" such that any carbohydrate attached
   to the Fc region, if present, is altered. For example, antibodies with a mature carbohydrate struc
   ture that lacks fucose attached to an Fc region of the antibody are described in US Pat Appl No
35 US 2003/0157108 (Presta, L.). See also US 2004/0093621 (Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd). An
   tibodies with a bisecting N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) in the carbohydrate attached to an Fc

                                                     -16
   region of the antibody are referenced in WO 2003/011878, Jean-Mairet et al. and US Patent No.
   6,602,684, Umana et al. Antibodies with at least one galactose residue in the oligosaccharide at
   tached to an Fe region of the antibody are reported in WO 1997/30087, Patel et al. See, also, WO
   1998/58964 (Raju, S.) and WO 1999/22764 (Raju, S.) concerning antibodies with altered carbo
 5 hydrate attached to the Fc region thereof See also US 2005/0123546 (Umana et al.) describing
   antibodies with modified glycosylation. The term "hypervariable region" when used herein refers
   to the amino acid residues of an antibody that are responsible for antigen binding. The hypervar
   iable region comprises amino acid residues from a "complementarity determining region" or
   "CDR" (e.g. residues 24- 34 (LI), 50-56 (L2) and 89-97 (L3) in the light chain variable domain
10 and 31-35 (HI), 50-65 (H2) and 95-102 (H3) in the heavy chain variable domain; Kabat et al.,
   Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National Insti
   tutes of Health, Bethesda, MD. (1991)) and/or those residues from a "hypervariable loop" (e.g.
   residues 26-32 (LI), 50-52 (L2) and 91-96 (L3) in the light chain variable domain and 26-32 (HI),
   53-55 (H2) and 96-101 (H3) in the heavy chain variable domain; Chothia and Lesk J. Mol. Biol.
15 196:901- 917 (1987)). "Framework" or "FR" residues are those variable domain residues other
   than the hypervariable region residues as herein defined.
           A "full length antibody" is one which comprises an antigen-binding variable region as
   well as a light chain constant domain (CL) and heavy chain constant domains, CHI, CH2 and
   CH3. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains (e.g. human native se
20 quence constant domains) or amino acid sequence variants thereof
           A "naked antibody" is an antibody (as herein defined) that is not conjugated to a heterol
   ogous molecule, such as a cytotoxic entity, polymer, or radiolabel.
           Antibody "effector functions" refer to those biological activities attributable to the Fc re
   gion (a native sequence Fc region or amino acid sequence variant Fc region) of an antibody. Ex
25 amples of antibody effector functions include Clq binding, complement dependent cytotoxicity
   (CDC), Fc receptor binding, antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), etc. In one
   embodiment, the antibody herein essentially lacks effector function.
           The term "antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC)" refers to lysis of human
   target cells by an antibody in the presence of effector cells. The term "complement-dependent
30 cytotoxicity (CDC)" denotes a process initiated by binding of complement factor Clq to the Fc
   part of most IgG antibody subclasses. Binding of Clq to an antibody is caused by defined pro
   tein-protein interactions at the so called binding site. Such Fc part binding sites are known in the
   state of the art. Such Fc part binding sites are, e.g., characterized by the amino acids L234, L235,
   D270, N297, E318, K320, K322, P33 1, and P329 (numbering according to EU index of Kabat).
35 Antibodies of subclass IgGI, IgG2, and IgG3 usually show complement activation including

                                                    -17
   CIq and C3 binding, whereas IgG4 does not activate the complement system and does not bind
   CIq and/or C3.
           Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains, full
   length antibodies can be assigned to different "classes". There are five major classes of full
 5 length antibodies: IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, and several of these may be further divided into
   "subclasses" (isotypes), e.g., IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, and IgA2. The heavy-chain constant
   domains that correspond to the different classes of antibodies are called alpha, delta, epsilon,
   gamma, and mu, respectively. The subunit structures and three-dimensional configurations of
   different classes of immunoglobulins are well known. The term "recombinant antibody", as used
10 herein, refers to an antibody (e.g. a chimeric, humanized, or human antibody or antigen-binding
   fragment thereof) that is expressed by a recombinant host cell comprising nucleic acid encoding
   the antibody. Examples of "host cells" for producing recombinant antibodies include: (1) mam
   malian cells, for example, Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO), COS, myeloma cells (including YO
   and NSO cells), baby hamster kidney (BHK), Hela and Vero cells; (2) insect cells, for example,
15 sf9, sf21 and Tn5; (3) plant cells, for example plants belonging to the genus Nicotiana (e.g. Ni
   cotiana tabacum); (4) yeast cells, for example, those belonging to the genus Saccharomyces (e.g.
   Saccharomyces cerevisiae) or the genus Aspergillus (e.g. Aspergillus niger); (5) bacterial cells,
   for example Escherichia, coli cells or Bacillus subtilis cells, etc.
           As used herein, "specifically binding" or "binds specifically to" refers to an antibody se
20 lectively or preferentially binding to an antigen. The binding affinity is generally determined us
   ing a standard assay, such as Scatchard analysis, or surface plasmon resonance technique (e.g.
   using BIACORE@).
           An "antibody that binds to the same epitope" as a reference antibody refers to an antibody
   that blocks binding of the reference antibody to its antigen in a competition assay by 50% or
25 more, and conversely, the reference antibody blocks binding of the antibody to its antigen in a
   competition assay by 50% or more.
           The term "cytotoxic agent" as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents a
   cellular function and/or causes cell death or destruction. Cytotoxic agents include, but are not
   limited to, radioactive isotopes (e.g., At2ll, 1131, 1125, Y90, Re186, Re188, Sm153, Bi212,
30 P32, Pb212 and radioactive isotopes of Lu); chemotherapeutic agents or drugs (e.g., methotrex
   ate, adriamicin, vinca alkaloids (vincristine, vinblastine, etoposide), doxorubicin, melphalan, mi
   tomycin C, chlorambucil, daunorubicin or other intercalating agents); growth inhibitory agents;
   enzymes and fragments thereof such as nucleolytic enzymes; antibiotics; toxins such as small
   molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial, fungal, plant or animal origin, in
35 cluding fragments and/or variants thereof

                                                   -18
           An "effective amount" of an agent, e.g., a pharmaceutical formulation, refers to an
   amount effective, at dosages and for periods of time necessary, to achieve the desired therapeutic
   or prophylactic result.
           The term "Fc region" herein is used to define a C-terminal region of an immunoglobulin
 5 heavy chain that contains at least a portion of the constant region. The Fc region comprises the
   CH2 and CH3 domains of an immunoglobulin. The term includes native sequence Fc regions
   and variant Fc regions. In one embodiment, a human IgG heavy chain Fc region extends from
   Cys226, or from Pro230, to the carboxyl-terminus of the heavy chain. However, the C-terminal
   lysine (Lys447) of the Fc region may or may not be present. Unless otherwise specified herein,
10 numbering of amino acid residues in the Fc region or constant region is according to the EU
   numbering system, also called the EU index, as described in Kabat et al., Sequences of Proteins
   of Immunological Interest, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
   MD, 1991."Framework" or "FR" refers to variable domain residues other than hypervariable re
   gion (HVR) residues. The FR of a variable domain generally consists of four FR domains: FRI,
15 FR2, FR3, and FR4. Accordingly, the HVR and FR sequences generally appear in the following
   sequence in VH (or VL): FRI -HI (L1)-FR2-H2(L2)-FR3-H3(L3)-FR4.
           The term "CH2-CH3 Ig entity" as used herein refers to a protein entity derived from im
   munoglobulin CH2 or CH3 domains. The "CH2-CH3 Ig entity" comprises two "CH2-CH3" pol
   ypeptides forming a dimer. The immunoglobulin can be IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE or IgM. In one em
20 bodiment, the CH2-CH3 Ig entity derived from an IgG immunoglobulin and is referred to herein
   as "CH2-CH3 IgG entity". The term includes native sequence of CH2-CH3 domains and variant
   CH2-CH3 domains. In one embodiment, the "CH2-CH3 Ig entity" derives from human heavy
   chain CH2-CH3 IgG domain which extends from Cys226, or from Pro230, to the carboxyl
   terminus of the heavy chain. However, the C-terminal lysine (Lys447) of the Fc region may or
25 may not be present. Unless otherwise specified herein, numbering of amino acid residues in the
   CH2-CH3 domain region or constant region is according to the EU numbering system, also
   called the EU index, as described in Kabat et al., Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Inter
   est, 5th Ed. Public Health Service, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 1991.
           An "conjugate" is fusion protein of the present invention conjugated to one or more het
30 erologous molecule(s), including but not limited to a label, neurological disorder drug or cyto
   toxic agent.
           A " linker" as used herein refers to a chemical linker or a single chain peptide linker that
   covalently connects the different entities of the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or the fusion pro
   tein and/or the conjugate of the present invention. The linker connects for example the brain ef
35 fector entity to the monovalent binding entity. For example, if the monovalent binding entity

                                                    -19
   comprises a CH2-CH3 Ig entity and a sFab directed to the blood brain barrier receptor, then the
   linker connects the sFab to the C-terminal end of the CH3-CH2 Ig entity. The linker connecting
   the brain effector entity to the monovalent binding entity (first linker) and the linker connecting
   the sFab to the C-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig domain (second linker) can be the same or
 5 different.
            Single chain peptide linkers, comprised of from one to twenty amino acids joined by pep
   tide bonds, can be used. In certain embodiments, the amino acids are selected from the twenty
   naturally-occurring amino acids. In certain other embodiments, one or more of the amino acids
   are selected from glycine, alanine, proline, asparagine, glutamine and lysine.In other embodi
10 ments, the linker is a chemical linker. In certain embodiments, said linker is a single chain pep
   tide with an amino acid sequence with a length of at least 25 amino acids, preferably with a
   length of 32 to 50 amino acids. In one embodiment said linker is (GxS)n with G         = glycine, S =
   serine, (x =3, n= 8, 9 or 10 and m= 0, 1, 2 or 3) or (x   = 4 and n= 6, 7 or 8 and m= 0, 1, 2 or 3),
   preferably with x    = 4, n= 6 or 7 and m= 0, 1, 2 or 3, more preferably with x = 4, n= 7 and m= 2.
15 In one embodiment said linker is (G 4 S) 4 (Seq. Id. No. 17). In one embodiment said linker is
   (G4 S) 6G2 (Seq. Id. No. 13).
            Conjugation may be performed using a variety of chemical linkers. For example, the
   monovalent binding entity or the fusion protein and the brain effector entity may be conjugated
   using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N-succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio)
20 propionate (SPDP), succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl) cyclohexane-l-carboxylate (SMCC),
   iminothiolane (IT), bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters (such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl),
   active esters (such as disuccinimidyl suberate), aldehydes (such as glutaraldehyde), bis-azido
   compounds (such as bis (p- azidobenzoyl) hexanediamine), bis-diazonium derivatives (such as
   bis-(p-diazoniumbenzoyl)- ethylenediamine), diisocyanates (such as toluene 2,6-diisocyanate),
25 and bis-active fluorine compounds (such as 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene). The linker may be a
   "cleavable linker" facilitating release of the effector entity upon delivery to the brain. For exam
   ple, an acid- labile linker, peptidase-sensitive linker, photolabile linker, dimethyl linker or disul
   fide- containing linker (Chari et al, Cancer Res. 52: 127-131 (1992); U.S. Patent No. 5,208,020)
   may be used.
30          Covalent conjugation can either be direct or via a linker. In certain embodiments, direct
   conjugation is by construction of a protein fusion (i.e., by genetic fusion of the two genes encod
   ing the monovalent binding entity towards the R/BBB and effector entity and expressed as a sin
   gle protein). In certain embodiments, direct conjugation is by formation of a covalent bond be
   tween a reactive group on one of the two portions of the monovalent binding entity against the
35 R/BBB and a corresponding group or acceptor on the brain effector entity. In certain embodi
   ments, direct conjugation is by modification (i.e., genetic modification) of one of the two mole-

                                                    -20
   cules to be conjugated to include a reactive group (as non-limiting examples, a sulfhydryl group
   or a carboxyl group) that forms a covalent attachment to the other molecule to be conjugated un
   der appropriate conditions. As one non-limiting example, a molecule (i.e., an amino acid) with a
   desired reactive group (i.e., a cysteine residue) may be introduced into, e.g., the monovalent
 5 binding entity towards the R/BBB antibody and a disulfide bond formed with the neurological
   drug. Methods for covalent conjugation of nucleic acids to proteins are also known in the art (i.e.,
   photocrosslinking, see, e.g., Zatsepin et al. Russ. Chem. Rev. 74: 77-95 (2005)) Conjugation
   may also be performed using a variety of linkers. For example, a monovalent binding entity and
   a effector entity may be conjugated using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such
10 as N- succinimidyl-3-(2-pyridyldithio) propionate (SPDP), succinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)
   cyclohexane-l-carboxylate (SMCC), iminothiolane (IT), bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters
   (such as dimethyl adipimidate HCl), active esters (such as disuccinimidyl suberate), aldehydes
   (such as glutaraldehyde), bis-azido compounds (such as bis (p- azidobenzoyl) hexanediamine),
   bis-diazonium derivatives (such as bis-(p-diazoniumbenzoyl)- ethylenediamine), diisocyanates
15 (such as toluene 2,6-diisocyanate), and bis-active fluorine compounds (such as 1,5-difluoro-2,4
   dinitrobenzene). Peptide linkers, comprised of from one to twenty amino acids joined by peptide
   bonds, may also be used. In certain such embodiments, the amino acids are selected from the
   twenty naturally-occurring amino acids. In certain other such embodiments, one or more of the
   amino acids are selected from glycine, alanine, proline, asparagine, glutamine and lysine. The
20 linker may be a "cleavable linker" facilitating release of the effector entity upon delivery to the
   brain. For example, an acid- labile linker, peptidase-sensitive linker, photolabile linker, dimethyl
   linker or disulfide- containing linker (Chari et al, Cancer Res. 52: 127-131 (1992); U.S. Patent
   No. 5,208,020) may be used.
           A "label" is a marker coupled with the fusion protein herein and used for detection or im
25 aging. Examples of such labels include: radiolabel, a fluorophore, a chromophore, or an affinity
   tag. In one embodiment, the label is a radiolabel used for medical imaging, for example tc99m or
   1123, or a spin label for nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging (also known as magnetic
   resonance imaging, mri), such as iodine- 123 again, iodine- 131, indium- 111, fluorine- 19, car
   bon- 13, nitrogen-15, oxygen- 17, gadolinium, manganese, iron, etc. An "individual" or "subject"
30 is a mammal. Mammals include, but are not limited to, domesticated animals (e.g., cows, sheep,
   cats, dogs, and horses), primates (e.g., humans and non-human primates such as monkeys), rab
   bits, and rodents (e.g., mice and rats). In certain embodiments, the individual or subject is a hu
   man.
           An "isolated" antibody is one which has been separated from a component of its natural
35 environment. In some embodiments, an antibody is purified to greater than 95% or 99% purity as
   determined by, for example, electrophoretic (e.g., SDS-PAGE, isoelectric focusing (IEF), capil
   lary electrophoresis) or chromatographic (e.g., ion exchange or reverse phase HPLC). For review

                                                    -21
   of methods for assessment of antibody purity, see, e.g., Flatman et al, J. Chromatogr. B 848:79
   87 (2007).
           The term "package insert" is used to refer to instructions customarily included in com
   mercial packages of therapeutic products, that contain information about the indications, usage,
 5 dosage, administration, combination therapy, contraindications and/or warnings concerning the
   use of such therapeutic products.
           The term "pharmaceutical formulation" refers to a preparation which is in such form as to
   permit the biological activity of an active ingredient contained therein to be effective, and which
   contains no additional components which are unacceptably toxic to a subject to which the formu
10 lation would be administered.
           A "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" refers to an ingredient in a pharmaceutical for
   mulation, other than an active ingredient, which is nontoxic to a subject., A pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier includes, but is not limited to, a buffer, excipient, stabilizer, or preservative.
           As used herein, "treatment" (and grammatical variations thereof such as "treat" or "treat
15 ing") refers to clinical intervention in an attempt to alter the natural course of the individual be
   ing treated, and can be performed either for prophylaxis or during the course of clinical patholo
   gy. Desirable effects of treatment include, but are not limited to, preventing occurrence or recur
   rence of disease, alleviation of symptoms, diminishment of any direct or indirect pathological
   consequences of the disease, preventing metastasis, decreasing the rate of disease progression,
20 amelioration or palliation of the disease state, and remission or improved prognosis. In some
   embodiments, antibodies of the invention are used to delay development of a disease or to slow
   the progression of a disease.
           COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS
           The methods and articles of manufacture of the present invention use, or incorporate, a
25 blood brain barrier shuttle and/or fusion protein that binds to an R/BBB. The R/BBB antigen to
   be used for production of, or screening for, monovalent binding entity may be, e.g., a soluble
   form of or a portion thereof (e.g. the extracellular domain), containing the desired epitope. Alter
   natively, or additionally, cells expressing BBB- R at their cell surface can be used to generate, or
   screen for, monovalent binding entity. Other forms of R/BBB useful for generating monovalent
30 binding entity will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Examples of R/BBB herein include
   transferrin receptor (TfR), insulin receptor, insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-R), low den
   sity lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) and LRP8 and heparin-binding epidermal
   growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF).

                                                    -22
            According to the present invention, a "monovalent binding" entity against an R/BBB (e.g.
   monovalent binding entity for TfR) is selected based on the data herein demonstrating that such
   monovalent binding entity display improved CNS (for example, brain) uptake. In order to identi
   fy such binding entity, various assays for measuring monovalent binding mode are available in
 5 cluding, without limitation: Scatchard assay and surface plasmon resonance technique (e.g. using
   BIACORE@) and in vivo investigations described herein.
            Thus, the invention provides a method of making a monovalent binding entity useful for
   transporting an brain effector entity such as e.g. a neurological disorder drug, across the blood
   brain barrier comprising selecting a monovalent binding entity from a panel of monovalent bind
10 ing moieties against an R/BBB because it has an monovalent binding mode for the R/BBB. The
   monovalent binding mode ensures efficient BBB crossing for certain R/BBB by not interfering
   with the receptors normal intracellular sorting.
            For a neuropathy disorder, a neurological drug may be selected that is an analgesic in
   cluding, but not limited to, a narcotic/opioid analgesic (i.e., morphine, fentanyl, hydrocodone,
15 meperidine, methadone, oxymorphone, pentazocine, propoxyphene, tramadol, codeine and ox
   ycodone), a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) (i.e., ibuprofen, naproxen, diclofenac,
   diflunisal, etodolac, fenoprofen, flurbiprofen, indomethacin, ketorolac, mefenamic acid, meloxi
   cam, nabumetone, oxaprozin, piroxicam, sulindac, and tolmetin), a corticosteroid (i.e., cortisone,
   prednisone, prednisolone, dexamethasone, methylpredniso lone and triamcinolone), an anti
20 migraine agent (i.e., sumatriptin, almotriptan, frovatriptan, sumatriptan, rizatriptan, eletriptan,
   zolmitriptan, dihydroergotamine, eletriptan and ergotamine), acetaminophen, a salicylate (i.e.,
   aspirin, choline salicylate, magnesium salicylate, diflunisal, and salsalate), an anti-convulsant
   (i.e., carbamazepine, clonazepam, gabapentin, lamotrigine, pregabalin, tiagabine, and topir
   amate), an anaesthetic (i.e., isoflurane, trichloroethylene, halothane, sevoflurane, benzocaine,
25 chloroprocaine, cocaine, cyclomethycaine, dimethocaine, propoxycaine, procaine, novocaine,
   proparacaine, tetracaine, articaine, bupivacaine, carticaine, cinchocaine, etidocaine, levobupiva
   caine, lidocaine, mepivacaine, piperocaine, prilocaine, ropivacaine, trimecaine, saxitoxin and
   tetrodotoxin), and a cox-2-inhibitor (i.e., celecoxib, rofecoxib, and valdecoxib). For a neuropathy
   disorder with vertigo involvement, a neurological drug may be selected that is an anti-vertigo
30 agent including, but not limited to, meclizine, diphenhydramine, promethazine and diazepam.
   For a neuropathy disorder with nausea involvement, a neurological drug may be selected that is
   an anti-nausea agent including, but not limited to, promethazine, chlorpromazine, prochlorpera
   zine, trimethobenzamide, and metoclopramide. For a neurodegenerative disease, a neurological
   drug may be selected that is a growth hormone or neurotrophic factor; examples include but are
35 not limited to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotro
   phin-4/5, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2 and other FGFs, neurotrophin (NT)-3, erythropoietin
   (EPO), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), transforming growth

                                                      -23
   factor (TGF)-alpha, TGF- beta, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), interleukin-1 recep
   tor antagonist (IL-Ira), ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), glial-derived neurotrophic factor
   (GDNF), neurturin, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), heregulin, neuregulin, artemin, per
   sephin, interleukins, glial cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GFR), granulocyte-colony stimu
 5 lating factor (CSF), granulocyte-macrophage-CSF, netrins, cardiotrophin-1, hedgehogs, leuke
   mia inhibitory factor (LIF), midkine, pleiotrophin, bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), netrins,
   saposins, semaphorins, and stem cell factor (SCF). For cancer, a neurological drug may be se
   lected that is a chemotherapeutic agent. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating
   agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN@ cyclosphosphamide; alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan,
10 improsulfan and piposulfan; aziridines such as benzodopa, carboquone, meturedopa, and uredopa;
   ethylenimines      and   methylamelamines       including   altretamine,   triethylenemelamine,  trie
   tylenephosphoramide, triethiylenethiophosphor-amide and trimethylolomelamine; acetogenins
   (especially     bullatacin    and     bullatacinone);     delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol    (dronabinol,
   MARINOL@); beta-lapachone; lapachol; colchicines; betulinic acid; a camptothecin (including
15 the synthetic analogue topotecan (HYCAMTIN@), CPT-1 1 (irinotecan, CAMPTOSAR@), ace
   tylcamptothecin, scopolectin, and 9-aminocamptothecin); bryostatin; callystatin; CC-1065 (in
   cluding its adozelesin, carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues); podophyllotoxin; podophyl
   linic acid; teniposide; cryptophycins (particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8); dolastatin;
   duocarmycin (including the synthetic analogues, KW-2189 and CB1-TM1); eleutherobin; pan
20 cratistatin; a sarcodictyin; spongistatin; nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil, chlornaphazine,
   cholophosphamide, estramustine, ifosfamide, mechlorethamme, mechlorethamme oxide hydro
   chloride, melphalan, novembichin, phenesterine, prednimustine, trofosfamide, uracil mustard;
   nitrosureas such as carmustine, chlorozotocin, fotemustine, lomustine, nimustine, and ranimnus
   tine; antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics (e. g., calicheamicin, especially calicheamicin
25 gammall and calicheamicin omegall (see, e.g., Agnew, Chem Intl. Ed. Engl, 33: 183-186 (1994));
   dynemicin, including dynemicin A; an esperamicin; as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore
   and related chromoprotein enediyne antiobiotic chromophores), aclacinomysins, actinomycin,
   authramycin, azaserine, bleomycins, cactinomycin, carabicin, carminomycin, carzinophilin,
   chromomycinis, dactinomycin, daunorubicin, detorubicin, 6-diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine, ADRI
30 AMYCIN@ doxorubicin (including morpholino-doxorubicin, cyanomorpholino- doxorubicin, 2
   pyrrolino-doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin), epirubicin, esorubicin, idarubicin, marcellomycin,
   mitomycins such as mitomycin C, mycophenolic acid, nogalamycin, olivomycins, peplomycin,
   potfiromycin, puromycin, quelamycin, rodorubicin, streptonigrin, streptozocin, tubercidin, uben
   imex, zinostatin, zorubicin; anti-metabolites such as methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU); fo
35 lic acid analogues such as denopterin,methotrexate, pteropterin, trimetrexate; purine analogs
   such as fludarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, thiamiprine, thioguanine; pyrimidine analogs such as an
   citabine, azacitidine, 6-azauridine, carmofur, cytarabine, dideoxyuridine, doxifluridine, enocita
   bine, floxuridine; androgens such as calusterone, dromostanolone propionate, epitiostanol, mepi-

                                                    -24
   tiostane, testolactone; anti- adrenals such as aminoglutethimide, mitotane, trilostane; folic acid
   replenisher such as frolinic acid; aceglatone; aldophosphamide glycoside; aminolevulinic acid;
   eniluracil; amsacrine; bestrabucil; bisantrene; edatraxate; defofamine; demecolcine; diaziquone;
   elfornithine; elliptinium acetate; an epothilone; etoglucid; gallium nitrate; hydroxyurea; lentinan;
 5 lonidainine; maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins; mitoguazone; mitoxantrone;
   mopidanmol; nitraerine; pentostatin; phenamet; pirarubicin; losoxantrone; 2-ethylhydrazide; pro
   carbazine; PSK@ polysaccharide complex (JHS Natural Products, Eugene, OR); razoxane; rhi
   zoxin; sizofiran; spirogermanium; tenuazonic acid; triaziquone; 2,2',2"- trichlorotriethylamine;
   trichothecenes (especially T-2 toxin, verracurin A, roridin A and anguidine); urethan; vindesine
10 (ELDISINE@, FILDESIN@); dacarbazine; mannomustine; mitobronitol; mitolactol; pipobroman;
   gacytosine; arabinoside ("Ara-C"); thiotepa; taxoids, e.g., TAXOL@ paclitaxel (Bristol-Myers
   Squibb Oncology, Princeton, N.J.), ABRAXANETM Cremophor-free, albumin-engineered na
   noparticle formulation of paclitaxel (American Pharmaceutical Partners, Schaumberg, Illinois),
   and TAXOTERE@ doxetaxel (Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Antony, France); chloranbucil; gemcita
15 bine (GEMZAR@); 6-thioguanine; mercaptopurine; methotrexate; platinum analogs such as cis
   platin and carboplatin; vinblastine (VELBAN@); platinum; etoposide (VP- 16); ifosfamide; mi
   toxantrone; vincristine (ONCOVIN@); oxaliplatin; leucovovin; vinorelbine (NAVELBINE@);
   novantrone; edatrexate; daunomycin; aminopterin; ibandronate; topoisomerase inhibitor RFS
   2000;    difluorometlhylornithine    (DMFO); retinoids       such as   retinoic  acid;  capecitabine
20 (XELODA@); pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids or derivatives of any of the above; as
   well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP, an abbreviation for a combined
   therapy of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone, and FOLFOX, an ab
   breviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin (ELOXATINTM) combined with 5-FU and
   leucovovin.
25         Also included in this definition of chemotherapeutic agents are anti-hormonal agents that
   act to regulate, reduce, block, or inhibit the effects of hormones that can promote the growth of
   cancer, and are often in the form of systemic, or whole-body treatment. They may be hormones
   themselves. Examples include anti-estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators
   (SERMs), including, for example, tamoxifen (including NOLVADEX@ tamoxifen), EVISTA@
30 raloxifene, droloxifene, 4-hydroxytamoxifen, trioxifene, keoxifene, LY 117018, onapristone, and
   FARESTON@ toremifene;           anti-progesterones;   estrogen receptor down-regulators (ERDs);
   agents that function to suppress or shut down the ovaries, for example, leutinizing hormone
   releasing hormone (LHRH) agonists such as LUPRON@ and ELIGARD@ leuprolide acetate,
   goserelin acetate, buserelin acetate and tripterelin; other anti- androgens such as flutamide, nilu
35 tamide and bicalutamide; and aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase, which reg
   ulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands, such as, for example, 4(5)-imidazoles, amino
   glutethimide, MEGASE@ megestrol acetate, AROMASIN@ exemestane, formestanie, fadrozole,

                                                    -25
   RIVISOR@ vorozole, FEMARA@ letrozole, and ARIMIDEX@ anastrozole. In addition, such
   definition of chemotherapeutic agents includes bisphosphonates such as clodronate (for example,
   BONEFOS@ or OSTAC@), DIDROCAL@ etidronate, NE-58095, ZOMETA@ zoledronic ac
   id/zoledronate, FOSAMAX@ alendronate, AREDIA@ pamidronate, SKELID@ tiludronate, or
 5 ACTONEL@ risedronate; as well as troxacitabine (a 1,3-dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog);
   antisense oligonucleotides, particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling path
   ways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation, such as, for example, PKC-alpha, Raf, H-Ras, and
   epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R); vaccines such as THERATOPE@ vaccine and gene
   therapy vaccines,     for example, ALLOVECTIN@              vaccine, LEUVECTIN@          vaccine,  and
10 VAXID@ vaccine; LURTOTECAN@ topoisomerase 1 inhibitor; ABARELLX@ rmRH; lapatin
   ib ditosylate (an ErbB-2 and EGFR dual tyrosine kinase small-molecule inhibitor also known as
   GW572016); and pharmaceutically acceptable salts, acids or derivatives of any of the above.
            Another group of compounds that may be selected as neurological drugs for cancer
   treatment or prevention are anti-cancer immunoglobulins (including, but not limited to,
15 trastuzumab, bevacizumab, alemtuxumab, cetuximab, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, ibritumomab
   tiuxetan, panitumumab and rituximab). In some instances, antibodies in conjunction with a toxic
   label may be used to target and kill desired cells (i.e., cancer cells), including, but not limited to,
   tositumomab with a radiolabel.
            For an ocular disease or disorder, a neurological drug may be selected that is an anti- an
20 giogenic ophthalmic agent (i.e., bevacizumab, ranibizumab and pegaptanib), an ophthalmic glau
   coma agent (i.e., carbachol, epinephrine, demecarium bromide, apraclonidine, brimonidine,
   brinzolamide, levobunolol, timolol, betaxolol, dorzolamide, bimatoprost, carteolol, metipranolol,
   dipivefrin, travoprost and latanoprost), a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (i.e., methazolamide and
   acetazolamide), an ophthalmic antihistamine (i.e., naphazoline, phenylephrine and tetrahydrozo
25 line), an ocular lubricant, an ophthalmic steroid (i.e., fluorometholone, prednisolone, loteprednol,
   dexamethasone, difluprednate, rimexolone, fluocinolone, medrysone and triamcinolone), an oph
   thalmic anesthetic (i.e., lidocaine, proparacaine and tetracaine), an ophthalmic anti-infective (i.e.,
   levofloxacin, gatifloxacin, ciprofloxacin, moxif oxacin, chloramphenicol, bacitracin/polymyxin b,
   sulfacetamide, tobramycin, azithromycin, besifloxacin, norfloxacin, sulfisoxazole, gentamicin,
30 idoxuridine, erythromycin, natamycin, gramicidin, neomycin, ofloxacin, trif uridine, ganciclovir,
   vidarabine), an ophthalmic anti-inflammatory agent (i.e., nepafenac, ketorolac, flurbiprofen, su
   profen, cyclosporine, triamcinolone, diclofenac and bromfenac), and an ophthalmic antihista
   mine or decongestant (i.e., ketotifen, olopatadine, epinastine, naphazoline, cromolyn, tetrahydro
   zoline, pemirolast, bepotastine, naphazoline, phenylephrine, nedocromil, lodox amide, phe
35 nylephrine, emedastine and azelastine).For a seizure disorder, a neurological drug may be select
   ed that is an anticonvulsant or antiepileptic including, but not limited to, barbiturate anticonvul
   sants (i.e., primidone, metharbital, mephobarbital, allobarbital, amobarbital, aprobarbital, alphe-

                                                     -26
   nal, barbital, brallobarbital and phenobarbital), benzodiazepine anticonvulsants (i.e., diazepam,
   clonazepam, and lorazepam), carbamate anticonvulsants (i.e. felbamate), carbonic anhydrase in
   hibitor anticonvulsants (i.e., acetazolamide, topiramate and zonisamide), dibenzazepine anticon
   vulsants (i.e., rufinamide, carbamazepine, and oxcarbazepine), fatty acid derivative anticonvul
 5 sants (i.e., divalproex and valproic acid), gamma-aminobutyric acid analogs (i.e., pregabalin,
   gabapentin and vigabatrin), gamma-aminobutyric acid reuptake inhibitors (i.e., tiagabine), gam
   ma-aminobutyric acid transaminase inhibitors (i.e., vigabatrin), hydantoin anticonvulsants (i.e.
   phenytoin, ethotoin, fosphenytoin and mephenytoin), miscellaneous anticonvulsants (i.e., la
   cosamide and magnesium sulfate), progestins (i.e., progesterone), oxazolidinedione anticonvul
10 sants (i.e., paramethadione and trimethadione), pyrrolidine anticonvulsants (i.e., levetiracetam),
   succinimide anticonvulsants (i.e., ethosuximide and methsuximide), triazine anticonvulsants (i.e.,
   lamotrigine), and urea anticonvulsants (i.e., phenacemide and pheneturide).
             For a lysosomal storage disease, a neurological drug may be selected that is itself or oth
   erwise mimics the activity of the enzyme that is impaired in the disease. Exemplary recombinant
15 enzymes for the treatment of lysosomal storage disorders include, but are not limited to those set
   forth in e.g., U.S. Patent Application publication no. 2005/0142141 (i.e., alpha-L-iduronidase,
   iduronate-2-sulphatase, N-sulfatase, alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase, N- acetyl-galactosamine-6
   sulfatase, beta-galactosidase, arylsulphatase B, beta-glucuronidase, acid alpha-glucosidase, glu
   cocerebrosidase,     alpha-galactosidase  A, hexosaminidase A, acid sphingomyelinase, beta
20 galactocerebrosidase, beta-galactosidase, arylsulfatase A, acid ceramidase, aspartoacylase, pal
   mitoyl-protein thioesterase 1 and trip eptidyl amino peptidase 1).
             For amyloidosis, a neurological drug may be selected that includes, but is not limited to,
   an antibody or other binding molecule (including, but not limited to a small molecule, a peptide,
   an aptamer, or other protein binder) that specifically binds to a target selected from: beta secre
25 tase, tau, presenilin, amyloid precursor protein or portions thereof, amyloid beta peptide or oli
   gomers or fibrils thereof, death receptor 6 (DR6), receptor for advanced glycation endproducts
   (RAGE), parkin, and huntingtin; a cholinesterase inhibitor (i.e., galantamine, donepezil, ri
   vastigmine and tacrine); an NMDA receptor antagonist (i.e., memantine), a monoamine depletor
   (i.e., tetrabenazine); an ergoloid mesylate; an anticholinergic antiparkinsonism agent (i.e., procy
30 clidine, diphenhydramine, trihexylphenidyl, benztropine, biperiden and trihexyphenidyl); a do
   paminergic antiparkinsonism agent (i.e., entacapone, selegiline, pramipexole, bromocriptine, ro
   tigotine, selegiline, ropinirole, rasagiline, apomorphine, carbidopa, levodopa, pergolide, tolca
   pone and amantadine); a tetrabenazine; an anti-inflammatory (including, but not limited to, a
   nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (i.e., indomethicin and other compounds listed above); a
35 hormone (i.e., estrogen, progesterone and leuprolide); a vitamin (i.e., folate and nicotinamide); a
   dimebolin; a homotaurine (i.e., 3- aminopropanesulfonic acid; 3 APS); a serotonin receptor ac
   tivity modulator (i.e., xaliproden); an, an interferon, and a glucocorticoid.

                                                      -27
             For a viral or microbial disease, a neurological drug may be selected that includes, but is
   not limited to, an antiviral compound (including, but not limited to, an adamantane antiviral (i.e.,
   rimantadine and amantadine), an antiviral interferon (i.e., peginterferon alfa-2b), a chemokine
   receptor antagonist (i.e., maraviroc), an integrase strand transfer inhibitor (i.e., raltegravir), a
 5 neuraminidase inhibitor (i.e., oseltamivir and zanamivir), a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase
   inhibitor (i.e., efavirenz, etravirine, delavirdine and nevirapine), a nucleoside reverse transcrip
   tase inhibitors (tenofovir, abacavir, lamivudine, zidovudine, stavudine, entecavir, emtricitabine,
   adefovir, zalcitabine, telbivudine and didanosine), a protease inhibitor (i.e., darunavir, atazanavir,
   fosamprenavir, tipranavir, ritonavir, nelfmavir, amprenavir, indinavir and saquinavir), a purine
10 nucleoside (i.e., valacyclovir, famciclovir, acyclovir, ribavirin, ganciclovir, valganciclovir and
   cidofovir), and a miscellaneous antiviral (i.e., enfuvirtide, foscarnet, palivizumab and fom
   ivirsen)), an antibiotic (including, but not limited to, an aminopenicillin (i.e., amoxicillin, ampi
   cillin, oxacillin, nafcillin, cloxacillin, dicloxacillin, flucoxacillin, temocillin, azlocillin, carbeni
   cillin, ticarcillin, mezlocillin, piperacillin and bacampicillin), a cephalosporin (i.e., cefazolin,
15 cephalexin, cephalothin, cefamandole, ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, cefpodoxime, ceftazidime,
   cefadroxil, cephradine, loracarbef, cefotetan, cefuroxime, cefprozil, cefaclor, and cefoxitin), a
   carbapenem/penem (i.e., imipenem, meropenem, ertapenem, faropenem and doripenem), a mon
   obactam (i.e., aztreonam, tigemonam, norcardicin A and tabtoxinine-beta-lactam, a beta
   lactamase inhibitor (i.e., clavulanic acid, tazobactam and sulbactam) in conjunction with another
20 beta-lactam antibiotic, an aminoglycoside (i.e., amikacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin,
   netilmicin, streptomycin, tobramycin, and paromomycin), an ansamycin (i.e., geldanamycin and
   herbimycin), a carbacephem (i.e., loracarbef), a glycopeptides (i.e., teicoplanin and vancomycin),
   a macrolide (i.e., azithromycin, clarithromycin, dirithromycin, erythromycin, roxithromycin, tro
   leandomycin, telithromycin and spectinomycin), a monobactam (i.e., aztreonam), a quinolone
25 (i.e., ciprofloxacin, enoxacin, gatifloxacin, levofloxacin, lomefloxacin, moxifloxacin, norfloxa
   cin, ofloxacin, trovafloxacin, grepafloxacin, sparfloxacin and temafloxacin), a sulfonamide (i.e.,
   mafenide, sulfonamidochrysoidine, sulfacetamide, sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole, sulfanilamide,
   sulfasalazine, sulfisoxazole, trimethoprim, trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole), a tetracycline
   (i.e., tetracycline, demeclocycline, doxycycline, minocycline and oxytetracycline), an antineo
30 plastic or cytotoxic antibiotic (i.e., doxorubicin, mitoxantrone, bleomycin, daunorubicin, dacti
   nomycin, epirubicin, idarubicin, plicamycin, mitomycin, pentostatin and valrubicin) and a mis
   cellaneous antibacterial compound (i.e., bacitracin, colistin and polymyxin B)), an antifungal
   (i.e., metronidazole, nitazoxanide, imidazole, chloroquine, iodoquinol and paromomycin), and an
   antiparasitic (including, but not limited to, quinine, chloroquine, amodiaquine, pyrimethamine,
35 sulphadoxine, proguanil, mefloquine, atovaquone, primaquine, artemesinin, halofantrine,
   doxycycline, clindamycin, mebendazole, pyrantel pamoate, thiabendazole, diethylcarbamazine,
   ivermectin, rifampin, amphotericin B, melarsoprol, efornithine and albendazole). For ischemia, a
   neurological drug may be selected that includes, but is not limited to, a thrombolytic (i.e., uroki-

                                                    -28
   nase, alteplase, reteplase and tenecteplase), a platelet aggregation inhibitor (i.e., aspirin, cilosta
   zol, clopidogrel, prasugrel and dipyridamole), a statin (i.e., lovastatin, pravastatin, fiuvastatin,
   rosuvastatin, atorvastatin, simvastatin, cerivastatin and pitavastatin), and a compound to improve
   blood flow or vascular flexibility, including, e.g., blood pressure medications.
 5         For a behavioral disorder, a neurological drug may be selected from a behavior- modify
   ing compound including, but not limited to, an atypical antipsychotic (i.e., risperidone, olanzap
   ine, apripiprazole, quetiapine, paliperidone, asenapine, clozapine, iloperidone and ziprasidone), a
   phenothiazine antipsychotic (i.e., prochlorperazine, chlorpromazine, fluphenazine, perphenazine,
   trifluoperazine, thioridazine and mesoridazine), a thioxanthene (i.e., thiothixene), a miscellane
10 ous antipsychotic (i.e., pimozide, lithium, molindone, haloperidol and loxapine), a selective sero
   tonin reuptake inhibitor (i.e., citalopram, escitalopram, paroxetine, fluoxetine and sertraline), a
   serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (i.e., duloxetine, venlafaxine, desvenlafaxine, a tri
   cyclic antidepressant (i.e., doxepin, clomipramine, amoxapine, nortriptyline, amitriptyline, tri
   mipramine, imipramine, protriptyline and desipramine), a tetracyclic antidepressant (i.e.,
15 mirtazapine and maprotiline), a phenylpiperazine antidepressant (i.e., trazodone and nefazodone),
   a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (i.e., isocarboxazid, phenelzine, selegiline and tranylcypromine),
   a benzodiazepine (i.e., alprazolam, estazolam, flurazeptam, clonazepam, lorazepam and diaze
   pam), a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (i.e., bupropion), a CNS stimulant (i.e.,
   phentermine,        diethylpropion,    methamphetamine,       dextroamphetamine,       amphetamine,
20 methylphenidate, dexmethylphenidate, lisdexamfetamine, modafmil, pemoline, phendimetrazme,
   benzphetamine, phendimetrazme, armodafinil, diethylpropion, caffeine, atomoxetine, doxapram,
   and mazindol), an anxiolytic/sedative/hypnotic (including, but not limited to, a barbiturate (i.e.,
   secobarbital, phenobarbital and mephobarbital), a benzodiazepine (as described above), and a
   miscellaneous anxiolytic/sedative/hypnotic (i.e. diphenhydramine, sodium oxybate, zaleplon,
25 hydroxyzine, chloral hydrate, aolpidem, buspirone, doxepin, eszopiclone, ramelteon, meproba
   mate and ethclorvynol)), a secretin (see, e.g., Ratliff-Schaub et al. Autism 9: 256-265 (2005)), an
   opioid peptide (see, e.g., Cowen et al, J. Neurochem. 89:273-285 (2004)), and a neuropeptide
   (see, e.g., Hethwa et al. Am. J. Physiol. 289: E301-305 (2005)).
           For CNS inflammation, a neurological drug may be selected that addresses the inflamma
30 tion itself (i.e., a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent such as ibuprofen or naproxen), or one
   which treats the underlying cause of the inflammation (i.e., an anti-viral or anti-cancer agent).
           In another embodiment, the brain effector entity is an intact or full-length antibody. De
   pending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains, intact antibod
   ies can be assigned to different classes. There are five major classes of intact antibodies: IgA,
35 IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, and several of these may be further divided into subclasses (isotypes),
   e.g., IgGl, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgA, and IgA2. The heavy chain constant domains that correspond

                                                     -29
   to the different classes of antibodies are called a, 6, r, y, and pa, respectively. The subunit struc
   tures and three-dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well
   known. In one embodiment, the intact antibody lacks effector function.
           Techniques for generating antibodies are known and examples provided above in the def
 5 initions section of this document. In one embodiment, the antibody is a chimeric, humanized, or
   human antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof
           Various techniques are available for determining binding of the monovalent binding enti
   ty to the R/BBB. One such assay is an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELIS A) for con
   firming an ability to bind to human R/BBB (and brain antigen). According to this assay, plates
10 coated with antigen (e.g. recombinant sR/BBB) are incubated with a sample comprising the
   monovalent binding entity towards the R/BBB and binding of the monovalent binding entity to
   the antigen of interest is determined.
           In one aspect, the monovalent binding entity of the invention is tested for its antigen
   binding activity, e.g., by known methods such as ELISA, Western blot, etc.
15         In one aspect, the monovalent binding entity of the invention is tested for its single anti
   gen binding activity towards an R/BBB using epitope mapping of X-ray structure determination.
           Assays for evaluating uptake of systemically administered blood brain barrier shuttle
   and/or conjugate and other biological activity of blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate can
   be performed as disclosed in the examples or as known for the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or
20 conjugate of interest. Mesuring the concentration within the parenchyma space of CNS can also
   be used using for example microdialysis or the capillary depletion method combined with ELISA
   or radioactivity measurements of labeled blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate.
           PHARMACEUTICAL FORMULATIONS
           Therapeutic formulations of the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate used in ac
25 cordance with the present invention are prepared for storage by mixing with optional pharmaceu
   tically acceptable carriers, excipients or stabilizers {Remington 's Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th
   edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980)), in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. Ac
   ceptable carriers, excipients, or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concen
   trations employed, and include buffers such as phosphate, citrate, and other organic acids; anti
30 oxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine; preservatives (such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl
   ammonium chloride; hexamethonium chloride; benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride;
   phenol, butyl or benzyl alcohol; alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben; catechol; res
   orcinol; cyclohexanol; 3-pentanol; and m-cresol); low molecular weight (less than about 10 resi-

                                                    -30
   dues) polypeptides; proteins, such as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic
   polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine, his
   tidine, arginine, or lysine; monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other carbohydrates including
   glucose, mannose, or dextrins; chelating agents such as EDTA; sugars such as sucrose, mannitol,
 5 trehalose or sorbitol; salt-forming counter-ions such as sodium; metal complexes (e.g. Zn-protein
   complexes); and/or non-ionic surfactants such as TWEENTM, PLURONICSTM or polyethylene
   glycol (PEG).
            The formulation herein may also contain more than one active compound as necessary,
   optionally those with complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. The type
10 and effective amounts of such medicaments depend, for example, on the amount of blood brain
   barrier shuttle and/or conjugate present in the formulation, and clinical parameters of the subjects.
   Exemplary such medicaments are discussed below.
            The active ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared, for example, by
   coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization, for example, hydroxymethylcellulose
15 or gelatin-microcapsules and poly-(methylmethacylate) microcapsules, respectively, in colloidal
   drug delivery systems (for example, liposomes, albumin microspheres, microemulsions, nano
   particles and nanocapsules) or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington's
   Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980).
            Sustained-release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained- release
20 preparations include semi-permeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the an
   tibody, which matrices are in the form of shaped articles, e.g. films, or microcapsules. Examples
   of sustained-release matrices include polyesters, hydrogels (for example, poly(2-hydroxyethyl
   methacrylate), or poly(vinylalcohol)), polylactides (U.S. Pat. No. 3,773,919), copolymers of L
   glutamic acid and y ethyl-L-glutamate, non-degradable ethylene-vinyl acetate, degradable lactic
25 acid-glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT TM (injectable microspheres com
   posed of lactic acid-glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate), and poly-D-(-)-3
   hydroxybutyric acid.
            The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. This is readily ac
   complished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes. In one embodiment the formula
30 tion is isotonic.
            The blood brain barrier shuttle and/or the conjugate of the invention may be utilized in a
   variety of in vivo methods. For example, the invention provides a method of transporting a ther
   apeutic compound across the BBB comprising exposing the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or
   conjugate to the BBB such that the monovalent binding entity transports the therapeutic com
35 pound coupled thereto across the BBB. In another example, the invention provides a method of

                                                    -31
   transporting a neurological disorder drug across the BBB comprising exposing the blood brain
   barrier shuttle and/or conjugate to the BBB such that the monovalent binding entity transports
   the neurological disorder drug coupled thereto across the BBB. In one embodiment, the BBB
   here is in a mammal (e.g. a human), e.g. one which has a neurological disorder, including, with
 5 out limitation: Alzheimer's disease (AD), stroke, dementia, muscular dystrophy (MD), multiple
   sclerosis (MS), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), cystic fibrosis, Angelman's syndrome, Lid
   dle syndrome, Parkinson's disease, Pick's disease, Paget's disease, cancer, traumatic brain injury,
   etc.
            In one embodiment, neurological disorder is selected from: a neuropathy, amyloidosis,
10 cancer (e.g. involving the CNS or brain), an ocular disease or disorder, a viral or microbial infec
   tion, inflammation (e.g. of the CNS or brain), ischemia, neurodegenerative disease, seizure, be
   havioral disorder, lysosomal storage disease, etc.
            Neuropathy disorders are diseases or abnormalities of the nervous system characterized
   by inappropriate or uncontrolled nerve signaling or lack thereof, and include, but are not limited
15 to, chronic pain (including nociceptive pain), pain caused by an injury to body tissues, including
   cancer-related pain, neuropathic pain (pain caused by abnormalities in the nerves, spinal cord, or
   brain), and psychogenic pain (entirely or mostly related to a psychological disorder), headache,
   migraine, neuropathy, and symptoms and syndromes often accompanying such neuropathy dis
   orders such as vertigo or nausea.
20          Amyloidoses are a group of diseases and disorders associated with extracellular proteina
   ceous deposits in the CNS, including, but not limited to, secondary amyloidosis, age- related
   amyloidosis, Alzheimer's Disease (AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), Lewy body dementia,
   Down's syndrome, hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis (Dutch type); the Guam
   Parkinson-Dementia complex, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, Huntington's disease, progressive
25 supranuclear palsy, multiple sclerosis; Creutzfeld Jacob disease, Parkinson's disease, transmissi
   ble spongiform encephalopathy, HIV-related dementia, amyotropic lateral sclerosis (ALS), in
   clusion-body myositis (IBM), and ocular diseases relating to beta-amyloid deposition (i.e., macu
   lar degeneration, drusen-related optic neuropathy, and cataract).
            Cancers of the CNS are characterized by aberrant proliferation of one or more CNS cell
30 (i.e., a neural cell) and include, but are not limited to, glioma, glioblastoma multiforme, menin
   gioma, astrocytoma, acoustic neuroma, chondroma, oligodendroglioma, meduUoblastomas, gan
   glioglioma, Schwannoma, neurofibroma, neuroblastoma, and extradural, intramedullary or intra
   dural tumors.
            Viral or microbial infections of the CNS include, but are not limited to, infections by vi
35 ruses (i.e., influenza, HIV, poliovirus, rubella, ), bacteria (i.e., Neisseria sp., Streptococcus sp.,

                                                    -32
   Pseudomonas sp., Proteus sp., E. coli, S. aureus, Pneumococcus sp., Meningococcus sp., Hae
   mophilus sp., and Mycobacterium tuberculosis) and other microorganisms such as fungi (i.e.,
   yeast, Cryptococcus neoformans), parasites (i.e., toxoplasma gondii) or amoebas resulting in
   CNS pathophysiologies including, but not limited to, meningitis, encephalitis, myelitis, vasculitis
 5 and abscess, which can be acute or chronic. Inflammation of the CNS is inflammation that is
   caused by an injury to the CNS, which can be a physical injury (i.e., due to accident, surgery,
   brain trauma, spinal cord injury, concussion) or an injury due to or related to one or more other
   diseases or disorders of the CNS (i.e., abscess, cancer, viral or microbial infection).
           Ischemia of the CNS, as used herein, refers to a group of disorders relating to aberrant
10 blood flow or vascular behavior in the brain or the causes therefor, and includes, but is not lim
   ited to: focal brain ischemia, global brain ischemia, stroke (i.e., subarachnoid hemorrhage and
   intracerebral hemorrhage), and aneurysm.
           Neurodegenerative diseases are a group of diseases and disorders associated with neural
   cell loss of function or death in the CNS, and include, but are not limited to: adrenoleukodystro
15 phy, Alexander's disease, Alper's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ataxia telangiectasia,
   Batten disease, cockayne syndrome, corticobasal degeneration, degeneration caused by or asso
   ciated with an amyloidosis, Friedreich's ataxia, frontotemporal lobar degeneration, Kennedy's
   disease, multiple system atrophy, multiple sclerosis, primary lateral sclerosis, progressive supra
   nuclear palsy, spinal muscular atrophy, transverse myelitis, Refsum's disease, and spinocerebel
20 lar ataxia.
            Seizure diseases and disorders of the CNS involve inappropriate and/or abnormal electri
   cal conduction in the CNS, and include, but are not limited to: epilepsy (i.e., absence seizures,
   atonic seizures, benign Rolandic epilepsy, childhood absence, clonic seizures, complex partial
   seizures, frontal lobe epilepsy, febrile seizures, infantile spasms, juvenile myoclonic epilepsy,
25 juvenile absence epilepsy, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, Landau-Kleffner Syndrome, Dravet's syn
   drome, Otahara syndrome, West syndrome, myoclonic seizures, mitochondrial disorders, pro
   gressive myoclonic epilepsies, psychogenic seizures, reflex epilepsy, Rasmussen's Syndrome,
   simple partial seizures, secondarily generalized seizures, temporal lobe epilepsy, toniclonic sei
   zures, tonic seizures, psychomotor seizures, limbic epilepsy, partial-onset seizures, generalized
30 onset seizures, status epilepticus, abdominal epilepsy, akinetic seizures, autonomic seizures,
   massive bilateral myoclonus, catamenial epilepsy, drop seizures, emotional seizures, focal sei
   zures, gelastic seizures, Jacksonian March, Lafora Disease, motor seizures, multifocal seizures,
   nocturnal seizures, photosensitive seizure, pseudo seizures, sensory seizures, subtle seizures, syl
   van seizures, withdrawal seizures, and visual reflex seizures).

                                                     -33
            Behavioral disorders are disorders of the CNS characterized by aberrant behavior on the
   part of the afflicted subject and include, but are not limited to: sleep disorders (i.e., insomnia,
   parasomnias, night terrors, circadian rhythm sleep disorders, and narcolepsy), mood disorders
   (i.e., depression, suicidal depression, anxiety, chronic affective disorders, phobias, panic attacks,
 5 obsessive-compulsive disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), attention deficit
   disorder (ADD), chronic fatigue syndrome, agoraphobia, post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar
   disorder), eating disorders (i.e., anorexia or bulimia), psychoses, developmental behavioral dis
   orders (i.e., autism, Rett's syndrome, Aspberger's syndrome), personality disorders and psychotic
   disorders (i.e., schizophrenia, delusional disorder, and the like).
10          Lysosomal storage disorders are metabolic disorders which are in some cases associated
   with the CNS or have CNS-specific symptoms; such disorders include, but are not limited to:
   Tay-Sachs disease, Gaucher's disease, Fabry disease, mucopolysaccharidosis (types I, II, III, IV,
   V, VI and VII), glycogen storage disease, GM1 -gangliosidosis, metachromatic leukodystrophy,
   Farber's disease, Canavan's leukodystrophy, and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses types 1 and 2,
15 Niemann-Pick disease, Pompe disease, and Krabbe's disease.
            In one aspect, the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of the invention for use as a
   medicament is provided. In further aspects, the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of the
   invention for use in treating a neurological disease or disorder is provided (e.g., Alzheimer's dis
   ease). In certain embodiments, the the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of the inven
20 tion for use in a method of treatment is provided. In certain embodiments, the invention provides
   the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of the invention for use in a method of treating an
   individual having a neurological disease or disorder comprising administering to the individual
   an effective amount of the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of the invention. An "in
   dividual" according to any of the above embodiments is optionally a human.
25          The the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of the invention can be used either
   alone or in combination with other agents in a therapy. For instance, the blood brain barrier shut
   tle and/or conjugate of the invention may be co-administered with at least one additional thera
   peutic agent. In certain embodiments, an additional therapeutic agent is a therapeutic agent effec
   tive to treat the same or a different neurological disorder as the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or
30 conjugate of the invention is being employed to treat. Exemplary additional therapeutic agents
   include, but are not limited to: the various neurological drugs described above, cholinesterase
   inhibitors (such as donepezil, galantamine, rovastigmine, and tacrine), NMDA receptor antago
   nists (such as memantine), amyloid beta peptide aggregation inhibitors, antioxidants, y-secretase
   modulators, nerve growth factor (NGF) mimics or NGF gene therapy, PPARy agonists, HMS
35 CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), ampakines, calcium channel blockers, GABA receptor antag
   onists, glycogen synthase kinase inhibitors, intravenous immunoglobulin, muscarinic receptor

                                                    -34
   agonists, nicrotinic receptor modulators, active or passive amyloid beta peptide immunization,
   phosphodiesterase inhibitors, serotonin receptor antagonists and anti-amyloid beta peptide anti
   bodies. In certain embodiments, the at least one additional therapeutic agent is selected for its
   ability to mitigate one or more side effects of the neurological drug.
 5          Such combination therapies noted above encompass combined administration (where two
   or more therapeutic agents are included in the same or separate formulations), and separate ad
   ministration, in which case, administration of the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of
   the invention can occur prior to, simultaneously, and/or following, administration of the addi
   tional therapeutic agent and/or adjuvant. Blood brain barrier shuttles and/or conjugates of the
10 invention can also be used in combination with other interventional therapies such as, but not
   limited to, radiation therapy, behavioral therapy, or other therapies known in the art and appro
   priate for the neurological disorder to be treated or prevented. The blood brain barrier shuttle
   and/or conjugate of the invention (and any additional therapeutic agent) can be administered by
   any suitable means, including parenteral, intrapulmonary, and intranasal, and, if desired for local
15 treatment, intralesional administration. Parenteral infusions include intramuscular, intravenous,
   intraarterial, intraperitoneal, or subcutaneous administration.
            Dosing can be by any suitable route, e.g. by injections, such as intravenous or subcutane
   ous injections, depending in part on whether the administration is brief or chronic. Various dos
   ing schedules including but not limited to monovalent or multiple administrations over various
20 time- points, bolus administration, and pulse infusion are contemplated herein.
            Blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugates of the invention would be formulated, dosed,
   and administered in a fashion consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in
   this context include the particular disorder being treated, the particular mammal being treated,
   the clinical condition of the individual patient, the cause of the disorder, the site of delivery of
25 the agent, the method of administration, the scheduling of administration, and other factors
   known to medical practitioners. The blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugates of the inven
   tion need not be, but is optionally formulated with one or more agents currently used to prevent
   or treat the disorder in question. The effective amount of such other agents depends on the
   amount of blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate present in the formulation, the type of
30 disorder or treatment, and other factors discussed above. These are generally used in the same
   dosages and with administration routes as described herein, or about from 1 to 99% of the dosag
   es described herein, or in any dosage and by any route that is empirically/clinically determined to
   be appropriate.
            For the prevention or treatment of disease, the appropriate dosage of blood brain barrier
35 shuttle and/or conjugate of the invention (when used alone or in combination with one or more

                                                   -35
   other additional therapeutic agents) will depend on the type of disease to be treated, the type of
   blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate, the severity and course of the disease, whether the
   antibody is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes, previous therapy, the patient's
   clinical history and response to the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate, and the discre
 5 tion of the attending physician. The blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate is suitably ad
   ministered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments. Depending on the type and
   severity of the disease, about 1 jig/kg to 15 mg/kg (e.g. 0.1 mg/kg- 10mg/kg) of blood brain bar
   rier shuttle and/or conjugate can be an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient,
   whether, for example, by one or more separate administrations, or by continuous inmultimeric.
10 One typical daily dosage might range from about 1 jig/kg to 100 mg/kg or more, depending on
   the factors mentioned above. For repeated administrations over several days or longer, depend
   ing on the condition, the treatment would generally be sustained until a desired suppression of
   disease symptoms occurs. One exemplary dosage of the antibody would be in the range from
   about 0.05 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg. Thus, one or more doses of about 0.5 mg/kg, 2.0 mg/kg,
15 4.0 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg (or any combination thereof) may be administered to the patient. Such
   doses may be administered intermittently, e.g. every week or every three weeks (e.g. such that
   the patient receives from about two to about twenty, or e.g. about six doses of the antibody). An
   initial higher loading dose, followed by one or more lower doses may be administered. However,
   other dosage regimens may be useful. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored by con
20 ventional techniques and assays.
            ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE
            In another aspect of the invention, an article of manufacture containing materials useful
   for the treatment and/or prevention of the disorders described above is provided. The article of
   manufacture comprises a container and a label or package insert on or associated with the con
25 tainer. Suitable containers include, for example, bottles, vials, syringes, IV solution bags, etc.
   The containers may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container
   holds a composition which is by itself or combined with another composition effective for treat
   ing, preventing and/or diagnosing the condition and may have a sterile access port (for example
   the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hy
30 podermic injection needle). At least one active agent in the composition is a blood brain shuttle
   and/or conjugate of the invention. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is
   used for treating the condition of choice. Moreover, the article of manufacture may comprise (a)
   a first container with a composition contained therein, wherein the composition comprises an
   blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate of the invention; and (b) a second container with a
35 composition contained therein, wherein the composition comprises a further cytotoxic or other
   wise therapeutic agent. The article of manufacture in this embodiment of the invention may fur
   ther comprise a package insert indicating that the compositions can be used to treat a particular

                                                      -36
   condition. Alternatively, or additionally, the article of manufacture may further comprise a se
   cond (or third) container comprising a pharmaceutically-acceptable buffer, such as bacteriostatic
   water for injection (BWFI), phosphate-buffered saline, Ringer's solution and dextrose solution. It
   may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint, including
 5 other buffers, diluents, filters, needles, and syringes.
            The article of manufacture optionally further comprises a package insert with instructions
   for treating a neurological disorder in a subject, wherein the instructions indicate that treatment
   with the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate as disclosed herein treats the neurological
   disorder, and optionally indicates that the blood brain barrier shuttle and/or conjugate has im
10 proved uptake across the BBB due to the monovalent binding mode to the R/BBB.
            EXAMPLES
            Example 1: Generation of the expression plasmids
            Description of the basic/standard mammalian expression plasmid
            Desired proteins were expressed by transient transfection of human embryonic kidney
15 cells (HEK 293). For the expression of a desired gene/protein (e.g. antibody-Fab multimeric pro
   tein) a transcription unit comprising the following functional elements was used:
            * the immediate early enhancer and promoter from the human cytomegalovirus (P
                CMV) including intron A,
            e   a human heavy chain immunoglobulin 5'-untranslated region (5'UTR),
20          e   a murine immunoglobulin heavy chain signal sequence (SS),
            e   a gene/protein to be expressed (e.g. full length antibody heavy chain), and
            * the bovine growth hormone polyadenylation sequence (BGH pA).
            Beside the expression unit/cassette including the desired gene to be expressed the
   basic/standard mammalian expression plasmid contains:
25          e   an origin of replication from the vector pUC18 which allows replication of this plas
                mid in E. coli, and
            * a beta-lactamase gene which confers ampicillin resistance in E. coli.
            Expression plasmids coding for the following              antibody-sFab fusion polypep
   tides/proteins were constructed:

                                                 -37
           TetravalentMab31-scFab(8D3)(Fig. IC) (Mab3l = human monoclonal antibody recog
   nizingAbeta. INN ofMab 31 = Gantenerumab)
           Heavy chain (10132_pPM284 Mab31(IgG1)-(G 4 S) 4 -VL-Ck- GS) -GG-VH-CH1) (Seq.
   Id. No. 1)
 5            Composition of the Mab31-scFab(8D3) heavy chain fusion protein:
               *  Mab31 human IgGI heavy chain without C-terminal Lys
               *  Glycine Serine-linker
               *  Variable light chain domain (VL) variant (L596V and L5981) of the mouse 8D3
                  anti-transferrin antibody (Boado, R.J. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y and Pardridge, W.M.,
10                Biotechnology and Bioengineering (2009) 102, 1251-1258)
               *  Human C-kappa light chain
               *  GlycineSerine-linker
               *  Variable heavy chain domain (VH) of the mouse 8D3 anti-transferrin antibody
                  (Boado, R.J. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y and Pardridge, W.M., Biotechnology and Bio
15                engineering (2009) 102, 1251-1258)
               *  Human IgGI CH3 heavy chain domain
           Light chain (5170-VL-Mab31-Bsml-L2-Neo-BGHpA) (Seq. Id. No. 2)
           Composition of the Mab31 light chain
20         -      Mab31 human Ckappa light chain
           TrivalentMab3l-scFab(8D3) (Fig. JB)
           Knob heavy chain        (10134_pPM287_Mab31(IgG1)     knob_SS_-(G 4S) 4-VL-Ck-(G 4 S) 6
   GG-VH-CH1) (Seq. Id. No. 3)
           Composition of the knob Mab3 1-scFab(8D3) heavy chain fusion protein
25             e  Mab31 human IgG1 heavy chain without C-terminal Lys containing the CH3
                  knob mutation T366W and the S354C mutation for the formation of an additional
                  disulfide bridge

                                                  -38
               * GlycineSerine-linker
               * Variable light chain domain (VL) variant (L596V and L5981) of the mouse 8D3
                  anti-transferrin antibody (Boado, R.J. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y and Pardridge, W.M.,
                  Biotechnology and Bioengineering (2009) 102, 1251-1258)
 5             e  Human C-kappa light chain
               * GlycineSerine-linker
               * Variable heavy chain domain (VH) of the mouse 8D3 anti-transferrin antibody
                  (Boado, R.J. Zhang, Y. Wang, Y and Pardridge, W.M., Biotechnology and Bio
                  engineering (2009) 102, 1251-1258)
10             e  Human IgGI CH3 heavy chain domain
           Hole heavy chain (10133_pPM286 Mab3l(IgG1) hole SS) (Seq. Id. No. 4)
           Composition of the hole Mab31 heavy chain fusion protein
           * Mab31 human IgG1 heavy chain containing the CH3 hole mutations T366S, Y407V
              and L368A and the Y349C mutation for the formation of an additional disulfide
15            bridge
           Light chain (5170-VL-Mab31-Bsml-L2-Neo-BGHpA) (Seq. Id. No. 2)
           Composition of the Mab31 light chain
           -      Mab31 human Ckappa light chain
           Example 2: Purification of single and double Mab3l-Fab constructs
20         The antibody chains were generated by transient transfection of HEK293 cells (human
   embryonic kidney cell line 293-derived) cultivated in F17 Medium (Invitrogen Corp.). For trans
   fection "293-Fectin" Transfection Reagent (Invitrogen) was used. The antibody chains were ex
   pressed from two (tetravalent Mab3 1-scFab(8D3)) or three (trivalent Mab3 1-scFab(8D3)) differ
   ent plasmids, coding for the tetravalent Mab31-scFab(8D3) heavy chain and the Mab31 corre
25 sponding light chain, or the knob and hole trivalent Mab31-scFab(8D3) heavy chains and the
   Mab31 corresponding light chain, respectively. The two or three plasmids were used at an
   equimolar plasmid ratio upon transfection. Transfections were performed as specified in the
   manufacturer's instructions. Antibody fusion proteins-containing cell culture supernatants were
   harvested seven days after transfection. Supernatants were stored frozen until purification.

                                                  -39
           Proteins were purified from filtered cell culture supernatants. Supernatants were applied
   to a protein A Sepharose column (GE Healthcare) and washed with PBS pH 7.4. Elution of anti
   bodies was achieved with 100 mM Citate buffer at pH 3.0 followed by immediate neutralization
   of the sample to pH6.5. After concentration aggregated protein and other byproducts were sepa
 5 rated from monomeric antibodies by size exclusion chromatography (Superdex 200; GE
   Healthcare) in 20 mM histidine, 140 mM NaCl, pH 6.0. Every single fraction was analyzed on
   analytical SEC (TSK G3000SWXL) and on a chip-based capillary electrophoresis system (CE
   SDS, LabChipGX, Caliper) for the quantification of incompletely assembled molecules and oth
   er byproducts. Monomeric antibody fractions without byproducts were pooled. After concentra
10 tion using a MILLIPOREAmicon Ultra (30 molecular weight cut off) centrifugal concentrator
   the protein was stored at -80 'C. Analytical characterization of the endproduct was done by UV
   protein determination, CE-SDS, size-exclusion chromatography, mass spectrometry and also by
   endotoxin determination.
           Example 3: ELISA binding data of single Fab and double Fab constructs
15         Binding of mAb31-8D3 constructs to mouse transferrin receptor (mTfR) was assessed by
   indirect ELISA. To this end, recombinant mTfR (extracellular domain; Sino Biological) was
   coated to Maxisorb microtiter plate (Nunc) at 1 gg/mL in PBS at 4'C overnight. After blocking
   in 1% Crotein-C/PBS (blocking buffer; Roche) for 1 h at RT and 4 washes with 0.1% Tween
   20/PBS (wash buffer), mAb31-8D3 constructs were added to the wells at concentrations be
20 tween 0.01 and 150 nM in blocking buffer and incubated for 1 h at RT. After 4 wash steps, con
   structs were detected by addition of anti-human-IgG-HRP (Jackson Immunoresearch) at
   1:10,000 dilution in blocking buffer (1 RT), followed by 6 washes and incubation in TMB
   (Sigma). Absorbance was read out at 450 nm after stopping color development with 1 N HCl.
           Fig. 3 shows that binding of the bivalent mAb31-8D3-dFab to mTfR is comparable to
25 that of 8D3 IgG, while the monovalent construct mAb31-8D3-sFab shows a reduced affinity.
           Functionality of mAb3l was confirmed by ELISA. Briefly, Abeta(1-40) was coated at 7
   gg/mL in PBS onto Maxisorp plates for 3 days at 37'C to produce fibrillar Abeta, then dried for
   3 h at RT. The plate was blocked with 1%Crotein C and 0. 1%RSA in PBS (blocking buffer) for
   1 h at RT, then washed once with wash buffer. mAb31 constructs were added at concentrations
30 up to 100 nM in blocking buffer and incubated at 4'C overnight. After 4 wash steps, constructs
   were detected as indicated above.
           Fig. 4 shows that both mAb31-8D3 constructs (sFab and dFab) bind with an affinity
   comparable to that of unmodified mAb31 to immobilized Abeta fibrils.
           Example 4: Only single Fab constructs cross the BBB and decorates plaques

                                                  -40
           Brain sectioning and immunohistochemical staining:
           Brains were prepared after PBS perfusion and sagittal cryo-sections were cut between
   lateral ~ 1.92 and 1.68 millimeter according to the brain atlas of Paxinos and Franklin. Brains
   were sectioned at a nominal thickness of 20 microns at -15'C using a Leica CM3050 S cryostat
 5 and placed onto precooled glass slides (Superfrost plus, Menzel, Germany). For each brain, three
   sections spaced 80 microns were deposited on the same slide.
           Sections were rehydrated in PBS for 5 minutes followed by immersion with 100% ace
   tone precooled to -20'C for 2 min. All further steps were done at room temperature. Slides with
   brain sections were washed with PBS, pH 7.4 and blocking of unspecific binding sites by se
10 quential incubation in Ultra V block (LabVision) for 5 minutes followed by PBS wash and incu
   bation in power block solution (BioGenex) with 2 % normal goat serum in PBS for 20 min.
   Slides were directly incubated with the secondary antibody, an affinity-purified goat anti-human
   IgG (heavy and light chain specific) conjugated to Alexa Fluor 555 dye (# A-21433, lot 54699A,
   Molecular Probes) at a concentration of 20 microg/ml in 2 % normal goat serum in PBS, pH 7.4
15 for 1 hour. After extensive washing with PBS, plaque localization was assessed by a double
   labeling for Abeta plaques by incubation with BAP-2, a Roche in-house murine monoclonal an
   tibody against Abeta conjugated to Alexa Fluor 488 dye at 0.5 microg /ml for 1 hour in PBS with
   power block solution (BioGenex) and 10 % normal sheep serum. After PBS washing, autofluo
   rescence of lipofuscin was reduced by quenching through incubation in 4mM CuSO4 in 50 mM
20 ammonium acetate, pH 5 for 30 minutes. After rinsing the slides with double-distilled water,
   slides were embedded with Confocal Matrix (Micro Tech Lab, Austria).
           Confocal microscopy
           Three images from each section of the brain of each PS2APP-mouse with plaque contain
   ing regions in the frontal cortex (region of the primary motor cortex) were taken. Images were
25 recorded with a Leica TCS SP5 confocal system with a pinhole setting of 1 Airy.
           Plaques immunolabelled with Alexa Fluor 488 dyes were captured in the same spectral
   conditions (a 488nm excitation and a 500-554nm band pass emission) with adjusted photomulti
   plier gain and offset (typically, 770 V and -0% respectively) at a 30% laser power.
           Bound secondary Alexa Fluor 555 antibodies on the accessible surface of tissue sections
30 were recorded at the 561 nm excitation laser line at a window ranging from 570 to 725 nm cov
   ering the emission wavelength range of the applied detection antibody. Instrument settings were
   kept constant for image acquisitions to allow comparative intensity measurements for tested hu
   man anti-Ap antibodies; in particular, laser power, scanning speed, gain and offset. Laser power
   was set to 30% and settings for PMT gain were typically 850 V and a nominal offset of 0%. This

                                                    -41
   enabled visualization of both faint and strongly stained plaques with the same setting. Acquisi
   tion frequency was at 400 Hz.
            Confocal scans were recorded as single optical layers with a HCX PL APO 20x 0.7 IMM
   UV objective in water, at a 512 x 512 pixel resolution and an optical measuring depth in the ver
 5 tical axis was interactively controlled to ensure imaging within the tissue section. Amyloid
   plaques located in layers 2-5 of the frontal cortex were imaged and fluorescent intensities quanti
   fied.
            Statistical analysis
            Immunopositive regions were visualized as TIFF images and processed for quantification
10 of fluorescence intensity and area (measured in pixels) with ImageJ version 1.45 (NIH). For
   quantification, background intensities of 5 were subtracted in every image and positive regions
   smaller than 5 square pixels were filtered out. Total fluorescence intensity of selected isosurfaces
   was determined as sum of intensities of single individual positive regions and the mean pixel in
   tensity was calculated dividing the total intensity by the number of pixels analyzed.
15          Average and standard deviations values were calculated with Microsoft Excel (Redmond
   / WA, USA) from all measured isosurfaces obtained from nine pictures taken from three differ
   ent sections for each animal. Statistical analysis was performed using the Student's t test for
   group comparison or a Mann-Whitney test.
            10 mg/ml of mAb3l (construct of Fig1A), 13.3 mg/kg sFab-mAb31 (construct of FigIB)
20 and 16.7 mg/kg of dFAb-mAb31 (construct of FigIC) was i.v. tail injected in mice and after 8
   hours the brain was perfused with PBS. Sections was prepared as described above and stained
   with the goat anti-human IgG. For the mAb31 construct almost no specific signal was detected
   (Fig 4A). For the sFab-mAb31 expensive staining of both the plaque and capillaries was detected
   (Fig. 4B) while the dFab-mAb31 only staining of the capillaries was detected (Fig 4C). This
25 cleary showed that a monovalent binding mode (sFab-mAb31 to the Transferrin receptor is much
   more efficient bring the construct through the brain endothelial cells at the BBB. The quantifica
   tion of the bivalent binding molecule (dFab-mAb3 1) is shown in Fig 5. The data shows that there
   is not increase in plaque decoration for the dFab-mAb31 construct, there is only an increase in
   total intensity due to the capillary accumulation of the construct.
30          Example 5: Quantification of brain exposures with a single Fab construct
            The experimental procedure is described in Example 4. Quantification of the sFab
   mAb31 brain exposure is shown in Fig 6 using 10 mg/ml of mAb31 (construct of Fig1A) and
   13.3 mg/kg sFab-mAb31 (construct of FigIB). Already 8 hours after the injection of the sFab-

                                                     -42
   mAb31 construct there is a massive uptake compare to mAb31 (about 55-fold increase). Similar
   data was obtained after 24 hours post dose using 25 mg/ml of mAb31 (construct of Fig1A) and
   33.3 mg/kg sFab-mAb31 (construct of FigIB). Fig 6 also shows the transient capillary staining
   of the sFab-mAb31 illustrates the targeting effect and the crossing of the BBB over time. All the
 5 se data are highly significant as indicated in Fig 6.
            Fig 7 shows data of the mAb31 (construct of Fig. 1A) and the sFab-mAb31 (construct of
   Fig. 1B) construct at a low dose. Again only the sFab-mAb31 construct is able to cross the brain
   endothelial cells and decorate the plaque in the brain. Maximal effect is already reached at 8
   hours post dose. It is only at a higher dose (10 mg/kg) and relative long time (7 days) for the
10 mAb31 construct that there is a trend for increase in the signal of binding to the Abeta plaques in
   the brain (Fig 7). All these data are highly significant as indicated in Fig 7.
            Example 6: Specific down-regulation of cell surface TfR by a double Fab construct
            Experimental details: bEnd3 cells cultured in a 6-well plate format. 2-3 days after conflu
   ence treated with dFab-mAb31, sFab-mAb31 or untreated ctr. for 24 hours. Then medium re
15 moved/aspirated and cells washed twice with ice cold PBS (-MgCl)(-CaCl) (Gibco 14190-094),
   5ml/well. 1ml Trypsin/EDTA (Lonza CC-5012)/ well were added, incubated at 37'C for 15
   minutes until all cells were detached. Stopped reaction with 1ml trypsin neutralizing solution
   (ice-cold) (Lonza CC-5002). 2ml of the Trypsin/EDTA + neutralization solution collected in a
   50ml Falcon tube and kept on ice. Centrifugation of the cells at 4'C with 1400 rpm for 10
20 minutes. Pellets re-suspended in 50ml ice cold bEnd3 Medium (DMEM-12 (Gibco 31331) +
   10%FBS). Centrifugation of the cells at 4'C with 1400rpm for 10 minutes. Pellet re-suspended
   in 3ml ice cold FACS-Buffer (BD 554656). Cell counts: a) sFab tube (2,5x105 cells/ml) viability:
   47%, b) dFab tube (3.18x10     5 cells/ml) viability: 55%, c) ctr. tube (4.6x105 cells/ml) viability:
   57%.      FACS     staining     1x10 5   cells/eppendorf     tube    distributed and    centrifuged
25 (4 0 C,10min,1500rpm). Supernatant aspirated; a) CD71-PE (clone R17217- IgG2a monoclonal)
   (santa cruz sc-52504) 20 microL of the antibody/pellet (staining volume 100microL) filled up to
   100 microL with ice cold FACS-Buffer (BD 554656), b) CD31-APC (BD 551262) (rat anti
   mouse IgG2a (200 microg/ml)) 5 microg antibody/pellet (staining volume 100 microL) filled up
   to 100 microL with ice cold FACS-Buffer (BD 554656), c) 8D3-Alexa488 (1:50) (staining vol
30 ume 100 microL) diluted in ice cold FACS-Buffer (BD 554656), d) Isotype ctr. for Alexa488,
   APC and PE (all from BD). Incubation in the dark at ice for 1 hour. Filled up to 1.5 ml with ice
   cold FACS-Buffer and centrifuged (4'C,10 min,1500rpm). Washed pellet twice with 1.5 ml ice
   cold FACS-Buffer and finally re-suspended pellet in 500 microL PBS. FACS measurement was
   performed using the instrument Guava Flow Cytometry. The data shows that the double (dFab)
35 construct (Fig 8B) appears to down-regulate the Transferrin receptor on the cell surface. This is
   not detectable in this assay setup with the single (sFab) construct (Fig 8A) indicating that a mon-

                                                    -43
   ovalent binding mode has no direct effect on the cell trafficking and recycling that determine the
   amount of the Transferrin receptor at the cell surface on brain endothelial cells.
           Example 7: In vivo intracellular sorting of a single and double Fab construct
           APPswe/PS2 transgenic mice were injected i.v (tail injection) with the following con
 5 structs MAb31 (10mg/kg), sFab-MAb31 (13.3 mg/kg) or dFab-MAb31 (17.44mg/kg). The in
   jected dose reflects the molecule size with MAb31 used as reference. 15 minutes or 8 hours after
   the injection, mice were euthanized with CO 2 and treated as followed. The right cardiac atrium
   of the heart was cut open so that blood and perfusion solution can flow out. The left cardiac ven
   tricle was incised and a gavage probe #10 was shoved into the aorta. Approximately 20 ml of
10 PBS were injected (~10 ml/min, room temperature) followed by 30 ml of 2% PFA in PBS.
   Brains were taken out and incubated for an additional 7h00 in the same perfusat. Vibratome was
   used to generate 100 microns brain free-floating sections that were used for immunofluorescence
   staining. Sections were first permeabilized and blocked using PBS-0.3% Triton X-100-10% don
   key serum. Then, sections were incubated overnight with indicated primary antibodies diluted in
15 PBS-5% donkey serum. Molecular probes secondary antibodies were used following manufac
   turer recommendations. Images were acquired using a Leica SP5 confocal microscope, Imaris
   software was used for image processing and 3D reconstruction.
           These data illustrates the uptake of peripherally administered sFab-MAb31 and dFab
   MAb31 by brain endothelial cells. MAb3 1, sFab-MAb31 and dFab-MAb31 were detected using
20 a goat anti-human antibody coupled to Alexa 555. As shown in Fig 9, both sFab-MAb31 (Fig.
   9A) and dFab-MAb31 (Fig. 9B) decorates the brain vasculature 15 min after injection with no
   difference in their distribution. 8h00 post-injection, sFab-MAb31 reaches the parenchyma and
   decorates amyloid plaques (Fig. 9C arrows) whereas dFab-MAb31 (Fig. 9D) stays within brain
   vasculature similarly to the 15min time point. No amyloid plaques in the parenchyma are de
25 tected with the dFab-MAb3 1.
           Fig 10: To control the integrity of all constructs used in the study, staining of 18 months
   brain cryosections was done using MAb31 (Fig. 10A), sFab-MAb31 (Fig. 10B) or dFab-MAB31
   (Fig. 10C). Results showed that all 3 constructs detected amyloid plaques in the brain of trans
   genic mice.
30         Fig 11-12: High resolution confocal microscopy shows that sFab (Fig. 11) and dFab
   MAb31 (Fig. 12) do not decorate the luminal side of brain capillaries but are contained within
   vesicule-like structures crossing the luminal membrane of endothelial cells and within the endo
   thelial cell cytosol. Arrows in Fig 11 and Fig 12 indicate vesicles containing sFab or dFab
   MAb31 constructs on the abluminal side of endothelial cell nuclei. Altogether these data suggest

                                                   -44
   that both sFab-MAb31 and dFab-MAb31 can enter endothelial cells but only sFab-MAb31 can
   cross the vasculature and reach amyloid plaques
           The methods and compositions of the invention provide a way to drastically improve the
   part of the antibody that distributes into the CNS and thus more readily reach a therapeutic con
 5 centration in the CNS. The methods and compositions of the present invention are novel and sig
   nificantly improve the efficiency of crossing through the different organelles within the BECs
   using an optimal and undisturbed intracellular route/sorting to reach the abluminal side.
           Example 8: Monovalent receptor binding mode crucial for crossing the BBB
           The anti-AP monoclonal antibody mAb31 is a very specific and potent AP plaque binder
10 providing us with a powerful readout to quantify target engagement within brain parenchyma.
   We used the PS2APP double transgenic amyloidosis model to investigate the amount of brain
   exposure of the two Brain Shuttle constructs compared to the mAb31 parent antibody. The three
   variants were injected intravenously at 10 mg/kg and the degree of brain exposure was deter
   mined by quantifying the amount of antibody present at plaques 8 hours post injection. For the
15 dFab construct no significant increase in plaque decoration was detected compared to mAb31
   (Fig. 13A). However, for the sFab construct there was a massive increase in plaque decoration in
   comparison with the parent mAb31 antibody. Target engagement at the amyloid plaques was
   improved more than 50-fold for the sFab construct based on fluorescence intensity quantification
   using a labeled secondary antibody. Whereas the sFab construct showed extensive plaque deco
20 ration (Fig. 13D), the dFab was only detectable in the microvessels (Fig. 13C) indicating that the
   dFab construct targets and enters brain microvessels but fails to escape at the abluminal side. We
   investigated the target engagement capacity of the sFab construct at a low dose of 2.66 mg/kg
   and prolonged in vivo exposure time up to 7 days. Maximal plaque decoration was reached with
   in 8 hours, followed by persistent plaque binding over at least one week after a single injection
25 (Fig. 13E).
            In a previous study, the parent mAb31 had been shown to reach maximal plaque binding
   7 days after injection. Quantification of the staining in microvessel structures indicated that the
   localization of the sFab construct was very transient at the BBB, illustrating the relatively rapid
   rate at which the construct crosses the barrier. The representative plaque staining images for the
30 parent antibody mAb31 at 2 mg/kg 7 day post injection (Fig. 13F) and equimolar concentration
   for the sFab construct (Fig. 13G) illustrate the increase in plaque binding one achieves with the
   sFab brain shuttle construct. The sFab construct shows only a minor colocalization with the lyso
   somal compartment, which likely reflects normal constitutive trafficking of the TfR to the lyso
   some. Our in vitro studies also showed recycling and transcytosis of the sFab construct. Taken
35 together, these findings suggest that the sFab construct does not interfere with the normal traf-

                                                   -45
   ficking of the TfR. In contrast, the dFab construct shows strong colocalization with the lysoso
   mal compartment but no transcytosis activity, neither in vitro nor in vivo.
           Example 9: Increased antibody delivery across BBB translates into enhanced in vivo
   potency
 5         In the next set of experiments we asked whether the significant increase in brain exposure
   using a monovalent binding mode improves in vivo potency of the anti-AP antibody in a long
   term treatment study. We injected the sFab construct and the control parent antibody mAb31
   weekly for three months. In a previous 5-months study, the therapeutic antibody mAb31 had
   been shown to reduce the plaque burden at 20 mg/kg. Based on the data shown in Figure 14 we
10 selected two low doses to investigate if improved brain exposure would lead to enhanced in vivo
   potency. Target plaque binding at the end indicated that at both doses there was stronger target
   engagement with the sFab construct than the parent mAb31 antibody (Fig. 14 A - D).The degree
   of amyloidosis in the APPPS2 double transgenic mice was quantified at baseline, and following
   vehicle, low dose parent mAb31 and low dose sFab construct treatment. At these low doses no in
15 vivo effect was detected with the parent monoclonal mAb31 (Fig. 14E), which was anticipated
   based on a previous long-term study over 5-months. In contrast, a significant reduction in plaque
   numbers both in cortex and hippocampus was observed with the 2.67 mg/kg low dose of the
   sFab construct. Even at the much lower dose of 0.53 mg/kg (Fig. 14E), a trend was seen in favor
   of the sFab construct especially in the cortex, although it did not reached statistical significance.
20 A secondary analysis of plaque sizes revealed a more pronounced reduction of plaque numbers
   for small plaques, in agreement with the mode of action for mAb3 1. These data indicate that in
   creased brain penetration, enabled by a monovalent mode of TfR binding, leads to a significant
   improvement in potency of a therapeutic antibody in a chronic animal model of Alzheimer's dis
   ease pathology.
25         Example 10: Effector function of different antibody fusion proteins on TfR+ BaF3
   cells in vitro (ADCC)
           Transferrin receptor expressing BaF3 cells (DSMZ, # CLPZ04004) (TfR+) were used as
   target cells for antibody-dependent cell toxicity (ADCC) experiments induced by different anti
   body-fusion molecules.
30         Briefly, Ix104 BaF3 cells were seeded in round bottom 96-wells and optionally co
   cultured with human NK92 effector cells (high affinity CD16 clone 7A2F3; Roche GlycArt) at
   an effector/target ratio of 3:1 in the presence or absence of antibody fusion proteins. After four
   hours incubation (37 0 C, 5%CO2), cytotoxicity was assessed as measured by the release of lactate
   dehydrogenase (LDH) from dead/dying cells. For this cells were centrifuged for 5 min at 250xg
35 and 50gl supernatant was transferred to a flat bottom plate. 50gl LDH reaction mix (Roche LDH

                                                          -46
   reaction mix, cat. no. 11644793001; Roche Diagnostics GmbH) was added and the reaction was
   incubated for 20 min at 37 0 C, 5% CO 2 . Subsequently, the absorbance was measured at a Tecan
   Sunrise Reader at 492/620nm wavelength.
           All samples were tested in triplicates and the results calculated based the following con
 5 trols:
           -       Only target cells (+ medium)
           -       Maximal LDH release: target cells + 3% Triton-X
           -        Spontaneous release: target cells + NK cells (E:T of 3:1)
           % specific ADCC/lysis was calculated by the following term:
10                                Sample - spontaneous release
          % spec. ADCC    = ----------------------------------------------------    X 100
                              Maximal release - spontaneous release
           Fig. 15: Antibody fusion with TfR scFab fragments fused to the Fc C-terminus do not in
   duce ADCC. NK92-mediated killing of BA/F3 mouse erythroleukemia cells was measured by
15 quantifying LDH release. Only fusion constructs with the TfR-binding Fab moiety in the "con
   ventional" "N-terminal to Fc" orientation induce significant ADCC, while the brain shuttle con
   structs in reverse orientation are silent. Constructs: 8D3-IgG (full length 8D3 IgG), OA - 8D3
   (single heavy chain of 8D3 IgG), mAb3l (antibody of Fig. 1A), mAb31-8D3 sFab (construct of
   Fig. 1B), mAb3l-8D3-dFab (construct of Fig. IC).
20         Example 11: Epitope mapping of mTfR antibody 8D3
           The epitope mapping of monoclonal antibody 8D3 was carried out by means of a library
   of overlapping, immobilized peptide fragments (length: 15 amino acids, shift: 3 amino acids)
   corresponding to the sequence of the extracellular domain of murine Transferrin receptor 1 (90
   763). For preparation of the peptide array the Intavis CelluSpotsTM technology was employed. In
25 this approach, peptides are synthesized with an automated synthesizer (Intavis MultiPep RS) on
   modified cellulose disks which are dissolved after synthesis. The solutions of the individual pep
   tides that remain covalently linked to macromolecular cellulose are then spotted onto coated mi
   croscope    slides.  The   CelluSpotsTM          synthesis      was     carried out stepwise utilizing 9
   fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl (Fmoc) chemistry on amino-modified cellulose disks in a 384-well
30 synthesis plate. In each coupling cycle, the corresponding amino acids were activated with a so
   lution of DIC/HOBt in DMF. Between coupling steps, un-reacted amino groups were capped
   with a mixture of acetic anhydride, diisopropylethyl amine and 1-hydroxybenzotriazole. Upon
   completion of the synthesis, the cellulose disks were transferred to a 96-well plate and treated

                                                   -47
   with a mixture of trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), dichloromethane, triisoproylsilane (TIS) and water
   for side chain deprotection. After removal of the cleavage solution, the cellulose bound peptides
   are dissolved with a mixture of TFA, TFMSA, TIS and water, precipitated with diisopropyl ether
   and re-suspended in DMSO. These peptide solutions were subsequently spotted onto Intavis Cel
 5 luSpotsTM slides using an Intavis slide spotting robot.
           For epitope analysis, the prepared slides were washed with ethanol and then Tris-buffered
   saline (TBS; 50 mM Tris, 137 mM NaCl, 2.7 mM KCl, pH 8) before a blocking step was carried
   out for 16 h at 4'C with 5 mL lOx Western Blocking Reagent (Roche Applied Science), 2.5 g
   sucrose in TBS, 0.1% Tween 20. After washing (TBS + 0.1% Tween 20), the slides were incu
10 bated with a solution (1 ptg/mL) of antibody 8D3 in TBS + 0.1% Tween 20 at ambient tempera
   ture for 2 h. After washing, the slides were incubated for detection with an anti-mouse secondary
   HRP-antibody (1:20000 in TBS-T) followed by incubation with chemiluminescence substrate
   luminol and visualized with a Lumilmager (Roche Applied Science). ELISA-positive SPOTs
   were quantified and through assignment of the corresponding peptide sequences the antibody
15 binding epitopes were identified.
           Fig. 16: 8D3 binds to three distinct peptides in the extracellular domain of mouse trans
   ferrin receptor. Binding of antibody 8D3 to 15mer peptides overlapping by three amino acids
   was revealed by chemiluminescent detection of antibody incubated on a CelluSpot slide carrying
   immobilized mTfR peptides. Box: Peptides #373, 374 and 376 bound by 8D3.
20
     Peptide ID     Peptide Sequence                                           Sequence Number
     373             I-G-Q-N-M-V-T-I-V-Q-S-N-G-N-L                             Seq. Id. No. 14
     374                   N-M-V-T-I-V-Q-S-N-G-N-L-D-P-V                       Seq. Id. No. 15
     376                               Q-S-N-G-N-L-D-P-V-E-S-P-E-G-Y           Seq. Id. No. 16
           Table 1: mTfR extracellular domain peptide sequences bound by 8D3 in peptide mapping
   experiment.
           Herein is described a group of biotherapeutic constructs against a blood brain barrier re
25 ceptor, in particular the transferrin receptor (TfR), that can deliver therapeutics including anti
   bodies, proteins, peptides and small molecules across the BBB at therapeutically relevant doses.
   Distribution of certain engineered biotherapeutic constructs changed from cerebrovascular space
   to parenchyma space within a few hours after injection, indicating that these particular constructs
   utilizing an optimal transport pathway through the BECs to allow significant amount of biother
30 apeutics to be transcytosed through BECs to reach the parenchyma. The degree of biotherapeutic
   constructs uptake into and distribution in the CNS was completely dependent on the monovalent
   binding mode to the blood brain barrier receptor, in particularTfR. When the TfR become dimer
   ized by the binding of the biotherapeutic construct to the R/BBB no detectable level within the
   parenchyma space was detected. A single systemic dose of the single Fab anti-Abeta monoclonal

                                                    -48
   construct engineered using the methodology of the invention not only resulted in significant an
   tibody uptake in brain, but also dramatically increase the decoration of the anti-Abeta monoclo
   nal binding to pathological amyloid plaques. However, using a double Fab binding construct
   against the R/BBB, no detectable levels within the CNS was detected. The facts and experiments
 5 depicted in this application illustrate key contributing mechanisms behind increasing uptake of a
   biotherapeutics (such as antibodies) into the CNS using a monovalent binding mode against an
   R/BBB. First, a dual (or multimeric) anti-R/BBB binding mode limit brain uptake by quickly
   down-regulate the R/BBB on the cell surface on the lumen side, thus reducing the total amount
   anti-R/BBB that can be taken up into the vasculature which is the first step in efficient BBB
10 crossing. Secondly, a dual (or multimeric) anti-R/BBB binding mode induces a distinct miss
   sorting intracellularly in the BECs that prevent the construct to reach the abluminal side. Strik
   ingly, monovalent binding to the R/BBB improves brain uptake and distribution, with a complete
   shift observed in localization from the vasculature to the amyloid plaques within the CNS. Se
   cond, the engineered monovalent binding mode of the biotherapeutic constructs for the R/BBB is
15 securing the recycling of the R/BBB to the lumen side to allow uptake of additional fusion poly
   peptide construct and transport to the abluminal side and into the parenchyma. Third, the mono
   valent binding mode biotherapeutic construct is engineered at the C-terminal end of the Fc part
   of an IgG which preserve the original format for a therapeutic monoclonal antibody which in
   most cases are critical for in vivo efficacy. This can also be accomplished by linking to other part
20 of an IgG described within this application. This is advantageous because already developed IgG
   monoclonals with established preclinical and clinical efficacy can be incorporated in this
   transport system without compromising established function and efficacy. Furthermore, receptor
   mediated transport (RMT)-based monovalent targeting R/BBB technology opens the door for a
   wide range of potential therapeutics for CNS diseases. The invention provides methods of engi
25 neering BBB-penetrant therapeutics preserving existing IgGs formats with proven therapeutic
   activities that greatly improve transport across the BBB and CNS distribution of the therapeutic.

                                      -49
       Disclosed amino acid sequences
Amino acid sequence name                  Sequence Identification Number (Seq. Id.
                                                            No.)
Mab31 heavy chain - scFab (8D3)                               1
Mab31 light chain                                             2
Knob Mab31 heavy chain - scFab (8D3)                          3
Hole Mab31 heavy chain - scFab (8D3)                          4
Mab 31 VH CDR1                                                5
Mab 31 VH CDR2                                                6
Mab 31 VH CDR3                                                7
Mab 31 VL CDR1                                                8
Mab 31 VL CDR 2                                               9
Mab 31 VL CDR3                                               10
Mab 31 VH                                                    11
Mab 31 VL                                                    12
Peptide linker (G 4 S) 6 G2                                  13
8D3 epitope mapping peptide 373                              14
8D3 epitope mapping peptide 374                              15
8D3 epitope mapping peptide 376                              16
Peptide linker (G 4 S) 4                                     17

                                                     -50
                                                   Claims
          1.       A blood brain barrier shuttle comprising a brain effector entity, a linker and one
   monovalent binding entity which binds to a blood brain barrier receptor, wherein the linker cou
   ples the effector entity to the monovalent binding entity which binds to the blood brain barrier
 5 receptor.
          2.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 1, wherein the monovalent binding entity
   which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor is selected from the group consisting of proteins,
   polypeptides and peptides.
          3.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 1 or 2, wherein the monovalent binding
10 entity which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor comprises a molecule selected from the
   group consisting of a blood brain barrier receptor ligand, scFv, Fv, sFab, VHH, preferably a
   sFab.
          4.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 3, wherein the blood brain receptor
   is selected from the group consisting of transferrin receptor, insulin receptor, insulin-like growth
15 factor receptor, low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 8, low density lipoprotein recep
   tor-related protein 1 and heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor, preferably
   transferrin receptor.
          5.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 4, wherein the monovalent binding
   entity which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor comprises one scFab directed to the trans
20 ferrin receptor, preferably a scFab recognizing an epitope in the transferrin receptor comprised
   within the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 14, 15 or 16.
          6.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 or 5, wherein the brain effector entity
   is selected from the group consisting of neurological disorder drugs, neurotrophic factors, growth
   factors, enzymes, cytotoxic agents, antibodies directed to a brain target, monoclonal antibodies
25 directed to a brain target, peptides directed to a brain target.
          7.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 6, wherein the brain target is selected
   from the group consisting of j-secretase 1, AP, epidermal growth factor, epidermal growth factor
   receptor 2, Tau, phosphorylated Tau, apolipoprotein E4, alpha synuclein, oligomeric fragments
   of alpha synuclein, CD20, huntingtin, prion protein, leucine rich repeat kinase 2, parkin, prese
30 nilin 2, gamma secretase, death receptor 6, amyloid precursor protein, p75 neurotrophin receptor
   and caspase 6.

                                                    -51
          8.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 7, wherein the brain effector entity
   is selected from the group consisting of proteins, polypeptides and peptides.
          9.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 8, wherein the monovalent binding entity
   which binds to the blood brain receptor is coupled to the C-terminal end of the brain effector en
 5 tity by the linker.
          10.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 9, wherein the brain effector entity
   comprises a full length antibody directed to a brain target, preferably a full length IgG.
          11.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 10 comprising the full length IgG anti
   body as brain effector entity, the linker and one scFab as the monovalent binding entity which
10 binds the blood brain receptor, wherein the scFab is coupled by the linker to the C-terminal end
   of the Fc part of one of the heavy chains of the IgG antibody.
          12.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 10 or 11, wherein the effector entity is a
   full length antibody directed to AP.
          13.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 12, wherein the antibody directed to AP
15 comprises (a) H-CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 5, (b) H-CDR2 com
   prising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 6, (c) H-CDR3 comprising the amino acid se
   quence of Seq. Id. No. 7, (d) L-CDR1 comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 8, (e)
   L-CDR2 comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 9 and (f) L-CDR3 comprising the
   amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 10.
20        14.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 13, wherein the antibody directed to
   Abeta comprises a VH domain comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 11 and a VL
   domain comprising the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 12.
          15.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 10 to 11, wherein the effector entity is a
   full length antibody directed to phosphorylated Tau and the monovalent binding entity is one
25 scFab directed to the transferrin receptor.
          16.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 10 or 11, wherein the effector entity is a
   full length antibody directed to alpha synuclein and the monovalent binding entity is one scFab
   directed to the transferrin receptor.
          17.      The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 16, wherein the linker is a peptide
30 linker, preferably a peptide which is an amino acid sequence with a length of at least 20 amino
   acids, more preferably with a length of 25 to 50 amino acids.

                                                     -52
          18.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims I to 7, wherein the monovalent binding
   entity which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor comprises a CH2-CH3 Ig entity and one
   sFab which binds to the blood brain barrier receptor, wherein the sFab is coupled to a C-terminal
   end of the CH2-CH3 Ig entity by a second linker.
 5        19.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claim 18 comprising the brain effector entity,
   the linker, the CH2-CH3 Ig domain, the second linker and one sFab which binds to the blood
   brain barrier receptor, wherein the brain effector entity is coupled by the first linker to a N
   terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig domain and the sFab is coupled to a C-terminal end of the CH2
   CH3 Ig domain by the second linker.
10        20.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 18 or 19, wherein the CH2-CH3 Ig entity
   is a CH2-CH3 IgG entity.
          21.       An isolated nucleic acid encoding the blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 20.
          22.       A host cell comprising the nucleic acid of claim 21.
          23.       A pharmaceutical formulation comprising the blood brain barrier shuttle of claims
15 1 to 20 and a pharmaceutical carrier.
          24.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 20 for use as medicament.
          25.       Use of the blood brain barrier shuttleof claims 1 to 20 in the manufacture of a
   medicament.
          26.       The use of claim 25, wherein the medicament is for the treatment of a neuro
20 degenerative disorder, preferably Alzheimer's disease.
          27.       The blood brain barrier shuttle of claims 1 to 20 to transport the brain effector en
   tity across the blood brain barrier.
          28.       A fusion protein to transport a brain effector entity across the blood brain barrier
   comprising a CH2-CH3 Ig entity, a linker and one sFab directed to a blood brain barrier receptor,
25 wherein the sFab is coupled to a C-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig entity by the linker.
          29.       The fusion protein to transport the brain effector entity across the blood brain bar
   rier of claim 28, wherein the brain effector entity is selected from the group consisting of neuro
   logical disorder drugs, neurotrophic factors, growth factors, enzymes, cytotoxic agents, antibody
   fragments or peptides directed to a brain target selected from the group consisting of scFv, Fv,
30 scFab, Fab, VHH, F(ab') 2 .

                                                     53
       30.        The fusion protein to transport the brain effector entity across the blood brain barrier
of claims 28 or 29, wherein the sFab directed to the blood brain barrier receptor is a sFab directed to
the transferrin receptor, preferably a scFab recognizing an epitope in the transferrin receptor
comprised within the amino acid sequence of Seq. Id. No. 14, 15 or 16.
       31.        The fusion protein to transport the brain effector entity across the blood brain barrier
of claims 28 to 30, wherein the linker is peptide linker.
       32.        The fusion protein of claims 28 to 31, wherein the CH2-CH3 Ig entity is a CH2-CH3
IgG entity.
       33.        An isolated nucleic acid encoding the fusion protein of claims 28 to 32.
       34.        A host cell comprising the nucleic acid of claim 33.
       35.        A conjugate comprising a fusion protein to transport a brain effector entity across the
blood brain barrier of claims 28 to 32 and a brain effector entity coupled to a N-terminal end of the
CH2-CH3 Ig entity of the fusion protein by a linker.
       36.        The conjugate of claim 35, wherein the brain effector entity is selected from the
group consisting of proteins, polypeptides and peptides.
       37.        The conjugate of claim 36, wherein a C-terminal end of the effector entity is coupled
to the N-terminal end of the CH2-CH3 Ig entity by the linker.
       38.        A pharmaceutical formulation comprising the conjugate of claims 35 to 37 and a
pharmaceutical carrier.
       39.        The conjugate of claim 35 to 37 for use as medicament.
       40.        Use of the conjugate of claims 35 to 37 in the manufacture of a medicament.
       41.        The use of claim 40, wherein the medicament is for the treatment of a
neurodegenerative disorder, preferably Alzheimer's disease.
       42.        The invention as described herein before.
                                       F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG
                        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                       SPRUSON & FERGUSON
14681373 1:hjg

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                  !"# $
                        %&      ' () *     ( ))*#) +",--&#+
               .        .         /0
                                       .
<removed-apn>
                            1
               1        2 -# -         3#)+*      .
                        2
                   .    $)-* *!* &         #4,# !#
                   .        ,+*   5 &65#5-*'#
              7#-      &6   )5    #)   6+    &#   &#   #, 2"#    #, 8 & $&      ") $&     ")   &6
              8 &      *+   #)    &    8 &   &,   #, 8 &    &,   #)   &6   &6   &6    #, 8 &   &
                                                                                     .
              2)       &6    &6   #)   #, $)9     #,   #)   6+ $&     $&   #)   &6 2"#    ") 2"#
                            .
              #)       #)   6) $&      7#-   #)   )5 8 & $)9     &    $&   2)   &6   6+   &6   #,
              &,       )5 8 &     #) $&       &# $+    $&   #)   &6    ") $)9   ")   6)   6) $&
                                             1                        1
              $+5      #) 8 &     6+   &6 $)9 2"#      ")   &#   #) $)9 $+5 $+       #)   6+ $+
              ")       #,   6)    #,   &     7#- $+    #)   #, $)9 $&      &, $+5    ") $&     8 &
                                                                 2 9#

<removed-date>
              6)    6)   6+ $&     $)9   &6    6+   &6 $+      ")   *+   6+ 2)     6)   &6   6)
              8 & $)9    6) 2"# $+5 8 &        )5   &6   &     &6   ")   #, 8 &    ") 8 &    #)
                   .                           .
              #) $&      #)   ")   6+    &6 2)      #) 8 & 2"# 2)        #, $&     2)   #)   #)
<removed-apn>
              6+    #)   ")   #)   &6    &6    ") $&     $&    #,   &6   6+   #, 8 &    6+ $+5
                                                               1                        1
              6) 2"# 2)       &, 2)      8 &   ") 8 &    #)    )5 $+     #)   &6 $&     #,   ")
              #)    &6 8 &    *+   ") 2"# 2)        $&   8 &   #,   &    #)   #)   &6   #,   6)
              #)    #,   #)   #) 8 & 8 &       ") 8 & 2)       #)   #)   #)   #,   &6   ")   &
              ")    6)   &#   6+ $+      8 & $+     *+   6+ 2)      #) $+     ")   6+ 8 & $+5
                                          .                         .
              6+    6+ 8 &    &, 2)      6+    #)   6+ $+5     6+   ")   *+   ")   6+ 2)     2)
              6+ 2)      $&   2)   &,    #,    #,   &6   &6 2)      #) 8 & 2"#     #, 2"# 2)
                                                                                   1
              2)    6+ 2)     6+ $+5     ")    #, 7#-    &#    #) $)9    ") 2)     &, 8 &    ")
                        1
              6+ 8 & 8 & 8 & $+5 8 &           #)   *+   &, $+5 2)        &, 8 &   6+ 2"# $+
                                                                         .
               )5   6) 8 & $+5     &6 8 &      &, 8 &    *+ $+      $&   6+   ")   6+ 2)     $)9
              .                       .                             .                        .
                                                               2 9#

<removed-date>
              &,    &,   &    6) $+      #)   ")    6) $)9 8 & 8 &         #) 8 &     #,    ") 8 &
                                 .                         ..                              ..
              #,    *+   &    $+5   )5   #, $+      &6     6+   &,   6)    6+   6+     6+ 8 &   #)
                              .                           .                           .
              $+    6+ $&     #, 2)      $&   2)     &#   &,    6+   ")    &#    #)   6+ $&     6+
<removed-apn>
                       .                            .                           .
              &6     &   2)   $)9   &, 2)      &    8 &   6)    ")   #, 2)      2)    #) $)9 $+5
                    .1                        .1                        .
               &,   #,   ")   6+ $+       &   8 &   #)    #,    ")    6+   #, 8 &     6+   &6 2"#
              .                          .                           .
              6) 2)      #) $+5     &# $&     8 &   &,    )5    &,   #) $+      &6    &    2)   &,
              $+    $+   6)   6+    ")   ") 2)      2)    8 &   #, $+5     #) $+5     &6   #) 2"#
                                                                                      .
              2"#   #,   6)   #)    6+   #,   ") 8 & $+5        6+   #) $)9     )5    &    &    &6
                         .
              $+    8 & 2"#   #)    6+   #) 8 & 7#-       *+    &, $&      #,   *+ $+      *+   6)
              ")    &    6+   #)    #,   #)   #,    #) 2)       &6   &6    &6   #)    &6   &6   &6
                                         1                           1
              &6    #)   &6   &6    &6   &6   #)    &6    &6    &6   &6    #) $+5     &#   &    7#-
              ")    &    #) 2)      $&   #)   #,    #) $&       #)   #,    &,   &,    &# 8 &    ")
              &#    ")   6+   &     $&   #)   &     $+5   &#    &6 $+      )5   #, $&      )5   6)
                                                                2 9# .

<removed-date>
              &     &    6+ 2)       &6    6+    #) 2)      &     #,    #,    &#    6)   &6 $&      ")
                    .                            .
              #)    #, $&      $+5   &6 8 & 2)         #) $)9 2"#       #)    &6    #) $)9    #)    &6
              ")    &    2"#   #)    #,    6+    &#    #) $)9 8 &       &     8 &   &, $+5    &#    &6
<removed-apn>
                                                               1                              1
              &#    6)   6)    6+    #,    &     $&    6) $+      ") 2)       )5    ") 2"#    &6    &6
              &6    ")   6+ 8 &      &,    &#    6+ $)9     ") 8 & $&         $&    2)   #) 8 & 2"#
              &# 2"# 2)        2)    #) $+5      &,    &    #,    6+    #)    &6    ") $&     #) 8 &
              8 &   6+   #,    #, $+       $+    2"#   6) 2)      $)9   &, $&       6+ 8 &    &     )5
                                            .                           .
              6+ 8 & $+5 $+          $&    #,    &     #)   &6 $+       #)    &     &,   #) 8 &     ")
              &,    &    $+5   #)    6+ $+5      #)    ")   6)    #)    #,    #)    #)   ")   #,    ")
                                                                                         1
              #,    #)   6+ $&       $+5   6)    &,    6+   *+    6+ 8 &      6) $&      6+   &, 8 &
                         1
              ")    *+   &     &6    #,    #)    #) 2)      8 &   ")    6+     #) 2"# $+      $)9   &6
                                                                              1
               &,   6+   &6    &6    &6     &6   #)    &6   &6    &6     &6   #)    &6   &6   &6     &6
              1                            1                            1                           1
              #)    &6   &6    &6     &6   #)    &6    &6   &6     &6   #)    &6    &6   &6    &6   #)
                                     1                            1.                          1.
                                                                   2 9#

<removed-date>
              &6    &6    &, 8 &      &    #, 8 &     &,    #)   &6   &6   &6    #, 8 &     &     2)
                             1                             1                        1
              &6 $+        #)   #,    ")   #,    #)    6+ 8 & $&      #)   &6 2"#      ") 2"#     #)
                          1                           1                       1
              $+     6)   &6 7#-      *+   )5     &# $)9   &     $&   2)    6+   6+    &6   #,    &,
<removed-apn>
                    11                           11                        1
               )5   &# $&       7#-   &#    6)   6) $+5    #)    #)    6+ 7#- $+       6) $&      $+5
              1                            1                          1
              ") 8 &      6+    &6 $)9 2"#       ")   &#   #) $)9 $+5 $+         #)    6+ $+      ")
              #,    6)    #,    &, 7#- $+        #)   #, $)9     #)   &, $+5     ") $&      7#-   6)
                                                                                     .
              6)    6+ $&       8 & 2)     ")    #)   *+   6) 8 & 8 & $+5 8 &          )5   &6    &
                        .
              &6 8 &      #) 8 &      ") 8 &     #)   #) $&      #)   ")   6+    &6 2)      #) 8 &
              2"# 2)      #, $&       2)   #)    #)   6+   #)    ")   #)   &6    &6    ") $&      $&
                                           1                          1
              #,    &6    6+    #, 8 &     6+ $+5     6) 2"# 2)       &, 2)      8 &   ") 8 &     #)
              )5 $+       #)    &6 $&      #,    ")   #)   &6 8 &     *+   ") 2"# 2)        $&    8 &
              #,    &     #)    #)    &6   #,    6)   #)   #,    #)   #) 8 & 8 &       ") 8 & 2)
              #)    #)    #)    #,    &6   ")    &    ")   6)    &#   6+ $+      8 & $+     *+    6+
                    .                            .
                                                                  2 9#

<removed-date>
              2)       #) $+      ")   6+ 8 & $+5         6+   6+ 8 &    &, 2)     6+   #)    6+
                         .
                        2
                   .    $)-* *!* &          #4,# !#
<removed-apn>
                   .        *9"- !" *       !   +-),!-
              7#-      &6   )5    #)   6+       &#   &#   #, 2"#    #, 8 & $&      ") $&      ")    &6
              8 &      *+   #) $+5     &# 8 &        #,   ")   &    #) 2)     $&   ")    #,   #)    #,
                                                                                        .
              #) 2)          &6   &, $)9 $&          ")   #,   #)   6+ $)9 $&      #)   &     #) 8 &
                            .
              #)       #)   #)    6)   #, $&         )5   6)   &    &    6+ 2)     &6   &     $&    2)
              $)9      #,   #,    &#   6)    &6 $&        #)   #) $)9 $&      ")   &6 8 & 2)        $&
                                            1                         1
              $)9 2"#       #)    &6   #)       &6   #)   &6   ") $+5 2"#     ")   #,   ")    &#    #)
              #)       #,   &, 2)      &, $+5 2"# $&           ")   6)   6)   6+   #,   &     &#    6)
              $+    7#- 2)        &#   ") 2"#        &6   &    &6   ")   6+ 8 &    &,   &#    6+ $)9
              ") 8 & $&           $&   2)       #) 8 & 2"#     &# 2"# 2)      2)   #) $+5     &,    &
                  .                                 .
              #,       6+   #)    &6   ") $&         #) 8 & 8 &     6+   #,   #, $+     $+    2"#   6)
                                                                    2 9#

<removed-date>
              2)    $)9     &, $&      6+ 8 &     &     )5   6+ 8 & $+5 $+        $&    #,   &    #)
                                                                 1                           1
              &6 $+         #)    &    &,    #) 8 &     ")   &,   &    $+5   #)   6+ $+5     #)   ")
<removed-apn>
              6)       #)   #,    #)   #)    ")   #,    ")   #,   #)   6+ $&      $+5   6)   &,   6+
              *+       6+ 8 &     6) $&      6+   &, 8 &     ")   *+   &     &6   #,    #)   #) 2)
              8 &      ")   6+    #) 2"# $+       $)9   &6   &,   6+
                                          .
                        .
                        2
                   .    $)-* *!* &        #4,# !#
                   .        ,+*   5 &65#5-*'#
                        .
              7#-      &6   )5    #)   6+    &#   &#    #, 2"#    #, 8 & $&       ") $&      ")   &6
              8 &      *+   #)    &    8 &   &,   #, 8 &     &,   #)   &6    &6   &6     #, 8 &   &
                                                                                        .
              2)       &6    &6   #)   #, $)9     #,    #)   6+ $&     $&    #)   &6 2"#     ") 2"#
                            .
              #)       #)   6) $&      7#-   #)   )5 8 & $)9      &    $&    2)   &6    6+   &6   #,
              &,       )5 8 &     #) $&       &# $+     $&   #)   &6    ") $)9    ")    6)   6) $&
                                             1                         1
                                                                  2 9# 1

<removed-date>
              $+5   #) 8 &    6+   &6 $)9 2"#       ")   &#    #) $)9 $+5 $+       #)   6+ $+
              ")    #,   6)   #,   &     7#- $+     #)   #, $)9 $&       &, $+5    ") $&     8 &
              6)    6)   6+ $&     $)9   &6    6+   &6 $+      ")   *+   6+ 2)     6)   &6   6)
<removed-apn>
              8 & $)9    6) 2"# $+5 8 &        )5   &6   &     &6   ")   #, 8 &    ") 8 &    #)
                   .                           .
              #) $&      #)   ")   6+    &6 2)      #) 8 & 2"# 2)        #, $&     2)   #)   #)
              6+    #)   ")   #)   &6    &6    ") $&     $&    #,   &6   6+   #, 8 &    6+ $+5
                                                               1                        1
              6) 2"# 2)       &, 2)      8 &   ") 8 &    #)    )5 $+     #)   &6 $&     #,   ")
              #)    &6 8 &    *+   ") 2"# 2)        $&   8 &   #,   &    #)   #)   &6   #,   6)
              #)    #,   #)   #) 8 & 8 &       ") 8 & 2)       #)   #)   #)   #,   &6   ")   &
              ")    6)   &#   6+ $+      8 & $+     *+   6+ 2)      #) $+     ")   6+ 8 & $+5
                                          .                         .
              6+    6+ 8 &    &, 2)      6+    #)   6+ $+5     6+   ")   *+   ")   6+ 2)     2)
              6+ 2)      $&   2)   &,    #,    #,   &6   &6 2)      #) 8 & 2"#     #, 2"# 2)
                                                                                   1
              2)    6+ 2)     6+ $+5     ")    #, 7#-    &#    #) $)9    ") 2)     &, 8 &    ")
                        1
                                                               2 9#

<removed-date>
              6+ 8 & 8 & 8 & $+5 8 &          #)    *+    &, $+5 2)         &, 8 &    6+ 2"# $+
                                                                           .
               )5   6) 8 & $+5      &6 8 &    &, 8 &      *+ $+      $&    6+   ")    6+ 2)     $)9
              .                        .                             .                          .
              &,    &,   &    6) $+      #)   ")    6) $)9 8 & 8 &         #) 8 &     #,    ") 8 &
<removed-apn>
                                 .                         ..                              ..
              #,    *+   &    $+5   )5   #, $+      &6     6+   &,   6)    6+   6+     6+ 8 &   #)
                              .                           .                           .
              $+    6+ $&     #, 2)      $&   2)     &#   &,    6+   ")    &#    #)   6+ $&     6+
                       .                            .                           .
              &6     &   2)   $)9   &, 2)      &    8 &   6)    ")   #, 2)      2)    6+ $)9 $+5
                    .1                        .1                        .
               &,   #,   ")   6+ $+       &   8 &   #)    #,    )5    6+   #, 8 &     6+   &6 2"#
              .                          .                           .
              6) 2)      #) $+5     &# $&     8 &   &,    )5    &,   #) $+      &6    &    2)   &,
              $+    $+   6)   6+    ")   ") 2)      2)    8 &   #, $+5     #) $+5     &6   #) 2"#
                                                                                      .
              2"#   #,   6)   #)    6+   #,   ") 8 & $+5        6+   #) $)9     )5    &    &    &6
                         .
              $+    8 & 2"#   #)    6+   #) 8 & 7#-       *+    &, $&      #,   *+ $+      *+   6)
              ")    &    6+   #)    #,   #)   #,    #) 2)       &6   &6    &6   #)    &6   &6   &6
                                         1                           1
              &6    #)   &6   &6    &6   &6   #)    &6    &6    &6   &6    #) $+5     &#   &    7#-
                                                                2 9#

<removed-date>
              ")    &    #) 2)       $&    #)   #,    #) $&       #)     #,   &,    &,   &# 8 &     ")
              &#    ")   6+    &     $&    #)   &     $+5   &#    &6 $+       )5    #, $&     )5    6)
              &     &    6+ 2)       &6    6+   #) 2)       &     #,     #,   &#    6)   &6 $&      ")
<removed-apn>
                    .                           .
              #)    #, $&      $+5   &6 8 & 2)        #) $)9 2"#         #)   &6    #) $)9    #)    &6
              ")    &    2"#   #)    #,    6+   &#    #) $)9 8 &         &    8 &   &, $+5    &#    &6
                                                              1                               1
              &#    6)   6)    6+    #,    &    $&    6) $+       ") 2)       )5    ") 2"#    &6    &6
              &6    ")   6+ 8 &      &,    &#   6+ $)9      ") 8 & $&         $&    2)   #) 8 & 2"#
              &# 2"# 2)        2)    #) $+5     &,    &     #,    6+     #)   &6    ") $&     #) 8 &
              8 &   6+   #,    #, $+       $+   2"#   6) 2)       $)9    &, $&      6+ 8 &    &     )5
                                            .                            .
              6+ 8 & $+5 $+          $&    #,   &     #)    &6 $+        #)   &     &,   #) 8 &     ")
              &,    &    $+5   #)    6+ $+5     #)    ")    6)    #)     #,   #)    #)   ")   #,    ")
                                                                                         1
              #,    #)   6+ $&       $+5   6)   &,    6+    *+    6+ 8 &      6) $&      6+   &, 8 &
                         1
              ")    *+   &     &6    #,    #)   #) 2)       8 &   ")     6+    #) 2"# $+      $)9   &6
                                                                              1
                                                                  2 9#

<removed-date>
               &,   6+    &6    &6    &6     &6   #)   &6   &6    &6     &6   #)    &6    &6   &6     &6
              1                             1                           1                            1
              #)    &6    &6    &6     &6   #)    &6   &6   &6     &6    #)   &6    &6    &6    &6   #)
                                      1                           1.                           1.
              &6    &6    &, 8 &      &     #, 8 &     &,    #)   &6     &6   &6    #, 8 &     &     2)
<removed-apn>
                             1                              1                          1
              &6 $+        #)   #,    ")    #,    #)    6+ 8 & $&        #)   &6 2"#      ") 2"#     #)
                          1                            1                         1
              $+     6)   &6 7#-      *+    )5     &# $)9   &     $&    2)     6+   6+    &6   #,    &,
                    11                            11                          1
               )5   &# $&       7#-   &#     6)   6) $+5    #)    #)     6+ 7#- $+        6) $&      $+5
              1                             1                           1
              ") 8 &      6+    &6 $)9 2"#        ")   &#   #) $)9 $+5 $+           #)    6+ $+      ")
              #,    6)    #,    &, 7#- $+         #)   #, $)9     #)     &, $+5     ") $&      7#-   6)
                                                                                        .
              6)    6+ $&       8 & 2)      ")    #)   *+   6) 8 & 8 & $+5 8 &            )5   &6    &
                        .
              &6 8 &      #) 8 &      ") 8 &      #)   #) $&      #)     ")   6+    &6 2)      #) 8 &
              2"# 2)      #, $&       2)    #)    #)   6+   #)    ")     #)   &6    &6    ") $&      $&
                                            1                            1
              #,    &6    6+    #, 8 &      6+ $+5     6) 2"# 2)         &, 2)      8 &   ") 8 &     #)
              )5 $+       #)    &6 $&       #,    ")   #)   &6 8 &       *+   ") 2"# 2)        $&    8 &
                                                                  2 9#

<removed-date>
              #,       &    #)    #)   &6    #,   6)   #)   #,   #)     #) 8 & 8 &     ") 8 & 2)
              #)       #)   #)    #,   &6    ")   &    ")   6)   &#     6+ $+     8 & $+    *+   6+
                       .                          .
              2)       #) $+      ")   6+ 8 & $+5      6+   6+ 8 &      &, 2)     6+   #)   6+
<removed-apn>                 2
                            1
                   .       $)-* *!* &      #4,# !#
                   .        ,+*   5 &65#5-*'#
              7#-      &6   )5    #)   6+    &#   &#   #, 2"#    #, 8 & $&        ") $&     ")   &6
              8 &      *+   #)    &    8 &   &,   #, 8 &    &,   #)     &6   &6   &6    #, 8 &   &
                                                                                       .
              2)       &6    &6   #)   #, $)9     #,   #)   6+ $&     $&     #)   &6 2"#    ") 2"#
                            .
              #)       #)   6) $&      7#-   #)   )5 8 & $)9     &    $&     2)   &6   6+   &6   #,
              &,       )5 8 &     #) $&       &# $+    $&   #)   &6    ") $)9     ")   6)   6) $&
                                             1                        1
              $+5      #) 8 &     6+   &6 $)9 2"#      ")   &#   #) $)9 $+5 $+         #)   6+ $+
              ")       #,   6)    #,   &     7#- $+    #)   #, $)9 $&        &, $+5    ") $&     8 &
              6)       6)   6+ $&      $)9   &6   6+   &6 $+     ")     *+   6+ 2)     6)   &6   6)
                                                                 2 9#

<removed-date>
              8 & $)9    6) 2"# $+5 8 &       )5   &6   &     &6     ")      #, 8 &    ") 8 &    #)
                   .                          .
              #) $&      #)   ")   6+   &6 2)      #) 8 & 2"# 2)             #, $&     2)   #)   #)
<removed-apn>
              6+    #)   ")   #)   &6   &6    ") $&     $&    #,     &6      6+   #, 8 &    6+ $+5
                                                              1                             1
              6) 2"# 2)       &, 2)     8 &   ") 8 &    #)    )5 $+          #)   &6 $&     #,   ")
              #)    &6 8 &    *+   ") 2"# 2)       $&   8 &   #,     &       #)   #)   &6   #,   6)
              #)    #,   #)   #) 8 & 8 &      ") 8 & 2)       #)     #)      #)   #,   &6   ")   &
              ")    6)   &#   6+ $+     8 & $+     *+   6+ 2)        #) $+        ")   6+ 8 & $+5
                                         .                           .
              6+    6+ 8 &    &, 2)     6+    #)   6+ $+5     6+     ")      *+   ")   6+ 2)     2)
              6+ 2)      $&   2)   &,   #,    #,   &6   &6 2)        #) 8 & 2"#        #, 2"# 2)
                                                                                       1
              2)    6+ 2)     6+ $+5    ")    #, 7#-    &#    #) $)9         ") 2)     &, 8 &    ")
                        1
              6+ 8 & 8 & 8 & $+5 8 &          #)   *+   &, $+5 2)             &, 8 &   6+ 2"# $+
                                                                             .
               )5   6) 8 & $+5     &6 8 &     &, 8 &    *+ $+      $&        6+   ")   6+ 2)     $)9
              .                       .                            .                             .
              &,    &,   &    6) $+     #)    ")   6) $)9 8 & 8 &            #) 8 &    #,   ") 8 &
                                                              2 9#       .

<removed-date>
                                          .                           ..                          ..
              #,       *+      &    $+5   )5   #, $+      &6     6+   &,     6)   6+   6+     6+ 8 &   #)
                                    .                           .                            .
              $+       6+ $&        #, 2)      $&   2)     &#   &,    6+     ")   &#    #)   6+ $&     6+
                          .                               .                            .
<removed-apn>
              &6     &      2)      $)9   &, 2)      &    8 &   6+    ")     #, 2)     2)    #) $)9 $+5
                    .1                              .1                          .
               &,      #,      ")   6+ $+       &   8 &   #)    #,    #)    6+ $&      8 &   6+   &6 2"#
              .                                .                           .
              6) 2)            #) $+5     &# $&     8 &   &,    )5    &,     #) $+     &6    &    2)   &,
              $+    $+         6)   6+    ")   ") 2)      2)    8 &   #, $+5      #) $+5     &6   #) 2"#
                                                                                             .
              2"#      #, 8 &       #)    6+   #,   ") 8 & $+5        6+     #) $)9    )5    &    &    &6
                           .
              $+    8 & 2"#         #)    6+   #) 8 & 7#-       *+    &, $&       #,   *+ $+      *+   6)
              ")       &       6+   #)    #,   #)   #,    #) 2)       &6     6+
                                               1                             1
                           2
                   .                + 5*# +
              &6 2"#           ") 2"#     #)   #)   6) $&       7#-   #)
                            1
                                                                      2 9#

<removed-date>
                        2
                   .             + 5*# +
              $&       &# $+     $&   #)   &6   ") $)9    ")   6)     6) $&   $+5   #) 8 &   6+
              &6
<removed-apn>
                        1
                         1
                        2
                   .             + 5*# +
                        1
              &6       6+   &6 $+     ")   *+   6+ 2)     6)   &6     6) 8 & $)9    6) 2"# $+5
              8 &
                        2
                   .             + 5*# +
              $)9 $&        #)   &    #) 8 &    #)   #)   #)   6)     #, $&
                        1
                        2
                   .             + 5*# +
              &6 $&         #)   #) $)9 $&      ")
                                                               2 9#

<removed-date>
                           2
                   .                + 5*# +
              #,       &       &#   6) $+     7#- 2)     &#
<removed-apn>
                           2
                   .                + 5*# +
              &    8 &         &,   #, 8 &    &,    #)   &6   &6   &6     #, 8 &    &     2)    &6   &6
              #)       #, $)9       #,   #)   6+ $&      $&   #)   &6 2"#      ") 2"#      #)   #)   6)
                                                                                          .
              $&   7#-      #)      )5 8 & $)9      &    $&   2)   &6     6+   &6   #,    &,    )5 8 &
                           .
              #) $&            &# $+     $&   #)    &6   ") $)9    ")     6)   6) $&      $+5   #) 8 &
              6+       &6 $)9 2"#        ")    &#   #) $)9 $+5 $+        #)    6+ $+      ")    #,   6)
                                              1                         1
              #,       &   7#- $+        #)   #, $)9 $&       &, $+5      ") $&     8 &   6)    6)   6+
              $&   $)9         &6   6+   &6 $+      ")   *+   6+ 2)       6)   &6   6) 8 & $)9       6)
              2"# $+5 8 &           )5   &6   &     &6   ")   #, 8 &      ") 8 &    #)    #)
                           2
                   .                + 5*# +
                                                                   2 9#

<removed-date>
              $+5      &# 8 &    #,   ")   &    #) 2)     $&   ")     #,      #)   #,   #) 2)      &6
              &, $)9 $&          ")   #,   #)   6+ $)9 $&      #)     &       #) 8 &     #)   #)   #)
                                                                                        .
<removed-apn>
              6)       #, $&     )5   6)   &    &    6+ 2)     &6     &       $&   2)   $)9   #,   #,
                          .
              &#       6)   &6 $&     #)   #) $)9 $&      ")   &6 8 & 2)           $&   $)9 2"#    #)
              &6       #)   &6   #)   &6    ") $+5 2"#    ")   #,    ")       &#   #)   #)    #,   &,
                                           1                        1
              2)       &, $+5 2"# $&       ")   6)   6)   6+   #,     &       &#   6) $+      7#- 2)
              &#       ") 2"#    &6   &    &6   ")   6+ 8 &    &,     &#      6+ $)9    ")
                         .
                        .
                        2
                   .    $)-* *!* &        #4,# !#
                   .    2#5-*'# &* :#)
                            .
              &6       &6   &6   &6   #)   &6   &6   &6   &6   #)     &6      &6   &6   &6    #)   &6
              &6       &6   &6   #)   &6   &6   &6   &6   #)   &6     &6      &6   &6    #)   &6   &6
                                                                                        .
                        2
                                                               2 9#       1

<removed-date>
                   .    $)-* *!* &       #4,# !#
                   .        5*- 5#    55* 9 5#5-*'#
              &#       &6   &    $+   7#- 8 &   ")   &# 8 &     &      #) $+     &6 $+     #,
<removed-apn>
                        2
                   .    $)-* *!* &       #4,# !#
                   .        5*- 5#    55* 9 5#5-*'#
              $+   7#- 8 &       ")   &# 8 &    &    #) $+      &6 $+       #, $+5 2)      8 &
                        2
                   .    $)-* *!* &       #4,# !#
                   .        5*- 5#    55* 9 5#5-*'#
              &        #) $+     &6 $+     #, $+5 2)      8 &   &,     #) 2)     &,   &6   6)
                            1
                        2
                   .    $)-* *!* &       #4,# !#
                   .    2#5-*'# &* :#)
                            1
              &6       &6   &6   &6   #)   &6   &6   &6   &6    #)     &6   &6   &6   &6   #)    &6
                                                                2 9#

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           &6
                           &6
                           &6
                           #)
2 9#

