ABSTRACT
An implantable device for bone adjustment in a mammal, comprising two or more
anchoring devices for attaching to a bone in said mammal, an adjustment device for
exerting force on said anchoring devices to adjust the distance between, or
orientation of, at least two of said anchoring devices, an operation device comprising
a motor, for operating said adjustment device, and an internal control unit, wherein
said anchoring devices and said adjustment device are implanted intramedullary in
said mammal, said adjustment device is constructed to postoperatively adjust said
distance or orientation, and said internal control unit is adapted to be at least one of
programmable from outside the patient's body, programmed to regulate the
apparatus according to a pre-programmed time-schedule, and             programmed     to
regulate the apparatus according to input from a sensor sensing a physical
parameter of the patient or a functional parameter of the system.

                                            1
                 DEVICE AND METHOD FOR BONE ADJUSTMENT
Field of the invention
The present invention concerns methods and devices for therapeutic and cosmetic
bone adjustment, and in particular implanted devices, such as but not limited to
implanted hydraulic devices, for adjusting the position, length, strength or function of
bones in the human or animal body.
This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
<removed-apn>, whose specification as originally filed is hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
Background
Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
common general knowledge in the field.
The art of immobilizing a fractured bone in order to promote healing has been
practiced for centuries. Starting from simple splints and sometimes rather unsanitary
bandages, the invention of the plaster cast started a new era of orthopaedic
medicine. Today, the heavy plaster casts are gradually replaced by lighter fibre
glass alternatives. Further, in addition to purely external splints and casts, a variety
of internal support structures are widely used. Such support structures include
splints affixed directly to the fractured bone, pins and screws used to hold parts of
the bone together during healing and to strengthen the site of thefracture.
Further examples include plates, perforated scaffolds, intramedullar pins and
screws, etc. These can be made of an inert material, such as titan, ceramic, or
surgical steel, or made from a material which is resorbed or integrated in the body.
Alternatively, the support structure is surgically removed when the fracture is fully
healed. Another group of devices, particularly relevant for the present invention, are
mechanical devices which are mainly situated outside the body, but which engage
the bones inside the body. The simplest form of such devices is a splint in the shape
of a metal rod on the outside of the body, fixed to pins or screws anchored in the
bone, and protruding through the skin. More complicated apparatuses include
means for adjusting the position of the bones, for example applying tension to the

                                           2
fracture in order to align a complicated fracture, promote healing or to induce bone
lengthening, a technique called distraction osteogenesis.
One example of external devices or fixtures for bone lengthening or reshaping is the
so called Ilizarov apparatus, originally developed in the 1950s in the Sovjet Union,
and introduced in Europe in the 1980s. In summary, this is an external fixture
attached to the bone through the skin and tissues of the patient, and used in a
surgical procedure that can be used to lengthen or reshape bones. Fixtures of this
type are often used to treat complex fractures, such as open bone fractures, where
conventional treatment techniques cannot always be used. It can also be used to
treat infected non-unions of bones not amenable with other techniques. This and
similar fixtures are also used for correcting deformities. For more information see
e.g. Snela et al., 2000.
Another fixture is the Taylor Spatial Frame (TSF), an external fixator sharing a
number of components and features of the Ilizarov apparatus. The TSF is a hexapod
device consisting of two rings made of aluminium connected together by 6 struts.
Each strut can be independently lengthened or shortened. When the apparatus is
connected to a bone by wires or half pins, the attached bone can be manipulated in
6 axes (anterior/posterior, varus/valgus, lengthen/shorten.) Both angular deformities
and translational deformities can be corrected with the TSF. It is used in both adults
and children. It is used for the treatment of acute fractures, mal-unions, non uniona
and congenital deformities. It can be used on both the upper and lower limbs.
Specialised foot rings are also available for the treatment of complex foot
deformities.
Once attached to the bone, the deformity is characterised by studying the
postoperative x-rays.
The angular and translational deformity values are then entered into specialised
software along with parameters such as the ring size and initial strut lengths. The
software then produces a "prescription" of strut changes that the patient follows. The
struts are adjusted every day by the patient. Typically, correction of the bone
deformity will take 3 to 4 weeks. Once the deformity has been corrected, the frame is
then left on the leg whilst the bone heals, typically this will take 3 to 6 months,
depending on the nature and degree of deformity.

                                             3
Apparatuses of this kind may also be used for the lengthening of bones. This
procedure consists of an initial surgery, during which the bone is surgically fractured
and the ring apparatus is attached. As the patient recovers, the fractured bone
begins to grow together. While the bone is growing, the frame is adjusted by means
of turning the nuts, thus increasing the space between two rings. As the rings are
connected to opposite sides of the fracture, this adjustment, done daily, moves the
slowly healing fracture apart by approximately one millimeter per day. The
incremental daily increases result in a considerable lengthening of the limb over
time. Once the lengthening phase is complete, the apparatus stays on the limb to
facilitate healing. The patient can move about on crutches and pain is lessened.
Once healing is complete, a second surgery is necessary to remove the ring
apparatus. The result is a limb that is significantly longer. Additional surgery may be
necessary, in the case of leg lengthening,      to lengthen the Achilles tendon to
accommodate the longer bone length. The major advantage of this procedure is that
the patient can remain active during the procedure, as the apparatus provides
complete support while the bone is recovering. Patient activity and well-being is
known to accelerate recovery.
While these external fixtures are minimally invasive (no large incisions are made,)
they are not free of complications. Pain is common and can be severe, but is
treatable with analgesics. Careful attention to daily cleaning and hygiene is
necessary to prevent pin site infection. Other complications include swelling and
muscle transfixion. The external fixtures are also bulky, causing inconvenience and
attracting unwanted attention in daily life.
There are examples of implantable devices, such as the                 implantable limb
lengthening nail driven by a shape memory alloy disclosed in U.S. 5,415,660. This
disclosure concerns an intramedullar nail consisting of an inner cylinder and an outer
cylinder enclosing a drive means employing a shape memory alloy. This cylinder is
attached to the bone by proximal and distal interlocking bolts, affixed from the
outside of the bone, penetrating the bone, e.g. in the area of the epiphysis and the
diaphysis, according to the figures in U.S. 5,415,660.
Another example of the background art is the tibial osteotomy fixation device of U.S.
5,827,286, comprising two plate members, telescopically movable in relation to each
other, and a ratchet mechanism allowing movement in one direction only. This

                                           4
device is adapted for being attached to the outside of a bone, and affixed with bone
screws.
U.S. 2005/0055025 Al discloses various skeletal implants, connectable to joints or
bones, suggesting a mechanism that initially is very rigid and absorbs external
chock or stress thus protecting for example a graft or fracture during healing. It is
suggested that this mechanism then progressively allows more movement, as the
graft or fracture heals.
EP 0 432 253 discloses an intramedullary nail comprising a proximal and a distal end,
and a mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, electrical or electromagnetic drive for rotating a
rod inside said nail, for longitudinally expanding said nail. The nail has securing
holes for engaging fastening nails or bolts, to be arranged transversally through the
bone and intramedullary nail.
U.S.    5,156,605 concerns     medical   equipment     for use   in  orthopaedics      and
traumatology, and is in particular directed to drive systems for a compression
distraction-torsion apparatus. One embodiment concerns an intramedullary device,
fully implantable in a patient's bone, and including a motor drive, controller and
battery functions, as well as radio frequency or electromagnetic field signals to allow
a physician to adjust the rate and rhythm of distraction from outside the body. The
device is shown anchored to the bone using nails or bolts penetrating the diaphysis
and both end portions of the device.
Another problem associated with known devices is that the tension needs to be
adjusted daily, either by the patient themselves, or by medical personnel. When the
patient has the responsibility for adjusting the apparatus, there is a risk of poor
compliance, due to pain or psychological discomfort.
Further, as there are indications that intermittent loading (Consolo et al., 2006),
cyclic distraction and compression (Hente et al., 2004) and even oscillating forces
promote osteogenesis and the differentiation of osteoblasts (Gabbay, 2006), the
traditional mechanical devices leave room for improvements.
Summary
The inventions concern an implantable device for bone adjustment in a mammal,
comprising two or more anchoring devices for attaching to a bone in said mammal,

                                           5
an adjustment device for exerting force on said anchoring devices to adjust the
distance between, or orientation of, at least two of said anchoring devices, an
operation device comprising a motor, for operating said adjustment device, and an
internal control unit, wherein said anchoring devices and said adjustment device are
implanted intramedullary in said mammal, said adjustment device is constructed to
postoperatively adjust said distance or orientation, and said internal control unit is
adapted     to  be at    least one  of: programmable     from   outside the   patient's
body, programmed to regulate the apparatus according to a pre-programmed
time-schedule, and programmed to regulate the apparatus according to input
from    a sensor sensing a physical parameter of the patient or a functional
parameter of the system.
Wherein said implantable device for the adjustment of a bone is adapted to be
wirelessly powered, directly or indirectly, and adapted to receive wireless energy,
non-invasively transmitted from an external source for adjusting said at least one
mechanical bone related parameter by said adjustment device. Wherein the
implantable device further comprising an implantable internal energy receiver for
receiving the wireless energy, the energy receiver having an internal first coil and a
first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, adapted to receive the wireless
energy from an external energy transmitter transmitting the wireless energy, wherein
the implantable device further comprises a feedback device for sending feedback
information from inside the patient's body to the outside thereof, the feedback
information being related to at least one of a physical parameter of the patient and a
functional parameter related to the implantable device, wherein the feedback device
is adapted to communicating out information relating to the amount of energy
received in the first coil as a feedback information, allowing a second electronic
circuit connected to a second coil to determine the coupling factors between the first
coil and a second coil comparing the amount of transferred energy by a second coil
with the feedback information related to the amount of energy received in the first
coil, allowing a regulation of the transmitted energy depending on an obtained
coupling factor, and wherein the implantable device further comprises implantable
electrical components including at least one voltage level guard and/or at least one
constant current guard.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the

                                              6
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in
the sense of "including, but not limited to".
A device for bone adjustment in a mammal, comprising two or more anchoring
devices for attaching to a bone in said mammal, and an adjustment device for
exerting force on said anchoring devices to adjust the distance between or
orientation of at least two of said anchoring devices, wherein said anchoring devices
and said adjustment device are implanted intramedullary in said mammal and
wherein said adjustment device is constructed to postoperatively adjust said
distance.
In a device according to an embodiment of the invention, said mechanical bone
related parameter is related to the lengthening of a bone, the shortening of a bone,
the healing of a fracture, the changing of a bone angle, the rotation of a bone, the
adjustment of the curvature or torsion of a bone, the reshaping of a bone, the
realignment or repositioning of a joint or a vertebra, the reforming or supporting the
shape of the spinal column, or a combination thereof.
According to another embodiment, said mechanical bone               related parameter
comprises at least one of: bringing at least two bone-parts defining a fracture closer
to each other for a period of time having a beneficial influence on the initiation of the
healing process, and bringing said at least two bone-parts defining a fracture away
from each other for a period of time having a beneficial influence on the formation of
bone, during the healing process.
For a better understanding of the field, a non-exclusive list of examples is given in
Table 1 below. It is conceived that the device and method according to the invention
can be applied by a skilled person to any of these, given that the necessary
modifications with regard to size, force and location are made. Such modifications
however appear to be within the realm of a skilled person without an inventive effort.
Table 1. Examples of conditions contemplated as possible to treat with a device and
method according to the invention
-  Congenital deformities (birth defects), such as congenital short femur; fibular
   hemimelia (absence of the fibula, which is one of the two bones between the

                                               7
    knee and the ankle); hemiatrophy (atrophy of half of the body); and Ollier's
    disease (also known as multiple endochondromatosis, dyschondroplasia, and
    endochondromatosis).
-   Developmental deformities, such as neurofibromatosis (a rare condition which
causes overgrowth in one leg); and bow legs, resulting from rickets (rachitis) or
secondary arthritis.
- Post-traumatic injuries, such as growth plates fractures; malunion or non-union
(when bones do not completely join, or join in a faulty position after a fracture);
shortening and deformity; and bone defects.
-    Infections and diseases, such as osteomyelitis (a bone infection, usually caused
by bacteria); septic arthritis (infections or bacterial arthritis); and poliomyelitis (a viral
disease which may result in the atrophy of muscles, causing permanent deformity).
- Reconstruction after removal of tumours.
- Short stature, such as achondroplasia (a form of dwarfism where arms and legs
are very short, but torso is more normal in size); and constitutional short stature
According to a further embodiment of the inventions, two or more anchoring devices
are adapted to engage the bone from the outside thereof.
According to another embodiment, two or more anchoring devices are adapted to
engage the cortical part of the bone.
        According to another embodiment, said two or more anchoring devices are
adapted to engage the bone from the inside of the intramedullar cavity.
  According to another embodiment, said at least two anchoring devices are chosen
  from a pin, a screw, an adhesive, a barb construction, a saw-tooth construction, an
  expandable element, combinations thereof or other mechanical connecting members.
  According to a further embodiment, the force exerted by the adjustment device is a
  longitudinal force, extending the length of the bone.
  According to an embodiment, said force exerted by the adjustment device is directed
  to the end portions of the medullar cavity.
  According to an embodiment, said the force exerted by the adjustment device is a

                                              8
 longitudinal force, adjusting the angle or curvature of the bone.
 According to an embodiment, said the force exerted by the device applies torque to
 the bone, adjusting the torsion of the bone along it's longitudinal axis.
 According to yet another embodiment, freely combinable with any of the
 embodiments presented herein, said device is flexible to allow introduction into the
 medullar cavity.
 According to an embodiment, said device is at least partly elastic.
 According to an embodiment, said device comprises a spring.
 According to an embodiment, said device regains its shape after having been bent.
 According to yet another embodiment, freely combinable with any of the
 embodiments presented herein, said the anchoring device is adapted to be
 adjustable by said adjustment device, when implanted in the mammal, for engaging
 and stabilizing the anchoring device in relation to the bone.
 According to an embodiment, the anchoring device comprises a thread for engaging
 and stabilizing said anchoring device in relation to the bone.
 According to another embodiment, the anchoring device comprises an expandable
 part expanding at least partially perpendicular to the longitudinal extension of the
 elongated device for engaging and stabilizing the anchoring device in relation to the
 bone
 According to another embodiment, the adjustment device comprises a hydraulic
 device for said bone adjustment, to control the amount of force exerted by the device
 onto said anchoring devices.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic device comprises a cylinder and
 piston.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic device comprises a mechanical multi
 step locking mechanism, locking the hydraulic device in its new position after
 adjustment.
According to an embodiment, said mechanical multi step locking mechanism
comprises at least one of a sprint, a elongated structure using the principle of saw
teeth, flanges, barbs or a bonnet band, a nut, a gearbox, or a spring loaded locking

                                            9
principle.
According to an embodiment, said hydraulic device comprises hydraulic fluid and
a reservoir containing said fluid, adapted to move said fluid to said adjustment
device.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic fluid is moved from said reservoir to
 said adjustment device by using a pre-pressurized reservoir or a pump.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic device comprising a device positioning
 system such as a fluid volume or flow measurement or any other sensor input to
 see the position of the adjustment device.
According to     another embodiment, freely combinable          with any of the
embodiments presented herein, said the device comprises a control device.
 According to an embodiment, said control device follows a program of
 incremental changes, set before the device is implanted.
 According to an embodiment, said control device follows a program of
 incremental changes, communicated to the control device after implantation
 and/or during the treatment.
 According to an embodiment, said control device comprises an external control unit
 and an implantable receiver suitable for wireless communication with said external
 control unit, having a transmitter located outside the body.
 According to an embodiment, said control device controls incremental changes of
 the adjustment device, communicated to the receiver after implantation and/or
 during the treatment by using said external control unit.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic adjustment device is adapted to being
 stabilized when the bone adjustment is completed.
According to an embodiment, said hydraulic adjustment device can be filled with
a material which stabilizes the position of the adjustment device and permanents
the distance between the anchoring devices.
  In the above embodiment, said material is preferably chosen from curable
 foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks
 or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume.

                                          10
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic fluid used in said device is a
  material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer
  mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable
 volume when the curing, solidification, crosslinking or other reaction is initiated
 by the user.
In the above embodiment, the material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a
polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and
retains a stable volume, is added to the device, partially or completely replacing the
hydraulic fluid.
 According to an embodiment, said adjustment device comprises a mechanical
 device for said bone adjustment.
 According to an embodiment, said adjustment device is operated by an
 operation device, such as motor.
 According to a further embodiment, said device comprises a control device,
 wherein the operation device is controlled by said control device.
According to a further embodiment, the motor comprising a motor or device
positioning system such as a tachometer or any other sensor input to see the
position of the adjustment device.
 According to a further embodiment, the mechanical device for said bone
 adjustment comprises at least one nut and screw.
 According to a further embodiment, the mechanical device for said bone
 adjustment comprises at least one gearbox.
 According to a further embodiment, the mechanical device for said bone
 adjustment comprises a servo mechanism or mechanical amplifier.
 According to a further embodiment, said device is adapted for exerting an
  intermittent and/or oscillating force.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic device comprises a mechanical multi
 step locking mechanism, locking the hydraulic device in its new position after
 adjustment.
According to an embodiment, said mechanical multi step locking mechanism

                                          11
comprises at least one of a sprint, a elongated structure using the principle of saw
teeth, flanges, barbs or a bonnet band, a nut, a gearbox, or a spring loaded locking
principle.
The inventions also concern a method for bone adjustment in a mammal, wherein
a hydraulic or mechanical device according to any of the above presented
embodiments is used and implanted in the body of said mammal.
According to a further embodiment, said device is implanted intramedullary in the
body of said mammal, exerting a force to anchoring devices anchored to the inside
of said bone.
According to a further embodiment, said bone adjustment is the lengthening of
a bone, the healing of a fracture, the changing of a bone angle, the reshaping
of a bone, or a combination thereof.
 According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is a step in a treatment to
 correct a limb discrepancy caused by a congenital condition, deformation or
  previous trauma.
According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is reshaping or lengthening of a
bone involving distraction osteogenesis treatment.
 According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is the reshaping or
  lengthening of a bone as a step of correcting a congenital deformation.
 According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is the reshaping or
  lengthening of a bone as a step of a cosmetic treatment.
 According to another embodiment of the method, freely combinable with any of
 the embodiments presented herein, reshaping is one of changing the angle or
 curvature of a bone, changing the torsion of a bone, changing the angle between
 the diaphysis and the epiphysis, changing the thickness of a bone or a
 combination thereof.
 According to another embodiment a device is implanted intramedullary in the body
 of said mammal, wherein said device is a hydraulic device exerting a force to
 anchoring devices anchored in said bone and a control device which controls the
 amount of force exerted by the device.

                                           12
 According to another embodiment a device is implanted intramedullary in the body
 of said mammal, wherein said device is a mechanical device exerting a force to
 anchoring devices anchored in said bone and a control device which controls the
 amount of force exerted by the device.
 According to another embodiment of the method, freely combinable with any of
 the embodiments presented herein, said control device follows a program of
 incremental changes, set before the device is implanted. Alternatively, said
 control device follows a program of incremental changes, communicated to the
 control device after implantation and/or during the treatment.
 According to another embodiment of the method, freely combinable with any of the
 embodiments presented herein, the device is stabilized when the treatment is
 completed.
According to an embodiment, said device is stabilized by filling the device with a
material which stabilizes the position of the adjustment device and permanents the
distance between the anchoring devices. Preferably said material is chosen from
curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies,
crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume.
 According to another embodiment said device is a hydraulic device and the
 hydraulic fluid is a material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer
 or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a
 stable volume when the curing, solidification, crosslinking or other reaction is
 initiated by the user.
 According to another embodiment, the device is a hydraulic device and a
 material chosen from curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture
 which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume, is
 added to said device, partially or completely replacing the hydraulic fluid.
 Another embodiment comprises a method for distractive osteogenesis where the
 fractured bone is subjected to an intermittent and/or oscillating force using an
 implanted hydraulic or mechanical device.
Another embodiment is a method for treating a bone dysfunction of a mammal
patient by providing a device for bone adjustment comprising at least two

                                             13
anchoring devices according to any of the embodiments presented herein, the
method comprising the steps of
                  1. inserting a needle or tube-like instrument into a cavity of said
                      mammal patient;
                 11. inflating said cavity by introducing a fluid through said needle
                     or tube-like instrument and thereby expanding said cavity;
                111. placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in said cavity;
                1v. inserting a camera through one of said laparoscopic trocars
                      into said cavity;
                 v. inserting at least one dissecting tool through one of said at least
                     two laparoscopic trocars;
                v1. dissecting an area of the dysfunctional bone;
               v11. placing the device for bone adjustment and anchoring devices
                      in the medullar cavity of said bone;
               v111. anchoring said anchoring devices in contact with said bone;
                1x. closing the mammal body preferably in layers; and
                 x. non-invasively adjusting said bone postoperatively.
Another embodiment is method of treating a bone dysfunction of a mammal patient
by providing a device for bone adjustment comprising at least two anchoring
devices according to any of the embodiments presented herein, comprising the
steps of:
                  1. cutting the skin of said human patient;
                 11. dissecting an area of the dysfunctional bone;
                111. placing the device in the medullar cavity of said bone;
                1v.     anchoring said anchoring devices in contact with said bone;
                 v.     closing the mammal body preferably in layers;
                and v1.      non-invasively      adjusting   said      bone
                postoperatively.

                                             14
  The method according to any of the above embodiments preferably comprises the
  step of withdrawing the instruments.
  The method according to any of the above embodiments preferably comprises the
  step of closing the skin using sutures or staples.
  According to a further embodiment of the method, the step of dissecting includes
  dissecting an area of the arm or leg comprising, dissecting an area of at least one
  of the following bones; clavicula, scapula, humerus, radius, ulna, pelvic bone,
  femur, tibia, fibula or calcaneus.
  According to a further embodiment of the method, the step of dissecting includes
  dissecting an area of the arm or leg comprising, dissecting an area at least one of
  the following joints; shoulder, elbow, hip, knee, hand and foot.
  According to a further embodiment of the method, an opening into the medullar
  cavity is made by drilling.
  The inventions also concern a system comprising an apparatus according to any
  one of the embodiments presented herein.
  According to a further embodiment of the system, said system comprises at least
  one switch implantable in the patient for manually and non-invasively controlling
  the apparatus.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a hydraulic
device having an implantable hydraulic reservoir, which is hydraulically connected
to the apparatus, wherein the apparatus is adapted to be non-invasively regulated
by manually pressing the hydraulic reservoir.
  According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a wireless
  remote control for non-invasively controlling the apparatus.
According to another embodiment, the wireless remote control comprises at least
one external signal transmitter and/or receiver, further comprising an internal signal
receiver and/or transmitter implantable in the patient for receiving signals
transmitted by the external signal transmitter or transmitting signals to the external
signal receiver.
According to another embodiment, said wireless remote control transmits at least

                                              15
one wireless control signal for controlling the apparatus.
  According to another embodiment, said wireless control signal comprises a
  frequency, amplitude, or phase modulated signal or a combination thereof.
  According to another embodiment, said wireless remote control transmits an
  electromagnetic carrier wave signal for carrying the control signal.
  According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a wireless
  energy- transmission device for non-invasively energizing implantable energy
  consuming components of the apparatus with wireless energy.
According to another embodiment, said wireless energy comprises a wave signal
selected from the following: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an
electromagnetic wave signal, an infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra
violet light signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio wave signal, an x
ray radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal.
  According to another embodiment, said wireless energy comprises one of the
  following: an electric field, a magnetic field, a combined electric and magnetic
  field.
  According to another embodiment, said control signal comprises one of the
  following: an electric field, a magnetic field, a combined electric and magnetic
  field.
  According to another embodiment, said signal comprises an analogue signal, a
  digital signal, or a combination of an analogue and digital signal.
  According     to  another    embodiment,     said  system   further   comprises   an
  implantable internal energy source for powering implantable energy consuming
  components of the apparatus.
  According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an external
  energy source for transferring energy in a wireless mode, wherein the internal
  energy source is chargeable by the energy transferred in the wireless mode.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a sensor or
measuring device sensing or measuring a functional parameter correlated to the
transfer of energy for charging the internal energy source, and a feedback device

                                           16
for sending feedback information from inside the patient's body to the outside
thereof, the feedback information being related to the functional parameter sensed
by the sensor or measured by the measuring device.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a feedback
 device for sending feedback information from inside the patient's body to the
 outside thereof, the feedback information being related to at least one of a physical
 parameter of the patient and a functional parameter related to the apparatus.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a sensor and/or a
measuring device and an implantable internal control unit for controlling the
apparatus in response to information being related to at least one of a physical
parameter of the patient sensed by the sensor or measured by the measuring
device and a functional parameter related to the apparatus sensed by the sensor or
measured by the measuring device. Said physical parameter is preferably a
pressure or a motility movement.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an external data
communicator and an implantable internal data communicator communicating with
the external data communicator, wherein the internal communicator feeds data
related to the apparatus or the patient to the external data communicator and/or
the external data communicator feeds data to the internal data communicator.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a motor or a
 pump for operating the apparatus.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a
  hydraulic operation device for operating the apparatus.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an operation
 device for operating the apparatus, wherein the operation device comprises a
 servo or mechanical amplifier designed to decrease the force needed for the
 operation device to operate the apparatus instead the operation device acting a
  longer way, increasing the time for a determined action.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an operation
device for operating the apparatus, wherein the wireless energy is used in its
wireless state to directly power the operation device to create kinetic energy for

                                            17
the operation of the apparatus, as the wireless energy is being transmitted by the
energy-transmission device.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an energy
 transforming device for transforming the wireless energy transmitted by the
 energy- transmission device from a first form into a second form of energy.
 According to an embodiment said energy-transforming device directly powers
  implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus with the second
 form energy, as the energy-transforming device transforms the first form energy
 transmitted by the energy-transmission device into the second form energy.
 According to an embodiment said second form energy comprises at least one of a
 direct current, pulsating direct current and an alternating current.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an implantable
 accumulator, wherein the second form energy is used at least partly to charge the
 accumulator.
According to an embodiment, freely combinable with any of the embodiments
presented herein, said energy of the first or second form comprises at least one of
magnetic energy, kinetic energy, sound energy, chemical energy, radiant energy,
electromagnetic energy, photo energy, nuclear energy thermal energy, non
magnetic energy, non-kinetic energy, non-chemical energy, non-sonic energy, non
nuclear energy and non-thermal energy.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises implantable
 electrical components including at least one voltage level guard and/or at least one
 constant current guard.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a control device
for controlling the transmission of wireless energy from the energy-transmission
device, and an implantable internal energy receiver for receiving the transmitted
wireless energy, the internal energy receiver being connected to implantable energy
consuming components of the apparatus for directly or indirectly supplying received
energy thereto, the system further comprising a determination device adapted to
determine an energy balance between the energy received by the internal energy
receiver and the energy used for the implantable energy consuming components of

                                              18
the apparatus , wherein the control device controls the transmission of wireless
energy from the external energy-transmission device, based on the energy balance
determined by the determination device.
According to an embodiment, said determination device is adapted to detect a
change in the energy balance, and the control device controls the transmission
of wireless energy based on the detected energy balance change.
 According to another embodiment, said determination device is adapted to detect a
 difference between energy received by the internal energy receiver and energy
 used for the implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus, and the
 control device controls the transmission of wireless energy based on the detected
 energy difference.
 According to another embodiment, said energy-transmission device comprises a
 coil placed externally to the human body, further comprising an implantable energy
  receiver to be placed internally in the human body and an electric circuit
 connected to power the external coil with electrical pulses to transmit the wireless
 energy, the electrical pulses having leading and trailing edges, the electric circuit
 adapted to vary first time intervals between successive leading and trailing edges
 and/or second time intervals between successive trailing and leading edges of the
 electrical pulses to vary the power of the transmitted wireless energy, the energy
  receiver receiving the transmitted wireless energy having a varied power.
 According to another embodiment, said electric circuit is adapted to deliver the
 electrical pulses to remain unchanged except varying the first and/or second
 time intervals.
 According to another embodiment, said the electric circuit has a time constant and
 is adapted to vary the first and second time intervals only in the range of the first
 time constant, so that when the lengths of the first and/or second time intervals are
 varied, the transmitted power over the coil is varied.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an implantable
 internal energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having
 an internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an
 external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy transmitter

                                             19
having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit connected to the
second coil, wherein the external second coil of the energy transmitter transmits
wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the energy receiver, the
system further comprising a power switch for switching the connection of the
internal first coil
to the first electronic circuit on and off, such that feedback information related to
the charging of the first coil is received by the external energy transmitter in the
form of an impedance variation in the load of the external second coil, when the
power switch switches the connection of the internal first coil to the first electronic
circuit on and off.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an implantable
internal energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having
an internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an
external    energy    transmitter for transmitting      wireless  energy,    the   energy
transmitter having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit
connected to the second coil, wherein the external second coil of the energy
transmitter transmits wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the
energy     receiver,   the  system    further   comprising    a  feedback device       for
communicating out the amount of energy received in the first coil as a feedback
information, and wherein the second electronic circuit includes a determination
device for receiving the feedback information and for comparing the amount of
transferred energy by the second coil with the feedback information related to the
amount of energy received in the first coil to obtain the coupling factors between
the first and second coils.
According to another embodiment, said transmitted energy may be regulated
depending on the obtained coupling factor.
According to another embodiment, said external second coil is adapted to be
moved in relation to the internal first coil to establish the optimal placement of the
second coil, in which the coupling factor is maximized.
According to another embodiment, said external second coil is adapted to
calibrate the amount of transferred energy to achieve the feedback information
in the determination device, before the coupling factor is maximized.

                                            20
According to another embodiment, said mechanical device comprises a mechanical
multi step locking mechanism, locking the mechanical device in its new position after
adjustment.
 According to a further embodiment,          said mechanical multi step locking
  mechanism comprises at least one of a sprint, a elongated structure using the
 principle of saw teeth, flanges, barbs or a bonnet band, a nut, a gearbox, or a
 spring loaded locking principle.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic adjustment device is adapted to being
 stabilized when the bone adjustment is completed.
According to an embodiment, said hydraulic adjustment device can be filled with
a material which stabilizes the position of the adjustment device and permanents
the distance between the anchoring devices.
  In the above embodiment, said material is preferably chosen from curable
 foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks
 or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic fluid used in said device is a
  material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer
  mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable
 volume when the curing, solidification, crosslinking or other reaction is initiated
 by the user.
In the above embodiment, the material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a
polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and
retains a stable volume, is added to the device, partially or completely replacing the
hydraulic fluid.
 According to another embodiment, said device comprises a control device. Said
 control device preferably follows a program of incremental changes, set before
 the device is implanted. Alternatively, said control device follows a program of
 incremental changes, communicated to the control device after implantation
 and/or during the treatment.
 According to an embodiment, said control device comprises an external control unit
 and an implantable receiver suitable for wireless communication with said external

                                            21
 control unit, having a transmitter located outside the body.
 According to another embodiment, said control device controls incremental
 changes of      the adjustment device,       communicated     to the   receiver after
  implantation and/or during the treatment by using said external control unit.
According     to  another    embodiment,    freely  combinable    with   any  other
embodiment presented herein, said adjustment device is adapted to adjust
torsion of a bone.
 According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to change
 the angle of a bone.
According to another embodiment, said adjustment device comprises at least two
parts, wherein the parts is adapted to rotate in relation to each other.
 According to another embodiment, said relative rotation is anchored by said at
  least two anchoring devices.
According to another embodiment, said adjustment device comprises at least two
parts, wherein the parts is adapted to be angled in relation to each other.
 According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to change
 the curvature of a bone including the spinal column.
According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to realign or
reposition a joint or a vertebra including the reforming or supporting the shape of the
spinal column.
 According to another embodiment, two or more anchoring devices are adapted to
 engage and carry weight purely on the outside of the bone.
 According to another embodiment of the device, said two or more anchoring
 devices are adapted to engage with and carry weight to the bone without
  penetrating to the inside of the bone, the medulla of the bone.
 According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to be placed
 on the outside of the bone.
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises a sensor direct or
  indirect sensing the position of the adjustment device.

                                          22
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises a feedback
 transmitter adapted to transmit information received direct or indirect from said
 sensor out from the human body, said transmitted information adapted to be
 received by a external control unit and relating to the position of the adjustment
 device.
According to an embodiment, said operation device is a motor operated as a three
phase motor. Alternatively, said operation device is a motor operated as a two- or
more phase motor.
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises a gearbox connected
 to the motor, a motor package, wherein the outgoing speed from the motor
 package is lower than the speed by said motor alone, accomplished by said
 gearbox.
According to a further embodiment, said outgoing speed of the motor in said
motor package is decreased by said electrical speed controller.
 According to an embodiment, said motor is a rotational motor and the outgoing
 speed of the motor package is decreased to less than 100 turns per second, or
 decreased to less than 10 turns per second, or to less than 1 turn per second, or to
 less than 0.1 turn per second, or to less than 0.01 turn per second, or to less than
 0.001 turn per second.
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises an electrical speed
 controller connected to the motor, a motor package, wherein the outgoing speed of
 the motor in said motor package is controlled by said electrical speed controller.
 According to an embodiment, said motor is a linear motor and the outgoing speed
 of the motor package is less than 1mm per second, or less than 0.1mm per
 second, or less than 0.01mm per second, or less than 0.001mm per second, or
 less than 0.0001 mm per second, or less than 0.00001 mm per second.
 Short description of the drawings
 The invention will be disclosed in further detail in the following description,
 examples and claims, with reference to the attached drawings in which
 Fig. 1 (Prior art) shows an intramedullar device or internal autodistractor according

                                             23
 to
U.S. 5,156,605, inserted into the intramedullar cavity of a femur through an
opening A in the epiphysis. The device is anchored by a pair of interlocking screws
B at the top of the assembly, and by a pair of interlocking bolts C which will pass
through the bottom of the assembly, and secure it to the femur.
  Fig. 2 (Prior art) shows an intramedullar pin or "medullar nail" according to EP
432 253 B1, also published as WO 91/00065, having securing holes E and D and
a mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, electrical or electromagnetic drive for rotating
the rod for the longitudinal displacement of an inner portion thereof.
Fig. 3 (Prior art) schematically shows an external fixator (1) of the type frequently
referred to as an Ilizarov apparatus, here consisting of two rings (2, 3) having pins
(4) attached to and stabilizing the tibia or fibula in the lower leg (5) of a patient. The
distance between the rings (2, 3) of the fixator (1) can be adjusted by manually
turning threaded cylinders (6, 7, 8) on struts connecting the rings.
  Fig. 4 shows one embodiment of the invention where two implanted devices are
 arranged to a bone.
  Fig. 5 shows a detailed view of a device for bone adjustment according to an
 embodiment of the invention.
  Fig. 6 schematically shows a device according to an embodiment of the
  inventions, implanted into the medullar cavity of a bone.
  Fig. 7a and 7b show detail views of devices according to embodiments of the
  invention.
  Fig. 8 shows in detail 8a a schematic lateral view of the human spine, columna
 vertebralis (500) and illustrates in the partial views 8b and 8c how devices
 according to embodiments of the invention can be applied.
  Fig. 9a and 9b illustrate the straightening of a bone, or how the curvature of a bone
 can be adjusted, using devices according to embodiments of the invention.
Fig. 9c and 9d show how the curvature of a bone, here a femur, can be
adjusted using intramedullar devices according to embodiments of the
invention.

                                             24
  Fig. 9e and 9f illustrate how an intramedullar device can be used to adjust the
  torsion of a bone, here illustrated as the femur.
  Fig. 10a and 10b show schematically detail views of two devices according to
  embodiments of the invention, said devices including a mechanical multi step
  locking device.
  Fig. 11 schematically illustrates a system for bone adjustment according to
  one embodiment of the invention, described in closer detail in the detailed
  description.
  Figs. 12a - 12d schematically shows the insertion of a flexible device according
  to an embodiment of the invention.
  Figs. 13a -13e illustrate different non-limiting examples of the construction of
  the end-portions of the fastening means or anchoring devices according to
  embodiments of the invention.
Figs. 14 - 28 schematically show various embodiments of the system for wirelessly
powering an apparatus, for example, but not limited to, those shown in Fig. 4, 11, 12
and Fig. 38.
  Fig. 29 is a schematic block diagram illustrating an arrangement for supplying an
  accurate amount of energy used for the operation of the apparatus shown in Fig.
  11.
  Fig. 30 schematically shows an embodiment of the system, in which the apparatus
  is operated with wire-bound energy.
Fig. 31 is a more detailed block diagram of an arrangement for controlling the
transmission of wireless energy used for the operation of the apparatus shown in
Fig. 11.
Fig. 32 shows a circuit drawing for the arrangement shown in Fig. 27, according to a
possible implementation example.
  Fig. 33 illustrates anchoring devices according to an embodiment of the invention.
  Fig. 34 illustrates anchoring devices according to another embodiment of the
  invention.

                                           25
 Fig. 35 illustrates an embodiment of the device, comprising two telescopically
 arranged parts, housing a longitudinal threaded central shaft or axis and a motor
 or gear arrangement acting thereon, transforming rotational force into longitudinal
 force and extension or contraction of the device.
 Fig. 36 shows a related embodiment where the device comprises three main parts,
 a central section, and two telescopically arranged end sections, each connected to
 a longitudinal threaded central shaft or axis through a motor or gear arrangement.
 Fig. 37A and B show embodiments where a device for bone adjustment according
 to the present invention is enclosed in a flexible, elastic or expandable outer cover.
 Fig. 38 illustrates an implanted device according to the invention, where the
 anchoring devices engage the bone from the inside of the medullar cavity.
Fig. 39 shows schematically an embodiment of a device comprising a motor, a
gear box and a speed controller.
 Fig. 40 schematically shows an embodiment where the implanted adjustment
 device comprises at least two parts, wherein the parts are adapted to be
 positioned at an angle in relation to each other, and/or rotated in relation to each
 other.
  Detailed description
 Before the present invention is described, it is to be understood that the
 terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular
 embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the
 present invention will be limited only by the appended claims and equivalents
 thereof.
 It must be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the
 singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly
 dictates otherwise.
Also, the term "about" is used to indicate a deviation of+/- 2 % of the given value,
preferably +/- 5 %, and most preferably +/- 10 % of the numeric values, where
applicable.
 The term "animal" encompasses all mammals and in particular humans. Similarly,

                                             26
  the terms "treatment", "therapy", and "therapeutic use" encompass both human
  and animal or veterinary applications.
The term "extension device" comprises any device which is capable of longitudinal
movement and in particular capable of exerting a force longitudinally between two or
more points. An extension device can be a hydraulic device, an electronic device, a
mechanical device, or a combination of two or more of the previous.
  The term "hydraulic device" comprises any device wherein the energy that brings
  about the longitudinal force is transmitted by a hydraulic fluid acting on elements in
  the device. Examples of such elements include, but are not limited to hydraulic
  cylinders, hydraulically inflatable tubes, balloons, bellows and the like.
The term "implanted" indicates that a device or an element of a device is introduced
permanently or temporarily into a human or animal body. An implanted device can
be contained within the human or animal body in its entirety, or only partially, for
example by being accessible through a port or other interface in the skin of said
human or animal. An implanted device can be enclosed in a human or animal body
in its entirety, and communicate wirelessly with an external apparatus for
transmitting and receiving signals, for example transmitting measurement data and
receiving control signals, and for receiving energy.
The inventions concern an implantable device for the adjustment of a bone in a
mammal, comprising at least one elongated device adapted to be implanted in
relation to said bone, wherein said device for the adjustment of a bone further
comprises an adjustment device for adjusting at least one mechanical bone
related parameter of said at least one elongated device, wherein said adjustment
device is constructed to postoperatively adjust said mechanical bone related
parameter, and wherein said implantable device for the adjustment of a bone is
adapted to be wirelessly powered, directly or indirectly, and adapted to receive
wireless energy, non-invasively transmitted from an external source for adjusting
said at least one mechanical bone related parameter by said adjustment device.
In a device according to an embodiment of the invention, said mechanical bone
related parameter is related to the lengthening of a bone, the shortening of a bone,
the healing of a fracture, the changing of a bone angle, the rotation of a bone, the

                                           27
adjustment of the curvature or torsion of a bone, the reshaping of a bone, the
realignment or repositioning of a joint or a vertebra, the reforming or supporting the
shape of the spinal column, or a combination thereof.
 According to another embodiment, said mechanical bone related parameter
 comprises at least one of: bringing at least two bone-parts defining a fracture
 closer to each other for a period of time having a beneficial influence on the
 initiation of the healing process, and bringing said at least two bone-parts
 defining a fracture away from each other for a period of time having a beneficial
 influence on the formation of bone, during the healing process.
 According to a further embodiment of the inventions, two or more anchoring
 devices are adapted to engage the bone from the outside thereof.
 This is illustrated schematically in Fig. 4 where a fractured tibia (10) having a
 fracture zone (20) is shown, supported by two devices (40, 50) according to the
 invention,
both devices being attached to anchoring devices (31, 32, 33, 34) attached to the
bone.
Fig. 5 shows a detailed view where an extension device, here schematically shown
as a hydraulic device (80) having two actuators (91, 92) attached to two anchoring
devices (101, 102) which can be conventional pins or screws, suitable for inserting
in bone. The hydraulic device is in fluid contact through a tube (110) to a hydraulic
power unit (120) supplying pressurized hydraulic fluid, which in turn communicates
with a control unit (130). Optionally, said control element also supplies the
hydraulic power unit with energy. The hydraulic power unit may comprise a
reservoir and a pump or a hydrophore type of pre-pressurized expansion reservoir
or any other hydraulic solution. The control unit, energy source, reservoir, pump or
motor may all be implanted separate or together in any combination.
 The power unit 120 can further be connected to or comprise a hydraulic pump 121
 associated with a reservoir 122 containing of a fluid used to regulate the pressure
 of the device 80. The pump is thus adapted to pump the hydraulic fluid in or out
 from the device 80 in order to adjust the pressure in the device and the position of
 the actuators 91, 92.

                                           28
  The power unit 120 can also comprise a rechargeable battery 123 chargeable
  from the outside by an external power supply/charger unit 112 sending wireless
  energy.
The adjustment can be controlled by an electronic remote control unit 124 adapted
to receive and transmit signals from a transmitter/receiver 106 located outside the
body of a treated patient.
  The hydraulic device preferably comprises a device positioning system such as a
  fluid volume or flow measurement or any other sensor input to see the position of
  the adjustment device. A sensor sensing elongation, for example a capacitance
  sensor or impedance sensor or any sensor sensing movement or a specific
  position is preferably provided, here indicated as 125, a sensor communicating
  with the control unit 124.
Alternatively the schematic Fig. 5 may also instead show a mechanical device 80.
In such a case a mechanical wire is outlined as 110 adapted to operate said
mechanical device. The power unit 120 may in such a case instead comprise a
motor 121 a servo 123 and as before the control unit 124 and sensor 125. The
rechargeable power supply may instead be indicated by the unit 122. The motor
may of course be placed directly in the mechanical unit 80, wherein the mechanical
wire 110 instead is an electrical wire.
Fig. 6 illustrates an embodiment of the invention, where a device is implanted in a
bone (200), said bone having two end portions or epiphysis (201, 202) and a
fracture zone (206), said fracture zone also constituting the growth or elongation
zone. The medullar cavity (204) is schematically shown in a partial cut-out view and
in said cavity, a device (210) is provided, said device having actuators or anchoring
means (212, 214) acting on the end portions of the medullar cavity, thus elongating
the bone through osteogenesis in the fracture or elongation zone (206).
  Detailed views of the device 210, according to different embodiments of the
  invention are shown in Fig. 7.
  Fig. 7a schematically shows an embodiment of an extension element or device
  (300), comprising a housing (301) with an electrical motor (302) acting on a
  threaded cylinder (303) engaged to two actuators (304, 305). Any mechanical

                                            29
 solution may be applied. Preferably the motor uses a servo mechanism to
 economize force to distance. The control unit, energy source, motor or servo
  mechanism may all be implanted separately or together in any combination.
  Fig. 7b schematically shows another embodiment of an extension element or
 device (400) comprising a housing (401) with two pistons (402, 403) connected to
 two actuators (404, 405). The pistons together with the housing and possible
 additional elements form a hydraulic device, connected via a tubing (406) to a
  hydraulic power unit (not shown).
A device according to the invention can also be applied to the adjustment of the
curvature of the spine. Fig. 8 illustrates an embodiment where a device according
to the invention is applied to the adjustment of the curvature of the spine. Detail (a)
is a posterior view of the vertebrae of the lower back, vertebrae lumbales,
schematically showing two devices (501, 504) according to the invention attached
to opposite sides of the spine. For illustration purposes, one device (501) is shown
attached to two adjoining vertebrae by two anchoring devices (502, 503) anchored
in the corpus vertebrae, whereas another device (504) is shown attached to two
non-adjoining vertebrae by two anchoring devices (505, 506). Detail (b) is a lateral
detail schematically showing two devices (510, 520) according to the invention
attached to opposite sides of the spine by anchoring devices (511, 512, 521, 522).
For illustration purposes, one device acts on adjoining vertebrae, whereas the other
device acts on non-adjoining vertebrae. This embodiment can be used to adjust the
curvature of the spine, to relieve a herniated lumbar disc or the like.
According to another embodiment, the force exerted by the adjustment device is a
longitudinal force, adjusting the angle or curvature of the bone. This is illustrated in
Fig. 9a schematically showing a frontal view of the right femur (600) exhibiting a
curvature deviating from the natural form of this bone. The curvature may be due to
a congenital disease or other condition. The dashed lines (601, 602) indicate how
the bone can be fractured, preferably by sawing. In one example, wedge shaped
parts are removed and the bone divided into sections, here illustrated as three
sections.
  Fig. 9b shows how these three sections of the femur (603) are repositioned to a
 desired orientation, i.e. a straighter bone. The fracture zones (604, 605) are then

                                           30
 used as growth zones in order to compensate for the loss of length due to the
 removal of bone. Devices (606, 607) according to the invention are then attached
 via actuators and anchoring devices to said sections, ensuring their position and
 exerting force to achieve an elongation by distractive osteogenesis. The arrows
 illustrate schematically that the parts of the bone can be adjusted in relation to
 each other, for example by adjusting the angle or orientation of said parts.
 According to another embodiment, two or more anchoring devices are adapted to
 engage the cortical part of the bone.
 According to another embodiment, said two or more anchoring devices are
 adapted to engage the bone from the inside of the intramedullar cavity.
 According to another embodiment, said at least two anchoring devices are chosen
 from a pin, a screw, an adhesive, a barb construction, a saw-tooth construction, an
 expandable element, combinations thereof          or other mechanical connecting
 members.
 According to a further embodiment, the force exerted by the adjustment device is a
 longitudinal force, extending the length of the bone.
 According to an embodiment, said force exerted by the adjustment device is
 directed to the end portions of the medullar cavity.
 According to an embodiment, said the force exerted by the adjustment device is a
 longitudinal force, adjusting the angle or curvature of the bone.
 According to an embodiment, said the force exerted by the device applies torque to
 the bone, adjusting the torsion of the bone along its longitudinal axis.
 A related embodiment is illustrated in Fig. 9c and 9d, where a deformed bone
 600 is cut at two locations, 601 and 602, each cut preferably being wedge
 shaped in order to allow for the straightening of the bone, and devices 610 and
 620 according to the inventions inserted into the medullar cavity. Similarly as in
 Fig. 9b, the arrows illustrate schematically that the parts of the bone can be
 adjusted in relation to each other, for example by adjusting the angle or
 orientation of said parts.
According to yet another embodiment, the force exerted by the device applies

                                           31
torque to the bone, adjusting the torsion of the bone along its longitudinal axis. This
embodiment is illustrated in Fig. 9e and 9f, where a bone 600 is cut along the
dashed line 630 and optionally along one or more lines, exemplified as 631. One or
more implantable device or devices 640 and 650 according to the invention are
inserted into the medullar cavity. The arrows indicate that one or several parts of
the bone can be adjusted, for example rotated in relation to a joint, or to a section of
the bone.
According to yet another embodiment, freely combinable with any of the
embodiments presented herein, said device is flexible to allow introduction into the
medullar cavity.
 According to an embodiment, said device is at least partly
 elastic. According to an embodiment, said device comprises a
 spring.
 According to an embodiment, said device regains its shape after having been bent.
 According to yet another embodiment, freely combinable with any of the
 embodiments presented herein, said the anchoring device is adapted to be
 adjustable by said adjustment device, when implanted in the mammal, for
 engaging and stabilizing the anchoring device in relation to the bone.
 According to an embodiment, the anchoring device comprises a thread for
 engaging and stabilizing said anchoring device in relation to the bone.
According    to  another    embodiment,   the  anchoring   device comprises        an
expandable part expanding at least partially perpendicular to the longitudinal
extension of the elongated device for engaging and stabilizing the anchoring
device in relation to the bone
 According to another embodiment, the adjustment device comprises a hydraulic
 device for said bone adjustment, to control the amount of force exerted by the
 device onto said anchoring devices.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic device comprises a cylinder and
 piston.
 The advantages of a flexible device are illustrated in Fig. 12a - 12d which

                                             32
  schematically show a bone 200, having a fracture zone 1. An opening II is
  prepared by a surgeon, allowing the insertion of a device III into the intramedullar
  cavity IV. Fig. 12b illustrates how the device III is flexible according to an
  embodiment of the invention, and how this makes it possible to introduce said
  device into the intramedullar cavity through an opening which is not in straight
  longitudinal extension to the cavity. Further, Fig. 12c illustrates how the device III,
  when in place in the cavity IV, retains its original shape and in addition, expands
  longitudinally to exert a force against the end portions of the cavity. The anchoring
  devices are activated and securely engage the surrounding bone. The opening II
  is preferably closed, e.g. using bone cement. Finally, Fig. 12d illustrates an
  embodiment where the device III is connected to a power unit V, which can have
  the components and functions as the power unit 120 shown in Fig. 5.
Fig. 11 illustrates a system for treating a disease comprising an apparatus 301
according to an embodiment of the present invention placed in the lower leg of a
patient. An implanted energy-transforming device 302 is adapted to supply energy
consuming components of the apparatus with energy via a power supply line 303.
An external energy-transmission device 304 for non-invasively energizing the
apparatus 301 transmits energy by at least one wireless energy signal. The
implanted energy- transforming device 302 transforms energy from the wireless
energy signal into electric energy which is supplied via the power supply line 303.
Another external device 305 is illustrated, schematically showing a device capable
of transmitting control signals to the apparatus 301, and optionally receiving signals
transmitted by the apparatus 301, for example information about the position,
energy level, tension, pressure, temperature or other relevant information registered
by one or more sensors (not shown) included in the apparatus.
  The wireless energy signal may include a wave signal selected from the
  following: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an electromagnetic
  wave signal, an infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra violet light
  signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio wave signal, an x-ray
  radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal. Alternatively, the wireless energy
  signal may include an electric or magnetic field, or a combined electric and
  magnetic field.
  The wireless energy-transmission device 304 may transmit a carrier signal for

                                            33
  carrying the wireless energy signal. Such a carrier signal may include digital,
  analogue or a combination of digital and analogue signals. In this case, the
  wireless energy signal includes an analogue or a digital signal, or a combination
  of an analogue and digital signal.
  Generally   speaking,   the   energy-transforming    device   302    is  provided    for
  transforming wireless energy of a first form transmitted by the energy-transmission
  device 304 into energy of a second form, which typically is different from the
  energy of the first form. The implanted apparatus 301 is operable in response to
  the energy of the second form. The energy-transforming device 302 may directly
  power the apparatus with the second form energy, as the energy-transforming
  device 302 transforms the first form energy transmitted by the energy-transmission
  device 304 into the second form energy. The system may further include an
  implantable accumulator, wherein the second form energy is used at least partly to
  charge the accumulator.
Alternatively, the wireless energy transmitted by the energy-transmission device
304 may be used to directly power the apparatus, as the wireless energy is being
transmitted by the energy-transmission device 304. Where the system comprises
an operation device for operating the apparatus, as will be described below, the
wireless energy transmitted by the energy-transmission device 304 may be used to
directly power the operation device to create kinetic energy for the operation of the
apparatus.
  The wireless energy of the first form may comprise sound waves and the energy
  transforming device 302 may include a piezo-electric element for transforming
  the sound waves into electric energy. The energy of the second form may
  comprise electric energy in the form of a direct current or pulsating direct current,
  or a combination of a direct current and pulsating direct current, or an alternating
  current or a combination of a direct and alternating current. Normally, the
  apparatus comprises electric components that are energized with electrical
  energy. Other implantable electric components of the system may be at least
  one voltage level guard or at least one constant current guard connected with the
  electric components of the apparatus.
  Optionally, one of the energy of the first form and the energy of the second form

                                            34
  may comprise magnetic energy, kinetic energy, sound energy, chemical energy,
  radiant energy, electromagnetic energy, photo energy, nuclear energy or thermal
  energy.
Preferably, one of the energy of the first form and the energy of the second form
is non-magnetic, non-kinetic, non-chemical, non-sonic, non-nuclear or non
thermal.
The energy-transmission device may be controlled from outside the patient's body to
release electromagnetic wireless energy, and the released electromagnetic wireless
energy is used for operating the apparatus. Alternatively, the energy-transmission
device is controlled from outside the patient's body to release non-magnetic wireless
energy, and the released non-magnetic wireless energy is used for operating the
apparatus.
The external energy-transmission device 304 also includes a wireless remote
control having an external signal transmitter for transmitting a wireless control signal
for non- invasively controlling the apparatus. The control signal is received by an
implanted signal receiver which may be incorporated in the implanted energy
transforming device 302 or be separate there from.
  The wireless control signal may include a frequency, amplitude, or phase
  modulated signal or a combination thereof. Alternatively, the wireless control
  signal includes an analogue or a digital signal, or a combination of an analogue
  and digital signal.
  Alternatively, the wireless control signal comprises an electric or magnetic field, or
  a combined electric and magnetic field.
  The wireless remote control may transmit a carrier signal for carrying the wireless
  control signal. Such a carrier signal may include digital, analogue or a combination
  of digital and analogue signals. Where the control signal includes an analogue or a
  digital signal, or a combination of an analogue and digital signal, the wireless
  remote control preferably transmits an electromagnetic carrier wave signal for
  carrying the digital or analogue control signals.
Fig. 14 illustrates the system for example as shown in Fig. 4, Fig. 6, Fig. 12 or Fig.
38 in the form of a more generalized block diagram showing the implanted

                                             35
apparatus 301, an energy-transforming device 302 powering the apparatus 301 via
power supply line 303, and the external energy-transmission device 304, The
patient's skin 305, generally shown by a vertical line, separates the interior of the
patient to the right of the line from the exterior to the left of the line.
  Fig. 15 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 14, except
  that a reversing device in the form of an electric switch 306 operable for example
  by polarized energy also is implanted in the patient for reversing the apparatus
  301. When the switch is operated by polarized energy the wireless remote control
  of the external energy-transmission device 304 transmits a wireless signal that
  carries polarized energy and the implanted energy-transforming device 302
  transforms the wireless polarized energy into a polarized current for operating the
  electric switch 306. When the polarity of the current is shifted by the implanted
  energy-transforming device 302 the electric switch 306 reverses the function
  performed by the apparatus 301.
Fig. 16 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 14, except that
an operation device 307 implanted in the patient for operating the apparatus 301 is
provided between the implanted energy-transforming device 302 and the apparatus
This operation device can be in the form of a motor 307, such as an electric
servomotor. The motor 307 is powered with energy from the implanted energy
transforming device 302, as the remote control of the external energy-transmission
device 304 transmits a wireless signal to the receiver of the implanted energy
transforming device 302.
Fig. 17 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 14, except
that it also comprises an operation device is in the form of an assembly 308
including a motor/pump unit 309 and a fluid reservoir 310 is implanted in the
patient. In this case the apparatus 301 is hydraulically operated, i.e. hydraulic fluid
is pumped by the motor/pump unit 309 from the fluid reservoir 310 through a
conduit 311 to the apparatus 301 to operate the apparatus, and hydraulic fluid is
pumped by the motor/pump unit 309 back from the apparatus 301 to the fluid
reservoir 310 to return the apparatus to a starting position. The implanted energy
transforming device 302 transforms wireless energy into a current, for example a
polarized current, for powering the motor/pump unit 309 via an electric power
supply line 312.

                                           36
  Instead of a hydraulically operated apparatus 301, it is also envisaged that the
 operation device comprises a pneumatic operation device. In this case, the
  hydraulic fluid can be pressurized air to be used for regulation and the fluid
  reservoir is replaced by an air chamber.
In all of these embodiments the energy-transforming device 302 may include a
rechargeable accumulator like a battery or a capacitor to be charged by the
wireless energy and supplies energy for any energy consuming part of the system.
As an alternative, the wireless remote control described above may be replaced by
manual control of any implanted part to make contact with by the patient's hand
most likely indirect, for example a press button placed under the skin.
  Fig. 18 shows an embodiment of the invention comprising the external energy
 transmission device 304 with its wireless remote control, the apparatus 301, in this
 case hydraulically operated, and the implanted energy-transforming device 302,
 and further comprising a hydraulic fluid reservoir 313, a motor/pump unit 309 and
 an reversing device in the form of a hydraulic valve shifting device 314, all
 implanted in the patient. Of course the hydraulic operation could easily be
 performed by just changing the pumping direction and the hydraulic valve may
 therefore be omitted.
 The remote control may be a device separated from the external energy
 transmission device or included in the same. The motor of the motor/pump unit
 309 is an electric motor. In response to a control signal from the wireless remote
 control of the external energy-transmission device 304, the implanted energy
 transforming device 302 powers the motor/pump unit 309 with energy from the
 energy carried by the control signal, whereby the motor/pump unit 309 distributes
  hydraulic fluid between the hydraulic fluid reservoir 313 and the apparatus 301.
 The remote control of the external energy-transmission device 304 controls the
  hydraulic valve shifting device 314 to shift the hydraulic fluid flow direction
 between one direction in which the fluid is pumped by the motor/pump unit 309
 from the hydraulic fluid reservoir 313 to the apparatus 301 to operate the
 apparatus, and another opposite direction in which the fluid is pumped by the
  motor/pump unit 309 back from the apparatus 301 to the hydraulic fluid reservoir
 313 to return the apparatus to a starting position.

                                            37
Fig. 19 shows an embodiment of the invention comprising the external energy
transmission device 304 with its wireless remote control, the apparatus 301, the
implanted energy-transforming device 302, an implanted internal control unit 315
controlled by the wireless remote control of the external energy-transmission
device 304, an implanted accumulator 316 and an implanted capacitor 317. The
internal control unit 315 arranges storage of electric energy received from the
implanted energy-transforming device 302 in the accumulator 316, which supplies
energy to the apparatus 301. In response to a control signal from the wireless
remote control of the external energy-transmission device 304, the internal control
unit 315 either releases electric energy from the accumulator 316 and transfers the
released energy via power lines 318 and 319, or directly transfers electric energy
from the implanted energy-transforming device 302 via a power line 320, the
capacitor 317, which stabilizes the electric current, a power line 321 and the power
line 319, for the operation of the apparatus 301.
The internal control unit is preferably programmable from outside the patient's body.
In a preferred embodiment, the internal control unit is programmed to regulate the
apparatus 301 according to a pre-programmed time-schedule or to input from any
sensor sensing any possible physical parameter of the patient or any functional
parameter of the system.
In accordance with an alternative, the capacitor 317 in the embodiment of Fig. 19
may be omitted. In accordance with another alternative, the accumulator 316 in
this embodiment may be omitted.
Fig. 20 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 14, except
that a battery 322 for supplying energy for the operation of the apparatus 301 and
an electric switch 323 for switching the operation of the apparatus 301 also are
implanted in the patient. The electric switch 323 may be controlled by the remote
control and may also be operated by the energy supplied by the implanted energy
transforming device 302 to switch from an off mode, in which the battery 322 is not
in use, to an on mode, in which the battery 322 supplies energy for the operation of
the apparatus 301.
  Fig. 21 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 20, except
  that an internal control unit 315 controllable by the wireless remote control of the

                                           38
 external energy-transmission device 304 also is implanted in the patient. In this
 case, the electric switch 323 is operated by the energy supplied by the implanted
 energy- transforming device 302 to switch from an off mode, in which the wireless
  remote control is prevented from controlling the internal control unit 315 and the
  battery is not in use, to a standby mode, in which the remote control is permitted
 to control the internal control unit 315 to release electric energy from the battery
 322 for the operation of the apparatus 301.
Fig. 22 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 21, except
that an accumulator 316 is substituted for the battery 322 and the implanted
components are interconnected differently. In this case, the accumulator 316 stores
energy from the implanted energy-transforming device 302. In response to a control
signal from the wireless remote control of the external energy-transmission device
304, the internal control unit 315 controls the electric switch 323 to switch from an
off mode, in which the accumulator 316 is not in use, to an on mode, in which the
accumulator 316 supplies energy for the operation of the apparatus 301. The
accumulator may be combined with or replaced by a capacitor.
Fig. 23 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 22, except that
a battery 322 also is implanted in the patient and the implanted components are
interconnected differently. In response to a control signal from the wireless remote
control of the external energy-transmission device 304, the internal control unit 315
controls the accumulator 316 to deliver energy for operating the electric switch 323
to switch from an off mode, in which the battery 322 is not in use, to an on mode, in
which the battery 322 supplies electric energy for the operation of the apparatus
301.
Alternatively, the electric switch 323 may be operated by energy supplied by the
accumulator 316 to switch from an off mode, in which the wireless remote control
is prevented from controlling the battery 322 to supply electric energy and is not in
use, to a standby mode, in which the wireless remote control is permitted to control
the battery 322 to supply electric energy for the operation of the apparatus 301.
  It should be understood that the switch 323 and all other switches in this
 application should be interpreted in its broadest embodiment. This means a
 transistor, MCU, MCPU, ASIC, FPGA or a DA converter or any other electronic

                                             39
 component or circuit that may switch the power on and off. Preferably the switch
 is controlled from outside the body, or alternatively by an implanted internal
 control unit.
 According to an embodiment, said adjustment device comprises a mechanical
 device for said bone adjustment.
 According to an embodiment, said adjustment device is operated by an
 operation device, such as motor.
 According to a further embodiment, said device comprises a control device,
 wherein the operation device is controlled by said control device.
According to a further embodiment, the motor comprising a motor or device
positioning system such as a tachometer or any other sensor input to see the
position of the adjustment device.
 According to a further embodiment, the mechanical device for said bone
 adjustment comprises at least one nut and screw.
 According to a further embodiment, the mechanical device for said bone
 adjustment comprises at least one gearbox.
 According to a further embodiment, the mechanical device for said bone
 adjustment comprises a servo mechanism or mechanical amplifier.
 According to a further embodiment, said device is adapted for exerting an
  intermittent and/or oscillating force.
Fig. 24 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 20, except
that a motor 307, a mechanical reversing device in the form of a gear box 324, and
an internal control unit 315 for controlling the gear box 324 also are implanted in the
patient. The internal control unit 315 controls the gear box 324 to reverse the
function performed by the apparatus 301 (mechanically operated). Even simpler is
to switch the direction of the motor electronically. The gear box interpreted in its
broadest embodiment may stand for a servo arrangement saving force for the
operation device in favour of longer stroke to act.
 This is also illustrated in Fig. 39 which schematically shows a device according to
 an embodiment of the invention where an implantable device 2000 comprises a

                                          40
  motor 2010 operationally connected to a gear box 2020 and an adjustment device
 2030, where the speed and/or effect of the motor 2010 is controlled by a control
 unit 2040.
According to one embodiment, said control unit 2040 both senses the speed of the
motor 2010 and adjusts the same, and optionally also senses the output speed of
the gear box 2020, driving the adjustment device 2030. According to another
embodiment, said control unit 2040 comprises a feed-back loop, sensing the speed
o the motor, and adjusting the same to a desired value. In another embodiment, no
gear box is present, and the control unit 2040 both senses the speed of the motor
and adjusts the same.
  Fig. 25 shows an embodiment of the invention identical to that of Fig. 23 except
 that the implanted components are interconnected differently. Thus, in this case the
 internal control unit 315 is powered by the battery 322 when the accumulator 316,
 suitably a capacitor, activates the electric switch 323 to switch to an on mode.
 When the electric switch 323 is in its on mode the internal control unit 315 is
 permitted to control the battery 322 to supply, or not supply, energy for the
 operation of the apparatus 301.
  Fig. 26 schematically shows conceivable combinations of implanted components
 of the apparatus for achieving various communication options. Basically, there are
 the apparatus 301, the internal control unit 315, motor or pump unit 309, and the
 external energy-transmission device 304 including the external wireless remote
 control. As already described above the wireless remote control transmits a
 control signal which is received by the internal control unit 315, which in turn
 controls the various implanted components of the apparatus.
A feedback device, preferably comprising a sensor or measuring device 325, may
be implanted in the patient for sensing a physical parameter of the patient. The
physical parameter may be at least one selected from the group consisting of
pressure, volume, diameter, stretching, elongation, extension, movement, bending,
elasticity, muscle contraction, nerve impulse, body temperature, blood pressure,
blood flow, heartbeats and breathing. The sensor may sense any of the above
physical parameters. For example, the sensor may be a pressure or motility sensor.
 Alternatively, the sensor 325 may be arranged to sense a functional parameter.

                                            41
  The functional parameter may be correlated to the transfer of energy for charging
  an implanted energy source and may further include at least one selected from
  the group of parameters consisting of; electricity, pressure, volume, diameter,
  stretch, elongation, extension, movement, bending, elasticity, temperature and
  flow.
The feedback may be sent to the internal control unit or out to an external control
unit preferably via the internal control unit. Feedback may be sent out from the body
via the energy transfer system or a separate communication system with receiver
and transmitters.
The internal control unit 315, or alternatively the external wireless remote control of
the external energy-transmission device 304, may control the apparatus 301 in
response to signals from the sensor 325. A transceiver may be combined with the
sensor 325 for sending information on the sensed physical parameter to the external
wireless remote control. The wireless remote control may comprise a signal
transmitter or transceiver and the internal control unit 315 may comprise a signal
receiver or transceiver. Alternatively, the wireless remote control may comprise a
signal receiver or transceiver and the internal control unit 315 may comprise a signal
transmitter or transceiver. The above transceivers, transmitters and receivers may
be used for sending information or data related to the apparatus 301 from inside the
patient's body to the outside thereof.
Where the motor/pump unit 309 and battery 322 for powering the motor/pump unit
309 are implanted, information related to the charging of the battery 322 may be fed
back. To be more precise, when charging a battery or accumulator with energy feed
back information related to said charging process is sent and the energy supply is
changed accordingly.
  Fig. 27 shows an alternative embodiment wherein the apparatus 301 is regulated
  from outside the patient's body. The system 300 comprises a battery 322
  connected to the apparatus 301 via a subcutaneous electric switch 326. Thus, the
  regulation of the apparatus 301 is performed non-invasively by manually pressing
  the subcutaneous switch, whereby the operation of the apparatus 301 is switched
  on and off. It will be appreciated that the shown embodiment is a simplification
  and that additional components, such as an internal control unit or any other part

                                            42
 disclosed in the present application can         be added to the system.         Two
 subcutaneous switches may also be used. In the preferred embodiment one
 implanted switch sends information to the internal control unit to perform a certain
 predetermined performance and when the patient press the switch again the
 performance is reversed.
Fig. 28 shows an alternative embodiment, wherein the system 300 comprises a
hydraulic fluid reservoir 313 hydraulically connected to the apparatus. Non-invasive
regulation is performed by manually pressing the hydraulic reservoir connected to
the apparatus.
 The system may include an external data communicator and an implantable
 internal data communicator communicating with the external data communicator.
 The internal communicator feeds data related to the apparatus or the patient to the
 external data communicator and/or the external data communicator feeds data to
 the internal data communicator.
  Fig. 29 schematically illustrates an arrangement of the system that is capable of
 sending information from inside the patient's body to the outside thereof to give
 feedback information related to at least one functional parameter of the apparatus
 or system, or related to a physical parameter of the patient, in order to supply an
 accurate amount of energy to an implanted internal energy receiver 302 connected
 to implanted energy consuming components of the apparatus 301. Such an energy
  receiver 302 may include an energy source and/or an energy-transforming device.
Briefly described, wireless energy is transmitted from an external energy source
304a located outside the patient and is received by the internal energy receiver
302 located inside the patient. The internal energy receiver is adapted to directly or
indirectly supply received energy to the energy consuming components of the
apparatus 301. An energy balance is determined between the energy received by
the internal energy receiver 302 and the energy used for the apparatus 301, and
the transmission of wireless energy is then controlled based on the determined
energy balance. The energy balance thus provides an accurate indication of the
correct amount of energy needed, which is sufficient to operate the apparatus 301
properly, but without causing undue temperature rise.
  In Fig. 29 the patient's skin is indicated by a vertical line 305. Here, the energy

                                            43
  receiver comprises an energy-transforming device 302 located inside the patient,
 preferably just beneath the patient's skin 305. Generally speaking, the implanted
 energy-transforming device 302 may be placed in the abdomen, thorax, muscle
 fascia (e.g. in the abdominal wall), subcutaneously, or at any other suitable
  location. The implanted energy-transforming device 302 is adapted to receive
 wireless energy E transmitted from the external energy-source 304a provided in
 an external energy-transmission device 304 located outside the patient's skin 305
 in the vicinity of the implanted energy-transforming device 302.
As is well known in the art, the wireless energy E may generally be transferred by
means of any suitable Transcutaneous Energy Transfer (TET) device, such as a
device including a primary coil arranged in the external energy source 304a and an
adjacent secondary coil arranged in the implanted energy-transforming device 302.
When an electric current is fed through the primary coil, energy in the form of a
voltage is induced in the secondary coil which can be used to power the implanted
energy consuming components of the apparatus, e.g. after storing the incoming
energy in an implanted energy source, such as a rechargeable battery or a
capacitor. However, the present invention is generally not limited to any particular
energy transfer technique, TET devices or energy sources, and any kind of wireless
energy may be used.
The amount of energy received by the implanted energy receiver may be
compared with the energy used by the implanted components of the apparatus.
The term "energy used" is then understood to include also energy stored by
implanted components of the apparatus. A control device includes an external
control unit 304b that controls the external energy source 304a based on the
determined energy balance to regulate the amount of transferred energy. In order
to transfer the correct amount of energy, the energy balance and the required
amount of energy is determined by means of a determination device including an
implanted internal control unit 315 connected to the apparatus 301. The internal
control unit 315 may thus be arranged to receive various measurements obtained
by suitable sensors or the like, not shown, measuring certain characteristics of the
apparatus 301, somehow reflecting the required amount of energy needed for
proper operation of the apparatus 301. Moreover, the current condition of the
patient may also be detected by means of suitable measuring devices or sensors,

                                           44
in order to provide parameters reflecting the patient's condition. Hence, such
characteristics and/or parameters may be related to the current state of the
apparatus 301, such as power consumption, operational mode and temperature,
as well as the patient's condition reflected by parameters such as; body
temperature, blood pressure, heartbeats and breathing.
  Other kinds of physical parameters of the patient and functional parameters of the
  device are described elsewhere.
Furthermore, an energy source in the form of an accumulator 316 may optionally
be connected to the implanted energy-transforming device 302 for accumulating
received energy for later use by the apparatus 301. Alternatively or additionally,
characteristics of such an accumulator, also reflecting the required amount of
energy, may be measured as well. The accumulator may be replaced by a
rechargeable battery, and the measured characteristics may be related to the
current state of the battery, any electrical parameter such as energy consumption
voltage, temperature, etc. In order to provide sufficient voltage and current to the
apparatus 301, and also to avoid excessive heating, it is clearly understood that the
battery should be charged optimally by receiving a correct amount of energy from
the implanted energy- transforming device 302, i.e. not too little or too much. The
accumulator may also be a capacitor with corresponding characteristics.
For example, battery characteristics may be measured on a regular basis to
determine the current state of the battery, which then may be stored as state
information in a suitable storage means in the internal control unit 315. Thus,
whenever new measurements are made, the stored battery state information can be
updated accordingly. In this way, the state of the battery can be "calibrated" by
transferring a correct amount of energy, so as to maintain the battery in an optimal
condition.
Thus, the internal control unit 315 of the determination device is adapted to
determine the energy balance and/or the currently required amount of energy,
(either energy per time unit or accumulated energy) based on measurements
made by the above-mentioned sensors or measuring devices of the apparatus 301,
or the patient, or an implanted energy source if used, or any combination thereof.
The internal control unit 315 is further connected to an internal signal transmitter

                                           45
327, arranged to transmit a control signal reflecting the determined required
amount of energy, to an external signal receiver 304c connected to the external
control unit 304b. The amount of energy transmitted from the external energy
source 304a may then be regulated in response to the received control signal.
  Alternatively, the determination device may include the external control unit 304b.
  In this alternative, sensor measurements can be transmitted directly to the external
  control unit 304b wherein the energy balance and/or the currently required amount
  of energy can be determined by the external control unit 304b, thus integrating the
  above-described function of the internal control unit 315 in the external control unit
  304b. In that case, the internal control unit 315 can be omitted and the sensor
  measurements are supplied directly to the internal signal transmitter 327 which
  sends the measurements over to the external signal receiver 304c and the external
  control unit 304b. The energy balance and the currently required amount of energy
  can then be determined by the external control unit 304b based on those sensor
  measurements.
  Hence, the present solution according to the arrangement of Fig. 25 employs the
  feedback of information indicating the required energy, which is more efficient
  than previous solutions because it is based on the actual use of energy that is
  compared to the received energy, e.g. with respect to the amount of energy, the
  energy difference, or the energy receiving rate as compared to the energy rate
  used by implanted energy consuming components of the apparatus. The
  apparatus may use the received energy either for consuming or for storing the
  energy in an implanted energy source or the like. The different parameters
  discussed above would thus be used if relevant and needed and then as a tool
  for determining the actual energy balance. However, such parameters may also
  be needed per se for any actions taken internally to specifically operate the
  apparatus.
The internal signal transmitter 327 and the external signal receiver 304c may be
implemented as separate units using suitable signal transfer means, such as
radio,    IR (Infrared)   or ultrasonic signals. Alternatively,  the internal signal
transmitter 327 and the external signal receiver 304c may be integrated in the
implanted energy- transforming device 302 and the external energy source 304a,
respectively, so as to convey control signals in a reverse direction relative to the

                                             46
energy transfer, basically using the same transmission technique. The control
signals may be modulated with respect to frequency, phase or amplitude.
 Thus, the feedback information           may be transferred     either by a separate
 communication system including receivers and transmitters or may be integrated
 in the energy system. In accordance with the present invention, such an integrated
 information feedback and energy system comprises an implantable internal
 energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having an
 internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an
 external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy transmitter
  having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit connected to the
 second coil. The external second coil of the energy transmitter transmits wireless
 energy which is received by the first coil of the energy receiver. This system
 further comprises a power switch for switching the connection of the internal first
 coil to the first electronic circuit on and off, such that feedback information related
 to the charging of the first coil is received by the external energy transmitter in the
 form of an impedance variation in the load of the external second coil, when the
 power switch switches the connection of the internal first coil to the first electronic
 circuit on and off. In implementing this system in the arrangement of Fig. 29, the
 switch 326 is either separate and controlled by the internal control unit 315, or
 integrated in the internal control unit 315. It should be understood that the switch
 326 should be interpreted in its broadest embodiment. This means a transistor,
  MCU, MCPU, ASIC FPGA or a DA converter or any other electronic component or
 circuit that may switch the power on and off.
To conclude, the energy supply arrangement illustrated in Fig. 29 may operate
basically in the following manner. The energy balance is first determined by the
internal control unit 315 of the determination device. A control signal reflecting the
required amount of energy is also created by the internal control unit 315, and the
control signal is transmitted from the internal signal transmitter 327 to the external
signal receiver 304c. Alternatively, the energy balance can be determined by the
external control unit 304b instead depending on the implementation, as mentioned
above. In that case, the control signal may carry measurement results from
various sensors. The amount of energy emitted from the external energy source
304a can then be regulated by the external control unit 304b, based on the

                                            47
determined energy balance, e.g. in response to the received control signal. This
process may be repeated intermittently at certain intervals during ongoing energy
transfer, or may be executed on a more or less continuous basis during the energy
transfer.
  The amount of transferred energy can generally be regulated by adjusting
  various transmission parameters in the external energy source 304a, such as
  voltage, current, amplitude, wave frequency and pulse characteristics.
  This system may also be used to obtain information about the coupling factors
  between the coils in a TET system even to calibrate the system both to find an
  optimal place for the external coil in relation to the internal coil and to optimize
  energy transfer. Simply comparing in this case the amount of energy transferred
  with the amount of energy received. For example if the external coil is moved the
  coupling factor may vary and correctly displayed movements could cause the
  external coil to find the optimal place for energy transfer. Preferably, the external
  coil is adapted to calibrate the amount of transferred energy to achieve the
  feedback information in the determination device, before the coupling factor is
  maximized.
  This coupling factors information may also be used as a feedback during energy
  transfer. In such a case, the energy system of the present invention comprises an
  implantable internal energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy
  receiver having an internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the
  first coil, and an external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the
  energy transmitter having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit
  connected to the second coil. The external second coil of the energy transmitter
  transmits wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the energy receiver.
  This system further comprises a feedback device for communicating out the
  amount of energy received in the first coil as a feedback information, and wherein
  the second electronic circuit includes a determination device for receiving the
  feedback information and for comparing the amount of transferred energy by the
  second coil with the feedback information related to the amount of energy
  received in the first coil to obtain the coupling factors between the first and
  second coils. The transmitted energy may be regulated depending on the
  obtained coupling factor.

                                          48
 With reference to Fig. 30, although wireless transfer of energy for operating the
 apparatus has been described above to enable non-invasive operation, it will be
 appreciated that the apparatus can be operated with wire bound energy as well.
 Such an example is shown in Fig. 30, wherein an external switch 326 is
 interconnected between the external energy source 304a and an operation
 device, such as an electric motor 307 operating the apparatus 301. An external
 control unit 304b controls the operation of the external switch 326 to effect proper
 operation of the apparatus 301.
Fig. 31 illustrates different embodiments for how received energy can be supplied
to and used by the apparatus 301. Similar to the example of Fig. 29, an internal
energy receiver 302 receives wireless energy E from an external energy source
304a which is controlled by a transmission control unit 304b. The internal energy
receiver 302
  may comprise a constant voltage circuit, indicated as a dashed box "constant V" in
 the figure, for supplying energy at constant voltage to the apparatus 301. The
  internal energy receiver 302 may further comprise a constant current circuit,
  indicated as a dashed box "constant C" in the figure, for supplying energy at
 constant current to the apparatus 301.
 The apparatus 301 comprises an energy consuming part 301a, which may be a
  motor, pump, restriction device, or any other medical appliance that requires
 energy for its electrical operation. The apparatus 301 may further comprise an
 energy storage device 301 b for storing energy supplied from the internal energy
  receiver 301.Thus, the supplied energy may be directly consumed by the energy
 consuming part 301a, or stored by the energy storage device 301b, or the
 supplied energy may be partly consumed and partly stored. The apparatus 301
  may further comprise an energy stabilizing unit 301c for stabilizing the energy
 supplied from the internal energy receiver 302. Thus, the energy may be
 supplied in a fluctuating manner such that it may be necessary to stabilize the
 energy before consumed or stored.
 The energy supplied from the internal energy receiver 302 may further be
 accumulated and/or stabilized by a separate energy stabilizing unit 328 located
 outside the apparatus 301, before being consumed and/or stored by the

                                             49
  apparatus 301. Alternatively, the energy stabilizing unit 328 may be integrated
  in the internal energy receiver 302. In either case, the energy stabilizing unit 328
  may comprise a constant voltage circuit and/or a constant current circuit.
It should be noted that Fig. 29 and Fig. 31 illustrate some possible but non-limiting
implementation options regarding how the various shown functional components
and elements can be arranged and connected to each other. However, the skilled
person will readily appreciate that many variations and modifications can be made
within the scope of the present invention.
  Fig. 32 schematically shows an energy balance measuring circuit of one of the
  proposed designs of the system for controlling transmission of wireless energy,
  or energy balance control system. The circuit has an output signal centered on
  2.5V and proportionally related to the energy imbalance. The derivative of this
  signal shows if the value goes up and down and how fast such change takes
  place. If the amount of received energy is lower than the energy used by the
  implant, more energy is transferred and thus charged into the energy source. The
  output signal from the circuit is typically feed to an AID converter and converted
  into a digital format. The digital information can then be sent to the external
  energy-transmission device allowing it to adjust the level of the transmitted
  energy. Another possibility is to have a completely analog system that uses
  comparators comparing the energy balance level with certain maximum and
  minimum thresholds sending information to external energy-transmission device if
  the balance drifts out of the max/min window.
  The schematic Fig. 32 shows a circuit implementation for a system that transfers
  energy to the implanted energy components of the apparatus of the present
  invention from outside of the patient's body using inductive energy transfer. An
  inductive energy transfer system typically uses an external transmitting coil and
  an internal receiving coil. The receiving coil, L1, is included in the schematic
  figure; the transmitting parts of the system are excluded.
The implementation of the general concept of energy balance and the way the
information is transmitted to the external energy transmitter can of course be
implemented in numerous different ways. The schematic Fig. 28 and the above
described method of evaluating and transmitting the information should only be

                                          50
regarded as examples of how to implement the control system.
  CIRCUIT DETAILS
In Fig. 32 the symbols Y1, Y2, Y3 and so on symbolize test points within the
circuit. The components in the diagram and their respective values are values
that work in this particular implementation which of course is only one of an
infinite number of possible design solutions.
Energy to power the circuit is received by the energy receiving coil L1. Energy to
implanted components is transmitted in this particular case at a frequency of 25
kHz. The energy balance output signal is present at test point Y1.
 Those skilled in the art will realize that the above various embodiments of the
 system could be combined in many different ways. For example, the electric
 switch 306 of Fig. 11 could be incorporated in any of the embodiments of Figs. 14
 20, the hydraulic valve shifting device 314 could be incorporated in another
 embodiment of the inventions, and the gear box 324 could be incorporated in yet
 another embodiment.
  Please observe that the switch simply could mean any electronic circuit or
 component.
 The embodiments described in connection with Figs. 29, 31 and 32 identify a
  method and a system for controlling transmission of wireless energy to implanted
 energy consuming components of an electrically operable apparatus. Such a
  method and system will be defined in general terms in the following.
A method is thus provided for controlling transmission of wireless energy supplied
to implanted energy consuming components of an apparatus as described above.
The wireless energy E is transmitted from an external energy source located
outside the patient and is received by an internal energy receiver located inside
the patient, the internal energy receiver being connected to the implanted energy
consuming components of the apparatus for directly or indirectly supplying
received energy thereto. An energy balance is determined between the energy
received by the internal energy receiver and the energy used for the apparatus.
The transmission of wireless energy E from the external energy source is then
controlled based on the determined energy balance.

                                          51
The wireless energy may be transmitted inductively from a primary coil in the
external energy source to a secondary coil in the internal energy receiver. A
change in the energy balance may be detected to control the transmission of
wireless energy based on the detected energy balance change. A difference may
also be detected between energy received by the internal energy receiver and
energy used for the medical device, to control the transmission of wireless energy
based on the detected energy difference.
When controlling the energy transmission, the amount of transmitted wireless
energy may be decreased if the detected energy balance change implies that the
energy balance is increasing, or vice versa. The decrease/increase of energy
transmission may further correspond to a detected change rate.
  The amount of transmitted wireless energy may further be decreased if the
  detected energy difference implies that the received energy is greater than the
  used energy, or vice versa. The decrease/increase of energy transmission may
  then correspond to the magnitude of the detected energy difference.
  As mentioned above, the energy used for the medical device may be consumed
  to operate the medical device, and/or stored in at least one energy storage
  device of the medical device.
When electrical and/or physical parameters of the medical device and/or physical
parameters of the patient are determined, the energy may be transmitted for
consumption and storage according to a transmission rate per time unit which is
determined based on said parameters. The total amount of transmitted energy may
also be determined based on said parameters.
  When a difference is detected between the total amount of energy received by the
  internal energy receiver and the total amount of consumed and/or stored energy,
  and the detected difference is related to the integral over time of at least one
  measured electrical parameter related to said energy balance, the integral may be
  determined for a monitored voltage and/or current related to the energy balance.
When the derivative is determined over time of a measured electrical
parameter related to the amount of consumed and/or stored energy, the
derivative may be determined for a monitored voltage and/or current related to

                                             52
the energy balance.
The transmission of wireless energy from the external energy source may be
controlled by applying to the external energy source electrical pulses from a first
electric circuit to transmit the wireless energy, the electrical pulses having leading
and trailing edges, varying the lengths of first time intervals between successive
leading and trailing edges of the electrical pulses and/or the lengths of second
time intervals between successive trailing and leading edges of the electrical
pulses, and transmitting wireless energy, the transmitted energy generated from
the electrical pulses having a varied power, the varying of the power depending on
the lengths of the first and/or second time intervals.
In that case, the frequency of the electrical pulses may be substantially constant
when varying the first and/or second time intervals. When applying electrical
pulses, the electrical pulses may remain unchanged, except for varying the first
and/or second time intervals. The amplitude of the electrical pulses may be
substantially constant when varying the first and/or second time intervals. Further,
the electrical pulses may be varied by only varying the lengths of first time
intervals between successive leading and trailing edges of the electrical pulses.
A train of two or more electrical pulses may be supplied in a row, wherein when
applying the train of pulses, the train having a first electrical pulse at the start of the
pulse train and having a second electrical pulse at the end of the pulse train, two or
more pulse trains may be supplied in a row, wherein the lengths of the second time
intervals between successive trailing edge of the second electrical pulse in a first
pulse train and leading edge of the first electrical pulse of a second pulse train are
varied.
When applying the electrical pulses, the electrical pulses may have a substantially
constant current and a substantially constant voltage. The electrical pulses may
also have a substantially constant current and a substantially constant voltage.
Further, the electrical pulses may also have a substantially constant frequency.
The electrical pulses within a pulse train may likewise have a substantially
constant frequency.
The circuit formed by the first electric circuit and the external energy source may
have a first characteristic time period or first time constant, and when effectively

                                              53
varying the transmitted energy, such frequency time period may be in the range
of the first characteristic time period or time constant or shorter.
A system comprising an apparatus as described above is thus also provided for
controlling transmission of wireless energy supplied to implanted energy consuming
components of the apparatus. In its broadest sense, the system comprises a control
device for controlling the transmission of wireless energy from an energy
transmission device, and an implantable internal energy receiver for receiving the
transmitted wireless energy, the internal energy receiver being connected to
implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus for directly or indirectly
supplying received energy thereto. The system further comprises a determination
device adapted to determine an energy balance between the energy received by the
internal energy receiver and the energy used for the implantable energy consuming
components of the apparatus, wherein the control device controls the transmission
of wireless energy from the external energy-transmission device, based on the
energy balance determined by the determination device.
  Further, the system may comprise any of the following:
  - A primary coil in the external energy source adapted to transmit the wireless
  energy inductively to a secondary coil in the internal energy receiver.
  - The determination device is adapted to detect a change in the energy balance,
  and the control device controls the transmission of wireless energy based on the
  detected energy balance change
  - The determination device is adapted to detect a difference between energy
  received by the internal energy receiver and energy used for the implantable
  energy consuming components of the apparatus, and the control device controls
  the transmission of wireless energy based on the detected energy difference.
  - The control device controls the external energy-transmission device to decrease
  the amount of transmitted wireless energy if the detected energy balance change
  implies that the energy balance is increasing, or vice versa, wherein the
  decrease/increase of energy transmission corresponds to a detected change rate.
  - The control device controls the external energy-transmission device to decrease
  the amount of transmitted wireless energy if the detected energy difference

                                         54
implies that the received energy is greater than the used energy, or vice versa,
wherein the decrease/increase of energy transmission corresponds to the
magnitude of said detected energy difference.
- The energy used for the apparatus is consumed to operate the apparatus,
and/or stored in at least one energy storage device of the apparatus.
- Where electrical and/or physical parameters of the apparatus and/or physical
parameters of the patient are determined, the energy-transmission device
transmits the energy for consumption and storage according to a transmission
rate per time unit which is determined by the determination device based on said
parameters. The determination device also determines the total amount of
transmitted energy based on said parameters.
- When a difference is detected between the total amount of energy received by
the internal energy receiver and the total amount of consumed and/or stored
energy, and the detected difference is related to the integral over time of at least
one     measured    electrical parameter  related  to   the  energy balance,     the
determination device determines the integral for a monitored voltage and/or
current related to the energy balance.
- When the derivative is determined over time of a measured electrical parameter
related to the amount of consumed and/or stored energy, the determination device
determines the derivative for a monitored voltage and/or current related to the
energy balance.
- The energy-transmission device comprises a coil placed externally to the human
body, and an electric circuit is provided to power the external coil with electrical
pulses to transmit the wireless energy. The electrical pulses have leading and
trailing edges, and the electric circuit is adapted to vary first time intervals
between successive leading and trailing edges and/or second time intervals
between successive trailing and leading edges of the electrical pulses to vary the
power of the transmitted wireless energy. As a result, the energy receiver receiving
the transmitted wireless energy has a varied power.
- The electric circuit is adapted to deliver the electrical pulses to remain
unchanged except varying the first and/or second time intervals.

                                             55
  -  The electric circuit has a time constant and is adapted to vary the first and
second time intervals only in the range of the first time constant, so that when the
lengths of the first and/or second time intervals are varied, the transmitted power
over the coil is varied.
- The electric circuit is adapted to deliver the electrical pulses to be varied by
only varying the lengths of first time intervals between successive leading and
trailing edges of the electrical pulses.
- The electric circuit is adapted to supplying a train of two or more electrical pulses
in a row, said train having a first electrical pulse at the start of the pulse train and
having a second electrical pulse at the end of the pulse train, and
- the lengths of the second time intervals between successive trailing edge of
the second electrical pulse in a first pulse train and leading edge of the first
electrical pulse of a second pulse train are varied by the first electronic circuit.
- The electric circuit is adapted to provide the electrical pulses as pulses having
a substantially constant height and/or amplitude and/or intensity and/or voltage
and/or current and/or frequency.
- The electric circuit has a time constant, and is adapted to vary the first and
second time intervals only in the range of the first time constant, so that when the
lengths of the first and/or second time intervals are varied, the transmitted power
over the first coil are varied.
-   The electric circuit is adapted to provide the electrical pulses varying the lengths
of the first and/or the second time intervals only within a range that includes the
first time constant or that is located relatively close to the first time constant,
compared to the magnitude of the first time constant.
According to an embodiment, said wireless energy comprises a wave signal
selected from the following: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an
electromagnetic wave signal, an infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra
violet light signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio wave signal, an
x- ray radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal.
  According to an embodiment, said wireless energy comprises one of the
following: an electric field, a magnetic field, a combined electric and magnetic

                                             56
  field.
  According to an embodiment, said control signal comprises one of the following: an
  electric field, a magnetic field, a combined electric and magnetic field.
  According to a further embodiment, said the signal comprises an analogue signal,
  a digital signal, or a combination of an analogue and digital signal.
  According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises an
  implantable internal energy source for powering implantable energy consuming
  components of the apparatus.
  According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises an external
  energy source for transferring energy in a wireless mode, wherein the internal
  energy source is chargeable by the energy transferred in the wireless mode.
According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises a sensor or
measuring device sensing or measuring a functional parameter correlated to the
transfer of energy for charging the internal energy source, and a feedback device
for sending feedback information from inside the patient's body to the outside
thereof, the feedback information being related to the functional parameter sensed
by the sensor or measured by the measuring device.
  According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises a feedback
  device for sending feedback information from inside the patient's body to the
  outside thereof, the feedback information being related to at least one of a physical
  parameter of the patient and a functional parameter related to the apparatus.
According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises a sensor
and/or a measuring device and an implantable internal control unit for controlling the
apparatus in response to information being related to at least one of a physical
parameter of the patient sensed by the sensor or measured by the measuring
device and a functional parameter related to the apparatus sensed by the sensor or
measured by the measuring device.
According to another embodiment, said physical parameter is a pressure or a
motility movement.
According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises an external

                                            57
data     communicator       and    an  implantable    internal  data    communicator
communicating      with the external data communicator,         wherein the internal
communicator feeds data related to the apparatus or the patient to the external
data communicator and/or the external data communicator feeds data to the
internal data communicator.
According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises a motor or a
pump for operating the apparatus.
 According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises a
  hydraulic operation device for operating the apparatus.
 According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises an operation
 device for operating the apparatus, wherein the operation device comprises a
 servo designed to decrease the force needed for the operation device to operate
 the apparatus instead the operation device acting a longer way, increasing the time
 for a determined action.
According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises an
operation device for operating the apparatus, wherein the wireless energy is used
in its wireless state to directly power the operation device to create kinetic energy
for the operation of the apparatus, as the wireless energy is being transmitted by
the energy-transmission device.
 According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises an energy
 transforming device for transforming the wireless energy transmitted by the
 energy- transmission device from a first form into a second form of energy.
 According to an embodiment, said energy-transforming device directly powers
  implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus with the second
 form energy, as the energy-transforming device transforms the first form energy
 transmitted by the energy-transmission device into the second form energy.
 According to an embodiment, said second form energy comprises at least one of a
 direct current, pulsating direct current and an alternating current.
 According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises an
  implantable accumulator, wherein the second form energy is used at least partly
 to charge the accumulator.

                                          58
According to an embodiment, said energy of the first or second form comprises at
least one of magnetic energy, kinetic energy, sound energy, chemical energy,
radiant energy, electromagnetic energy, photo energy, nuclear energy thermal
energy, non- magnetic energy, non-kinetic energy, non-chemical energy, non-sonic
energy, non- nuclear energy and non-thermal energy.
 According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises implantable
 electrical components including at least one voltage level guard and/or at least one
 constant current guard.
 According to yet another embodiment, said system further comprises a control
 device for controlling the transmission of wireless energy from the energy
 transmission device, and an implantable internal energy receiver for receiving the
 transmitted wireless energy, the internal energy receiver being connected to
 implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus for directly or
 indirectly supplying received energy thereto, the system further comprising a
 determination device adapted to determine an energy balance between the energy
  received by the internal energy receiver and the energy used for the implantable
 energy consuming components of the apparatus , wherein the control device
 controls the transmission of wireless energy from the external energy-transmission
 device, based on the energy balance determined by the determination device.
According to an embodiment, said determination device is adapted to detect a
change in the energy balance, and the control device controls the transmission
of wireless energy based on the detected energy balance change.
 According to a further embodiment, the determination device is adapted to detect a
 difference between energy received by the internal energy receiver and energy
 used for the implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus, and the
 control device controls the transmission of wireless energy based on the detected
 energy difference.
 According to a further embodiment, the energy-transmission device comprises a
 coil placed externally to the human body, further comprising an implantable energy
  receiver to be placed internally in the human body and an electric circuit
 connected to power the external coil with electrical pulses to transmit the wireless
 energy, the electrical pulses having leading and trailing edges, the electric circuit

                                             59
adapted to vary first time intervals between successive leading and trailing edges
and/or second time intervals between successive trailing and leading edges of the
electrical pulses to vary the power of the transmitted wireless energy, the energy
receiver receiving the transmitted wireless energy having a varied power.
According to a further embodiment, the electric circuit is adapted to deliver the
electrical pulses to remain unchanged except varying the first and/or second
time intervals.
According to a further embodiment, the electric circuit has a time constant and is
adapted to vary the first and second time intervals only in the range of the first
time constant, so that when the lengths of the first and/or second time intervals are
varied, the transmitted power over the coil is varied.
According to a further embodiment, the system comprises an implantable internal
energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having an
internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an
external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy transmitter
having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit connected to the
second coil, wherein the external second coil of the energy transmitter transmits
wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the energy receiver, the
system further comprising a power switch for switching the connection of the
internal first coil to the first electronic circuit on and off, such that feedback
information related to the charging of the first coil is received by the external
energy transmitter in the form of an impedance variation in the load of the external
second coil, when the power switch switches the connection of the internal first
coil to the first electronic circuit on and off.
According to a further embodiment, the system comprises an implantable internal
energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having an
internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an
external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy transmitter
having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit connected to the
second coil, wherein the external second coil of the energy transmitter transmits
wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the energy receiver, the
system further comprising a feedback device for communicating out the amount of

                                              60
 energy received in the first coil as a feedback information, and wherein the second
 electronic circuit includes a determination device for receiving the feedback
 information and for comparing the amount of transferred energy by the second
 coil with the feedback information related to the amount of energy received in the
 first coil to obtain the coupling factors between the first and second coils.
 According to an embodiment, the transmitted energy may be regulated depending
 on the obtained coupling factor.
 According to a further embodiment, said external second coil is adapted to be
  moved in relation to the internal first coil to establish the optimal placement of the
 second coil, in which the coupling factor is maximized.
 According to a further embodiment, said external second coil is adapted to
 calibrate the amount of transferred energy to achieve the feedback information in
 the determination device, before the coupling factor is maximized.
According to yet another embodiment, the mechanical device comprises a
mechanical multi step locking mechanism, locking the mechanical device in its new
position after adjustment. An example is illustrated in Fig. 10 where Fig. 10a shows
schematically a detail view of a device (700) according to the invention, said device
comprising at least one hydraulic piston (701) and two actuators (702, 703). In this
embodiment one actuator is attached to the housing of the device, whereas the
other is moving. In order to prevent an actuator from returning to a previous
position, for example when temporarily subjected to an increased stress, the
housing has an aperture (705) and the actuator has cone-shaped flanges (704)
allowing an outward movement of the actuator, but substantially preventing an
inward movement.
Fig. 10b shows an alternative embodiment where, in a device (800) according to
the invention, two pistons (801, 802) are provided in a housing. The pistons are
connected to two actuators (805, 806), which in turn are engaged to anchoring
devices (not shown). On the inside, said housing has a pattern of protrusions, velts
or barbs, allowing said pistons to move in one direction, preferably outward, but
substantially preventing an inward movement.
According to yet another embodiment, the               mechanical    multi step locking

                                            61
mechanism comprises at least one of a sprint, a elongated structure using the
principle of saw teeth, flanges, barbs or a bonnet band, a nut, a gearbox, or a
spring loaded locking principle.
  According to a further embodiment of the system, the device comprises a control
  device.
  According to another embodiment, said control device follows a program of
  incremental changes, set before the device is implanted.
  According to another embodiment, said control device follows a program of
  incremental changes, communicated to the control device after implantation
  and/or during the treatment.
According to another embodiment, said control device comprises an external
control unit and an implantable receiver suitable for wireless communication with
said external control unit, having a transmitter located outside the body.
  According to another embodiment, said control device controls incremental
  changes of     the adjustment device, communicated          to the   receiver after
  implantation and/or during the treatment by using said external control unit.
According to a preferred embodiment, said device is flexible to allow introduction
into the medullar cavity. Alternatively or in combination therewith, said device is at
least partly elastic. Alternatively or in combination therewith, said device comprises
a spring. Alternatively or in combination therewith, said device is adapted to regain
its shape after having been bent.
According    to   another    embodiment,     freely combinable    with  the   other
embodiments presented herein, the anchoring device comprises a thread for
engaging and stabilizing the anchoring device in relation to the bone.
According to a further embodiment, the anchoring device comprises an expandable
part expanding at least partially perpendicular to the longitudinal extension of the
elongated device for engaging and stabilizing the anchoring device in relation to
the bone. This embodiment is illustrated in Fig. 33, which schematically shows a
device 900, having two end-portions or anchoring means 902 and 903, for example
elastic and expandable means, here shown as activated externally, by a key or
knob 901,     having a portion insertable into the device 900 and engaging a

                                           62
mechanism activating and in particular expanding the anchoring means 902 and
903.
 The views I, 11and III show in turn how the anchoring means 902 and 903 are in
 their initial, non-expanded state, allowing insertion into a cavity; how they can be
 activated and expanded; and how they when expanded engage the surrounding
 cavity and allow the operation of the device for bone adjustment.
 According to an alternative embodiment, schematically shown in Fig. 34, a device
 920 comprises anchoring means in the form of an arrangement of flanges 922
 and 923. An external device, here shown as a wire 921 having an end portion
 capable of engaging a mechanism for activation of 922 and 923, is brought in
 operational contact with the device, and the anchoring devices activated. When
 activate, the anchoring devices engage the surrounding cavity and allow the
 operation of the device for bone adjustment.
Fig. 38 shows a partial cut-out view of a bone 1020 having a fracture zone 1021,
with an implantable device according to an embodiment of the invention implanted
in the medullar cavity 1040, said device comprising a body 1030 and two anchoring
devices 1050 and 1051.The entry hole 1022 is shown as sealed or closed, for
example with bone cement, and the adjustment device is shown in extended and
operational condition, where the anchoring devices 1050 and 1051 securely engage
the bone.
 According to a further embodiment, the adjustment device is adapted to comprise
 torsion of a bone. Alternatively, or in combination, said adjustment device is
 adapted to change the angle of a bone.
According to a further embodiment, said adjustment device comprises at least
two parts, wherein the parts are adapted to rotate in relation to each other.
Preferably said relative rotation is anchored by said at least two anchoring
devices.
According to another embodiment, freely combinable with the other embodiments
presented herein, said adjustment device is adapted to change the angle of a
bone.
According to further embodiment, freely combinable with the other embodiments

                                            63
presented herein, said adjustment device comprises at least two parts, wherein the
parts are adapted to be positioned at an angle in relation to each other.
This is illustrated schematically in Fig. 40 shows an embodiment where the
implanted adjustment device comprises at least two parts 2100 and 2200, wherein
the parts are adapted to be positioned at an angle in relation to each other, and/or
rotated in relation to each other. The movement is achieved by the provision of a
joint, here shown as a semicircular or hemispherical element 2250, attached to an
operation device 2260, adapted to turn or rotate the element 2250 in relation to the
part 2200. The element 2250 is also operationally engaged to the part 2100,
where an adjustment device 2150 is adapted to engage said element, in order to
change the angle between the parts 2100 and 2200. Preferably said operation
device 2260 and said adjustment device 2260 each comprise a motor, and
optionally also a gear box and a control unit, as described in the context of other
embodiments herein.
The arrows schematically indicate the possible directions of movement of the parts
shown in Fig. 40, but it is understood that the parts can be angled, tilted or rotated in
relation to each other as desired.
 According to a further embodiment, said two or more anchoring devices are
 adapted to engage and carry weight purely on the inside of the bone.
 According to yet another embodiment, said two or more anchoring devices
 are adapted to engage with and carry weight to the bone without penetrating
 to the outside of the bone.
 According to yet another embodiment, said two or more anchoring devices are
 adapted to engage and carry weight purely on the outside of the bone.
According to another embodiment, freely combinable with any embodiment
presented herein, said device comprises a sensor directly or indirectly sensing
the position of the adjustment device.
 According to a further embodiment, the device comprises a feedback transmitter
 adapted to transmit information received directly or indirectly from said sensor out
 from the human body, said transmitted information adapted to be received by a
 external control unit and relating to the position of the adjustment device.

                                           64
  According to another embodiment of the device, said operation device is a
  motor operated as a three-phase motor. Alternatively, said operation device is
  a motor operated as a two- or more phase motor.
According to another embodiment, freely combinable with any embodiment
presented herein, said device comprises a gearbox connected to the motor, a
motor package, wherein the outgoing speed from the motor package is lower than
the speed by said motor alone, accomplished by said gearbox.
According to another embodiment, freely combinable with any embodiment
presented herein, said device comprises an electrical speed controller connected
to the motor, a motor package, wherein the outgoing speed of the motor in said
motor package is decreased by said electrical speed controller.
According to any of the above embodiments, the motor is a rotational motor and
the outgoing speed of the motor package is decreased to less than 100 turns per
second, alternatively decreased to less than 10 turns per second, alternatively to
less than 1 turn per second, or alternatively to less than 0.1 turn per second, or
alternatively to less than 0.01 turn per second, or alternatively to less than 0.001
turn per second.
According to another embodiment, freely combinable with any embodiment
presented herein, said device comprises an electrical speed controller connected
to the motor, a motor package, wherein the outgoing speed of the motor of said
motor package is controlled by said electrical speed controller.
  According to any of the above embodiments, the motor is a linear motor and the
  outgoing speed of the motor package is less than 1mm per second, alternatively
  less than 0.1mm per second, or alternatively less than 0.01mm per second, or
  alternatively less than 0.001 mm per second, or alternatively less than 0.0001 mm
  per second, or less than 0.00001 mm per second.
The construction of a device according to the invention is illustrated also in Fig.
35, schematically showing an embodiment of the device 930, comprising two
telescopically arranged parts 932 and 933, housing a longitudinal threaded central
shaft or axis 937 and a motor or gear arrangement 938 acting thereon,
transforming rotational force into longitudinal force and extension or contraction of

                                            65
the device.
  Further, Fig. 36 shows another related embodiment where the device comprises
 three main parts, a central section 935, and two telescopically arranged end
 sections 934 and 936, each connected to a longitudinal threaded central shaft or
 axis 939 and 940 through a motor or gear arrangement 941 and 942.
Finally, Fig. 37A and B show embodiments where a device for bone adjustment
according to the present invention, schematically shown as 1000 and 1010, is
enclosed in a flexible or elastic outer cover 1001, or an expandable outer cover
1011, where the expansion made possible for example by folds 1012, said covers
protecting the device from direct contact with tissues and body fluids.
  Said elastic, flexible or expandable cover is preferably made of a polymeric
  material generally recognised as safe and approved for surgical use, and can be
 suitably coated to minimize tissue irritation. Non-limiting examples of the material
 include silicon, polyurethane and TEFLON@, and non-limiting examples of
 suitable coatings include atomized metal coatings, and polymeric coatings, such
 as PARYLENE@.
The inventions also concern a method for bone adjustment in a mammal, wherein
a hydraulic or mechanical device according to any of the above presented
embodiments is used and implanted in the body of said mammal.
According to a further embodiment, said device is implanted intramedullary in the
body of said mammal, exerting a force to anchoring devices anchored to the inside
of said bone.
According to a further embodiment, said bone adjustment is the lengthening of
a bone, the healing of a fracture, the changing of a bone angle, the reshaping
of a bone, or a combination thereof.
 According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is a step in a treatment to
 correct a limb discrepancy caused by a congenital condition, deformation or
  previous trauma.
According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is reshaping or lengthening of a
bone involving distraction osteogenesis treatment.

                                           66
 According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is the reshaping or
 lengthening of a bone as a step of correcting a congenital deformation.
 According to a further embodiment, said adjustment is the reshaping or
 lengthening of a bone as a step of a cosmetic treatment.
 According to another embodiment of the method, freely combinable with any of
 the embodiments presented herein, reshaping is one of changing the angle or
 curvature of a bone, changing the torsion of a bone, changing the angle between
 the diaphysis and the epiphysis, changing the thickness of a bone or a
 combination thereof.
 According to another embodiment a device is implanted intramedullary in the body
 of said mammal, wherein said device is a hydraulic device exerting a force to
 anchoring devices anchored in said bone and a control device which controls the
 amount of force exerted by the device.
 According to another embodiment a device is implanted intramedullary in the body
 of said mammal, wherein said device is a mechanical device exerting a force to
 anchoring devices anchored in said bone and a control device which controls the
 amount of force exerted by the device.
 According to another embodiment of the method, freely combinable with any of
 the embodiments presented herein, said control device follows a program of
 incremental changes, set before the device is implanted. Alternatively, said
 control device follows a program of incremental changes, communicated to the
 control device after implantation and/or during the treatment.
 According to another embodiment of the method, freely combinable with any of the
 embodiments presented herein, the device is stabilized when the treatment is
 completed.
According to an embodiment, said device is stabilized by filling the device with a
material which stabilizes the position of the adjustment device and permanents the
distance between the anchoring devices. Preferably said material is chosen from a
curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies,
crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume.
 According to another embodiment said device is a hydraulic device and the

                                             67
 hydraulic fluid is a material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer
 or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a
 stable volume when the curing, solidification, crosslinking or other reaction is
 initiated by the user.
 According to another embodiment, the device is a hydraulic device and a
 material chosen from curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture
 which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume, is
 added to said device, partially or completely replacing the hydraulic fluid.
 Another embodiment comprises a method for distractive osteogenesis where the
 fractured bone is subjected to an intermittent and/or oscillating force using an
 implanted hydraulic or mechanical device.
Another embodiment is a method for treating a bone dysfunction of a mammal
patient by providing a device for bone adjustment comprising at least two
anchoring devices according to any of the embodiments presented herein, the
method comprising the steps of
              i. inserting a needle or tube-like instrument into a cavity of
                 said mammal patient;
             ii. inflating said cavity by introducing a fluid through said needle or
                 tube- like instrument and thereby expanding said cavity;
            iii. placing at least two laparoscopic trocars in said cavity;
            iv.  inserting a camera through one of said laparoscopic trocars into
                 said cavity;
             v.  inserting at least one dissecting tool through one of said at least
                 two laparoscopic trocars;
            vi.  dissecting an area of the dysfunctional bone;
           vii.  placing the device for bone adjustment and anchoring devices in
                 the medullar cavity of said bone;
          viii.  anchoring said anchoring devices in contact with said
                 bone;

                                             68
          ix.    closing the mammal body preferably in layers; and
           x.    non-invasively adjusting said bone postoperatively.
Another embodiment is method of treating a bone dysfunction of a mammal
patient by providing a device for bone adjustment comprising at least two
anchoring devices according to any of the embodiments presented herein,
comprising the steps of:
            i.   cutting the skin of said human patient;
           ii.   dissecting an area of the dysfunctional bone;
          iii.   placing the device in the medullar cavity of said bone;
          iv.    anchoring said anchoring devices in contact with said bone;
           v.    closing the mammal body preferably in layers;
                 and
          vi.    non-invasively adjusting said boneostoperatively.
The method according to any of the above embodiments preferably comprises the
step of withdrawing the instruments.
The method according to any of the above embodiments preferably comprises the
step of closing the skin using sutures or staples.
According to a further embodiment of the method, the step of dissecting includes
dissecting an area of the arm or leg comprising, dissecting an area of at least one
of the following bones; clavicula, scapula, humerus, radius, ulna, pelvic bone,
femur, tibia, fibula or calcaneus.
According to a further embodiment of the method, the step of dissecting includes
dissecting an area of the arm or leg comprising, dissecting an area at least one of
the following joints; shoulder, elbow, hip, knee, hand and foot.
According to a further embodiment of the method, an opening into the medullar
cavity is made by drilling.
The inventions also concern a system comprising an apparatus according to any
one of the embodiments presented herein.

                                              69
  According to a further embodiment of the system, said system comprises at least
  one switch implantable in the patient for manually and non-invasively controlling
  the apparatus.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a hydraulic
device having an implantable hydraulic reservoir, which is hydraulically connected
to the apparatus, wherein the apparatus is adapted to be non-invasively regulated
by manually pressing the hydraulic reservoir.
  According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a wireless
  remote control for non-invasively controlling the apparatus.
According to another embodiment, the wireless remote control comprises at least
one external signal transmitter and/or receiver, further comprising an internal signal
receiver and/or transmitter implantable in the patient for receiving signals
transmitted by the external signal transmitter or transmitting signals to the external
signal receiver.
According to another embodiment, said wireless remote control transmits at least
one wireless control signal for controlling the apparatus.
  According to another embodiment, said wireless control signal comprises a
  frequency, amplitude, or phase modulated signal or a combination thereof.
  According to another embodiment, said wireless remote control transmits an
  electromagnetic carrier wave signal for carrying the control signal.
  According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a wireless
  energy- transmission device for non-invasively energizing implantable energy
  consuming components of the apparatus with wireless energy.
According to another embodiment, said wireless energy comprises a wave signal
selected from the following: a sound wave signal, an ultrasound wave signal, an
electromagnetic wave signal, an infrared light signal, a visible light signal, an ultra
violet light signal, a laser light signal, a micro wave signal, a radio wave signal, an x
ray radiation signal and a gamma radiation signal.
  According to another embodiment, said wireless energy comprises one of the
  following: an electric field, a magnetic field, a combined electric and magnetic

                                            70
  field.
  According to another embodiment, said control signal comprises one of the
  following: an electric field, a magnetic field, a combined electric and magnetic
  field.
  According to another embodiment, said signal comprises an analogue signal, a
  digital signal, or a combination of an analogue and digital signal.
  According    to    another  embodiment,    said system    further   comprises  an
  implantable internal energy source for powering implantable energy consuming
  components of the apparatus.
  According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an external
  energy source for transferring energy in a wireless mode, wherein the internal
  energy source is chargeable by the energy transferred in the wireless mode.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a sensor or
measuring device sensing or measuring a functional parameter correlated to the
transfer of energy for charging the internal energy source, and a feedback device
for sending feedback information from inside the patient's body to the outside
thereof, the feedback information being related to the functional parameter sensed
by the sensor or measured by the measuring device.
  According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a feedback
  device for sending feedback information from inside the patient's body to the
  outside thereof, the feedback information being related to at least one of a physical
  parameter of the patient and a functional parameter related to the apparatus.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a sensor and/or a
measuring device and an implantable internal control unit for controlling the
apparatus in response to information being related to at least one of a physical
parameter of the patient sensed by the sensor or measured by the measuring
device and a functional parameter related to the apparatus sensed by the sensor or
measured by the measuring device. Said physical parameter is preferably a
pressure or a motility movement.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an external data
communicator and an implantable internal data communicator communicating with

                                            71
the external data communicator, wherein the internal communicator feeds data
related to the apparatus or the patient to the external data communicator and/or
the external data communicator feeds data to the internal data communicator.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a motor or a
 pump for operating the apparatus.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a
  hydraulic operation device for operating the apparatus.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an operation
 device for operating the apparatus, wherein the operation device comprises a
 servo or mechanical amplifier designed to decrease the force needed for the
 operation device to operate the apparatus instead the operation device acting a
  longer way, increasing the time for a determined action.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an operation
device for operating the apparatus, wherein the wireless energy is used in its
wireless state to directly power the operation device to create kinetic energy for
the operation of the apparatus, as the wireless energy is being transmitted by the
energy-transmission device.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an energy
 transforming device for transforming the wireless energy transmitted by the
 energy- transmission device from a first form into a second form of energy.
 According to an embodiment said energy-transforming device directly powers
  implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus with the second
 form energy, as the energy-transforming device transforms the first form energy
 transmitted by the energy-transmission device into the second form energy.
 According to an embodiment said second form energy comprises at least one of a
 direct current, pulsating direct current and an alternating current.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an implantable
 accumulator, wherein the second form energy is used at least partly to charge the
 accumulator.
According to an embodiment, freely combinable with any of the embodiments

                                            72
presented herein, said energy of the first or second form comprises at least one of
magnetic energy, kinetic energy, sound energy, chemical energy, radiant energy,
electromagnetic energy, photo energy, nuclear energy thermal energy, non
magnetic energy, non-kinetic energy, non-chemical energy, non-sonic energy, non
nuclear energy and non-thermal energy.
 According to another embodiment, said system further comprises implantable
 electrical components including at least one voltage level guard and/or at least one
 constant current guard.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises a control device
for controlling the transmission of wireless energy from the energy-transmission
device, and an implantable internal energy receiver for receiving the transmitted
wireless energy, the internal energy receiver being connected to implantable energy
consuming components of the apparatus for directly or indirectly supplying received
energy thereto, the system further comprising a determination device adapted to
determine an energy balance between the energy received by the internal energy
receiver and the energy used for the implantable energy consuming components of
the apparatus , wherein the control device controls the transmission of wireless
energy from the external energy-transmission device, based on the energy balance
determined by the determination device.
According to an embodiment, said determination device is adapted to detect a
change in the energy balance, and the control device controls the transmission
of wireless energy based on the detected energy balance change.
 According to another embodiment, said determination device is adapted to detect a
 difference between energy received by the internal energy receiver and energy
 used for the implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus, and the
 control device controls the transmission of wireless energy based on the detected
 energy difference.
 According to another embodiment, said energy-transmission device comprises a
 coil placed externally to the human body, further comprising an implantable energy
  receiver to be placed internally in the human body and an electric circuit connected
 to power the external coil with electrical pulses to transmit the wireless energy, the
 electrical pulses having leading and trailing edges, the electric circuit adapted to

                                              73
vary first time intervals between successive leading and trailing edges and/or
second time intervals between successive trailing and leading edges of the
electrical pulses to vary the power of the transmitted wireless energy, the energy
receiver receiving the transmitted wireless energy having a varied power.
According to another embodiment, said electric circuit is adapted to deliver the
electrical pulses to remain unchanged except varying the first and/or second
time intervals.
According to another embodiment, said the electric circuit has a time constant and
is adapted to vary the first and second time intervals only in the range of the first
time constant, so that when the lengths of the first and/or second time intervals are
varied, the transmitted power over the coil is varied.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an implantable
internal energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having
an internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an
external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy transmitter
having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit connected to the
second coil, wherein the external second coil of the energy transmitter transmits
wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the energy receiver, the
system further comprising a power switch for switching the connection of the
internal first coil to the first electronic circuit on and off, such that feedback
information related to the charging of the first coil is received by the external
energy transmitter in the form of an impedance variation in the load of the external
second coil, when the power switch switches the connection of the internal first
coil to the first electronic circuit on and off.
According to another embodiment, said system further comprises an implantable
internal energy receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having
an internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and an
external    energy     transmitter for transmitting     wireless  energy, the      energy
transmitter having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit
connected to the second coil, wherein the external second coil of the energy
transmitter transmits wireless energy which is received by the first coil of the
energy     receiver,    the  system     further  comprising   a  feedback device       for

                                              74
 communicating out the amount of energy received in the first coil as a feedback
 information, and wherein the second electronic circuit includes a determination
 device for receiving the feedback information and for comparing the amount of
 transferred energy by the second coil with the feedback information related to the
 amount of energy received in the first coil to obtain the coupling factors between
 the first and second coils.
 According to another embodiment, said transmitted energy may be regulated
 depending on the obtained coupling factor.
 According to another embodiment, said external second coil is adapted to be
  moved in relation to the internal first coil to establish the optimal placement of the
 second coil, in which the coupling factor is maximized.
 According to another embodiment, said external second coil is adapted to
 calibrate the amount of transferred energy to achieve the feedback information
  in the determination device, before the coupling factor is maximized.
According to another embodiment, said mechanical device comprises a mechanical
multi step locking mechanism, locking the mechanical device in its new position after
adjustment.
According to a further embodiment, said mechanical multi step locking mechanism
comprises at least one of a sprint, a elongated structure using the principle of saw
teeth, flanges, barbs or a bonnet band, a nut, a gearbox, or a spring loaded locking
principle.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic adjustment device is adapted to being
 stabilized when the bone adjustment is completed.
According to an embodiment, said hydraulic adjustment device can be filled with
a material which stabilizes the position of the adjustment device and permanents
the distance between the anchoring devices.
  In the above embodiment, said material is preferably chosen from curable
 foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks
 or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume.
 According to an embodiment, said hydraulic fluid used in said device is a

                                           75
  material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer
  mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable
 volume when the curing, solidification, crosslinking or other reaction is initiated
 by the user.
In the above embodiment, the material chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a
polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and
retains a stable volume, is added to the device, partially or completely replacing the
hydraulic fluid.
 According to another embodiment, said device comprises a control device. Said
 control device preferably follows a program of incremental changes, set before
 the device is implanted. Alternatively, said control device follows a program of
 incremental changes, communicated to the control device after implantation
 and/or during the treatment.
 According to an embodiment, said control device comprises an external control unit
 and an implantable receiver suitable for wireless communication with said external
 control unit, having a transmitter located outside the body.
 According to another embodiment, said control device controls incremental
 changes of      the adjustment device, communicated           to the   receiver after
  implantation and/or during the treatment by using said external control unit.
According    to   another   embodiment,    freely   combinable    with   any  other
embodiment presented herein, said adjustment device is adapted to adjust
torsion of a bone.
 According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to change
 the angle of a bone.
According to another embodiment, said adjustment device comprises at least two
parts, wherein the parts is adapted to rotate in relation to each other.
 According to another embodiment, said relative rotation is anchored by said at
  least two anchoring devices.
According to another embodiment, said adjustment device comprises at least two
parts, wherein the parts is adapted to be angled in relation to each other.

                                            76
 According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to change
 the curvature of a bone including the spinal column.
According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to realign or
reposition a joint or a vertebra including the reforming or supporting the shape of the
spinal column.
According to another embodiment, two or more anchoring devices are adapted to
engage and carry weight purely on the outside of the bone.
 According to another embodiment of the device, said two or more anchoring
 devices are adapted to engage with and carry weight to the bone without
 penetrating to the inside of the bone, the medulla of the bone.
 According to another embodiment, said adjustment device is adapted to be placed
 on the outside of the bone.
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises a sensor direct or
 indirect sensing the position of the adjustment device.
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises a feedback
 transmitter adapted to transmit information received direct or indirect from said
 sensor out from the human body, said transmitted information adapted to be
 received by a external control unit and relating to the position of the adjustment
 device.
According to an embodiment, said operation device is a motor operated as a three
phase motor. Alternatively, said operation device is a motor operated as a two- or
more phase motor.
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises a gearbox connected
 to the motor, a motor package, wherein the outgoing speed from the motor
 package is lower than the speed by said motor alone, accomplished by said
 gearbox.
According to a further embodiment, said outgoing speed of the motor in said
motor package is decreased by said electrical speed controller.
 According to an embodiment, said motor is a rotational motor and the outgoing
 speed of the motor package is decreased to less than 100 turns per second, or

                                            77
 decreased to less than 10 turns per second, or to less than 1 turn per second, or to
 less than 0.1 turn per second, or to less than 0.01 turn per second, or to less than
 0.001 turn per second.
 According to yet another embodiment, said device comprises an electrical speed
 controller connected to the motor, a motor package, wherein the outgoing speed of
 the motor in said motor package is controlled by said electrical speed controller.
 According to an embodiment, said motor is a linear motor and the outgoing speed
 of the motor package is less than 1mm per second, or less than 0.1mm per
 second, or less than 0.01mm per second, or less than 0.001mm per second, or
 less than 0.0001 mm per second, or less than 0.00001 mm per second.
 It should be noted that the above embodiments, and features appearing in the
 individual embodiments, are freely combinable.
  Examples
 There are animal models for the investigation of fracture healing, such as a rabbit
 fibula model, a sheep model for fracture treatment in osteoporosis, a murine femur
 fracture model. It is conceived that the inventive device and method can be tested
 in existing animal models, preferably models involving the use of larger mammals,
 such as sheep, pig, dog, monkey etc.
There are also non-invasive methods for the evaluation of bone fracture healing, see
e.g. a review article (Protopappas et al., 2008) describing quantitative
ultrasonic monitoring of bone fracture healing.
 In a suitable animal model, a test animal is anaesthetised, and a bone dissected
 and fractured. When dissecting a bone, care is taken to cause minimal tissue
 damage,
 e.g. by folding or pulling tissue to the side instead of removing it from its location.
 Pins or other anchoring devices are fixed in the bone on both sides of the fracture,
 and a device according to the invention attached to said anchoring devices. The
 tissue is replaced carefully, preferably layer by layer, and the body of the animal
 closed. After a suitable initial healing period, the fracture zone is adjusted non
 invasively. Parameters such as bone healing, pain and signs of infection or

                                            78
 inflammation are observed regularly. Following euthanasia, the bone is dissected
 and the fracture zone analysed.
The experiment can be repeated, with necessary modifications, in the same or in a
different animal model, for evaluating the adjustment of the curvature of the spine,
realigning a joint, changing the curvature of a bone, or the like.
Although    the   invention  has  been    described with    regard to  its preferred
embodiments, which constitute the best mode presently known to the inventors, it
should be understood that various changes and modifications as would be obvious
to one having the ordinary skill in this art may be made without departing from the
scope of the invention which is set forth in the claims appended hereto.

                                               79
Claims
    1. An implantable device for bone adjustment in a mammal, comprising:
           -  two or more anchoring devices for attaching to a bone in said mammal,
           -  an adjustment device for exerting force on said anchoring devices to adjust
              the distance between, or orientation of, at least two of said anchoring
              devices,
           -  an operation device comprising a motor, for operating said adjustment
              device, and
           -  an internal control unit, wherein:
           -  said   anchoring devices and said adjustment device are implanted
               intramedullary in said mammal,
           -  said adjustment device is constructed to postoperatively adjust said
              distance or orientation, and
           -  said internal control unit is adapted to be at least one of:
           -   programmable from outside the patient's body,
           -   programmed to regulate the apparatus according to a pre-programmed
              time-schedule, and
           -   programmed to regulate the apparatus according to input from a sensor
              sensing a physical parameter of the patient or a functional parameter of the
              system.
   2. The implantable device according to claim 1, wherein the internal control unit is
       configured to at least one of;
           -  follow a program of incremental changes, set before the device is
               implanted, and
           -  follow a program of incremental changes, communicated to the control
              device after implantation and/or during the treatment.
   3. The device according to any one of claims 1 - 2, wherein said adjustment is at
       least one of the lengthening of a bone, the compression of a bone, the healing of a
       fracture, the changing of a bone angle, the reshaping of a bone, a step in a
       treatment to correct a limb discrepancy caused by at least one of; a congenital

                                          80
   condition, deformation or previous trauma, changing the curvature of a bone,
   changing the torsion of a bone, changing the angle between the diaphysis and the
   epiphysis, changing the thickness of a bone, changing the curvature of the spine,
   adjoining of vertebrae adapted to change at least one of; the curvature of the
   spine and to relieve a herniated lumbar disc or the like.
4. The device according to any one of claims 1 - 3, comprising two or more
   anchoring devices for attaching to a bone, wherein the two or more anchoring
   devices are at least one of:
       -  adapted to be anchored to the bone,
       -  adapted to engage the bone from the inside of the intramedullar cavity,
       -  chosen from at least one of a pin, a screw, an adhesive, a barb
          construction,    a   saw-tooth    construction,    an   expandable element,
          combinations thereof or other mechanical connecting members,
       -  comprising a thread for engaging and stabilizing the anchoring device in
          relation to the bone,
       - comprising an expandable part expanding at least partially perpendicular to
          the longitudinal extension of the elongated device for engaging and
          stabilizing the anchoring device in relation to the bone.
       -  adapted to engage and carry weight purely on the outside of the bone,
       -  adapted to engage and carry weight purely on the inside of the bone,
       -  adapted to engage and carry weight purely on the inside of the bone,
          wherein two or more anchoring devices are adapted to engage with and
          carrying weight to the bone without penetrating to the outside of the bone,
          the medulla of the bone,
       -  anchoring a relative rotation of at least two parts adapted to rotate in
          relation to each other, wherein said adjustment device comprises at least
          two parts.
5. The device according to any one of claims 1 - 4, wherein the force exerted by the
   adjustment device is, at least one of;
       -  a longitudinal force, extending the length of the bone,

                                            81
       -    directed to the end portions of the medullar cavity,
       -    a longitudinal force, adjusting the angle or curvature of the bone, and
       -    applying torque to the bone, adjusting the torsion of the bone along it's
            longitudinal axis.
6. The device according to any one of claims 1 - 5, wherein said adjustment device
   is, at least one of:
       -    adapted to comprise torsion of a bone,
       -    adapted to change the angle of a bone,
       -    adapted to have at least two parts to rotate in relation to each other,
            wherein said adjustment device comprises at least two parts,
       -    adapted to have at least two parts to rotate in relation to each other,
            wherein said adjustment device comprises at least two parts, the relative
            rotation being anchored by at least two anchoring devices,
       -    adapted to have at least two parts angled in relation to each other, wherein
            said adjustment device comprises at least two parts,
       -    adapted to change the curvature of a bone,
       -    adapted to change the curvature of the spine,
       -    adapted to adjoining vertebrae, adapted to change at least one of; the
            curvature of the spine and to relieve a herniated lumbar disc or the like,
       -    adapted to non-adjoining vertebrae, adapted to change at least one of; the
            curvature of the spine and to relieve a herniated lumbar disc or the like.
7. The device according to any one of claims 1 - 6, wherein the control device, at
   least one of:
   controls incremental changes of the adjustment device, communicated to the
   receiver after implantation and/or during the treatment by using an comprised
   external     control   unit and    an   implantable   receiver  suitable  for wireless
   communication with said external control unit, having a transmitter located outside
   the body,

                                          82
   regulates the     device non-invasively by        manually   pressing   at  least one
   subcutaneous switch, whereby the operation of the device is switched on and off,
   further comprising an implantable internal energy source for powering implantable
   energy consuming components of the apparatus, and
   regulates the     device non-invasively by        manually   pressing   at  least one
   subcutaneous switch, wherein the switch sends information to the internal control
   unit to perform a certain predetermined performance.
8. The device according to any one of claims 1 - 7, wherein the adjustment device
   comprising, at least one of:
       -   a mechanical device for said bone adjustment,
       -   a mechanical device for said bone adjustment comprising at least one nut
           and screw,
       -   a mechanical device for said bone adjustment comprising at least one
           gearbox,
       -   a mechanical device for said bone adjustment comprises a servo
           mechanism or mechanical amplifier,
       -   a at least one of; a hydraulic and mechanical device for said bone
           adjustment, which comprising a mechanical multi step locking mechanism,
           locking the mechanical device in its new position after adjustment, and
       -   at least one of; a mechanical and hydraulic device for said bone
           adjustment, which comprising a mechanical multi step locking mechanism,
           locking the mechanical device in its new position after adjustment,
           comprising at least one of; a sprint, a elongated structure using the principle
           of saw teeth, flanges, barbs or a bonnet band, a nut, a gearbox, or a spring
           loaded locking principle.
9. The device according to any one of claims 1 - 8, wherein the adjustment device
   comprises a hydraulic device for said bone adjustment, the hydraulic device is, at
   least one of:
       -   comprising a cylinder and piston,

                                   83
- comprising a mechanical multi step locking mechanism,                 locking the
  hydraulic device in its new position after adjustment,
- comprising a mechanical multi step locking mechanism,                 locking the
  hydraulic device in       its new position after adjustment, wherein the
  mechanical multi step locking mechanism comprises at least one of a
  sprint, a elongated structure using the principle of saw teeth, flanges, barbs
  or a bonnet band, a nut, a gearbox, or a spring loaded locking principle,
- comprising hydraulic fluid and a reservoir containing said fluid, adapted to
  move said fluid to said adjustment device,
- comprising hydraulic fluid and a reservoir containing said fluid, adapted to
  move said fluid to said adjustment device, wherein the hydraulic fluid is
  moved from said reservoir to said adjustment device by using a pre
  pressurized reservoir or a pump,
- comprising a device positioning system such as a fluid volume or flow
  measurement or any other sensor input to see the position of the
  adjustment device,
- adapted to be stabilized when the bone adjustment is completed,
- adapted to be filled with a material which stabilizes the position of the
  adjustment device and permanents the distance between the anchoring
  devices,
- adapted to be stabilized when the bone adjustment is completed, wherein
  the material is chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or
  polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains
  a stable volume,
- adapted to be stabilized when the bone adjustment is completed, wherein
  the hydraulic fluid used in said device is a material chosen from a curable
  foam, a curable gel, a polymer or polymer mixture which solidifies,
  crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains a stable volume when the curing,
  solidification, crosslinking or other reaction is initiated by the user,
- adapted to be stabilized when the bone adjustment is completed, wherein
  the material is chosen from a curable foam, a curable gel, a polymer or
  polymer mixture which solidifies, crosslinks or otherwise attains and retains
  a stable volume, is added to the device, partially or completely replacing the
  hydraulic fluid.

                                         84
10.The device according to any one of claims 1 - 9, wherein the operation device is,
   at least one of:
       -   a motor operated as a three-phase motor,
       -   a motor operated as a two or more phase motor,
       -  operating a servo or mechanical amplifier comprised in the adjustment
          device,
       -  operating a servo or mechanical amplifier comprised in the adjustment
          device, the servo designed to decrease the force needed for the operation
          device to operate the apparatus instead the operation device acting a
           longer way, increasing the time for a determined action,
       -  comprising at least one of:
          a gearbox connected to the motor, a motor package, wherein the outgoing
          speed from the motor package is lower than the speed by said motor alone,
          accomplished by said gearbox, and
          an electrical speed controller connected to the motor, a motor package,
          wherein the outgoing speed of the motor in said motor package is
          decreased by said electrical speed controller,
          wherein the operation device in both cases is at least one of:
          a rotational motor and the outgoing speed of the motor package is
          decreased to at least one of:
          less than 100 turns per second,
          less than 10 turns per second,
          less than 1 turn per second,
          less than 0.1 turn per second,
          less than 0.01 turn per second, and
          less than 0.001 turn per second,
          and
          a linear motor and the outgoing speed of the motor package is at least one
          of:
          less than 1mm per second,
          less than 0.1 mm per second,
          less than 0.01 mm per second,

                                            85
           less than 0.001 mm per second,
           less than 0.0001 mm per second, and
           less than 0.00001 mm per second.
11.The device according to any one of claims 1 - 10, wherein said device is, at least
    one of:
        -  flexible to allow introduction into the medullar cavity,
        -   at least partly elastic and is flexible to allow introduction into the medullar
           cavity,
        -  comprising a spring and is flexible to allow introduction into the medullar
           cavity,
        -   adapted to regain its shape after having been bent,
        -   adapted for exerting an intermittent and/or oscillating force, and
        -  comprising a locking device, which allows extension of the device but
           substantially prevents contraction,
        -  comprising a sensor direct or indirect sensing the position of the adjustment
           device.
12. The device according to claim 11, when the device comprises a sensor directly or
    indirectly sensing the position of the adjustment device, the device comprising a
    feedback transmitter adapted to transmit information received direct or indirect
    from said sensor out from the human body, said transmitted information adapted
    to be received by an external control unit and relating to the position of the
    adjustment device.
13.A system comprising an apparatus according to any one of claims 1-12, further
    comprising at least one of:
        -   a sensor or measuring device sensing or measuring a functional parameter
           correlated to the transfer of energy for charging an internal energy source,
            and a feedback device for sending feedback information from inside the
            patient's body to the outside thereof, the feedback information being related

                                         86
          to the functional parameter sensed by the sensor or measured by the
          measuring device, further comprising an implantable internal energy source
          for powering implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus,
          and an external energy source for transferring energy in a wireless mode,
          wherein the internal energy source is chargeable by the energy transferred
          in the wireless mode.
      -   a feedback device for sending feedback information from inside the
          patient's body to the outside thereof, the feedback information being related
          to at least one of a physical parameter of the patient and a functional
          parameter related to the apparatus,
      -   a sensor and/or a measuring device and an implantable internal control unit
          for controlling the apparatus in response to information being related to at
          least one of a physical parameter of the patient sensed by the sensor or
          measured by the measuring device and a functional parameter related to
          the apparatus sensed by the sensor or measured by the measuring device,
      -   an   external   data   communicator     and   an  implantable   internal data
          communicator communicating         with   the external data communicator,
          wherein the internal communicator feeds data related to the apparatus or
          the patient to the external data communicator and/or the external data
          communicator feeds data to the internal data communicator.
14. A system comprising an apparatus according to any one of claims 1-12 and a
   system according to claim 13, further comprising at least one of:
      -   at least one switch implantable in the patient for manually and non
          invasively controlling the apparatus,
      -   a wireless remote control for non-invasively controlling the apparatus.
      -   a hydraulic device having an implantable hydraulic reservoir, which is
          hydraulically connected to the apparatus, wherein the apparatus is adapted
          to be non-invasively regulated by manually pressing the hydraulic reservoir,
15.A system comprising an apparatus according to any one of claims 1 - 12, and a
   system according to anyone of claims 13 - 14, further comprising at least one of:

                               87
a wireless energy-transmission        device for non-invasively energizing
implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus with wireless
energy,
an implantable internal energy source for powering implantable energy
consuming components of the apparatus, and
an external energy source for transferring energy in a wireless mode and
an implantable internal energy source for powering implantable energy
consuming components of the apparatus, wherein the internal energy
source is chargeable by the energy transferred in the wireless mode,
implantable electrical components including at least one voltage level guard
and/or at least one constant current guard,
an energy-transforming      device for transforming the wireless energy
transmitted by the energy-transmission device from a first form into a
second form of energy, wherein the second form energy is used at least
partly to charge an accumulator
an operation device for operating the apparatus, wherein the wireless
energy is used in its wireless state to directly power the operation device to
create kinetic energy for the operation of the apparatus, as the wireless
energy is being transmitted by the energy-transmission device
an energy-transforming      device for transforming the wireless energy
transmitted by the energy-transmission device from a first form into a
second form of energy, wherein the energy-transforming device directly
powers implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus with
the second form energy, as the energy-transforming device transforms the
first form energy transmitted by the energy-transmission device into the
second form energy,
a wireless energy-transmission        device for non-invasively energizing
implantable energy consuming components of the apparatus with wireless
energy, further comprising a control device for controlling the transmission
of wireless energy from the energy-transmission device, and an implantable
internal energy receiver for receiving the transmitted wireless energy, the
internal energy receiver being connected to implantable energy consuming
components of the apparatus for directly or indirectly supplying received
energy thereto, the system further comprising a determination device

                                  88
adapted to determine an energy balance between the energy received by
the internal energy receiver and the energy used for the               implantable
energy consuming components of the apparatus , wherein the control
device controls the transmission of wireless energy from the external
energy-transmission device, based on the energy balance determined by
the determination device,
a feedback device for sending feedback information from inside the
patient's body to the outside thereof, the feedback information being related
to at least one of a physical parameter of the patient and a functional
parameter related to the apparatus, and an implantable internal energy
receiver for receiving wireless energy, the energy receiver having an
internal first coil and a first electronic circuit connected to the first coil, and
an external energy transmitter for transmitting wireless energy, the energy
transmitter having an external second coil and a second electronic circuit
connected to the second coil, wherein the external second coil of the
energy transmitter transmits wireless energy which is received by the first
coil of the energy receiver, the system further comprising a feedback device
for communicating out the amount of energy received in the first coil as a
feedback information, and wherein the second electronic circuit includes a
determination device for receiving the feedback information and for
comparing the amount of transferred energy by the second coil with the
feedback information related to the amount of energy received in the first
coil to obtain the coupling factors between the first and second coils.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
