                                            Abstract
   A custom procedure kit is provided, which comprises a plurality of medical-procedure
 5 tools and a cover that is wrapped around the plurality of medical-procedure tools to
   form wrapped tools. An outer container is fully disposed about the wrapped tools, and at
   least one sheet is disposed between the outer container and the wrapped tools. The sheet
   includes a listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools and, for at least some of the
   medical-procedure tools, an unselected end-user selectable field.
10

WO 2014/014658                                    PCT/US2013/049091
                               1/7
                           500            403
                                                    402
                                                            405
                   ---------------- 1
                          200
                                      *.I
  400~         201                            300
                                                               100
                              FIG. 1

                                 CUSTOM PROCEDURE KIT
                                        Technical Field
 5 [0001] This invention relates generally to custom procedure kits for use in medical
   procedures.
                                 Background of the Disclosure
10 [0002] Many medical service providers such as doctors, nurses, and surgeons use
   procedure kits, often referred to as surgical packs, surgical kits, and/or sterile procedure
   trays, that contain a variety of tools and/or implements useful for a particular surgical
   procedure. The tools are generally disposable, and may include supplies such as covers,
   gowns, towels, gauze, tubing, syringes, and so forth. As one example, an appendectomy
15 surgical pack for a particular hospital may include twenty or thirty tools specified by the
   hospital for performing that procedure. When an appendectomy is scheduled, one of the
   appendectomy-specific surgical kits is retrieved from the stock room and is delivered to
   the operating room. The surgeon and nurses generally use at least some of the tools
   during the procedure and then dispose of all the tools after the procedure.
20
   [0003] Many such surgical packs are customized and packed to customers' specific
   requirements.    Different customers    may    require  different components        for each
   procedure. For example, one hospital may suture a wound with degradable suture
   material, while another may prefer non-degradable suture material, and so forth. Some
25 manufacturers    offer tens of thousands       of different types      of surgical packs.
   [0004] One problem associated with surgical packs (regardless of whether they are a
   generic offering or a customized offering) is the potential for generating excess waste if,
   for example, a surgical pack intended for one particular procedure is erroneously
30 opened for a different type of procedure or the surgical pack contains tools that are
   routinely unused by a given service provider for whatever reason.
   [0005] Additionally, while surgical packs for routine procedures may include only
   twenty to thirty items, some surgical packs can include as many as two hundred tools.

                                                   2
   Thus, many surgical packs tend to be rather large and bulky, making it difficult for a
   person to manage one or more surgical packs while transporting the pack(s) from
   storage to the operating room. The applicant has determined that existing approaches in
   these regards leave room for considerable improvement.
 5
                                    Summary of the Disclosure
   [0006] In a first aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a kit comprising: a plurality of
10 medical-procedure tools; a cover that is wrapped around the plurality of medical
   procedure tools to form wrapped tools; an outer container fully disposed about the
   wrapped tools; at least one sheet disposed between the outer container and the wrapped
   tools, the at least one sheet including a listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   and, for at least some of the medical-procedure tools, an unselected end-user selectable
15 field.
   [0007] In certain embodiments, the plurality of medical-procedure                tools relate
   specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.
20 [0008] In certain embodiments, the plurality of medical-procedure tools include at least
   one: operating room towel; gown; drape; suction tubing; suction tip.
   [0009] In certain embodiments, wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   includes at least one of: plastic container; syringe; needle; surgical implement.
25
   [0010] In certain embodiments, the cover comprises a patient support surface cover.
   [0011] In certain embodiments, at least one side of the patient support surface cover is
   sterile.
30
   [0012] In certain embodiments, at least some of the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   are sterile.
   [0013] In certain embodiments, the outer container has at least one portion that is at

                                                   3
   least substantially transparent, wherein the sheet is disposed so as to be visible through
   the at least one portion that is at least substantially transparent.
   [0014] In certain embodiments, the outer container is comprised of plastic sheeting.
 5
   [0015] In certain embodiments, the outer container includes a color that indicates a
   particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   specifically relate.
10 [0016] In certain embodiments, the outer container further includes text to further
   indicate the particular genre of medical procedure.
   [0017] In certain embodiments, the sheet includes coloring that matches the color.
15 [0018] In certain embodiments, at least one of the outer container and the sheet further
   includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that indicates a
   particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   specifically relate.
20 [0019] In certain embodiments, at least one of the outer container and the sheet further
   includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that indicates a barrier
   protection level of at least one of the plurality of medical-procedure tools.
   [0020] In certain embodiments, the outer container includes a hand-graspable handle.
25
   [0021] In certain embodiments, the outer container includes an arm-receiving sleeve.
   [0022] In certain embodiments, the arm-receiving sleeve has a hand-graspable handle
   formed therethrough.
30
   [0023] In certain embodiments, the listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   includes, for each of the medical-procedure tools, the unselected end-user selectable
   field.

                                                 4
   [0024] In certain embodiments, the unselected end-user selectable field comprises an
   unchecked checkbox.
   [0025] In certain embodiments, the sheet further includes text to identify the purpose of
 5 the unselected end-user selectable fields.
   [0026] In certain embodiments, the purpose is to identify specific medical-procedure
   tools that went unused during a medical procedure that used other medical-procedure
   tools in the kit.
10
   [0027] In certain embodiments, the sheet further includes a color-based legend as
   regards at least one caution as pertains to usage of at least one of the plurality of
   medical-procedure tools, wherein the color as corresponds to the color-based legend
   highlights corresponding ones of the listed medical-procedure tools.
15
   [0028] In certain embodiments, the caution comprises a presence of latex.
   [0029] In certain embodiments, the listing further includes at least one medical
   procedure tool that is not included in the kit.
20
   [0030] In certain embodiments, the sheet further includes, for at least some of the
   medical-procedure tools that are not included in the kit, an unselected end-user
   selectable field.
25 [0031] In certain embodiments, the sheet further includes an optical code that contains,
   at least in part, a network address.
   [0032] In certain embodiments, the network address corresponds to a facility to receive
   information regarding user selections that have been made as regards the end-user
30 selectable fields.
   [0033] In a second aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a method for use of a medical
   procedure kit in connection with a medical procedure, the method comprising providing
   the kit, the kit comprising: a plurality of medical-procedure tools for use in the medical

                                                   5
   procedure, a cover being wrapped around the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   forming wrapped tools, an outer container is fully disposed about the wrapped tools, and
   at least one sheet is disposed between the outer container and the wrapped tools, the at
   least one sheet including a listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools and, for at
 5 least some of the medical-procedure tools, the sheet has an unselected end-user
   selectable field; and wherein for any of the medical-procedure tools for which an
   unselected end-user selectable field is provided on the sheet but which are not used in
   the medical procedure, selecting the end-user selectable field corresponding to the tool.
10 [0034] In certain embodiments, the plurality of medical-procedure             tools relate
   specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.
   [0035] In certain embodiments, the plurality of medical-procedure tools include at least
   one: operating room towel; gown; drape; suction tubing; suction tip.
15
   [0036] In certain embodiments, the cover comprises a patient support surface cover.
   [0037] In certain embodiments, the outer container has at least one portion that is at
   least substantially transparent, wherein the sheet is disposed so as to be visible through
20 the at least one portion that is at least substantially transparent.
   [0038] In certain embodiments, the outer container includes a color that indicates a
   particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   specifically relate.
25
   [0039] In certain embodiments, the outer container further includes text to further
   indicate the particular genre of medical procedure.
   [0040] In certain embodiments, the sheet includes coloring that matches the color.
30
   [0041] In certain embodiments, at least one of the outer container and the sheet further
   includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that indicates a
   particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   specifically relate.

                                                  6
   [0042] In certain embodiments, at least one of the outer container and the sheet further
   includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that indicates a barrier
   protection level of at least one of the plurality of medical-procedure tools.
 5
   [0043] In certain embodiments, the listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   includes, for each of the medical-procedure tools, the unselected end-user selectable
   field.
10 [0044] In certain embodiments, the unselected end-user selectable field comprises an
   unchecked checkbox.
   [0045] In certain embodiments, the sheet further includes text to identify the purpose of
   the unselected end-user selectable fields.
15
   [0046] In certain embodiments, the purpose is to identify specific medical-procedure
   tools that went unused during a medical procedure that used other medical-procedure
   tools in the kit.
20 [0047] In certain embodiments, the sheet further includes an optical code that contains,
   at least in part, a network address.
   [0048] In a third aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a medical procedure kit for use in
   the method of the second aspect, the kit comprising: the plurality of medical-procedure
25 tools, the cover that is wrapped around the plurality of medical-procedure tools to form
   said wrapped tools, the outer container fully disposed about the wrapped tools, and the
   at least one sheet disposed between the outer container and the wrapped tools, the at
   least one sheet including the listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools; and
   wherein, for at least some of the medical-procedure tools, said unselected end-user
30 selectable field.
   [0049] In certain embodiments of the method, the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   relate specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.

                                                  7
   [0050] In certain embodiments of the method, the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   include at least one: operating room towel; gown; drape; suction tubing; suction tip.
   [0051] In certain embodiments of the method, the cover comprises a patient support
 5 surface cover.
   [0052] In certain embodiments of the method, the outer container has at least one
   portion that is at least substantially transparent, wherein the sheet is disposed so as to be
   visible through the at least one portion that is at least substantially transparent.
10
   [0053] In a fourth aspect, embodiments are disclosed of a kit comprising: a plurality of
   medical-procedure tools; a cover that is wrapped around the plurality of medical
   procedure tools to form wrapped tools; an outer container fully disposed about the
   wrapped tools, the outer container having at least one portion that is at least
15 substantially transparent; at least one sheet disposed between the outer container and the
   wrapped tools, the at least one sheet being disposed so as to be visible through the at
   least one portion of the outer container that is at least substantially transparent, the at
   least one sheet including a listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools and, for at
   least some of the medical-procedure tools, an unselected end-user selectable field; and a
20 hand-graspable handle having at least one portion that is transparent, the hand-graspable
   handle being disposed on the outer container such that at least a portion of the at least
   one sheet is visible through the portion of the outer container that is at least substantially
   transparent and through the portion of the hand-graspable handle that is transparent.
25 [0054] In certain embodiments of the kit, the plurality of medical-procedure tools relate
   specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.
   [0055] In certain embodiments of the kit, the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   include at least one: operating room towel; gown; drape; suction tubing; suction tip.
30
   [0056] In certain embodiments of the kit, the plurality of medical-procedure tools
   includes at least one of: plastic container; syringe; needle; surgical implement.

                                                 8
   [0057] In certain embodiments of the kit, the cover comprises a patient support surface
   cover.
   [0058] In certain embodiments of the kit, at least one side of the patient support surface
 5 cover is sterile.
   [0059] In certain embodiments of the kit, at least some of the plurality of medical
   procedure tools are sterile.
10 [0060] In certain embodiments of the kit, the outer container is comprised of plastic
   sheeting.
   [0061] In certain embodiments of the kit, the outer container includes a color that
   indicates a particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical
15 procedure tools specifically relate.
   [0062] In certain embodiments of the kit, the outer container further includes text to
   further indicate the particular genre of medical procedure.
20 [0063] In certain embodiments of the kit, the sheet includes coloring that matches the
   color.
   [0064] In certain embodiments of the kit, at least one of the outer container and the
   sheet further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that
25 indicates a particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical
   procedure tools specifically relate.
   [0065] In certain embodiments of the kit, at least one of the outer container and the
   sheet further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that
30 indicates a barrier protection level of at least one of the plurality of medical-procedure
   tools.
   [0066] In certain embodiments of the kit, the hand-graspable handle includes an arm
   receiving sleeve.

                                                  9
   [0067] In certain embodiments of the kit, the arm-receiving sleeve has an opening
   formed therethrough configured to receive a hand.
 5 [0068] In certain embodiments of the kit, the listing of the plurality of medical
   procedure tools includes, for each of the medical-procedure tools, the unselected end
   user selectable field.
   [0069] In certain embodiments of the kit, the unselected end-user selectable field
10 comprises an unchecked checkbox.
   [0070] In certain embodiments of the kit, the sheet further includes text to identify the
   purpose of the unselected end-user selectable fields.
15 [0071] In certain embodiments of the kit, the purpose is to identify specific medical
   procedure tools that went unused during a medical procedure that used other medical
   procedure tools in the kit.
   [0072] In certain embodiments of the kit, the sheet further includes a color-based legend
20 as regards at least one caution as pertains to usage of at least one of the plurality of
   medical-procedure tools, wherein a color as corresponds to the color-based legend
   highlights corresponding ones of the listed medical-procedure tools.
   [0073] In certain embodiments of the kit, the caution comprises a presence of latex.
25
   [0074] In certain embodiments of the kit, the listing further includes at least one
   medical-procedure tool that is not included in the kit.
   [0075] In certain embodiments of the kit, the sheet further includes, for at least some of
30 the medical-procedure tools that are not included in the kit, an unselected end-user
   selectable field.
   [0076] In certain embodiments of the kit, the sheet further includes an optical code that
   contains, at least in part, a network address.

                                               10
   [0077] In certain embodiments of the kit, the network address corresponds to a facility
   to receive information regarding user selections that have been made as regards the end
   user selectable fields.
 5
                               Brief Description of the Figures
   [0078] The above needs are at least partially met through provision of the custom
   procedure kit described in the following detailed description, particularly when studied
10 in conjunction with the drawings, wherein:
   [0079] FIG. 1 comprises a schematic view of a kit configured in accordance with
   various embodiments of the invention;
15 [0080] FIG. 2 comprises a front-elevation view of a kit configured in accordance with
   various embodiments of the invention;
   [0081] FIG. 3 comprises a perspective view of a kit configured in accordance with
   various embodiments of the invention;
20
   [0082] FIG. 4 comprises a front-elevation view of a kit configured in accordance with
   various embodiments of the invention;
   [0083] FIG. 5 comprises a perspective partial view of a kit as configured in accordance
25 with various embodiments of the invention;
   [0084] FIG. 6 comprises a perspective partial view of a kit as configured in accordance
   with various embodiments of the invention;
30 [0085] FIG. 7 comprises a schematic view of a sheet configured in accordance with
   various embodiments of the invention; and
   [0086] FIG. 8 comprises front a view of a sheet configured in accordance with various
   embodiments of the invention.

                                                11
   [0087] Common but well-understood elements that are useful or necessary in a
   commercially feasible embodiment are often not depicted in order to facilitate a less
   obstructed view of these various embodiments of the present invention. Certain actions
 5 and/or steps may be described or depicted in a particular order of occurrence while
   those skilled in the art will understand that such specificity with respect to sequence is
   not actually required. The terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary technical
   meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions by persons skilled in the technical
   field as set forth above except where different specific meanings have otherwise been
10 set forth herein.
                                     Detailed Description
   [0088] Generally speaking, these various embodiments comprise a custom procedure
15 kit. As used herein, "custom" refers to the fact that the contents of a kit may be selected
   and/or modified based on a number of variables, including the intended genre of
   medical procedure, the desired barrier protection level for the procedure, and/or the
   specific preferences of the hospital/surgical center and/or end user. The kit comprises a
   plurality of medical-procedure tools and a cover that is wrapped around the plurality of
20 medical-procedure tools to form wrapped tools. An outer container may be fully
   disposed about the wrapped tools, and at least one sheet may be disposed between the
   outer container and the wrapped tools. The sheet includes a listing of the plurality of
   medical-procedure tools and, for at least some of the medical-procedure tools, an
   unselected end-user selectable field.
25
   [0089] The sheet may further include text to identify the purpose of the unselected end
   user selectable fields. By one approach, the purpose is to identify specific medical
   procedure tools that went unused during a medical procedure that used other medical
   procedure tools in the kit.
30
   [0090] The kit may include various features to facilitate selection of an appropriate kit
   for a given procedure and physical transport of the kit to the operating room. By one
   approach, at least one of the outer container and the sheet further includes at least one
   marker, wherein the marker includes a color that indicates a particular genre of medical

                                                 12
   procedure to which the plurality of medical-procedure tools specifically relate. Pursuant
   to another approach, the marker includes a color that indicates a barrier protection level
   of at least one of the plurality of medical-procedure tools within the kit. By another
   approach, the outer container includes a hand-graspable handle and/or an arm-receiving
 5 sleeve.
   [0091] These teachings are highly flexible and scalable in practice and can serve to
   greatly leverage a wide variety of existing custom procedure kits and/or surgical packs.
   Such a custom procedure kit can also greatly facilitate prompting and ensuring selection
10 of an appropriate kit containing pertinent medical-procedure tools for a particular genre
   of medical procedure. This can advantageously reduce costs and minimize waste
   associated with erroneously opened kits and kits containing unnecessary tools.
   [0092] These and other benefits may become clearer upon making a thorough review
15 and study of the following detailed description. Referring now to the drawings, various
   illustrative custom procedure kits that are compatible with many of these teachings will
   be presented.
   [0093] With reference to FIGS. 1-3, by one approach, the kit 100 includes a plurality of
20 medical-procedure tools 200, a cover 300 that is wrapped around the plurality of
   medical-procedure tools 200 to form wrapped tools 201, an outer container 400 fully
   disposed about the wrapped tools 201, and at least one sheet 500 disposed between the
   outer container 400 and the wrapped tools 201.
25 [0094] As will be readily understood by those of ordinary skill in the art, as used herein,
   "medical-procedure tools" refers broadly to items useful during a medical procedure. It
   may include, but is not limited to, items such as instruments, garments, and any number
   of miscellaneous items. Examples of medical-procedure tools 200 that can be included
   in the kit 100 include tubing, trays, bandaging materials, scalpels, syringes, needle and
30 blade disposal devices, drapes, clamps, suturing implements, disinfectants, antibiotic
   creams and lotions, masks, gloves, and so forth. Generally, the plurality of medical
   procedure tools 200 include at least one operating room towel, gown, drape, suction
   tubing, and suction tip. Often, the plurality of medical-procedure tools 200 also include
   at least one plastic container, syringe, needle, and surgical implement.

                                                 13
   [0095] The kit 100 may be customized for a particular genre of medical procedure
   and/or in accordance with the preferences of a particular hospital/surgical center and/or
   end user. As such, it will be clear to those of ordinary skill in the art that medical
 5 procedure tools 200 other than or in addition to the examples provided above may be
   included in the kit 100 depending on the genre of medical procedure for which it is
   customized and/or specific preferences of the hospital/surgical center and/or end user.
   [0096] By one approach, the kit 100 is disposable. That is, each item within the kit 100,
10 including each of the medical-procedure tools 200 is intended to be used during a
   procedure and then discarded. Alternatively, one or more items in the kit 100 may be
   reusable.
   [0097] By one approach, one or more of the medical-procedure tools 200 within the kit
15 100 is sterile, having undergone a sterilization process during manufacture of the kit
   100. For example, in one form, some of the medical-procedure tools 200 are sterile
   while others are non-sterile. In other embodiments, all of the medical-procedure tools
   200 in the kit 100 may be sterile or non-sterile.
20 [0098] With reference again to FIGS. 1-3, the medical-procedure tools 200 are wrapped
   with a cover 300 to form wrapped tools 201. The cover 300 can be formed of any of a
   variety of types of material such as plastic, cotton, linen, paper, and the like, and
   combinations thereof. By one approach, the cover 300 is a central sterile reprocessing
   (CSR) wrap such as is widely used by medical professionals in a variety of settings.
25
   [0099] In one embodiment the cover 300 is wrapped about the kit 100 for sealing and
   preventing unwanted debris from contaminating the kit 100. The cover 300 can be
   correspondingly unfolded to open and reveal the kit 100. The cover 300 can take
   different sizes and shapes. In the illustrative embodiment, the cover 300 is sufficiently
30 large that it can be wrapped around the kit so as to fully enclose the kit 100. In another
   form, the cover 300 is sufficiently large that it can be fully wrapped around the kit 100
   multiple times.
   [0100] In some embodiments, the cover 300 may itself be used in the medical

                                                  14
   procedure. By one approach, the cover 300 comprises a patient support surface cover. In
   one form, at least one side of the patient support surface cover is sterile. For example, in
   one form, the inside surface of the cover 300 facing the medical procedure tools 200 is
   sterile.
 5
   [0101] By another approach, the cover 300 can be used to cover a surface across which
   the contents of the kit 100 can be spread. In applications where an inside surface of the
   cover 300 facing the medical procedure tools 200 is sterile, the cover 300 can be used to
   provide a sterile field atop which the contents of the kit 100 can be placed for unloading
10 and subsequent use during the medical procedure.
   [0102] With reference again to FIGS. 1-3, the outer container 400 is fully disposed
   about the wrapped tools 201. As best illustrated in FIG. 2, by one approach, the outer
   container 400 has at least one portion 401 that is at least substantially transparent,
15 wherein the sheet 500 is disposed so as to be visible through the at least one portion 401
   that is at least substantially transparent. By another approach, the outer container 400 is
   comprised of plastic sheeting. In one form, the outer container 400 is sized to fit closely
   around the wrapped tools 201. In such a case, the outer container 400 can assist in
   securing the position of sheet 500 between the wrapped tools 201 and outer container
20 400 thereby promoting readability of the sheet 500.
   [0103] As depicted in FIGS. 1-3, to facilitate identification and selection of an
   appropriate kit 100, the outer container 400 preferably includes a color 402 that
   indicates a particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical
25 procedure tools 200 specifically relate. In one form, the color 402 can be integral with
   the outer container, for example, a portion of the outer container may include a colored
   plastic material. As illustrated in FIG. 4, in another form, the outer container 400 may
   include at least one marker 403, for example, a sticker or label affixed to the outer
   container 400 wherein the marker 403 includes the color 402.
30
   [0104] By another approach, the color 402 indicates a barrier protection level of at least
   one of the plurality of medical-procedure tools 200 within the kit 100, for example, a
   surgical gown, drape, or mask. The barrier protection level designates the ability of the
   item to protect against the penetration of body fluids and infectious materials. Barrier

                                                 15
   efficacy is recognized as important in helping to protect patients and health care
   personnel and to prevent the transmission of infectious materials.
   [0105] One organization that has established a standard for barrier protection levels is
 5 the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation ("AAMI"). The
   AAMI standard helps to preserve the sterile field and protect health care workers during
   surgery and other health care procedures during which exposure to blood, body fluids
   and other potential infectious material might occur. This AAMI standard establishes a
   system of classification and associated minimum requirements for protective apparel
10 such as gowns and drapes used in health care facilities based on their liquid barrier
   performance.
   [0106] As will be readily understood by those of ordinary skill in the art, the word
   "color" refers herein to a visually perceptible property deriving from a spectrum of light
15 including the categories of red, blue, yellow, etc. as well as categories of achromatic
   colors, such as white, black, and gray. The depiction of any specific color in the figures
   is for illustration only.
   [0107] In accordance with yet another approach, as depicted, for example, in FIG. 3, the
20 outer container 400 further includes text 404 to indicate the particular genre of medical
   procedure to which the kit specifically relates.
   [0108] In accordance with another aspect, the outer container 400 includes a strap or
   handle 405 to facilitate physically transporting the 100 kit from storage to the operating
25 room. With reference to FIG. 5, in one form, the outer container 400 includes a hand
   graspable handle 406. As shown in FIG. 6, in another form, the outer container 400
   includes an arm-receiving sleeve 407. In yet another form, as illustrated in FIG. 3, the
   hand-graspable handle 406 is formed in the arm-receiving sleeve 407. As illustrated, for
   example, in FIG. 3, the hand-graspable handle 406 may include a pair of voids 408 a,b
30 through which a person can place the fingers of one hand so as to grasp the hand
   graspable handle 406 in a manner such as illustrated in FIG. 5. In one form, the pair of
   voids 408 a,b are curved with opposing concave portions. In yet another form, shown,
   for example, in FIG, 2, the aforementioned color 402 and/or text 404 may be

                                                  16
   incorporated on at least a portion of the handle 405 so as to allow the kits to be easily
   identified when they are placed on shelves.
   [0109] FIGS. 1 and 2, the kit 100 further includes at least one sheet 500 disposed
 5 between the outer cover 400 and the wrapped tools 201. This sheet 500 can be
   comprised of any suitable material such as paper or plastic. By one approach the sheet
   500 is flexible and will readily conform, for example, to the shape of the wrapped tools
   201. The size of the sheet 500 can vary as needed. The present teachings will also
   accommodate utilizing more than one sheet 500 in order to accommodate, for example,
10 a greater quantity of content. As illustrated in FIGS. 7 and 8, the sheet 500 includes a
   listing 501 of the plurality of medical-procedure tools 200 included within the kit 100.
   The listing 501 may also include the quantity of each type of medical-procedure tool
   200 included in the kit 100.
15 [0110] As depicted, for example, in FIGS. 7 and 8, by one approach, the listing 501
   includes an unselected end-user selectable field 502 for at least some of the listed
   medical-procedure tools 200. In one form, the listing 501 includes the unselected end
   user selectable field 502 for each of the listed medical-procedure tools 200.
20 [0111] The unselected end-user selectable field 502 can take any suitable form allowing
   the end-user to select the field. In one illustrated form, the unselected end-user
   selectable field 502 comprises an unchecked checkbox. As will be readily understood
   by those of ordinary skill in the art, as used herein "checkbox" refer broadly to shapes in
   addition to boxes or squares, including for example, circles, ovals, rectangles, etc. In
25 other forms, the unselected end-user selectable field 502 may include, for example, a
   line or simply a space so long as the purpose of that field 502 in these regards is evident.
   The end-user selectable field 502 may include a color or marker to highlight or
   otherwise draw the end-user's attention to the field.
30 [0112] By yet another approach, the listing 500 further includes at least one medical
   procedure tool that is not included in the kit 100. The at least one medical-procedure
   tool 200 that is provided in the listing 501 but not included in the kit 100 may, for
   example, be an off-the-shelf sterile or non-sterile item that may be routinely used during
   the particular genre of medical procedure or by the particular hospital/surgical center

                                                 17
   and/or end-user. In one form, the sheet 500 further includes an unselected end-user
   selectable field 502 for at least some of the medical-procedure tools that are identified in
   the listing 501 as not included in the kit 100. In another form, the listing 501 includes an
   indication that at least one of the listed medical procedure tools 200 is not included in
 5 the kit 100.
   [0113] In another form, the sheet 500 further includes text to identify the purpose of the
   unselected end-user selectable field 502. By one approach, the purpose of the unselected
   end-user selectable field 502 is to identify specific medical-procedure tools 200 that
10 went unused during a medical procedure that used other medical-procedure tools 200 in
   the kit 100.
   [0114] The end-user selectable field 502 can advantageously be used to capture
   continuously updated and current data regarding the utilization or non-utilization of any
15 medical-procedure tools 200 included in a kit 100 and any separate, off-the-shelf
   products that are routinely added during a medical procedure. As the state of a medical
   practice is continually changing--with surgeons and staff joining and/or leaving,
   procedures being modified and new procedures being provided--it can be useful to
   capture this component utilization data on a consistent and continuous basis. The end
20 user selectable field 502 of the sheet 500 facilitates just that.
   [0115] By one approach, at the end of the medical procedure, the end-user or other
   person selects the end-user selectable field 502 of any of medical-procedure tools 200
   provided on the listing 501 that was not used during the procedure. The end-user may
25 also write in on the sheet 500 any additional components that were added off-the-shelf
   during the procedure. The completed sheets (and/or the data entered thereon) can be
   captured and collected physically or electronically and utilized to further customize the
   kit 100, for example, by excluding certain medical-procedure tools 200 or adding new
   tools to the kit 100.
30
   [0116] By one approach, illustrated, for example, in FIGS. 7 and 8, the sheet 500 further
   includes an optical code 503 such as, for example, a universal product code (UPC)
   barcode or a quick response (QR) code. The optical code 503 preferably contains, at
   least in part, a network address. The network address may correspond to a facility or

                                               18
   service to receive information regarding end-user selections that have been made as
   regards the end-user selectable fields 502.
   [0117] As illustrated in FIGS. 7 and 8, by another approach, the sheet 500 further
 5 includes a color-based legend 600 as regards at least one caution as pertains to usage of
   at least one of the plurality of medical-procedure tools 200, wherein the color as
   corresponds to the color-based legend 600 highlights corresponding ones of the listed
   medical-procedure tools 200. By one approach, the caution reflected by the color-based
   legend 600 comprises a presence of latex.
10
   [0118] As shown in FIGS. 7 and 8, for example, by another approach, the sheet 500
   includes coloring 504 that matches the color 402 of the outer container. As with the
   color 402 of the outer container 400, the sheet 500 coloring 504 may be integral with
   the sheet, as provided, for example, by way of colored paper or ink, or the coloring 504
15 may be provided via a marker 505, for example, a sticker or label, affixed to the sheet
   500. By yet another approach, the sheet may also include a text 506 to indicate the
   particular genre of medical procedure.
   [0119] These teachings are highly flexible in practice. As one example, the listing 501
20 of the sheet 500 can vary in length depending on the number of medical-procedure tools
   200 included in the kit 100. Likewise, the medical-procedure tools 200 themselves can
   vary in quantity and type based on the end-users' preferences.
   [0120] Additionally, these teachings are well suited to prompting and ensuring selection
25 of an appropriate kit 100 containing pertinent medical-procedure tools 200 for a
   particular genre of medical procedure. Such an approach can advantageously reduce
   costs and minimize waste associated with erroneously opened kits and kits containing
   superfluous tools.
30 [0121] Those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of modifications,
   alterations, and combinations can be made with respect to the above described
   embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, and that such
   modifications, alterations, and combinations are to be viewed as being within the ambit
   of the inventive concept.

                                                 19
   [0122] In this specification, the word "comprising" is to be understood in its "open"
   sense, that is, in the sense of "including", and thus not limited to its "closed" sense, that
   is the sense of "consisting only of'. A corresponding meaning is to be attributed to the
 5 corresponding words "comprise", "comprised" and "comprises" where they appear.
   [0123] The preceding description is provided in relation to several embodiments which
   may share common characteristics and features. It is to be understood that one or more
   features of any one embodiment may be combinable with one or more features of the
10 other embodiments. In addition, any single feature or combination of features in any of
   the embodiments may constitute additional embodiments.

                                              20
                                          Claims
   1. A kit comprising:
           a. a plurality of medical-procedure tools;
 5         b. a cover that is wrapped around the plurality of medical-procedure tools to
               form wrapped tools;
           c. an outer container fully disposed about the wrapped tools;
           d. at least one sheet disposed between the outer container and the wrapped
               tools, the at least one sheet including a listing of the plurality of medical
10             procedure tools and, for at least some of the medical-procedure tools, an
               unselected end-user selectable field.
   2. The kit of claim 1 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools relate
      specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.
   3. The kit of claim 1 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools include at
15    least one:
           a. operating room towel;
           b. gown;
           c. drape;
           d. suction tubing;
20         e. suction tip.
   4. The kit of claim 3 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools includes at
      least one of:
           a. plastic container;
           b. syringe;
25         c.  needle;
           d. surgical implement.
   5. The kit of claim 1 wherein the cover comprises a patient support surface cover.
   6. The kit of claim 5 wherein at least one side of the patient support surface cover
      is sterile.
30 7. The kit of claim 6 wherein at least some of the plurality of medical-procedure
      tools are sterile.
   8. The kit of claim 1 wherein the outer container has at least one portion that is at
      least substantially transparent, wherein the sheet is disposed so as to be visible
      through the at least one portion that is at least substantially transparent.

                                            21
   9. The kit of claim 8 wherein the outer container is comprised of plastic sheeting.
   10. The kit of claim 1 wherein the outer container includes a color that indicates a
       particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical
       procedure tools specifically relate.
 5 11. The kit of claim 10 wherein the outer container further includes text to further
       indicate the particular genre of medical procedure.
   12. The kit of claim 10 wherein the sheet includes coloring that matches the color.
   13. The kit of claim 1 wherein at least one of the outer container and the sheet
       further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that
10     indicates a particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of
       medical-procedure tools specifically relate.
   14. The kit of claim 1 wherein at least one of the outer container and the sheet
       further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that
       indicates a barrier protection level of at least one of the plurality of medical
15     procedure tools.
   15. The kit of claim 1 wherein the outer container includes a hand-graspable handle.
   16. The kit of claim 1 wherein the outer container includes an arm-receiving sleeve.
   17. The kit of claim 16 wherein the arm-receiving sleeve has a hand-graspable
       handle formed therethrough.
20 18. The kit of claim 1 wherein the listing of the plurality of medical-procedure tools
       includes, for each of the medical-procedure tools, the unselected end-user
       selectable field.
   19. The kit of claim 1 wherein the unselected end-user selectable field comprises an
       unchecked checkbox.
25 20. The kit of claim 1 wherein the sheet further includes text to identify the purpose
       of the unselected end-user selectable fields.
   21. The kit of claim 20 wherein the purpose is to identify specific medical-procedure
       tools that went unused during a medical procedure that used other medical
       procedure tools in the kit.
30 22. The kit of claim 1 wherein the sheet further includes a color-based legend as
       regards at least one caution as pertains to usage of at least one of the plurality of
       medical-procedure tools, wherein the color as corresponds to the color-based
       legend highlights corresponding ones of the listed medical-procedure tools.
   23. The kit of claim 20 wherein the caution comprises a presence of latex.

                                             22
   24. The kit of claim 1 wherein the listing further includes at least one medical
       procedure tool that is not included in the kit.
   25. The kit of claim 24 wherein the sheet further includes, for at least some of the
       medical-procedure tools that are not included in the kit, an unselected end-user
 5     selectable field.
   26. The kit of claim 1 wherein the sheet further includes an optical code that
       contains, at least in part, a network address.
   27. The kit of claim 26 wherein the network address corresponds to a facility to
       receive information regarding user selections that have been made as regards the
10     end-user selectable fields.
   28. A method for use of a medical procedure kit in connection with a medical
       procedure, the method comprising providing the kit, the kit comprising
           a. a plurality of medical-procedure tools for use in the medical procedure,
           b. a cover being wrapped around the plurality of medical-procedure tools
15             forming wrapped tools,
           c.  an outer container is fully disposed about the wrapped tools, and
           d. at least one sheet is disposed between the outer container and the
               wrapped tools, the at least one sheet including a listing of the plurality of
               medical-procedure tools and, for at least some of the medical-procedure
20             tools, the sheet has an unselected end-user selectable field; and
       wherein for any of the medical-procedure tools for which an unselected end-user
       selectable field is provided on the sheet but which are not used in the medical
       procedure, selecting the end-user selectable field corresponding to the tool.
   29.   The method of claim 28 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools relate
25     specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.
   30.   The method of claim 28 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools
       include at least one:
           a. operating room towel;
           b. gown;
30         c.  drape;
           d. suction tubing;
           e.  suction tip.
   31.   The method of claim 28 wherein the cover comprises a patient support surface
       cover.

                                              23
   32.   The method of claim 28 wherein the outer container has at least one portion
       that is at least substantially transparent, wherein the sheet is disposed so as to be
       visible through the at least one portion that is at least substantially transparent.
   33.   The method of claim 28 wherein the outer container includes a color that
 5     indicates a particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of
       medical-procedure tools specifically relate.
   34.   The method of claim 33 wherein the outer container further includes text to
       further indicate the particular genre of medical procedure.
   35.   The method of claim 33 wherein the sheet includes coloring that matches the
10     color.
   36.   The method of claim 28 wherein at least one of the outer container and the
       sheet further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color
       that indicates a particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of
       medical-procedure tools specifically relate.
15 37.   The method of claim 28 wherein at least one of the outer container and the
       sheet further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color
       that indicates a barrier protection level of at least one of the plurality of medical
       procedure tools.
   38.   The method of claim 28 wherein the listing of the plurality of medical
20     procedure tools includes, for each of the medical-procedure tools, the unselected
       end-user selectable field.
   39.   The method of claim 28 wherein the unselected end-user selectable field
       comprises an unchecked checkbox.
   40.   The method of claim 28 wherein the sheet further includes text to identify the
25     purpose of the unselected end-user selectable fields.
   41.   The method of claim 40 wherein the purpose is to identify specific medical
       procedure tools that went unused during a medical procedure that used other
       medical-procedure tools in the kit.
   42.   The method of claim 28 wherein the sheet further includes an optical code that
30     contains, at least in part, a network address.
   43.   A medical procedure kit when used in a method as defined in claim 28, the kit
       comprising:
           a. the plurality of medical-procedure tools,

                                              24
           b. the cover that is wrapped around the plurality of medical-procedure tools
               to form said wrapped tools,
           c. the outer container fully disposed about the wrapped tools, and
           d. the at least one sheet disposed between the outer container and the
 5             wrapped tools, the at least one sheet including the listing of the plurality
               of medical-procedure tools; and
   wherein, for at least some of the medical-procedure tools, said unselected end-user
   selectable field.
   44.   The kit of claim 43 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools relate
10     specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.
   45.   The kit of claim 43 or claim 44 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure
       tools include at least one:
           a. operating room towel;
           b. gown;
15         c.  drape;
           d. suction tubing;
           e. suction tip.
   46.   The kit of any one of claims 43 to 45 wherein the cover comprises a patient
       support surface cover.
20 47.   The method of any one of claims 43 to 46 wherein the outer container has at
       least one portion that is at least substantially transparent, wherein the sheet is
       disposed so as to be visible through the at least one portion that is at least
       substantially transparent.
   48. A kit comprising:
25         a. a plurality of medical-procedure tools;
           b. a cover that is wrapped around the plurality of medical-procedure tools
               to form wrapped tools;
           c.  an outer container fully disposed about the wrapped tools, the outer
               container having at least one portion that is at least substantially
30             transparent;
           d. at least one sheet disposed between the outer container and the wrapped
               tools, the at least one sheet being disposed so as to be visible through the
               at least one portion of the outer container that is at least substantially
               transparent, the at least one sheet including a listing of the plurality of

                                              25
                medical-procedure tools and, for at least some of the medical-procedure
                tools, an unselected end-user selectable field; and
       a hand-graspable handle having at least one portion that is transparent, the hand
       graspable handle being disposed on the outer container such that at least a
 5     portion of the at least one sheet is visible through the portion of the outer
       container that is at least substantially transparent and through the portion of the
       hand-graspable handle that is transparent.
   49. The kit of claim 48 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools relate
       specifically to a particular genre of medical procedure.
10 50. The kit of claim 48 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools include at
       least one:
            a. operating room towel;
            b. gown;
            c. drape;
15          d. suction tubing;
            e. suction tip.
   51. The kit of claim 50 wherein the plurality of medical-procedure tools includes at
       least one of:
            a. plastic container;
20          b. syringe;
            c. needle;
            d. surgical implement.
   52. The kit of claim 48 wherein the cover comprises a patient support surface cover.
   53. The kit of claim 52 wherein at least one side of the patient support surface cover
25     is sterile.
   54. The kit of claim 53 wherein at least some of the plurality of medical-procedure
       tools are sterile.
   55. The kit of claim 48 wherein the outer container is comprised of plastic sheeting.
   56. The kit of claim 48 wherein the outer container includes a color that indicates a
30     particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of medical
       procedure tools specifically relate.
   57. The kit of claim 56 wherein the outer container further includes text to further
       indicate the particular genre of medical procedure.
   58. The kit of claim 56 wherein the sheet includes coloring that matches the color.

                                             26
   59. The kit of claim 48 wherein at least one of the outer container and the sheet
       further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that
       indicates a particular genre of medical procedure to which the plurality of
       medical-procedure tools specifically relate.
 5 60. The kit of claim 48 wherein at least one of the outer container and the sheet
       further includes at least one marker, wherein the marker includes a color that
       indicates a barrier protection level of at least one of the plurality of medical
       procedure tools.
   61. The kit of claim 48 wherein the hand-graspable handle includes an arm
10     receiving sleeve.
   62. The kit of claim 61 wherein the arm-receiving sleeve has an opening formed
       therethrough configured to receive a hand.
   63. The kit of claim 48 wherein the listing of the plurality of medical-procedure
       tools includes, for each of the medical-procedure tools, the unselected end-user
15     selectable field.
   64. The kit of claim 48 wherein the unselected end-user selectable field comprises
       an unchecked checkbox.
   65. The kit of claim 48 wherein the sheet further includes text to identify the
       purpose of the unselected end-user selectable fields.
20 66. The kit of claim 65 wherein the purpose is to identify specific medical-procedure
       tools that went unused during a medical procedure that used other medical
       procedure tools in the kit.
   67. The kit of claim 48 wherein the sheet further includes a color-based legend as
       regards at least one caution as pertains to usage of at least one of the plurality of
25     medical-procedure tools, wherein a color as corresponds to the color-based
       legend highlights corresponding ones of the listed medical-procedure tools.
   68. The kit of claim 67 wherein the caution comprises a presence of latex.
   69. The kit of claim 48 wherein the listing further includes at least one medical
       procedure tool that is not included in the kit.
30 70. The kit of claim 69 wherein the sheet further includes, for at least some of the
       medical-procedure tools that are not included in the kit, an unselected end-user
       selectable field.
   71. The kit of claim 48 wherein the sheet further includes an optical code that
       contains, at least in part, a network address.

                                         27
  72. The kit of claim 71 wherein the network address corresponds to a facility to
      receive information regarding user selections that have been made as regards the
      end-user selectable fields.
5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
