                                         ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
                            The present invention provides a method for determining whether a subject is
suffering from celiac disease by contacting a sample of bodily fluid from the subject, with an
antigen formed from a hexamer of a gliadin fusion protein immobilized on a solid support.
The gliadin fusion protein of the antigen includes a recombinant deamidated gliadin linked to
a tag such as Glutathione-S transferase (GST) protein. The antigen is prepared by
immobilizing the gliadin fusion protein on the solid support. The antigen can further include
tissue Transglutaminase (tTG) cross-linked to the gliadin fusion protein. When tTG is
present, the tTG and recombinant deamidated gliadin are mixed together prior to
immobilization to the solid phase.
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

                      RECOMBINANT DEAMIDATED GLIADIN ANTIGEN
                                 CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]           This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application
No. 61/567,060, filed December 5, 2011, the entire content of which is incorporated by
reference herein for all purposes.
[0001a] The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
Application No. 2012348122 is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present
specification.
                                             SEQUENCE LISTING
[0002]           The Sequence Listing is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all
purposes.
                                       BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]           Celiac disease (CD) is a severe gastrointestinal disease that has a strong genetic
component. CD is characterized by a permanent intolerance of proteins from wheat, barley,
rye, and oats. Although the physiopathology of CD is not completely understood it is clear
that the presence of the toxic proteins in the patient's diet causes a total or partial damage of
intestinal mucosa (Brandtzaeg, P. 1997. Mechanisms of gastrointestinal reactions to food.
Environmental Toxicology and Pharmacology 4;9-24) leading to severe malabsorption
syndromes and causing diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, anorexia, retarded growth,
malnutrition and anemia. CD has been associated with a higher risk for intestinal cancer in
non-diagnosed and untreated patients (Holmes GKT, 1989. Malignancy in coeliac disease
effect of a gluten-free diet, Gut 30;333-338). CD affects mainly children under three years
old, but it is also common in adults, and sometimes is clinically atypical or asymptomatic
(Ferguson A, et al. 1992. Definitions and diagnostic criteria of latent and potential coeliac
disease. Ed by Aurricchio S, Visakorpi J K, in Epidemiology of CD. Dyn Nutr Res, Basel,
Karger 2; 119-127). CD is more frequent in patients with other genetic or autoimmune
                                                       1
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

disease,such as insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, Down syndrome, selective IgA
deficiency, and dermatitis herpetiformis (Sirgus N et al. 1993. Prevalence of coeliac disease
in diabetic children and adolescents in Sweden. Acta Pediatr 66;491-494; Zubillaga P et al.
 1993. Down syndrome and coeliac disease. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr 16:168-171; Boyce
N 1997).
[0004]           The clinical symptoms of CD could be confused with those produced by other
gastrointestinal diseases. In these cases CD is misdiagnosed and patients do not receive the
specific treatment, that is, a complete elimination of gluten in their diet. On the other hand, if
a non-celiac patient is wrongly diagnosed as celiac, he would undergo an unnecessary gluten
free diet for his whole life. Accordingly, a precise diagnosis of CD is essential. Currently
the standard for CD diagnosis is intestinal biopsy, repeated three times: at the onset of the
clinical symptoms, after several months on a gluten free diet, and after a challenge with
gluten.
[0005]           Because intestinal biopsy is an invasive method and precise serological tests have
been developed, the above criteria have been revised (Walker-Smith et al. 1990. Revised
criteria for diagnosis of coeliac disease. Report of Working group of European Society of
Pediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition. Arch Dis Child 65:909-911). Currently,
serological tests can be done at the onset of clinical symptoms and when they are positive, a
confirmatory intestinal biopsy will be indicated. The response to the treatment with a gluten
free diet can also be followed by serological tests. If discrepancies occur between the clinical
response to the treatment and the result of serological tests a second intestinal biopsy would
be indicated. Several serological tests have been developed for celiac disease diagnosis, such
as the detection of antibodies to cellular antigens, or antibodies to food antigens, like
gliadins. There are diagnostic kits for the detection of anti-endomysial antibodies, anti
reticulin antibodies, anti-gliadin antibodies, and anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies.
[0006]          Anti-gliadin antibodies (AGA) have been extensively used for serological diagnosis
of CD (Stem M et al. 1996. Validation and standardization of serological screening tests for
coeliac disease in 1996. 3rd EMRC/ESPGAN Workshop, Dec 5-8, 1996, Molsheim, France,
pp:9-24; Catassi C et al. 1999. Quantitative antigliadin antibody measurement in clinical
practice: an Italian multicenter study. Ital J Gastroenterol Hapatol 31; 366-370). AGA are
mainly detected by ELISA (Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay), a simpler, more
                                                       2
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

objective method than IFA (indirect immunofluorescent antibody analysis), and can be used
for the analysis of a large number of samples. Nevertheless AGA are less specific for CD
than endomysal antibodies (EMA) and the detection of antibodies to either IgA or IgG
isotypes requires two independent assays. Recently a visual immunoassay for the detection
of AGA, which solves some of these problems, has been reported (Garrote J A, Sorell L,
Alfonso P et al 1999. A simple visual immunoassay for the screening of coeliac disease.
Eur. J Clin Invest 29; 697-699; Spanish Office for Patents and Marks No. 9801067).
[0007]           In 1997, Dietrich et al. identified tissue transglutaminase (tTG), an 85 kDa protein,
as the major auto antigen detected by anti-endomysial antibodies (Dietrich W et al. 1997.
Identification of tissue transglutaminase as the auto antigen of celiac disease. Nat Med.
3:797-801). Detection of anti-tTG antibodies had been reported lately in ELISA or radio
ligand (RLA) formats based on tTG from guinea pig liver extracts or recombinant human
tTG cloned from different tissues (Sulkanen S et al. 1998. Tissue transglutaminase
autoantibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in detecting celiac disease.
Gastroenterology 115:1322-1328; Siessler J et al. 1999. Antibodies to human recombinant
tissue transglutaminase measured by radioligand assay: Evidence for high diagnostic
sensitivity for celiac disease. Horm Metab Res 31; 375-379).
[0008]           Prior art methods for detection of celiac disease use specific gliadin epitopes or
pieces of the gliadin protein in an assay, that lead to both false-negatives and false-positives.
What is needed is an assay that provides new antigens containing a more inclusive set of
epitopes that provides a more accurate assay for celiac disease. Surprisingly, the present
invention meets this and other needs.
[0008a] It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art in Australia or any other country.
                                     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0009]           In one embodiment, the present invention provides an antigen for detecting celiac
disease. The antigen includes a recombinant deamidated gliadin having a hexamer of
peptides each having SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin is
covalently linked to a tag to form a gliadin fusion protein, wherein the gliadin fusion protein
                                                         3
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

is immobilized on a solid support, and wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin is
capable of binding to anti-deamidated gliadin antibodies.
[0010]           In other embodiments, the present invention provides an antigen for detecting celiac
disease prepared by the process including contacting a solid support with a gliadin fusion
protein, wherein the gliadin fusion protein includes a recombinant deamidated gliadin having
a hexamer of peptides each having SEQ ID NO: 1 and wherein the recombinant deamidated
gliadin is covalently linked to a tag, such that the gliadin fusion protein is immobilized on the
solid support. Thus, the antigen for detecting celiac disease is prepared.
[0011]           In some other embodiments, the present invention provides a method for diagnosing
celiac disease in a subject. The method includes contacting a sample of bodily fluid from the
subject with an antigen of the present invention, including a recombinant deamidated gliadin
comprising a hexamer of SEQ ID NO:3. The method also includes detecting any antibody
that has become specifically bound to the antigen, thus indicating the presence of celiac
disease in the subject.
[0012]           In another embodiment, the present invention provides a kit including an antigen of
the present invention, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin includes a hexamer of
SEQ ID NO:3, a detection reagent, and optionally at least one of buffers, salts, stabilizers and
instructions.
                                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]           Figure 1 shows purification of D2-hexamer.
[0014]           Figure 2 shows coating titration of a DGP hexamer: Calibrator Cutoff signal
relative fluorescence intensity (RFI).
[0015]           Figure 3 shows coating titration of a DGP hexamer with a lysine substituted for the
glutamic acid residue at position 14: Calibrator Cutoff signal RFI.
[0016]           Figure 4 shows the rDGP hexamer has improved sensitivity as compared to the
rDGP trimer.
                                                      4
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
I.           Definitions
[0016a] In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition
of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
[0017]          As used herein, the term "contacting" refers to the process of bringing into contact
at least two distinct species such that they can react. The resulting reaction product is either
produced directly from a reaction between the added reagents or from an intermediate from
one or more of the added reagents which can be produced in the reaction mixture.
[0018]          As used herein, the term "bodily fluid" refers to fluids of a mammal including, but
not limited to, aqueous humour, bile, blood and blood plasma, breast milk, interstitial fluid,
lymph, mucus, pleural fluid, pus, saliva, serum, sweat, tears, urine, cerebrospinal fluid,
synovial fluid or intracellular fluid. One of skill in the art will appreciate that other bodily
fluids are useful in the present invention.
[0019]          As used herein, the term "cross-linker" refers to a bifunctional or multi-functional
chemical or biological moiety that is capable of linking two separate moieties together.
Examples of cross-linkers useful in the present invention are described below.
[0020]          As used herein, "antibody" includes reference to an immunoglobulin molecule
immunologically reactive with a particular antigen, and includes both polyclonal and
monoclonal antibodies.
[0021]          As used herein, the term "subject" refers to animals such as mammals, including,
but not limited to, primates (e.g., humans), cows, sheep, goats, horses, dogs, cats, rabbits,
rats, mice and the like.
[0022]          As used herein, the term "immobilized" refers to the association of the tTG, the
gliadin fusion protein or the tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex with a solid support material
through covalent bond formation, ionic bond formation, hydrogen-bonding, dipole-dipole
                                                     5
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

interaction or via Van der Waals interactions. The immobilization can be temporary or
permanent.
[0023]          As used herein, the term "antigen" refers to a molecule that is capable of stimulating
an immune response such as by production of antibodies. Antigens of the present invention
include solid support immobilized gliadin fusion protein and solid support immobilized tTG
gliadin fusion protein complex. The gliadin fusion protein of the present invention can
include both a recombinant deamidated gliadin and a tag, such as Glutathione S-transferase
(GST) protein.
[0024]          As used herein, the term "buffers" refers to any inorganic or organic acid or base
that resists changes in pH and maintains the pH around a desired point. Buffering agents
useful in the present invention include, but are not limited to, sodium hydroxide, dibasic
sodium phosphate anhydrous, and mixtures thereof. One of skill in the art will appreciate
that other buffering agents are useful in the present invention.
[0025]          As used herein, the term "tissue Transglutaminase (tTG)" refers to an enzyme of the
transglutaminase family that crosslinks proteins between an amino group of a lysine residue
and a carboxamide group of a glutamine residue. This creates an intermolecular or
intramolecular bond. tTG can be used to detect celiac disease.
[0026]          As used herein, the term "gliadin fusion protein" refers to a gliadin protein linked to
a tag, such as Glutathione S-transferase (GST) or a His tag. The gliadin protein includes a
recombinant gliadin protein or a synthetic gliadin protein, among others. In some
embodiments, the gliadin protein is deamidated. Tags are typically other proteins or
compounds that can be used as affinity tags for purification, for solubilization,
chromatography, as epitope tags, fluorescence tags, and others. Tags useful in the present
invention include, but are not limited to, BCCP, c-myc-tag, Calmodulin-tag, FLAG-tag, HA
tag, His-tag, Maltose binding protein-tag, Nus-tag, Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) tag,
Green fluorescent protein-tag, Thioredoxin-tag, S-tag, Streptag II, Softag 1, Softag 3, T7-tag,
Elastin-like peptides, Chitin-binding domain, and Xylanase 1OA. One of skill in the art will
appreciate that other proteins are useful in fusion proteins of the present invention.
[0027]          As used herein, the term "tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex" refers to a complex
formed when the tTG and the gliadin fusion protein become linked together. The tTG and
the gliadin fusion protein can be linked in a variety of ways, under a variety of reactions. The
                                                      6
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

tTG can be linked to either or both of the tag and the recombinant deamidated gliadin of the
gliadin fusion protein.
[0028]          As used herein, the term "recombinant deamidated gliadin" refers to a deamidated
gliadin protein prepared via genetic engineering. Deamidated proteins are those that have
had some or all of the free amide functional groups hydrolyzed to carboxylic acids, such as
conversion of glutamines to glutamic acid. In some embodiments, recombinant deamidated
gliadins useful in the present invention comprise peptides having at least 75% sequence
identity to SEQ ID NO: 1 or comprise a hexamer having at least 75% sequence identity to
SEQ ID NO:3.
[0029]          As used herein, the term "crosslinked" refers to the formation of more than one
bond between two different chemical moieties. In the present invention, the chemical
moieties can be biological species such as proteins, enzymes, antibodies, etc., or solid support
materials. The chemical functionality that links the individual chemical moieties that are
crosslinked, is termed a "crosslinker". A crosslinker is typically a bifunctional compound
that reacts with one reactive functional group on one chemical moiety and one reactive
functional group on another chemical moiety, thereby linking the two chemical moieties to
each other. The crosslinkers can be homobifunctional crosslinkers or heterobifunctional
crosslinkers. Homobifunctional crosslinkers are those where the functional groups of the
homobifunctional crosslinker that react with each chemical moiety are the same.
Heterobifunctional crosslinkers are those where the functional groups of the
heterobifunctional crosslinker that react with each chemical moiety are different. Preferred
homobifunctional and heterobifunctional crosslinkers of the present invention are described
in greater detail below.
[0030]          As used herein, the terms "identical" or percent "identity," in the context of two or
more nucleic acids or polypeptide sequences, refer to two or more sequences or subsequences
that are the same or have a specified percentage of amino acid residues or nucleotides that are
the same (i.e., 60% identity, preferably 65%,        7 0 %, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%,
90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% identity over a specified region),
when compared and aligned for maximum correspondence over a comparison window, or
designated region as measured using one of the following sequence comparison algorithms or
                                                      7
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

by manual alignment and visual inspection. This definition also refers to the complement of
a test sequence.
[0031]           The phrase "substantially identical," in the context of two nucleic acids or
polypeptides, refers to a sequence or subsequence that has at least 40% sequence identity
with a reference sequence. Alternatively, percent identity can be any integer from 40% to
 100%. More preferred embodiments include at least: 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%,
70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%,
98% or 99% compared to a reference sequence using the programs described herein;
preferably BLAST using standard parameters, as described below.
[0032]           For sequence comparison, typically one sequence acts as a reference sequence, to
which test sequences are compared. When using a sequence comparison algorithm, test and
reference sequences are entered into a computer, subsequence coordinates are designated, if
necessary, and sequence algorithm program parameters are designated. Default program
parameters can be used, or alternative parameters can be designated. The sequence
comparison algorithm then calculates the percent sequence identities for the test sequences
relative to the reference sequence, based on the program parameters. For sequence
comparison of nucleic acids and proteins, the BLAST and BLAST 2.0 algorithms and the
default parameters discussed below are used.
[0033]           Preferred examples of algorithms that are suitable for determining percent sequence
identity and sequence similarity are the BLAST and BLAST 2.0 algorithms, which are
described in Altschul et al., Nuc. Acids Res. 25:3389-3402 (1977) and Altschul et al., J Mol.
Biol. 215:403-410 (1990), respectively. BLAST and BLAST 2.0 are used, with the
parameters described herein, to determine percent sequence identity for the nucleic acids and
proteins of the invention. Software for performing BLAST analyses is publicly available
through the National Center for Biotechnology Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/).
This algorithm involves first identifying high scoring sequence pairs (HSPs) by identifying
short words of length W in the query sequence, which either match or satisfy some positive
valued threshold score T when aligned with a word of the same length in a database
sequence. T is referred to as the neighborhood word score threshold (Altschul et al., supra).
These initial neighborhood word hits act as seeds for initiating searches to find longer HSPs
containing them. The word hits are extended in both directions along each sequence for as
                                                       8
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

far as the cumulative alignment score can be increased. Cumulative scores are calculated
using, for nucleotide sequences, the parameters M (reward score for a pair of matching
residues; always > 0) and N (penalty score for mismatching residues; always < 0). For amino
acid sequences, a scoring matrix is used to calculate the cumulative score. Extension of the
word hits in each direction are halted when: the cumulative alignment score falls off by the
quantity X from its maximum achieved value; the cumulative score goes to zero or below,
due to the accumulation of one or more negative-scoring residue alignments; or the end of
either sequence is reached. The BLAST algorithm parameters W, T, and X determine the
sensitivity and speed of the alignment. The BLASTN program (for nucleotide sequences)
uses as defaults a word length (W) of 11, an expectation (E) of 10, M=5, N=-4 and a
comparison of both strands. For amino acid sequences, the BLASTP program uses as
defaults a word length of 3, and expectation (E) of 10, and the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix
(see Henikoff & Henikoff, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89:10915 (1989)) alignments (B) of
50, expectation (E) of 10, M=5, N=-4, and a comparison of both strands.
[0034]           The BLAST algorithm also performs a statistical analysis of the similarity between
two sequences (see, e.g., Karlin & Altschul, Proc.Nat' L.Acad. Sci. USA 90:5873-5787
(1993)). One measure of similarity provided by the BLAST algorithm is the smallest sum
probability (P(N)), which provides an indication of the probability by which a match between
two nucleotide or amino acid sequences would occur by chance. For example, a nucleic acid
is considered similar to a reference sequence if the smallest sum probability in a comparison
of the test nucleic acid to the reference nucleic acid is less than about 0.2, more preferably
less than about 0.01, and most preferably less than about 0.001.
[0035]          An indication that two nucleic acid sequences or polypeptides are substantially
identical is that the polypeptide encoded by the first nucleic acid is immunologically cross
reactive with the antibodies raised against the polypeptide encoded by the second nucleic
acid, as described below. Thus, a polypeptide is typically substantially identical to a second
polypeptide, for example, where the two peptides differ only by conservative substitutions.
Another indication that two nucleic acid sequences are substantially identical is that the two
molecules or their complements hybridize to each other under stringent conditions. Yet
another indication that two nucleic acid sequences are substantially identical is that the same
primers can be used to amplify the sequence.
                                                     9
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0036]          As used herein, the terms "nucleic acid" and "polynucleotide" are used
synonymously and refer to a single or double-stranded polymer of deoxyribonucleotide or
ribonucleotide bases read from the 5' to the 3' end. A nucleic acid of the present invention
will generally contain phosphodiester bonds, although in some cases, nucleic acid analogs
may be used that may have alternate backbones, comprising, e.g., phosphoramidate,
phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, or O-methylphosphoroamidite linkages (see Eckstein,
Oligonucleotides and Analogues: A Practical Approach, Oxford University Press); and
peptide nucleic acid backbones and linkages. Other analog nucleic acids include those with
positive backbones; non-ionic backbones, and non-ribose backbones. Thus, nucleic acids or
polynucleotides may also include modified nucleotides, that permit correct read through by a
polymerase. "Polynucleotide sequence" or "nucleic acid sequence" includes both the sense
and antisense strands of a nucleic acid as either individual single strands or in a duplex. As
will be appreciated by those in the art, the depiction of a single strand also defines the
sequence of the complementary strand; thus the sequences described herein also provide the
complement of the sequence. Unless otherwise indicated, a particular nucleic acid sequence
also implicitly encompasses variants thereof (e.g., degenerate codon substitutions) and
complementary sequences, as well as the sequence explicitly indicated. The nucleic acid
may be DNA, both genomic and cDNA, RNA or a hybrid, where the nucleic acid may
contain combinations of deoxyribo- and ribo-nucleotides, and combinations of bases,
including uracil, adenine, thymine, cytosine, guanine, inosine, xanthine hypoxanthine,
isocytosine, isoguanine, etc.
[0037]          As used herein, the phrase "a nucleic acid sequence encoding" refers to a nucleic
acid which contains sequence information for a structural RNA such as rRNA, a tRNA, or
the primary amino acid sequence of a specific protein or peptide, or a binding site for a trans
acting regulatory agent. This phrase specifically encompasses degenerate codons (i.e.,
different codons which encode a single amino acid) of the native sequence or sequences that
may be introduced to conform with codon preference in a specific host cell.
[0038]          As used herein, the term "specifically bound" refers to the capturing or entrapment
of the antigen of the present invention by an antibody that is indicative of the presence of
celiac disease. Thus, under designated immunoassay conditions, an antibody (e.g., an anti
deamidated gliadin antibody) binds an antigen of the present invention at at least two times
over background level and more typically at at least 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50 times over
                                                     10
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

background level. A variety of immunoassay formats may be used to determine whether an
antibody specifically binds an antigen of the present invention. For example, solid-phase
ELISA immunoassays are routinely used to determine whether an antibody is specifically
immunoreactive with a protein (see, e.g., Harlow & Lane, Using Antibodies, A Laboratory
Manual (1998) for a description of immunoassay formats and conditions that can be used to
determine specific immunoreactivity).
II.          Antigen
[0039]           The present invention provides an antigen and method for detection of celiac
disease. The antigen includes a gliadin fusion protein immobilized on a solid support
material. The gliadin fusion protein includes both a recombinant deamidated gliadin and a
tag. The antigen can optionally include tissue Transglutaminase (tTG). When present, the
gliadin fusion protein and tTG can be covalently linked prior to immobilization on the solid
support, such as via transamidation, to form a tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex.
Following immobilization of the tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex on the solid support, the
gliadin fusion protein and the tTG can be cross-linked using suitable cross-linkers.
[0040]           In some embodiments, the present invention provides an antigen for detecting celiac
disease. The antigen of the present invention includes the solid support bound gliadin fusion
protein described below.
[0041]           In other embodiments, the present invention provides an antigen for detecting celiac
disease. The antigen includes a recombinant deamidated gliadin having a hexamer of
peptides each having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the recombinant deamidated
gliadin is covalently linked to a tag to form a gliadin fusion protein, wherein the gliadin
fusion protein is immobilized on a solid support, and wherein the recombinant deamidated
gliadin is capable of binding to anti-deamidated gliadin antibodies.
             A.             Gliadin Fusion Protein
[0042]           The gliadin fusion protein useful in the present invention includes a recombinant
deamidated gliadin that is expressed as a tagged protein. One of skill in the art will recognize
that many recombinant gliadin proteins are useful in the method of the present invention. In
some embodiments, the recombinant gliadin protein can include D2 (Aleanzi et al, Clin
Chem 2001, 47 (11), 2023), peptide sequence: QPEQPQQSFPEQERPF (SEQ ID NO:1).
                                                       11
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

The recombinant gliadin protein can also include variants of D2, represented by the following
formula:
                                  X PX2X PX 4X 5 SFPX6X7X RPF (SEQ ID NO:12)
wherein each X is either glutamine (Q) or glutamic acid (E) such that at least one X is
glutamine and at least one X is glutamic acid. The recombinant gliadin protein of the present
invention can also be a hexamer of D2 or its variants. In some embodiments, the recombinant
gliadin protein is a hexamer of D2 or its variants, separated by any suitable spacer, such as
GGGGS (SEQ ID NO:2). One of skill in the art will appreciate that other spacers are useful
in the present invention.
[0043]          Any suitable spacer is useful in the present invention, and are interchangeable with
linkers. Typical peptide spacer sequences contain Gly, Ser, Ala and Thr residues. Useful
spacer include glycine-serine polymers including, for example, (GGGGS)n (SEQ ID NO: 13),
(GS)n, (GSGGS)n (SEQ ID NO:14), and (GGGS)n (SEQ ID NO:15), where n is an integer of
at least one; glycine-alanine polymers; alanine-serine polymers; and other flexible linkers.
[0044]           In some embodiments, the hexamer includes a spacer separating each peptide
having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. In other embodiments, each spacer can have the
sequence of SEQ ID NO:2.
[0045]           In some embodiments, the recombinant deamidated gliadin is a D2 hexamer (SEQ
ID NO:3). In some other embodiments, the present invention provides any nucleotide
sequence that encodes the polypeptide in the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:3.
The recombinant deamidated gliadin proteins of the present invention bind to anti
deamidated gliadin antibodies, and are thus able to diagnose subjects having gluten related
disorders such as celiac disease. One of skill in the art will appreciate that other recombinant
deamidated gliadin proteins are useful in the present invention.
[0046]           The gliadin fusion protein also includes a tag. Any tag known in the art is useful in
the gliadin fusion proteins of the present invention. Tags suitable in the antigen of the
present invention include, but are not limited to, a Glutathione S-transferase (GST), His-tag,
FLAG, Streptag II, HA-tag, Softag 1, Softag 3, c-myc, T7-tag, S-tag, Elastin-like peptides,
Chitin-binding domain, thioredoxin, Xylanase 1OA, Maltose binding protein and NusA. In
some embodiments, the tag is a Glutathione S-transferase (GST)or a His-tag. One of skill in
                                                       12
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

the art will appreciate that other tags are useful in the present invention. The tag is typically
attached to the recombinant gliadin protein via covalent linkage.
[0047]           The His-tag useful in the present invention can be any suitable His-tag. His-tags
suitable in the present invention include, but are not limited to, the sequence of SEQ ID
NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID NO:6. In some embodiments, the His-tag can be the
sequence of SEQ ID NO:5 or SEQ ID NO:6. In other embodiments, the recombinant
deamidated gliadin can be the sequence of SEQ ID NO:7 or SEQ ID NO:8.
[0048]           In another embodiment, the tag is a Glutathione S-transferase (GST) protein. The
GST protein (SEQ ID NO: 10) serves many functions, including enabling the purification of
the recombinant gliadin protein and the presentation of epitopes represented in the
recombinant gliadin protein.
[0049]           When the gliadin fusion protein includes GST and the recombinant deamidated
gliadin is the D2 hexamer, the gliadin fusion protein is represented by the sequence of SEQ
ID NO: 11. In some embodiments, the present invention provides any nucleotide sequence
that encodes the polypeptide in the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 11. The gliadin fusion protein of
the present invention can be prepared by a variety of methods, including via recombinant
methods such as those described.
[0050]           Immobilization of the gliadin fusion protein on the solid support can be achieved by
any method known in the art. The immobilization of the gliadin fusion protein to the solid
support can be via covalent or ionic bond formation, hydrogen bonding, Van der Waals
forces, as well as via antibody-antigen interactions. One of skill in the art will appreciate that
other immobilization methods are useful in the present invention.
[0051]           In some embodiments, the antigen also includes tissue Transglutaminase (tTG).
When tTG is present, the tTG and gliadin fusion protein form a tTG-gliadin fusion protein
complex. The tTG and the gliadin fusion protein can be linked in a variety of ways, such as
by the formation of covalent bonds, ionic bonds, hydrogen bonding, or by Van der Waals
interactions. When the tTG and the gliadin fusion protein are linked covalently, the covalent
bonds can be formed by a variety of reactions, such as transamidation. The transamidation
can occur under a variety of conditions, such as in the presence of Ca2.         The tTG can be
linked to either or both of the tag and the recombinant deamidated gliadin of the gliadin
fusion protein. The tTG is immobilized to the solid support under the same conditions, and at
                                                      13
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

the same time as immobilization of the gliadin fusion protein. Tissue transglutaminase is
known to one of skill in the art and has been described previously, see NCBI Refseq
NP_004604 and NP_945189 (April 13, 2008).
[0052]           In other embodiments, the tTG and the gliadin fusion protein are covalently linked
by a cross-linker. One of skill in the art will appreciate that other methods of cross-linking
are available, such as via ionic bonding, hydrogen bonding or via van der Waals forces. One
of skill in the art will recognize that any cross-linker is suitable in the instant invention. In
some embodiments, the cross-linker is a member selected from the group consisting of a
heterobifunctional crosslinker and a homobifunctional crosslinker. In yet other
embodiments, the cross-linker is a homobifunctional crosslinker. In still yet other
embodiments, the cross-linker is a member selected from the group consisting of
bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS3), ethylene glycol bis[succinimidylsuccinate] (EGS),
ethylene glycol bis[sulfosuccinimidylsuccinate] (sulfo-EGS),
bis[2-(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)ethyl]sulfone (BSOCOES),
dithiobis(succinimidyl)propionate (DSP), 3,3'-dithiobis(sulfosuccinimidylpropionate)
(DTSSP), disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS), disuccinimidyl glutarate (DSG), methyl
N-succinimidyl adipate (MSA), disuccinimidyl tartarate (DST),
 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DFDNB), 1-ethyl-3-[3-dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide
hydrochloride (EDC or EDAC),
sulfosuccinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate             (sulfo-SMCC),
N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide (sulfo-NHS), hydroxylamine and Sulfo-LC-SPDP
(N-succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithio)-propionate) and sulfosuccinimidyl
6-(3'-[2-pyridyldithio]-propionamido)hexanoate (sulfo-LC-SPDP). In another embodiment,
the cross-linker is bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS3).
[0053]           In a further embodiment, the recombinant deamidated gliadin has 95% identity to
SEQ ID NO:3. One of skill in the art will appreciate that other percent identities are possible,
such as 60% identity, preferably 65%, 7 0%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%,
91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% or 99% identity over a specified region, when
compared and aligned for maximum correspondence over a comparison window, or
designated region. Such sequences are then said to be "substantially identical." The
recombinant deamidated gliadin of the present invention having some percent identity to the
sequence of SEQ ID NO:3 can bind to anti-gliadin antibodies in a sample in order to detect
                                                    14
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

celiac disease. In some other embodiments, the recombinant deamidated gliadin has the
sequence of SEQ ID NO:3.
             B.             Solid Support
[0054]          A solid support material for use in the present invention is characterized by the
following properties: (1) insolubility in liquid phases used for screening; (2) capable of
mobility in three dimensions independent of all other supports; (3) containing many copies of
the gliadin fusion protein or the tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex; (4) compatibility with
screening assay conditions; and (5) being inert to the assay conditions. A preferred support
also has reactive functional groups, including, but not limited to, hydroxyl, carboxyl, amino,
thiol, aldehyde, halogen, nitro, cyano, amido, urea, carbonate, carbamate, isocyanate, sulfone,
sulfonate, sulfonamide, sulfoxide, etc., for attaching the gliadin fusion protein and tTG.
[0055]          As used herein, solid support material is not limited to a specific type of support.
Rather a large number of supports are available and are known to one of ordinary skill in the
art. Solid phase supports include silica gels, resins, derivatized plastic films, beads such as
glass, plastic, or magnetic beads, cotton, alumina gels, polysaccharides such as Sepharose
and the like, etc. Other solid supports can be ELISA microtiter plates. A suitable solid phase
support can be selected on the basis of desired end use and suitability for various synthetic
protocols. For example, in polyamide synthesis, useful solid phase support can be resins
such as polystyrene (e.g., PAM-resin obtained from Bachem Inc., Peninsula Laboratories,
etc.), POLYHIPETM resin (obtained from Aminotech, Canada), polyamide resin (obtained
from Peninsula Laboratories), polystyrene resin grafted with polyethylene glycol
(TentaGe          TM,     Rapp Polymere, Tubingen, Germany), polydimethyl-acrylamide resin
(available from Milligen/Biosearch, California), or PEGA beads (obtained from Polymer
Laboratories). Preferred solid phase synthesis supports for specific syntheses are described
below. In some embodiments, the solid support is a bead. One of skill in the art will
recognize that many types of solid supports are useful in the present invention.
             C.             Process for Preparing Recombinant Deamidated Gliadin Antigen
[0056]           In some embodiments, the present invention provides an antigen for detecting celiac
disease prepared by the process including contacting a solid support with a gliadin fusion
protein, wherein the gliadin fusion protein includes a recombinant deamidated gliadin having
                                                       15
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

a hexamer of peptides each having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and wherein the
recombinant deamidated gliadin is covalently linked to a tag, such that the gliadin fusion
protein is immobilized on the solid support. Thus, the antigen for detecting celiac disease is
prepared.
[0057]           The process of preparing the recombinant deamidated gliadin antigen can prepare
any recombinant deamidated gliadin antigen described above.
[0058]           The tag is as described above. In some embodiments, the tag is GST or a His-tag.
In another embodiment, the tag is GST. In some embodiments, the gliadin fusion protein is
immobilized on the solid support via the tag.
[0059]           The solid support is as described above. In some embodiments, the solid support is
a bead, such as a magnetic bead. In some embodiments, the solid support has a functional
reactive group.
[0060]           When tTG is present, the process can also include forming a covalent bond between
the gliadin fusion protein and the tTG prior to the contacting step to form a tTG-gliadin
fusion protein complex. The process of forming a covalent bond between the gliadin fusion
protein and the tTG can also occur during and/or after the contacting step. The complexing
of the gliadin fusion protein and the tTG can occur by any method known in the art. In some
embodiments, the complexation occurs by transamidation to form a covalent bond.
[0061]           In other embodiments, the process further comprises contacting the solid support
with a cross-linker to cross-link the gliadin fusion protein and the tTG. In some other
embodiments, the cross-linker cross-links the GST protein to the tTG. One of skill in the art
will appreciate that any cross-linker is useful in the process of the present invention, such as
those described above. The cross-linking can occur via hydrogen-bonding, covalent or ionic
bond formation.
                            1.    General Recombinant Methods
[0062]           This invention can employ routine techniques in the field of recombinant genetics
for the preparation of recombinant deamidated gliadin polypeptides. Basic texts disclosing
the general methods of use in this invention include Sambrook & Russell, Molecular
Cloning, A LaboratoryManual (3rd Ed, 2001); Kriegler, Gene Transfer and Expression: A
                                                      16
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

LaboratoryManual (1990); and CurrentProtocolsin MolecularBiology (Ausubel et al.,
eds., 1994-1999).
[0063]          A recombinant deamidated gliadin, or a fusion protein, e.g., comprising
recombinant deamidated gliadin and a tag such as a GST tag or a His tag, can be expressed
using techniques well known in the art. Eukaryotic and prokaryotic host cells may be used
such as animal cells, insect cells, bacteria, fungi, and yeasts. Methods for the use of host
cells in expressing isolated nucleic acids are well known to those of skill and may be found,
for example, in the general reference, supra. Accordingly, this invention also provides for
host cells and expression vectors comprising the nucleic acid sequences described herein.
 [0064]         Nucleic acids encoding a recombinant deamidated gliadin, or a fusion protein, e.g.,
comprising recombinant deamidated gliadin and a tag such as a GST tag or a His tag, can be
made using standard recombinant or synthetic techniques. Nucleic acids may be RNA, DNA,
or hybrids thereof. One of skill can construct a variety of clones containing functionally
equivalent nucleic acids, such as nucleic acids that encode the same polypeptide. Cloning
methodologies to accomplish these ends, and sequencing methods to verify the sequence of
nucleic acids are well known in the art.
 [0065]          In some embodiments, the nucleic acids are synthesized in vitro. Deoxynucleotides
may be synthesized chemically according to the solid phase phosphoramidite triester method
described by Beaucage & Caruthers, TetrahedronLetts. 22(20):1859-1862 (1981), using an
automated synthesizer, e.g., as described in Needham-VanDevanter, et al., Nucleic Acids Res.
 12:6159-6168 (1984). In other embodiments, the nucleic acids encoding the desired protein
may be obtained by an amplification reaction, e.g., PCR.
 [0066]          One of skill will recognize many other ways of generating alterations or variants of
a given polypeptide sequence. Most commonly, polypeptide sequences are altered by
changing the corresponding nucleic acid sequence and expressing the polypeptide.
 [0067]          One of skill can select a desired nucleic acid or polypeptide of the invention based
upon the sequences referred to herein and the knowledge readily available in the art regarding
recombinant deamidated gliadin structure and function. The physical characteristics and
general properties of these proteins are known to skilled practitioners.
                                                       17
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0068]           To obtain high level expression of a recombinant deamidated gliadin, or a fusion
protein comprising recombinant deamidated gliadin and a tag such as a GST tag or a His tag,
an expression vector is constructed that includes such elements as a promoter to direct
transcription, a transcription/translation terminator, a ribosome binding site for translational
initiation, and the like. Suitable bacterial promoters are well known in the art and described,
e.g., in the references providing expression cloning methods and protocols cited hereinabove.
Bacterial expression systems for expressing ribonuclease are available in, e.g., E. coli,
Bacillus sp., and Salmonella (see, also, Palva, et al., Gene 22:229-235 (1983); Mosbach, et
al., Nature 302:543-545 (1983). Kits for such expression systems are commercially
available. Eukaryotic expression systems for mammalian cells, yeast, and insect cells are
well known in the art and are also commercially available.
[0069]           In addition to the promoter, the expression vector typically contains a transcription
unit or expression cassette that contains all the additional elements required for expression of
the nucleic acid in host cells. A typical expression cassette thus contains a promoter operably
linked to the nucleic acid sequence encoding the recombinant deamidated gliadin or the
fusion protein (e.g., a recombinant deamidated gliadin-GST fusion protein), and signals
required for efficient polyadenylation of the transcript, ribosome binding sites, and
translation termination. Depending on the expression system, the nucleic acid sequence
encoding the recombinant deamidated gliadin or fusion protein (e.g., recombinant deamidated
gliadin-GST fusion protein) may be linked to a cleavable signal peptide sequence to promote
secretion of the encoded protein by the transformed cell.
[0070]          As noted above, the expression cassette should also contain a transcription
termination region downstream of the structural gene to provide for efficient termination.
The termination region may be obtained from the same gene as the promoter sequence or
may be obtained from different genes.
[0071]           The particular expression vector used to transport the genetic information into the
cell is not particularly critical. Any of the conventional vectors used for expression in
eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells may be used. Standard bacterial expression vectors include
plasmids such as pBR322 based plasmids, pSKF, pET 15b, pET23D, pET-22b(+), and fusion
expression systems such as GST and LacZ. Epitope tags can also be added to recombinant
proteins to provide convenient methods of isolation, e.g., 6-his. These vectors comprise, in
                                                      18
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

addition to the expression cassette containing the coding sequence, the T7 promoter,
transcription initiator and terminator, the pBR322 ori site, a bla coding sequence and a lac
operator.
[0072]           The vectors comprising the nucleic acid sequences encoding the RNase molecules
or the fusion proteins may be expressed in a variety of host cells, including E. coli, other
bacterial hosts, yeast, and various higher eukaryotic cells such as the COS, CHO and HeLa
cells lines and myeloma cell lines. In addition to cells, vectors may be expressed by
transgenic animals, preferably sheep, goats and cattle. Typically, in this expression system,
the recombinant protein is expressed in the transgenic animal's milk.
[0073]           The expression vectors or plasmids of the invention can be transferred into the
chosen host cell by well-known methods such as calcium chloride transformation for E. coli
and calcium phosphate treatment, liposomal fusion or electroporation for mammalian cells.
Cells transformed by the plasmids can be selected by resistance to antibiotics conferred by
genes contained on the plasmids, such as the amp, gpt, neo and hyg genes.
[0074]           Once expressed, the expressed protein can be purified according to standard
procedures of the art, including ammonium sulfate precipitation, column chromatography
(including affinity chromatography), gel electrophoresis and the like (see, generally, R.
Scopes, ProteinPurification,Springer--Verlag, N.Y. (1982), Deutscher, Methods in
Enzymology Vol. 182: Guide to Protein Purification., Academic Press, Inc. N.Y. (1990);
Sambrook and Ausubel, both supra.
[0075]           In some embodiments, the present invention provides an isolated nucleic acid
including the sequence of SEQ ID NO:9, which encodes a recombinant gliadin protein D2
hexamer sequence. In other embodiments, the isolated nucleic acid is in an expression
vector. In some other embodiments, the expression vector is in a host cell.
                            2.    Immobilization on the Solid Support
[0076]           The gliadin fusion protein of the present invention can be immobilized to any useful
solid support material by any useful immobilization method known in the art. The
immobilization of the gliadin fusion protein to the solid support can be via covalent or ionic
bond formation, hydrogen bonding, Van der Waals forces, as well as via antibody-antigen
                                                       19
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

interactions. One of skill in the art will appreciate that other immobilization methods are
useful in the present invention.
[0077]           Other compounds have been developed that enable immobilization in a manner
similar to antibodies. Certain of these "antibody mimics" use non-immunoglobulin protein
scaffolds as alternative protein frameworks for the variable regions of antibodies.
[0078]           For example, Ladner et al. (U.S. Patent No. 5,260,203) describe single polypeptide
chain binding molecules with binding specificity similar to that of the aggregated, but
molecularly separate, light and heavy chain variable region of antibodies. The single-chain
binding molecule contains the antigen binding sites of both the heavy and light variable
regions of an antibody connected by a peptide linker and will fold into a structure similar to
that of the two peptide antibody. The single-chain binding molecule displays several
advantages over conventional antibodies, including, smaller size, greater stability and are
more easily modified.
[0079]           Ku et al. (Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 92(14):6552-6556 (1995)) discloses an
alternative to antibodies based on cytochrome b5 62 . Ku et al. (1995) generated a library in
which two of the loops of cytochrome b562 were randomized and selected for binding against
bovine serum albumin. The individual mutants were found to bind selectively with BSA
similarly with anti-BSA antibodies.
 [0080]          Lipovsek et al. (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,818,418 and 7,115,396) discloses an antibody
mimic featuring a fibronectin or fibronectin-like protein scaffold and at least one variable
loop. Known as Adnectins, these fibronectin-based antibody mimics exhibit many of the
same characteristics of natural or engineered antibodies, including high affinity and
specificity for any targeted ligand. Any technique for evolving new or improved binding
proteins may be used with these antibody mimics.
 [0081]          The structure of these fibronectin-based antibody mimics is similar to the structure
of the variable region of the IgG heavy chain. Therefore, these mimics display antigen
binding properties similar in nature and affinity to those of native antibodies. Further, these
fibronectin-based antibody mimics exhibit certain benefits over antibodies and antibody
fragments. For example, these antibody mimics do not rely on disulfide bonds for native fold
stability, and are, therefore, stable under conditions which would normally break down
antibodies. In addition, since the structure of these fibronectin-based antibody mimics is
                                                      20
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

similar to that of the IgG heavy chain, the process for loop randomization and shuffling may
be employed in vitro that is similar to the process of affinity maturation of antibodies in vivo.
[0082]           Beste et al. (Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 96(5):1898-1903 (1999)) discloses an
antibody mimic based on a lipocalin scaffold (ANTICALIN@). Lipocalins are composed of
a p-barrel with four hypervariable loops at the terminus of the protein. Beste (1999),
subjected the loops to random mutagenesis and selected for binding with, for example,
fluorescein. Three variants exhibited specific binding with fluorescein, with one variant
showing binding similar to that of an anti-fluorescein antibody. Further analysis revealed
that all of the randomized positions are variable, indicating that ANTICALIN@ would be
suitable to be used as an alternative to antibodies.
[0083]          ANTICALINS@ are small, single chain peptides, typically between 160 and 180
residues, which provides several advantages over antibodies, including decreased cost of
production, increased stability in storage and decreased immunological reaction.
[0084]           Hamilton et al. (U.S. Patent No. 5,770,380) discloses a synthetic antibody mimic
using the rigid, non-peptide organic scaffold of calixarene, attached with multiple variable
peptide loops used as binding sites. The peptide loops all project from the same side
geometrically from the calixarene, with respect to each other. Because of this geometric
confirmation, all of the loops are available for binding, increasing the binding affinity to a
ligand. However, in comparison to other antibody mimics, the calixarene-based antibody
mimic does not consist exclusively of a peptide, and therefore it is less vulnerable to attack
by protease enzymes. Neither does the scaffold consist purely of a peptide, DNA or RNA,
meaning this antibody mimic is relatively stable in extreme environmental conditions and has
a long life span. Further, since the calixarene-based antibody mimic is relatively small, it is
less likely to produce an immunogenic response.
 [0085]          Murali et al. (Cell Mol Biol 49(2):209-216 (2003)) discusses a methodology for
reducing antibodies into smaller peptidomimetics, which they term "antibody like binding
peptidomemetics" (ABiP) which may also be useful as an alternative to antibodies.
 [0086]          In addition to non-immunoglobulin protein frameworks, antibody properties have
also been mimicked in compounds comprising RNA molecules and unnatural oligomers (e.g.,
protease inhibitors, benzodiazepines, purine derivatives and beta-turn mimics).
                                                      21
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

Alternatively, known binding interactions between, for example, streptavidin and biotin, can
be used to bind the gliadin fusion protein to the solid support.
[0087]          Additional methods for linking the gliadin fusion protein to the solid support
include the use of homobifunctional and heterobifunctional linkers. Zero-length cross linking
reagents induce the direct conjugation of two ligands without the introduction of any
extrinsic material. Agents that catalyze the formation of disulfide bonds belong in this
category. Another example is reagents that induce the condensation of carboxy and primary
amino groups to form an amide bond, such as carbodiimides, ethylchloroformate,
Woodward's reagent KI, carbonyldiimidazole, etc. Homobifunctional reagents carry two
identical functional groups, whereas heterobifunctional reagents contain two dissimilar
functional groups. A vast majority of the heterobifunctional cross-linking agents contains a
primary amine-reactive group and a thiol-reactive group. A novel heterobifunctional linker
for formyl to thiol coupling was disclosed by Heindel, N. D. et al., Bioconjugate Chem. 2,
427-430 (1991). In a preferred embodiment, the covalent cross-linking agents are selected
from reagents capable of forming disulfide (-S-S-), glycol (-CH(OH) -CH(OH)-), azo
(-N=N-), sulfone (-S(=02)-), or ester (-C(=O)-O-) bridges.
[0088]           Carboxylic acid groups residing on the surface of paramagnetic latex beads,
internally dyed with Luminex dyes, can be converted to N-hydroxysuccinimide esters
through the action of N-cyclohexyl-N'-(2-morpholinoethyl)carbodiimide metho-p
toluenesulfonate (CMC) and N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS). After magnetic separation and
washing, a mixture of the gliadin fusion protein and tTG is added in a detergent and buffered
saline containing 10mM CaCl 2 at pH 7.4. The suspension is incubated for 1 hour with
shaking at room temperature. After washing, the beads are blocked to reduce non-specific
binding and then stored in particle diluent.
11.          Method for Diagnosing a Subject with Celiac Disease
[0089]           In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method for diagnosing a
subject with celiac disease. The method includes contacting a sample of bodily fluid from
the subject with an antigen of the present invention, including a recombinant deamidated
gliadin including a hexamer having the sequence of SEQ ID NO:3. The method also includes
detecting any antibody that has become specifically bound to the antigen, thus indicating the
presence of celiac disease in the subject.
                                                     22
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0090]           The sample of the present invention can be any bodily fluid. In some embodiments,
the sample can be aqueous humor, bile, blood and blood plasma, breast milk, interstitial fluid,
lymph, mucus, pleural fluid, pus, saliva, serum, sweat, tears, urine, cerebrospinal fluid,
synovial fluid or intracellular fluid. In some embodiments, the sample is a blood sample.
[0091]           The subject of the present invention can be any mammal. In some embodiments,
the subject can be primates (e.g., humans), cows, sheep, goats, horses, dogs, cats, rabbits,
rats, mice and the like. In other embodiments, the subject is a human.
[0092]           The presence of the antibody bound to the solid support immobilized gliadin fusion
protein or tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex can be detected by any means known in the
art. In some embodiments, the detecting step can be performed using an assay such as
ELISA, a RIA or an immunofluorescence assay. In other embodiments, the detecting step
can be performed using an enzymatic method. Immunoassays which can be used in the
detecting step include, for example, competitive and non-competitive assay systems such as
Western blots, radioimmunoassays, ELISA (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay),
"sandwich" immunoassays, immunoprecipitation assays, precipitin reactions, gel diffusion
precipitin reactions, immunodiffusion assays, agglutination assays, complement-fixation
assays, immunoradiometric assays, fluorescent immunoassays, protein A immunoassays, and
the like. See, e.g., Harlow and Lane, Using Antibodies, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory, New York (1999).
[0093]           The antibody specific for the antigen can be any suitable antibody. In some
embodiments, the antibody can be IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG or IgM. In other embodiments, the
antibody can be IgG or IgA. One of skill in the art will appreciate that other antibodies are
useful in the present invention.
IV.          Kits
[0094]           In some embodiments, the present invention provides a kit including an antigen as
described above, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin includes a hexamer that is
substantially identical to the sequence of SEQ ID NO:3 or having the sequence of SEQ ID
NO:3, a detection reagent, and optionally at least one of buffers, salts, stabilizers and
instructions.
                                                      23
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0095]           Buffers, salts and stabilizers useful in the present invention include those known to
one of skill, and can be found in Gennaro, Ed., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th
Edition, Mack Publishing Co. (Easton, Pa.) 1990.
V.           Examples
Example 1. Purification of D2-Hexamer with His Tag
[0096]           The D2-hexamer with His tag can be purified using either native or denaturing
conditions. In this example, the D2-hexamer was purified in the denaturing condition with
8M urea. A "classic" D2 hexamer with His tag was made in which the protein had the
sequence of SEQ ID NO:7. Additionally, a "lysine-containing" D2 hexamer with His tag was
made in which the protein had the sequence of SEQ ID NO:8.
[0097]           Purification of the classic recombinant hexamer. The lysed cells from the 6 liter
E. coli culture over-expressing the hexamer were suspended in the Equilibration Buffer (100
mM NaH2PO4, 8M Urea, 500 mM NaCl, 10 mM Imidazole, pH 8.0) at about 5ml/g wet
weight. After stirring for 30 min at room temperature, the cellular debris were removed by
centrifugation. The about 200 ml supernatant was added to 25ml of Ni-NTA resin pre
washed with the Equilibration Buffer, and mixed for 60 minutes at room temperature. The
hexamer proteins bound to the resin were separated from the unbound lysate before being
washed four times with 100 ml Washing Buffer (100 mM NaH2PO4, 8M urea, 500 mM
NaCl, 20 mM imidazole, 0.5% Triton X100, pH 8.0). After the washing buffer was removed
from the resin, the bound hexamer proteins were eluted with four volumes of 20ml Elution
Buffer (100 mM NaH2PO4, 8M urea, 200 mM NaCl, 250 mM imidazole, pH 7.5). The
eluted protein fractions were pooled, concentrated, and dialysed against 10mM MOPS,
 150mM NaCl (pH7.4). Any precipitations observed were removed by centrifugation at 15k x
g. The affinity purified proteins can be further purified with a size-exclusion column with
 1OmM MOPS, 150mM NaCl (pH7.4), monitored with UV at 230 nm. The fractions
containing the first main peak were pooled and concentrated.
[0098]           The purification method of the lysine-containing D2-hexamer recombinant protein
was identical to that of the classic recombinant hexamer.
 [0099]          Characterization of the purified classic or lysine-containing hexamer proteins.
The affinity purified protein was analyzed by SDS-PAGE gel electrophoresis (Figure 1). The
                                                        24
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

D2-hexamers that were further purified on the size-exclusion column as described above
were analyzed by SDS-PAGE (Figure 1). Unexpectedly, both hexamers (classic and the
lysine-containing) showed a major band around 45kd, corresponding to the size of a trimer of
hexamer proteins. This aggregation of the hexamers is so strong that it is not dissociated
under the denaturing conditions used in SDS-PAGE. Additionally, both hexamer proteins
migrated at the position of about 45kd in a size-exclusion chromatogram. Without being
bound to a particular theory, the surprising tendency of the hexamers to aggregate to form a
trimer of hexamers may contribute to the improved immunoreactivity of the D2 hexamer.
Example 2. Preparation of Recombinant Deamidated Gliadin Antigen
[0100]           This example provides a protocol that was used for the preparation of the "classic"
His-tagged recombinant deamidated gliadin protein (SEQ ID NO:7).
Immobilization of the Recombinant Deamidated Gliadin Peptide (DGP) Antigen on Magnetic
Beads
[0101]           10 mg of carboxyl modified magnetic beads are placed in a microfuge tube. 1000
ptL of 50 mM 2-(N-morpholino) ethanesulfonic acid (MES) pH 6.1 in 70% ethanol (EtOH) is
added to the tube. The tube is vortexed and beads are magnetically separated. The
supernatant is pipetted off and discarded. This wash process is repeated one more time.
[0102]           500 tL of 120mM N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) in 50mM MES, pH 6.1 in 70%
EtOH is added into the tube with beads and mixed. 500 pL of N-Cyclohexyl-N'-(2
morpholinoethyl) carbodiimide metho-p-toluenesulfonate (CMC) in 50mM MES, pH 6.1 in
70% EtOH is added into the same tube with beads and mixed. The tube is incubated at room
temperature for 30 minutes while mixing continuously.
[0103]           The beads are separated from the supernatant and 1000 [L of 5mM MES pH 6.1 in
 10% EtOH is added. The beads are mixed, magnetically separated and the supernatant
pipetted off and discarded. This wash process is repeated one more time.
[0104]           The washed beads are suspended by adding 250 pL of 5mM MES pH 6.1 and
mixed. The recombinant DGP antigen (prepared as detailed earlier) is mixed in the bead
coupling buffer (buffered saline containing detergents) to obtain a coating concentration of 5
hg/mg that is added to the beads. This mixture is incubated at room temperature for 60
minutes with continuous mixing.
                                                    25
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0105]           1000 ptL of post coating wash buffer (buffered saline containing detergents, calcium
chloride and preservatives) is added to the tube and mixed. The beads are magnetically
separated and the supernatant pipetted off and discarded. This wash process is repeated 3
more times.
Bead blocking
[0106]           1000 pL of blocking buffer (buffered saline containing detergents, calcium chloride,
preservatives and blockers) added to the tube. The tube is incubated at 2-8' C with mixing.
The beads are magnetically separated and the supernatant pipetted off and discarded at the
end of incubation.
[0107]           The beads are washed with Particle diluent (buffered saline containing detergents,
calcium chloride, preservatives and blockers) by adding 1000 pL of Particle diluent to the
tube. The tube is mixed and the beads are magnetically separated and the supernatant pipetted
off and discarded. This wash process is repeated 3 more times.
[0108]          Add 1000 pL of Particle diluent (100 pL/mg particles) into the tube and store at 2
8' C in this buffer.
Example 3. Detection of Celiac Disease Using the Recombinant DGP Antigen
[0109]           This example provides a method that was used for the detection of celiac disease
using the classic His-tagged recombinant deamidated gliadin protein (SEQ ID NO:7) as an
antigen.
Summary of the Celiac IgA and IgG immunoassay protocol:
[0110]           The instrument, BioPlex 2200 (manufactured by Bio-Rad Laboratories) aspirates 5
ptL of sample from sample tube and dispenses it into a reaction vessel (RV) chased by 45 pL
of Wash buffer (phosphate buffered saline containing detergent and preservatives).
[0111]           100 tL of Sample diluent (buffered saline containing detergent, preservatives and
blockers) is added to the RV followed by 150 pL of Wash buffer.
[0112]           The RV is incubated for 130 seconds at 370 C.
[0113]           100 pL of Particle reagent (a solution of recombinant deamidated gliadin coated
beads in particle diluent) is added to the RV. The final sample dilution is 1/80.
                                                      26
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0114]           The mixture is incubated for 1180 seconds at 370 C with intermittent mixing.
[0115]           The beads are washed 3 times with 600 pL, then 300 pL, then 600 pL of Wash
buffer with magnetic separation after each wash.
[0116]           50 pL of Conjugate Reagent (a mixture of anti-human IgA/IgG-phycoerythrin in
conjugate diluent (buffered saline containing detergent, preservatives and blockers)) is added
to the RV.
[0117]           The mixture is incubated for 600 seconds at 370 C with intermittent mixing.
[0118]           The beads are washed 3 times with 600 pL, then 300 ptL, then 600 ptL of Wash
buffer with magnetic separation after each wash.
[0119]           50 tL of Wash buffer is added to the RV to re-suspend the beads.
[0120]           The bead suspension is aspirated into the Luminex Detector module (LDM) and the
median fluorescence of particles in each of the specified bead region is measured. Figure 2
shows the coating titration of the DGP classic hexamer.
Sensitivity in Celiac Testing
[0121]           Table 1 shows the amount of signal (relative fluorescence intensity, RFI) detected
for normal and Celiac positive samples at different concentrations of DGP hexamer.
Table 1. RFI and Coating Concentration of DGP for "classic" DGP
                                                                       RFI of Celiac
                                            RFI of Normal          positive sample at
                                           healthy sample                  cutoff
                              Coating
                       Concentration
                       of DGP, rig/mg      IgA           IgG         IgA          IgG
                                   0.0      21            14          20           15
                                   2.0      46            71         750         1152
                                   5.0      47            76         808         1235
                                  10.0      49            81         831         1262
                                  25.0      51            81         844         1273
                                  40.0      50            80         842         1275
Analysis of Celiac Samples
                                                     27
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0122]           The following concordance study was comprised of 62 Celiac samples. Table 2
shows the results of the comparison of DGP hexamer and the predicate method.
Table 2. Concordance study of 62 Celiac samples using "classic" DGP
                                             Agreement with Predicate Method
                                                        (INOVA)
                                             Positive   Negative       Total
                                    Analyte agreement  agreement    agreement
                                        IgA     97%        91%         95%
                                       IgG     100%        94%         97%
[0123]           Relative fluorescence intensity (RFI) was measured for normal and Celiac patient
samples using a DGP hexamer (Table 3). Patient immunoreactivity was assessed by antibody
index (AI) in which positive reactivity is >1.0.
Table 3. RFI and Al data for Normal and Celiac Patient samples using "classic" DGP
                                 IgA                                           IgG
        Sample                         RFI    Al                   Sample              RFI       Al
       2320644                         170    0.2                  2320644            37.0        0
       2324881                         49     0.0                  2324881            75.0        0
      GA61882J                       956.0    2.1                 GG61791B           1287.0     1.2
     GA61882R                        903.0    1.5                 GG61791J           1319.0     1.3
     GA64089B                        809.0    1.6                 GG66322P            204.0     0.2
     GA64089G                        1111.0   2.3                 GG66322R           3764.0     3.7
     GA640890                        1753.5   3.6                 GG66322T           4847.0     4.2
         A-9355                       42.0    0.0                   A-9355            105.0     0.1
        15902.0                       2030    4.5                   15902            5360.0     4.5
           16313                    14928.0  20.1                   16313           10454.0     8.5
           13424                     5724.0   8.1                   13424            4436.0     3.3
           13425                     5816.0   8.2                   13425            2171.5     1.9
Example 4. Detection of Celiac disease using the recombinant DGP antigen with an
additional lysine
[0124]           In this example, the "lysine-containing" D2 hexamer protein (a His-tagged
Recombinant Deamidated Gliadin Peptide with a lysine substituted for a glutamic acid
residue at position 14 near the N-terminal region) (SEQ ID NO:8) was tested for sensitivity
to Celiac disease.
                                                      28
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

[0125]           The immobilization of this antigen on magnetic beads was done in the same manner
as described in Example 2. Figure 3 shows the coating titration of the lysine-containing DGP
hexamer.
[0126]           The detection of Celiac disease using this antigen by immunoassay was performed
in the same manner as described for the "classic" hexamer protein in Example 3.
Sensitivity in Celiac Testing
[0127]           Table 4 shows the RFI for normal and Celiac positive samples at different
concentrations of DGP hexamer.
Table 4. RFI and Coating Concentration of DGP for "lysine-containing" DGP
                                           RFI of Normal          RFI of a Celiac positive
                                          healthy sample              sample at cutoff
                            Coating
                 Concentration of
                        DGP, rig/mg       IgA         IgG          IgA            IgG
                                  0.0      21          22           25             27
                                  0.5      45          60          623           1003
                                  2.0      49          61          762           1170
                                  5.0      61          89          814           1279
                                 15.0      65          98          850           1336
                                45.0       64          95          875           1355
Analysis of Celiac Samples
[0128]           Table 5 shows the relative fluorescence intensity (RFI) for normal and Celiac
patient samples as measured by a DGP hexamer. Patient immunoreactivity was assessed by
antibody index (Al) in which positive reactivity is >1.0.
                                                     29
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

Table 5. RFI and Al data for Normal and Celiac Patient samples using "lysine
containing" DGP
                                 IgA                                          IgG
         Sample                        RFI   Al                    Sample             RFI      Al
        2320644                        165   0.2                   2320644           47.0      0
        2324881                        55     0                    2324881           70.0      0
      GA61882J                        942.0  2.1                 GG61791B           1216.5    1.2
      GA61882R                        814.0  1.5                  GG61791J          1120.0    1.1
      GA64089B                        749.5  1.6                 GG66322P            194.0    0.2
      GA64089G                       1042.0  2.2                 GG66322R           3476.0    3.6
      GA640890                       1647.0  3.5                 GG66322T           4607.0    4.2
         A-9355                       45.0    0                     A-9355           153.5    0.1
         15902.0                      1920   4.5                    15902           5541.0    4.6
           16313                     15549.0 23                     16313           10723     8.7
           13424                     5407.0  8.2                    13424           3993.0    3.2
           13425                     5587.5  8.4                    13425           1990.0    1.8
Example 5. Comparison Studies of DGP Trimer v. DGP Hexamer
[0129]           The following concordance study consisting of 62 Celiac samples compared the
predictive value of the DGP hexamer to a previously described gliadin antigen, a D2 trimer
recombinant fusion protein (described previously in US 2009/0311727, incorporated by
reference herein). The DGP hexamer showed improved positive agreement and total
agreement versus DGP trimer (Table 6). These results demonstrate the improved sensitivity
of the DGP hexamer as compared to the DGP trimer.
Table 6. Comparison concordance study
                                                  Agreement with Predicate Method
                                                             (INOVA)
                                                 Positive    Negative         Total
                                  Analyte
                                               agreement    agreement      agreement
                            IgG-DGP Trimer        84%           94%            89%
                         IgG-DGP Hexamer          100%          94%            97%
[0130]           The DGP hexamer also showed surprisingly improved specificity as compared to
the DGP trimer, which yielded many false positive results. This problem was eliminated by
using the DGP hexamer.
                                                       30
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

Table 7 below shows data from a screen of 407 normal samples. DGP trimer gave 25% false
positives whereas DGP hexamer gave only 0.5% false positives. The specificity for false
positive detection is 1%.
Table 7. Screen of normal samples
                                                  DGP Trimer         DGP Hexamer
                                  Total Samples       407                 407
                                 False Positives      102                   2
[0131]           Figures 4a and 4b show the improved performance of the DGP hexamer as
compared to the DGP trimer. In these studies, the bead coating concentration of the DGP
hexamer was 5 times less than that of the DGP trimer, while the cutoff RFI signal was the
same. The recombinant DGP hexamer had improved sensitivity as compared to the
recombinant DGP trimer in both IgA (Figure 4a) and IgG (Figure 4b) assays.
[0132]          Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding, one of skill in the art will
appreciate that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the
appended claims. In addition, each reference provided herein is incorporated by reference in
its entirety to the same extent as if each reference was individually incorporated by reference.
                                                   31
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                             1.   An antigen for detecting celiac disease comprising a recombinant
deamidated gliadin comprising a hexamer of peptides, wherein each peptide has the sequence
of SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin is covalently linked to a tag to
form a gliadin fusion protein, wherein the gliadin fusion protein is immobilized on a solid
support, and wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin is capable of binding to anti
deamidated gliadin antibodies.
                            2.    The antigen of claim 1, wherein the hexamer comprises a spacer
separating each peptide.
                            3.    The antigen of claim 2, wherein the spacer has the sequence of SEQ ID
NO:2.
                            4.    The antigen of claim 1, wherein the hexamer has the sequence of SEQ
ID NO:3.
                            5.    The antigen of claim 1, wherein the tag is selected from the group
consisting of a Glutathione S-transferase (GST) and a His-tag.
                            6.    The antigen of claim 5, wherein the His-tag has the sequence selected
from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, and SEQ ID NO:6.
                            7.    The antigen of claim 6, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin
has the sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:7 and SEQ ID NO:8.
                            8.    The antigen of claim 5, wherein the tag is GST.
                            9.    The antigen of claim 5, wherein the antigen further comprises tissue
Transglutaminase (tTG) to form a tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex.
                             10.  The antigen of claim 9, wherein the tTG and the gliadin fusion protein
are covalently linked by a cross-linker.
                                                         32
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

                             11.    The antigen of claim 10, wherein the cross-linker is a member selected
from the group consisting of a heterobifunctional crosslinker and a homobifunctional
crosslinker.
                             12.    The antigen of claim 11, wherein the cross-linker is a
homobifunctional crosslinker.
                             13.    The antigen of claim 12, wherein the cross-linker is a member selected
from the group consisting of bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS3), ethylene glycol
bis[succinimidylsuccinate] (EGS), ethylene glycol bis[sulfosuccinimidylsuccinate]
(sulfo-EGS), bis[2-(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)ethyl]sulfone (BSOCOES),
dithiobis(succinimidyl)propionate (DSP), 3,3' -dithiobis(sulfosuccinimidylpropione)
(DTSSP), disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS), disuccinimidyl glutarate (DSG), methyl
N-succinimidyl adipate (MSA), disuccinimidyl tartarate (DST),
 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DFDNB), 1-ethyl-3-[3-dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide
hydrochloride (EDC or EDAC),
sulfosuccinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate                     (sulfo-SMCC),
N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide (sulfo-NHS), hydroxylamine and Sulfo-LC-SPDP
(N-succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithio)-propionate) and sulfosuccinimidyl
6-(3' -[2-pyridyldithio]-propionamido)hexanoate (sulfo-LC-SPDP).
                             14.    The antigen of claim 13, wherein the cross-linker is
bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS3).
                             15.    An antigen for detecting celiac disease prepared by the process
comprising:
             (a)            contacting a solid support with a gliadin fusion protein, wherein the gliadin
                            fusion protein comprises a recombinant deamidated gliadin comprising a
                            hexamer of peptides each having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and wherein
                            the recombinant deamidated gliadin is covalently linked to a tag, such that the
                            gliadin fusion protein is immobilized on the solid support, thereby preparing
                            the antigen for detecting celiac disease.
                             16.    The antigen of claim 15, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin
comprises the hexamer having the sequence of SEQ ID NO:3.
                                                            33
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

                             17.    The antigen of claim 15, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin
has the sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:7 and SEQ ID NO:8.
                             18.    The antigen of claim 15, wherein the gliadin fusion protein is
immobilized on the solid support via the tag.
                             19.    The antigen of claim 15, wherein the process further comprises
contacting the gliadin fusion protein with a tissue Transglutaminase (tTG) prior to contacting
step (a) to form at least one covalent bond between the gliadin fusion protein and the tTG.
                            20.     The antigen of claim 19, wherein the process further comprises
             (b)            contacting the antigen with a cross-linker to cross-link the gliadin fusion
                            protein to the tTG.
                            21.     A method for diagnosing celiac disease in a subject, the method
comprising:
             (a)            contacting a sample of bodily fluid from the subject with an antigen of claim
                             1, comprising a recombinant deamidated gliadin comprising a hexamer having
                            the sequence of SEQ ID NO:3; and
             (b)            detecting any antibody that has become specifically bound to the antigen, thus
                            indicating the presence of celiac disease in the subject.
                            22.     The method of claim 21, wherein the sample is a blood sample.
                            23.     The method of claim 21, wherein the detecting step is performed using
an assay selected from the group consisting of ELISA, a RIA and an immunofluorescence
assay.
                            24.     The method of claim 21, wherein the antibody specific for the antigen
is selected from the group consisting of IgG and IgA.
                            25.     A kit comprising:
             an antigen of claim 1, comprising a recombinant deamidated gliadin comprising a
                            hexamer having the sequence of SEQ ID NO:3;
             a detection reagent; and
                                                            34
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

             optionally at least one member selected from the group consisting of buffers, salts,
                            stabilizers and instructions.
                            26.     An antigen for detecting celiac disease comprising a recombinant or
synthetic deamidated gliadin comprising a hexamer of peptides, wherein each peptide
comprises SEQ ID NO: 1.
                            27.     The antigen of claim 26, wherein the hexamer comprises a spacer
separating each peptide.
                            28.     The antigen of claim 27, wherein the spacer comprises SEQ ID NO:2.
                            29.     The antigen of claim 26, wherein the recombinant or synthetic
deamidated gliadin protein has at least 95% identity to SEQ ID NO:3 or comprises SEQ ID
NO:3.
                            30.     The antigen of any one of claims 26 to 29, wherein the recombinant or
synthetic deamidated gliadin is covalently linked to a tag to form a gliadin fusion protein.
                            31.     The antigen of claim 30, wherein the tag is selected from the group
consisting of a Glutathione S-transferase (GST) and a His-tag.
                            32.     The antigen of claim 31, wherein the His-tag comprises a sequence
selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:5, and SEQ ID NO:6.
                            33.     The antigen of claim 32, wherein the recombinant deamidated gliadin
comprises a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO:7 and SEQ ID NO:8.
                            34.     The antigen of claim 31, wherein the tag is GST.
                            35.     The antigen of any one of claims 31 to 34, wherein the antigen further
comprises tissue Transglutaminase (tTG) to form a tTG-gliadin fusion protein complex.
                            36.     The antigen of claim 35, wherein the tTG and the gliadin fusion
protein are covalently linked by a cross-linker.
                                                           35
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

                            37.     The antigen of claim 36, wherein the cross-linker is a member selected
from the group consisting of a heterobifunctional crosslinker and a homobifunctional
crosslinker.
                            38.     The antigen of claim 36 or claim 37, wherein the cross-linker is a
member selected from the group consisting of bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS3), ethylene
glycol bis[succinimidylsuccinate] (EGS), ethylene glycol bis[sulfosuccinimidylsuccinate]
(sulfo-EGS), bis[2-(succinimidooxycarbonyloxy)ethyl]sulfone (BSOCOES),
dithiobis(succinimidyl)propionate (DSP), 3,3' -dithiobis(sulfosuccinimidylpropione)
(DTSSP), disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS), disuccinimidyl glutarate (DSG), methyl
N-succinimidyl adipate (MSA), disuccinimidyl tartarate (DST),
 1,5-difluoro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (DFDNB), 1-ethyl-3-[3-dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide
hydrochloride (EDC or EDAC),
sulfosuccinimidyl-4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate                      (sulfo-SMCC),
N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide (sulfo-NHS), hydroxylamine and Sulfo-LC-SPDP
(N-succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithio)-propionate) and sulfosuccinimidyl
6-(3' -[2-pyridyldithio]-propionamido)hexanoate (sulfo-LC-SPDP).
                            39.     The antigen of claim 38, wherein the cross-linker is
bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS3).
                            40.     An isolated nucleic acid encoding the antigen of any one of claims 26
to 34 or comprising SEQ ID NO:9.
                            41.     An expression vector comprising the isolated nucleic acid of claim 40.
                            42.     A host cell comprising the expression vector of claim 41.
                            43.     A method for diagnosing celiac disease in a subject, the method
comprising:
             (a)            contacting a sample of bodily fluid from the subject with the antigen of any
                            one of claims 26 to 39; and
             (b)            detecting any antibody that has become specifically bound to the antigen, thus
                            indicating the presence of celiac disease in the subject.
                                                            36
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

                            44.     The method of claim 43, wherein the sample is a blood sample.
                            45.     The method of claim 43 or claim 44, wherein the detecting step is
performed using an assay selected from the group consisting of ELISA, a RIA and an
immunofluorescence assay.
                            46.     The method of any one of claims 43 to 45, wherein the antibody
specific for the antigen is selected from the group consisting of IgG and IgA.
                            47.     A kit comprising:
             the antigen of any one of claims 26 to 39;
             a detection reagent; and
             optionally at least one member selected from the group consisting of buffers, salts,
                            stabilizers and instructions.
                                                          37
9765390_1 (GHMatters) P97180.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                        ! "#$
                    % & #    '
                     ( $ % )#$
                    *# + ,    "        -    # &       $./
                        . )"#$ $- %        )#$ - ,     # ,#$ 0$-#      $
<removed-apn>
                    1      +2 21
                    3   - 4 - &&# $ ,
                     - 4 - &&# $ ,
                        5 6 51     5
                         + +
              5
              1     7 &-     8         #$, 9& :       &# $   /
                     5
                    ;
                    0 -#8#.#           <   $.
                    &4$-( -#.      # ,#$ =        - #$ %     = =-#,
              $ ;            $ ;           $    $       ;(    ;             $    0   ;   ;(
                    ;
                    0 -#8#.#           <   $.
                    &4$-( -#. = =-#,           &= .          4.#$ +&   #$   =   4)
                    &= .    8 >#"              #$
              4     4    4   4
                                                                  ;

<removed-date>
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.#                 <    $.
                          &4$-( -#.               . )"#$ $-             # ,#$ =             - #$ %      ( > )
                  $ ;                     $ ;           $       $           ;(      ;                   $           0       ;       ;(
                  4       4       4       4             $ ;                     $ ;             $       $           ;(      ;
<removed-apn>
                  $           0       ;       ;(        4       4       4       4               $ ;                     $ ;             $
                  $           ;(      ;                 $           0       ;       ;(          4       4       4       4               $
                                                                                                    5
              ;                   $ ;             $     $           ;(      ;                   $           0       ;       ;(          4
              5                                     1                                       1                                       2
                  4       4       4               $ ;                   $ ;             $       $           ;(      ;                   $
                                              2
                      0       ;       ;(          4     4       4       4               $ ;                     $ ;             $       $
                      ;(      ;                   $         0       ;       ;(
                          5
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.#                 <    $.
                          &4$-( -#. ?#&+-
              ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#&
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.#                 <    $.
                          &4$-( -#. ?#&+-
              @ - 0               4           ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#&                           4           ;               ;(
                          5
                                                                                        ;

<removed-date>
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.#            <       $.
                          &4$-( -#. ?#&+-
                          5
              @ - 0               4         ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#&                         4           ;       4& ;(
<removed-apn>
                          1
                            5
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.#            <       $.
                          &4$-( -#. A. &&#.A % ( > )   9#-( ?#& -                                            . &&#.
                          ?#&+-    ,  . )"#$ $- , )#$ - ,   # ,#$ =                                          - #$ B% ;C
                          1
              @ - 0               4         ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#&                         4           ;               ;(   $
              ;                   $ ;         $       $           ;(      ;                 $           0       ;       ;(   4
                  4       4       4           $ ;                     $ ;           $       $           ;(      ;            $
                      0       ;       ;(      4       4       4       4             $ ;                     $ ;          $   $
                                                                                                5
                      ;(      ;               $           0       ;       ;(        4       4       4       4            $ ;
              5                                   1                                     1                                  2
                          $ ;           $     $           ;(      ;                 $           0       ;       ;(       4   4
                                          2
                  4       4             $ ;                   $ ;             $     $           ;(      ;                $
              0       ;       ;(        4     4       4       4               $ ;                   $ ;             $    $
              ;(      ;                 $         0       ;       ;(
                          2
                            5
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.#            <       $.
                          &4$-( -#. A 4&#$ +. $- #$#$ A % ( > ) 9#-( ?#&
                          -    ?#&+-    ,   . )"#$ $- , )#$ - , # ,#$
                          = - #$ 9#-( 4&#$ & "&-#- - , - = &#-# $
                                                                                    ;

<removed-date>
                          2
              @ - 0               4         ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#& ?#&                         4            ;       4& ;(          $
              ;                   $ ;         $       $           ;(      ;                 $            0       ;       ;(     4
                  4       4       4           $ ;                     $ ;           $       $            ;(      ;              $
                      0       ;       ;(      4       4       4       4             $ ;                      $ ;          $     $
                                                                                                 5
                      ;(      ;               $           0       ;       ;(        4       4        4       4            $ ;
<removed-apn>
              5                                   1                                     1                                   2
                          $ ;           $     $           ;(      ;                 $            0       ;       ;(       4   4
                                          2
                  4       4             $ ;                   $ ;             $     $            ;(      ;                $
              0       ;       ;(        4     4       4       4               $ ;                    $ ;             $    $
              ;(      ;                 $         0       ;       ;(
                           55
                          % 0
                          0 -#8#.#            <       $.
                          &4$-( -#.           . )"#$ $-               # ,#$ =           - #$ %        ( > )
              . ...   .   .. . .   -. --....                                 .        .. --.   - . - . 5
              -. . ...    . .. .   . -. --.                               ...   .        .. -- . - . -
                .-. . . ..   . .. . . -.                                  --....  .         ..    - . - 2
                .-.   - -.. ...    . .. .                                 . -. --.. ..   .         .. --.
                - . -    .-. . .. .   . ..                                . . -. - -....    .         ..
              --. - .    - .-. .   ...   .                                .. . . - . --....     .         5
              .. --.                                                                                      55
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.##               <   $.
                          &4$-( -#.           - -(# $             +-      $&8           &   B        C =      - #$
              @ -             ;                       4    4          =   4&                4&       4           :        $ ;
              (       0                                    4                                4&   4                       ?#&
              4               0       0&=             4 0&=       4&          = 0       0&$      4&      4& ;(
                                                                                    ;

<removed-date>
                  4                ;(    ;    0&$          ;       4     4             0&=   4 0&= :   4&
                                                                                       5
                      (        $     @ - 0                         0     4             0   0&= 4& ?#& 0&$
              5                          1                                       1                    2
              @ -              4    4 4& ;            4&           0    0                      @ -
                                     2
                  4 0      :         0&=              0    4           4 :             0             0        4
              4& 0&= ;(                  (            4& :         0&= ;(                       4&           ;
<removed-apn>
              @ -           4& @ - ;(                 0&= 0              4& ?#&        4&       (    4             0&$
                  4 0&= ?#& :            (    ?#& ;        0&= ;(       @ -            4       0&= 0               0&=
                                                                                                                    5
              :       :            4 @ - 0&= ;             @ -     4&            0&= 0         ;(    ;        4&
                                      5                                  1                                    1
              :       4& ;(        4& 4& 0                         0             ;         $         0&=      4&   4
                                   2                                2
                      4&              4& 4                 0         = ;                   $     4       =       $ 0
              (       ;(       4    4        4 0&= ?#& ;           ;     4&            0&=           :       ;     0
                           2
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.##           <   $.
                          &4$-( -#.   # ,#$ 8 &# $ = - #$ #$. ,#$                                        $,
                            . )"#$ $- , )#$ - ,    # ,#$ % ( > )
              @ -          ;                      4   4        =   4&            4&        4         :           $ ;
              (       0                               4                          4&    4                     ?#&
              4            0       0&=            4 0&=    4&          = 0       0&$   4&       4& ;(
                  4                ;(    ;    0&$          ;       4     4             0&=   4 0&= :   4&
                                                                                       5
                      (        $     @ - 0                         0     4             0   0&= 4& ?#& 0&$
              5                          1                                       1                    2
              @ -              4    4 4& ;            4&           0    0                      @ -
                                     2
                  4 0      :         0&=              0    4           4 :             0             0        4
              4& 0&= ;(                  (            4& :         0&= ;(                       4&           ;
              @ -           4& @ - ;(                 0&= 0              4& ?#&        4&       (    4             0&$
                                                                             ;

<removed-date>
                  4 0&= ?#& :              (    ?#& ;         0&= ;(       @ -               4       0&= 0              0&=
                                                                                                                         5
              :       :               4 @ - 0&= ;             @ -     4&            0&= 0            ;(    ;       4&
                                         5                                     1                                   1
              :       4& ;(           4& 4& 0                         0             ;            $         0&=     4&    4
                                      2                                2
                      4&                 4& 4                 0         = ;                      $     4       =       $ 0
              (       ;(          4    4     4 0&= ?#& ;              ;        4&            0&=           :       ;    0
<removed-apn>
                  $ ;                  $ ;          $     $           ;(   ;                     $         0       ;    ;(
                  4       4       4    4            $ ;                   $ ;           $        $         ;(      ;
                  $           0       ;    ;(       4     4       4     4               $ ;                 $ ;              $
                                       5                               5                                   1
                  $           ;(      ;             $         0       ;   ;(
                               1                               2
                           5
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.##             <   $.
                          &4$-( -#. '           # $-&     8       # ,#$ =           - #$ %       = =-#,
                          :0 0
                          B C///B C
                           -    &- $             > #&         $    $,      -        &-       $        > #&
                  > ;             >    > ;          >     >           ;(   ;            >        >     > 0         ;    ;(
                          ;
                          0 -#8#.##             <   $.
                          &4$-( -#. = =-#, &= .                        4.#$ +& #$ = 4)
                          &= .    8 >#"    #$                         = - , $ $, 8#$ ,
                          $ )"    8 -#) & B     C$
                  4       4       4    4
                                                                                ;        5

<removed-date>       ;
                  0 -#8#.##    <   $.
                  &4$-( -#. = =-#, &= .       4.#$ +& #$ = 4)
                  &= .    8 >#"    #$        = - , $ $, 8#$ ,
<removed-apn>
                  $ )"    8 -#) & B     C$
              4       4   4
                  ;
                  0 -#8#.##    <   $.
                  &4$-( -#. = =-#, &= .       4.#$ +& #$ = 4)
                  &= .    8 >#"    #$        = - , $ $, 8#$ ,
                  $ )"    8 -#) & B    C$
              4   4   4
                                                ;   1

