ABSTRACT
        There are provided plants of Papaversomniferum for the production of codeine,
methods for providing the plants, and poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw (CPS),
latex, opium and codeine from the plants.

                               2/3
FIGURE 3
FIGURE 4
                                               12.5
                         +         AAA A      10.0
                                                    a*
                                             -7.5
                                            -5.0
         70 6
                50 40 60   40      20    * EM3-0006
              L*                         mEM4-0045
                            b*           A PW08-2308

                           -1
                    AUSTRALIA
                 Patents Act 1990 (Cth)
COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                     APPLICANT
          TASMANIAN ALKALOIDS PTY LIMITED
                         TITLE
P. SOMNIFERUM PLANTS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF CODEINE

                                                 -la
         P. SOMNIFERUM PLANTS FOT THE PRODUCTION OF CODEINE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5          The present invention relates to plants of Papaversomniferum for the
   production of codeine, and to poppy straw and latex from the plants.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10          Codeine is an opiate used for its analgesic, antitussive and antidiarrheal
   properties. It is by far the most widely used opiate in the world and very likely the
   most commonly used drug overall according to numerous reports over the years by
   organizations such as the World Health Organization.
                                     CH 30
                                              0
                                                                N CH3
                                                   /      H
                                        HO
15                                            Codeine
            Codeine is a natural alkaloid of the opium poppy plant Papaversomniferum L.
   but normally constitutes only a minor fraction of the total alkaloids e.g., typically only
   5-20% of the level of morphine. While codeine can be extracted from opium and
20 poppy straw, the demand for codeine far exceeds the current available natural supply so
   most of the codeine currently being manufactured (85-90 per cent) is obtained from
   morphine through the process of O-methylation. The major part of the world's licit
   morphine production is to support the manufacture of codeine.
            Codeine is used to manufacture Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) such
25 as codeine phosphate, codeine sulfate, codeine hydrochloride and codeine base, which
   are in turn is used to manufacture e.g., high-volume, over-the-counter, dosage forms for
   the relief of pain (analgesics) and cough (antitussives). Codeine is also the starting

                                                   -2
   material and prototype of a large class of mainly mild to moderately strong opioids
   such as dihydrocodeine and hydrocodone and its derivatives such as nicocodeine and
   oxycodone. Thus catalytic hydrogenation of codeine yields dihydrocodeine (used to
   manufacture APIs such as dihydrocodeine tartrate) that can be converted by Oppenauer
 5 oxidation to dihydrocodeinone (hydrocodone, used to manufacture APIs such as
   hydrocodone bitartrate).
           The industrial-scale methylation of morphine, at the phenolic hydroxyl group at
   position 3, to give codeine is usually conducted using quaternary ammonium
   methylating agents, typically trimethylphenylammonium chloride, in the presence of
10 various bases such as alkali hydroxides, alkoxides, or carbonates/bicarbonates. Use of
   the quaternary ammonium methylating agent greatly diminishes the competing
   methylation of the alkaloid tertiary amine function which is a major problem with other
   methylating agents such as methyl halides or dimethyl sulfate, where the formation of
   the alkaloid quaternary salts causes loss of yield and the generation of other impurities
15 such as alpha- and beta-codimethine via the Hofmann elimination reaction. However
   this solution to the quaternisation problem comes at the cost of generating the
   objectionally-odiferous and toxic byproduct N,N-dimethylaniline (DMA) which must
   be completely removed from the product and imposes waste disposal, occupational
   health and safety (OHS) and environmental concerns.
20         Most methylation procedures using trimethylphenylammonium reagents in
   essence involve the exposure of the trimethylammonium morphinate ion pair to high
   temperatures (exceeding 90 deg C) in a non-polar, water-immiscible solvent such as
   toluene or xylene, where the ion pair rapidly collapses to codeine and DMA. The
   necessity for such solvents creates further OHS and environmental burdens on the
25 manufacture and imposes costs associated with solvent recovery and purification.
   Under the vigorous conditions necessary, it is imperative that the stoichiometry of the
   reagents be carefully controlled to avoid on the one hand, undermethylation, leaving
   too much unreacted morphine, or on the other hand overmethylation, leading to
   formation of codeine-O(6)-methyl ether ("methylcodeine"). Both situations lead to
30 yield losses both directly, through lower codeine formation, and indirectly through
   further codeine losses attending the removal of the unreacted morphine or the

                                                   -3
   methycodeine impurities. Morphine is relatively easy to remove e.g., by washing a
   toluene solution of the codeine with aqueous alkali but this process also sacrifices some
   codeine to the washes, while methylcodeine is difficult to remove and may require
   extensive processing to achieve desired limits. Another problematic impurity created
 5 by the synthesis from morphine is dimethylpseudomorphine, created by methylation of
   a common impurity in Concentrate of Poppy Straw Morphine (CPS-M),
   pseudomorphine (2,2'-bismorphine). Dimethylpseudomorphine is particularly difficult
   to remove from codeine and imposes high yield losses due to the additional processing
   required.
10          The manufacture of codeine from morphine requires extensive processing at
   some stage to remove colour bodies originating either in opium or in the CPS-M); in
   the latter case the colour bodies derive from the initial extraction process that produces
   morphine from poppy straw. The extraction conditions required to recover morphine
   from poppy straw are such that there is considerable, unavoidable extraction of
15 coloured materials from the poppy and the CPS-M may typically have several per cent
   of non-alkaloid material. With opium as input, the raw material is grossly impure (e.g.,
   5-24 % morphine) and it is mandatory to purify and separate the morphine from the
   other alkaloids and colour bodies before input to codeine manufacture, while with CPS
   M, some manufacturers upgrade the morphine to technical quality before manufacture
20 of codeine, while others enter the material directly into the methylation and then
   process to remove colour post-methylation. However, both approaches have
   considerable cost penalties associated with the additional processing, inevitable yield
   losses, capacity and opportunity costs.
            Codeine is more soluble than morphine in virtually all common media and is
25 consequently easier to extract from poppies and easier to purify. Hence, the yield,
   quality and cost of natural codeine obtained from a codeine poppy are all improved
   relative to synthetic codeine obtained from natural morphine.
            Alkaloids are extracted from the poppy capsules of Papaversomniferum by two
   commercial methods. In one method, the immature capsule is cut and the latex
30 collected from the wound. The air-dried latex is opium which, according to the Merck
   Index, 11th Edition, contains alkaloids in the amounts shown in Table I. In the second

                                                   -4
   method, the mature poppy capsules and the poppy capsule stems are collected, and
   threshed to remove the seeds and form a straw. When necessary, the straw is dried to a
   water content below 16%. Solvent or water extraction is employed to remove the
   alkaloids from the straw.
 5         However, the yield of codeine is confounded with that of other alkaloids and a
   poppy producing a higher content of codeine relative to impurity alkaloids such as e.g.,
   thebaine and oripavine would enable a simpler extraction/purification process, resulting
   in higher yields, better quality and throughput and lower costs.
           Where solvent or water or super critical fluid, such as C0 2 , extraction is
10 employed to remove the alkaloids from the straw, such method, as practiced, involves
   the production of "Concentrate of Poppy Straw". Concentrate of Poppy Straw (or
   "CPS") is described as "The material arising when poppy straw has entered into a
   process for the concentration of its alkaloids, when such material is made available in
   trade," (Multilingual dictionary of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances under
15 international control, United Nations, New York, 1983). Not inconsistent with the
   foregoing description, Concentrate of Poppy Straw is described as "the crude extract of
   poppy straw in either liquid, solid or powder form which contains the phenanthrene
   alkaloids of the opium poppy, 45 U. S. Federal Register 77466, Nov. 24, 1980". When
   in liquid form, the liquid is preferably concentrated before entering into commerce.
20 The generally preferred Concentrate of Poppy Straw is the powder form which results
   from removing the solvent or water following extraction of the poppy straw.
   According to the United Nations publication 'Narcotic Drugs:Estimated World
   Requirementsfor 2007; Statisticsfor 2005 (E/INCB/2006/2)', "Concentrate of Poppy
   Straw is the dried residue obtained through the extraction of alkaloids from poppy
25 straw. Until the second half of the 1990s, only concentrate of poppy straw containing
   morphine as the main alkaloid was manufactured. Since then, concentrate of poppy
   straw containing mainly thebaine or oripavine has started to be manufactured."
           Some relatively small quantities of CPS codeine are produced in a few countries
   as a by-product of CPS morphine extraction. These quantities are not significant in
30 world trade.

                                                   -5
           The production of codeine by the cultivation of non-morphine-containing
   poppies greatly decreases the risk the potential for diversion and abuse of morphine.
   Papaversomniferum poppies grown in the field and which yield a poppy straw
   containing codeine as the predominant alkaloid and little or no morphine are described
 5 in International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/143574 in the name of Tasmanian
   Alkaloids Pty Ltd. The codeine content in the straw of those poppies is at least 40% by
   weight or greater of the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and
   oripavine, and plants are described that produce straw containing codeine in an amount
   up to 90% by weight or greater of the above noted alkaloid combination with the
10 absolute codeine content of the straw ranging from about 0.8% to about 4.2% on a dry
   weight basis of the straw. The thebaine content of the straw is also substantially
   reduced.
           Whilst the Papaversomniferum plants of WO 2009/143574 represent a major
   advance in the production of codeine, further reducing the amount of thebaine and/or
15 other confounding alkaloids present in the poppy straw, latex and opium from such
   "codeine plants" would markedly increase the efficiency of codeine extraction and the
   yield of codeine obtained.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
20
           The present invention in one or more forms relates to the provision of plants of
   Papaversomniferum having a high codeine chemotype for the production of codeine
   wherein absolute codeine content is increased and/or wherein the amount of at least
   thebaine as a confounding alkaloid is reduced relative to codeine, compared to the
25 plants from which they were derived. By reducing the level of at least thebaine in
   poppy straw and/or latex relative to codeine the efficiency with which codeine is
   extracted from the poppy straw and latex (or concentrate of poppy straw or opium) can
   be increased. In particularly preferred embodiments, the parent plant, from which a
   plant embodied by the invention is derived, is a high codeine producing Papaver
30 somniferum of the type described in WO 2009/143574. That an increase in absolute
   codeine content and a decrease in thebaine content relative to codeine can be obtained

                                                     -6
   in such plants is surprising given the relative level of thebaine in those plants was
   already low. Further, as thebaine is an intermediate compound in the synthesis of
   codeine in Papaversomniferum, it would always be expected to be present in their
   poppy straw or latex. Hence, a reduction in the thebaine content relative to codeine
 5 together with an increase in absolute codeine content in plants described herein
   indicates that the efficiency with which codeine is synthesized in the plants is increased
   and/or that plant regulatory mechanism(s) have been modified compared to the parent
   plant(s).
           In providing the invention, the inventors have also found that particularly high
10 levels of codeine and/or codeine relative to thebaine can be provided by plants
   embodied by the invention having a substantially lighter leaf colour than Papaver
   somniferum with a codeine chemotype conventionally grown for the codeine
   production. Despite the substantially lighter leaf colour the plants were found to
   exhibit good vigour and to be suitable for use as a field crop. This is also surprising as
15 such plants would normally be expected to have low vigour, as light leaf colour is
   suggestive of a serious defect such as low leaf chlorophyll or a severe nutrient
   deficiency, which would manifest as poor growth rates with consequential low capsule
   number, poor straw and alkaloid content and/or yield. Typically, when seeking to
   develop high alkaloid producing Papaversomniferum, such plants would be discarded
20 at an early stage of the program once the lightness of the leaf colour had become
   apparent. However, in contradiction to this, the inventors cultivated the plants to
   maturity and further investigated their alkaloid profile leading to the unexpected
   finding that the plants can nevertheless exhibit excellent codeine content with relatively
   low thebaine contamination despite the light leaf colour of the plants. Thus, in at least
25 some embodiments of the invention, the light leaf colour may act as a biomarker for
   one or more of increased codeine content in poppy straw and/or poppy capsule latex,
   and increased codeine content relative to at least thebaine in the poppy straw or
   latex/opium.
           In particular, in an aspect of the invention there is provided an isolated plant of
30 Papaversomniferum derived from a parent plant and having a stably heritable codeine
   chemotype in which codeine is the predominant alkaloid, or a descendent plant thereof,

                                                    -7
   wherein the codeine content of the plant is such that upon the harvesting of its poppy
   capsules the plant will yield a poppy straw having a higher codeine content by weight
   and a lower thebaine to codeine ratio than the parent plant.
           Typically, the chemotype of the plant is characterised by higher codeine content
 5 by weight than a combined morphine and thebaine content.
           Typically, the plant is a mutant plant derived from the parent plant.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided an isolated mutant plant of
   Papaversomniferum derived from a parent plant and having a stably heritable codeine
   chemotype characterised by higher codeine content by weight than a combined
10 morphine and thebaine content, or a descendent plant thereof, wherein the codeine
   content of the mutated plant is such that upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules the
   plant will yield a poppy straw having a higher codeine content by weight and/or a lower
   thebaine to codeine ratio than the parent plant.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for producing a
15 plant of Papaversomniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype
   characterised by higher codeine content than morphine and thebaine content, or a
   descendent plant thereof, the method comprising the steps of:
           a)      exposing at least one poppy seed of a Papaversomniferum parent plant
   to a mutagenizing agent, the parent plant being a plant which upon the harvesting of its
20 poppy capsules will yield a poppy straw having codeine constituting about 40% by
   weight or greater of an alkaloid combination comprising morphine, codeine, thebaine
   and oripavine;
           b)      growing the at least one poppy seed exposed to the mutagenizing agent
   to produce one or more further plants, optionally through one or more self-fertilised
25 generations; and
           c)      providing a plant identified from the one or more plants in step b) to be a
   plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will yield a poppy straw having a
   higher absolute codeine content and a lower thebaine to codeine ratio, than the poppy
   straw of the parent plant.

                                                   -8
           In another aspect of the invention there is a method for providing increased
   codeine content in poppy straw of a plant of Papaversomnferum relative to at least
   thebaine in the poppy straw, the method comprising the steps of:
           a)      providing at least one poppy seed of a Papaversomniferum parent plant,
 5 the parent plant being a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will yield
   a poppy straw having codeine constituting about 40% by weight or greater of an
   alkaloid combination comprising morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine;
           b)      exposing the at least one poppy seed to a mutagenizing agent;
           c)      growing the at least one poppy seed exposed to the mutagenizing agent
10 to produce one or more further plants, optionally through one or more self-fertilised
   generations; and
           d)      providing a plant identified from the one or more further plants
   produced in step c) to be a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will
   yield a poppy straw having a higher absolute codeine content by weight and a lower
15 thebaine to codeine ratio, than the poppy straw of the parent plant.
           Typically, the parent plant has a blockage in an alkaloid synthesis pathway
   inhibiting or preventing the conversion of thebaine to oripavine in the parent plant.
   Typically also, the blockage in the alkaloid synthesis pathway is stably inherited in a
   plant embodied by the invention.
20         Typically, the parent plant contains substantially no oripavine in the poppy
   straw from the plant. Most typically, there is substantially no morphine and
   substantially no oripavine in the alkaloid combination of the parent plant utilised in a
   method embodied by the invention.
           Typically, in plants embodied by the invention, there is substantially no
25 morphine in the poppy straw of the plant and most usually, substantially no morphine
   and substantially no oripavine in the poppy straw.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
   somniferum, wherein the plant is a plant of NCIMB 42630, or a descendent plant
   thereof.

                                                     -9
            In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
   somniferum produced by a method embodied by the invention, or a descendent plant
   thereof.
            In at least some embodiments a plant in accordance with the invention will have
 5 a trait for leaf colour whereby the leaves of the plant are predominantly a colour that is
   visually lighter relative to the leaves of the parent plant.
            Typically, the colour of the leaves of these plants will predominantly be in the
   green-yellow colour spectrum and exhibit a dominant wavelength value of from about
   561nm or greater as determined by reflective spectrophotometry of the adaxial leaf
10 surface using D65 illumination. Most typically, the dominant wavelength value will be
   in a range of from about 561nm to about 568nm.
            Typically, the colour of the leaves of the parent plant as described herein from
   which a plant embodied by the invention is derived will also be in the green-yellow
   colour spectrum.
15          Typically, the lighter leaf colour of a plant embodied by the invention is
   controlled by a single, recessive gene.
            Typically, the poppy straw of a plant embodied by the invention will have a
   thebaine content relative to codeine of about 25% or less on a w/w basis.
            Typically, the poppy straw of a plant embodied by the invention will have a
20 codeine content of at least about 0.832% on a w/w basis. Most typically, the codeine
   content of the poppy straw is about 2.5% or greater on a w/w basis.
            Typically, there is substantially no morphine or oripavine in the poppy straw of
   a plant embodied by the invention.
            In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
25 somniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is the
   predominant alkaloid, or a descendent plant thereof, wherein the codeine chemotype of
   the plant is such that upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules, the plant will yield a
   poppy straw having a codeine content by weight of about 2.5% w/w or greater and a
   thebaine to codeine ratio of about 25% w/w or less, and wherein the plant has a trait for
30 leaf colour whereby the leaves of the plant are predominantly of a colour exhibiting a

                                                   -10
   dominant wavelength in a range of from about 561nm to about 568nm as determined
   by reflective spectrophotometry of the adaxial leaf surface using D65 illumination.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a plant of Papaver
   somniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is the
 5 predominant alkaloid, or a descendent plant thereof, wherein the codeine chemotype of
   the plant is such that upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules, the plant will yield a
   poppy straw having a thebaine to codeine ratio of about 25% w/w or less, and wherein
   the plant has a trait for leaf colour whereby the leaves of the plant are predominantly of
   a colour exhibiting a dominant wavelength in a range of from about 561nm to about
10 568nm as determined by reflective spectrophotometry of the adaxial leaf surface using
   D65 illumination.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided an isolated plant of Papaver
   somniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is the
   dominant alkaloid, wherein the plant has a trait for a leaf colour phenotype associated
15 with a reduced leaf pigment content and one or both of a higher codeine content by
   weight and/or a lower thebaine to codeine ratio by weight in poppy straw yielded by
   harvested mature poppy capsules of the plant.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided an isolated plant of Papaver
   somniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is the
20 dominant alkaloid, wherein the plant has a single-gene recessive trait for a light leaf
   colour phenotype associated with one or both of a higher codeine content by weight
   and/or a lower thebaine to codeine ratio by weight in poppy straw yielded by harvested
   mature poppy capsules of the plant.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided an isolated viable plant of
25 Papaversomniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is
   the predominant alkaloid, wherein the leaves of the plant are predominantly of a colour
   exhibiting a dominant wavelength in a range of from about 561 nm to about 568 nm as
   determined by reflective spectrophotometry on the adaxial leaf surface using D65
   illumination.
30         In another aspect of the invention there is provided an asexually produced
   viable Papaversomniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype in which

                                                    -11
   codeine is the predominant alkaloid, wherein the P. somniferum has a leaf exhibiting a
   dominant wavelength in a range of from about 561 nm to about 568 nm as determined
   by reflective spectrophotometry on the adaxial surface of the leaf using D65
   illumination.
 5         In another aspect of the invention there is provided a poppy straw obtained at
   least partially from a Papaversomniferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype
   in which codeine is the predominant alkaloid, the P. somniferum having a leaf
   exhibiting a dominant wavelength in a range of from about 561 nm to about 568 nm as
   determined by reflective spectrophotometry on an adaxial surface of the leaf using D65
10 illumination.
           In another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for the production
   of codeine which comprises the steps of: a) harvesting mature poppy capsules of a plant
   embodied by the invention or a descendent plant thereof, to produce a poppy straw; and
   b) extracting the codeine from the poppy straw.
15         In still another aspect of the invention there is provided a method for the
   production of codeine which comprises the steps of: a) collecting and drying the latex
   of immature poppy capsules of a plant embodied by the invention or a descendent plant
   thereof to produce opium; and b) extracting the codeine from the opium.
           In another aspect there is provided a plant of Papaversomniferum produced by
20 a method embodied by the invention, or a descendent plant thereof.
           In another aspect there is provided a stand of plants embodied by the invention.
           In another aspect there is provided a poppy straw obtained from a plant
   embodied by the invention, or from a descendent plant thereof.
           In another aspect there is provided a concentrate of poppy straw being a
25 concentrate of poppy straw of a plant embodied by the invention, or from a descendent
   plant thereof.
           In another aspect there is provided a latex for the extraction of codeine being a
   latex from immature poppy capsules of a plant embodied by the invention, or from
   immature poppy capsules of a descendent plant thereof.

                                                    -12
           In another aspect there is provided an opium for the extraction of codeine
   comprising an opium obtained by the drying of latex from immature poppy capsules of
   a plant embodied by the invention, or of a descendent plant thereof.
           In another aspect there is provided a codeine extracted from the poppy straw,
 5 concentrate of poppy straw, latex or opium embodied by the invention.
           In still further aspects there is provided a plant cell or plant root of a plant
   embodied by the invention, or of a descendent plant thereof.
           One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the total alkaloid content in
   the poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex or opium in embodiments of the
10 present invention will total (but will not exceed) 100%.
           Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
   any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers, integers or steps.
15         Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like that has
   been included in this specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the
   invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part
   of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
   invention as it existed in Australia or elsewhere before the priority date of this
20 application.
           The features and advantages of the invention will become further apparent from
   the following detailed description of embodiments thereof together with the
   accompanying drawings.
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 is a graph showing codeine and thebaine content in the mature capsules
   of 20 M3 Papaversomniferum mutant plant lines in a field trial (Hagley, Tasmania,
   Australia) conducted during the 2012/13 poppy growing season. The lines PW08
30 2308, PW1O-0149 and PW1 1-4063 are 'Tasman' Papaversomniferum exhibiting a
   codeine chemotype.

                                                    -13
           Figure 2 is a photograph showing 'Tasman' M3 mutant line EM4-0045 (middle
   foreground) during a disease resistance screening field trial (Hagley, Tasmania,
   Australia) conducted during the 2012/13 poppy growing season. The EM4-0045 line
   exhibited pale, light-green leaves compared to the parent 'Tasman' line (PW08-2308)
 5 from which it was derived and other Papaversomniferum lines in surrounding plots not
   expressing the lighter leaf colour trait of the EM4-0045 line, and was found to have
   exceptionally high codeine and low thebaine content in its mature capsules.
           Figure 3 is a further photograph clearly showing the substantially lighter leaf
   colour of field grown EM4-0045 plants (left plot) compared to the typical darker leaf
10 colour phenotype of commercially grown 'Tasman' P. somniferum. In this example,
   the 'Tasman' line EM3-1217 (right plot) shown. Both lines were derived from the
   same 'Tasman' parent line, PW08-2308.
           Figure 4 is a three-dimensional plot of L*a*b* values for each of ten PW08
   2308, EM4-0045 and EM3-0006 line leaf samples from planthouse grown plants.
15         Figure 5 is a photograph showing two leaves each of EM4-0045 (left) and EM3
   006 (right) planthouse grown plants.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS OF THE
   INVENTION
20
           Codeine is an intermediate in the morphine biosynthesis pathway in Papaver
   somniferum. The morphine biosynthesis pathway is highly complex involving multiple
   alkaloid intermediates and enzymatic steps, and is but one of a number of pathways
   present in Papaversomniferum involving the synthesis of benzylisoquinoline alkaloids
25 such as codeine and morphine. Whilst substantial progress has been made in
   elucidating the steps and identifying the intermediate alkaloids involved in these
   pathways, their regulation remains poorly understood as a result of the interplay of
   branching of the pathways combined with the involvement of as yet unraveled
   feedback and homeostatic mechanisms. As a result, modification of a step in these
30 pathways can have unpredictable effects on the synthesis of other intermediates in the
   same or branching pathways. This is further complicated by factors such as the

                                                     -14
   potential for an enzyme to have a role in the synthesis of more than one alkaloid
   intermediate and, for example, the tissue-specific synthesis of alkaloids. Consequently,
   the effect of changes introduced into alkaloid synthesis pathways of Papaver
   somniferum can have significant and unpredictable effects. Nevertheless, in providing
 5 the present invention the inventors have found that thebaine content can be reduced
   relative to codeine in Papaversomniferum plants which produce codeine as the
   predominant or sole alkaloid in the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine,
   thebaine and oripavine, even when the amount of thebaine relative to codeine in the
   parent plant is already low.
10          Persons skilled in the art will be able to readily grow plants of Papaver
   somniferum embodied by the invention and reproduce them, collect latex or produce
   poppy straw from them, and purify codeine from the latex (or opium) or the straw as
   described herein.
            Seed of an example of a plant of Papaversomniferum (PW08-2308) which can
15 be utilized as the parent plant in a method embodied by the invention was deposited
   under the Budapest Treaty with the National Collection of Industrial, Food and Marine
   Bacteria (NCIMB Ltd, Ferguson Building, Craibstone Estate, Bucksburn, Aberdeeen
   AB21 9YA, Scotland, United Kingdom), on 24 August 2016, under Accession No.
   NCIMB 42631. Further such plants and methods for producing them are described in
20 International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/143574 in the name of Tasmanian
   Alkaloids Pty Limited, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by cross
   reference.
            As one enablement of the present invention, seed of a plant of Papaver
   somniferum (EM4-0045) embodied by the invention was deposited under the Budapest
25 Treaty with the National Collection of Industrial, Food and Marine Bacteria (NCIMB
   Ltd, Ferguson Building, Craibstone Estate, Bucksburn, Aberdeeen AB21 9YA,
   Scotland, United Kingdom), on 24 August 2016, under Accession No. NCIMB 42630.
            The availability of these seeds is not to be construed as a license to practice this
   invention in contravention of rights granted under the authority of any government in
30 accordance with its patent or breeder's rights laws.

                                                  -15
           In a particularly preferred embodiment, a plant embodied by the invention can
   be provided by subjecting seed a Papaversomniferum parent plant as described herein
   to mutagenesis. The production of mutagenized seed is well known in the art.
   Methods of seed mutagenesis as well as mutagens suitable for use in these methods,
 5 such as, ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS), are described in the Manual on Mutation
   Breeding, 2nd ed., I.A.E.A., Vienna 1977 or in Plant Breeding, Principles and
   Prospects, Chapman and Hall, London 1993. For mutagenesis of seed by X-ray,
   hydrated seeds may be treated with 20,000 rads, (30 cm from the source for 45 minutes
   using a filter). X-ray mutagenesis is described and compared to EMS mutagenesis by
10 Filippetti, A. et al., "Improvement of Seed Yield in Vicia Faba L. By Using
   Experimental Mutagenesis II Comparison of Gamma-Radiation and Ethyl-Methane
   Sulphonate (EMS) in Production of Morphological Mutants", Euphytica 35 (1986) 49
   59. DEB (diepoxybutane) mutagenized seeds may, for example, be obtained by
   soaking the seeds in water overnight, then soaking in 22 mM DEB for 4 hours,
15 followed by extensive washing. Other mutagens which may be utilized include ethyl
   2-chloroethyl sulphide, 2-chloroethyl-dimethylamine, ethylene oxide, ethyleneimine,
   dimethyl sulphonate, diethyl sulphonate, propane sulphone, beta-propiolactone,
   diazomethane, N-methyl-N-nitrosourethane, acridine orange and sodium azide.
           Mutagenesis utilizing EMS is well described in the literature. The Manual on
20 Mutation Breeding, supra, reports a preferred EMS mutagenesis process for barley
   seeds as practiced by K. Mikaelson. In this preferred process, the seeds are prepared,
   pre-soaked, treated with the mutagen and post-washed.
           United States Patent No. 6,067,749, incorporated by reference herein in its
   entirety, describes the use of EMS for the preparation of a Papaversomniferum strain
25 with a high concentration of thebaine and oripavine.
           Irradiation methods such as fast neutron mutagenesis ("FNM") may also be
   used to produce mutagenized seed (see e.g., Li, X. et al., A fast neutron deletion
   mutagenesis-based reverse genetics system for plants, The Plant Journal 27(3), 235-242
   (2001)). Fast neutron mutagenesis is, for instance, described by Kodym and Afza
30 (2003), Physical and Chemical Mutagenesis, pp 189-203, in Methods in Molecular

                                                    -16
   Biology, Vol. 236: Plant Functional Genomics: Methods and Protocols (Ed. E.
   Grotewold), Humana Press Inc, Totowa, NJ.
            Gamma (y) rays are electromagnetic waves of very short wavelengths and are
   obtained by disintegration of radioisotopes Co or Cs. y sources can be installed in a y
 5 cell, a y room, or y field. These are shielded by lead or concrete. Most y sources are
   suitable for seed irradiation, as long as the size of irradiation space is sufficient and the
   dose rate allows practical irradiation times. In contrast, fast neutrons are uncharged
   particles of high kinetic energy and are generated in nuclear reactors or in accelerators.
   The skilled person should assess the feasibility for seed irradiation with the operators,
10 since not all facilities are suitably equipped and can produce fast neutrons at a low
   degree of contamination with other radiation.
            The two radiation types differ in their physical properties and hence, in their
   mutagenic activity. y rays have a lower relative biological effectiveness (RBE) than
   fast neutrons, which implies that in order to obtain the same biological effect, a higher
15 dose of y radiation must be given. RBE is mainly a function of the linear energy
   transfer (LET), which is the transfer of energy along the ionizing track. y rays produce
   a few ionizations per micron of path (low LET) and belong to the category of sparsely
   ionizing radiation. Fast neutrons (high LET, densely ionizing radiation) impart some of
   their high kinetic energy via collisions, largely with protons within the material.
20          When radiation passes through tissue, physical events such as ionizations
   (ejection of electrons from molecules) and excitations (process of raising electrons to a
   higher energy state) occur and lead to effects in DNA, membranes, lipids, enzymes, etc.
   Secondly, chemical events are induced that start with the formation of activated
   molecules, so-called free radicals (OH- and H-) that arise from OH- and H+. If oxygen
25 is present, it reacts readily with radiation-induced free radicals to form peroxyradicals.
   In the case of low LET radiation, the formation of peroxyradicals is favoured. In high
   LET radiation, the formation of hydrogen peroxide (H2 0 2) by recombination of free
   radicals is favoured. All radicals and hydrogen peroxide can react with biological
   molecules. Primary damage caused by radiation occurs randomly and is both
30 physiological and genetic. Physiological recovery and repair of DNA are possible to

                                                    -17
   some extent, as non-damaged molecules may take over metabolic processes and DNA
   repair mechanisms are activated.
           Before starting any mutation induction studies, it is most crucial to select
   suitable doses. For mutation induction, it is advisable to use two to three doses along
 5 with a control. The applicable doses will depend on the breeding or research objective,
   the radiation type and the particular plant material. It is known that plant genera and
   species and, to a lesser extent, cultivars differ in their radiosensitivity. Radiosensitivity
   (radiation sensitivity) is a relative measure that gives an indication of the quantity of
   recognizable effects of the radiation exposure on the irradiated object. The
10 radiosensitivity is influenced by biological factors (such as genetic differences, nuclear
   and interphase chromosome vol) and by environmental modifying factors (oxygen,
   water content, post-irradiation storage, and temperature).
           Modifying factors greatly affect mutagenic efficiency and reproducibility of
   results. Oxygen is the major modifying factor, while moisture content, temperature,
15 and storage appear to be secondary, interacting with the oxygen effect. Oxygen shows
   synergistic action with sparsely ionizing radiation, but oxygen effects during irradiation
   and post-irradiation storage can easily be prevented by adjustment of seed water
   content to 12-14% in cereals and most other seeds. In oilseeds such as poppies, the
   seed water content should be lower, around 7-8%. The critical region is the embryo,
20 but it can be assumed that the water content of the seed and the embryo of most species
   will be similar. Environmental factors are less important with densely ionizing
   radiation; thus, for fast neutron radiation, no seed moisture adjustment is necessary.
           Unless data on the radiosensitivity of a given plant are already published or
   known from experience, the mutation induction program should be preceded by a
25 radiosensitivity test. This is done by irradiating the seeds with a range of doses and by
   growing out the plants under greenhouse conditions. Radiosensitivity is assessed based
   on criteria such as reduced seedling height, fertility, and survival in the M1 generation.
   A seedling height reduction of 30-40% is generally assumed to give a high mutation
   yield. The usefulness of radiation can be judged by mutagenic efficiency, which is the
30 production of desirable changes free from association with undesirable changes. A
   high dose will increase mutation frequency (the frequency at which a specific kind of

                                                   -18
   mutation or mutant is found in a population of cells or individuals), but will be
   accompanied by negative features, such as sterility. When selecting the doses, it will
   be necessary to find a treatment regime providing high mutagenic efficiency.
           For fast neutron radiation, dosimetric measurements have to be done during
 5 each radiation treatment, e.g., by performing the sulphur threshold detector method,
   since the neutron flux in the seed irradiation unit is not constant.
           The Gray (symbol Gy), the SI (Systame Internationale) unit used to quantify the
   absorbed dose of radiation (1 Gy = 1 J/kg) replaced the old unit rad; 1 Gy = 100 rads or
   1 krad = 10 Gy. The absorbed dose rate (Gy/s or Gy/min) indicates how much energy
10 the irradiated material absorbs during a given unit of time. The length of exposure and
   the dose rate determines the radiation dose. Exposure during short times (seconds to a
   few hours) at a high dose rate is referred to as acute and is most applied in irradiation
   programs.
           Fast neutrons have been shown to be a very effective mutagen. Kornneef et al.
15 (1982) found that about 2500 lines treated with fast neutron at a dose of 60 Gy are
   required to inactivate a gene once on average (Koomneef, M., Dellaert, L.W.M. and
   van der Veen, J.H. (1982) EMS- and radiation-induced mutation frequencies at
   individual loci in Arabidopsis thaliana(L.) Heynh. Mutat. Res.93, 109-123). If the
   plant genome contains about 25000 genes, it is estimated that about 10 genes are
20 randomly deleted in each line.
           FNM offers a number of advantages over using chemical treatment such as
   EMS. Notably, the treatment is applied to the dried seed, which can be sown at a later
   date, while with EMS the seed needs either to be sown immediately after treatment, or
   carefully re-dried for sowing later. However, chemical mutagenesis is particularly
25 useful and methods embodied by the invention are exemplified herein by treatment of
   seeds with EMS.
           After exposing seeds to a mutagen in accordance with a method embodied by
   the invention, the seeds are typically grown to maturity in controlled conditions and
   then self-pollinated. The seeds from the mature plant are taken and at least one seed is
30 planted to grow an M2 generation. The M2 generation is screened for alkaloid
   production. Of course, it is possible to screen the M1 generation, but there are several

                                                   -19
   advantages to screening the M2 generation. Firstly, screening the M2 generation
   insures that the trait resulting from mutagenesis can be inherited. Secondly, by
   growing the M2 generation, the basic hardiness of the plant is proven before screening.
   Thirdly, traits resulting from mutagenesis are generally inherited as recessive genes.
 5 Typically the mutated gene will be in the heterozygous state in the M1 generation, and
   thus the mutation will be masked by the dominant (non-mutated) form of the gene. In
   the M2 generation, however, in a proportion of the plants the gene will be in the
   homozygous state, and the effect of the mutation apparent.
           The M2 plants can be grown to produce an immature capsule, but it is possible
10 to save time and labor if the plants are screened at an earlier stage of growth. It is
   recommended that the plants be screened at a point beginning at the 6 leaf stage, up to
   the 10 leaf stage. Screening at this early stage advantageously allows many plants to be
   managed in a small space.
           The screening process itself is the most labor intensive and as such, to improve
15 return on labor, generally only plants that appear healthy have conventionally been
   screened. However, the present inventors contrary to conventional practice, also
   screened plants which had substantially lighter colour leaves than the parent plant and
   other plant lines generated as described above. As the lighter colour could indicate a
   serious defect such as a nutrient deficiency or a reduction in chlorophyll content in their
20 leaves, these plants would have been expected to have reduced vigour, which would
   adversely impact on commercially important characteristics of the plants such as one or
   more of rate of maturation, capsule number, poppy straw and/or latex yield and
   thereby, overall codeine yield. Nevertheless and contrary to expectations, the present
   inventors found that such plants could have high codeine content and increased amount
25 of codeine relative to thebaine compared to the parent plant utilised, and so be useful as
   a commercial field crop.
           In the screening process, the objective is to measure each plant for codeine
   content relative to morphine, and thebaine content. Additional confounding alkaloids
   such as oripavine can also be measured.
30         This can be accomplished by extracting, for example, poppy straw into a liquid
   buffer or by dissolving a latex sample into a buffer. The buffer solutions are placed

                                                    -20
   onto 96 well trays and fed mechanically through any of the high-throughput HPLCs
   available on the market. In a preferred embodiment, latex can be very rapidly screened
   utilizing isocratic ultra-high performance liquid chromatography (UPLC).
           A very rapid and efficient screening method is desirable to test sufficient plants
 5 for finding an advantageous mutation. Suitable alkaloid screening methods are for
   instance described in WO 2009/143574 and WO 2009/109012. Furthermore, by using
   UPLC apparatus with a very sensitive UV detector (e.g., a Waters Acquity UPLC) it is
   possible to quantify very low levels of alkaloid, meaning that even very small plants
   can be tested. Additionally, very rapid screening (e.g., 0.8 minute) of each plant can
10 allow over 1000 samples to be analysed daily. As a result, the entire screening process
   may be conducted quickly.
           Plants identified by the screening process to have an altered alkaloid profile of
   interest are grown further and examined in more detail. According to the procedure
   herein, a second sample is taken from about 3% of plants to clarify or confirm the
15 results of the initial screen. A more precise gradient UPLC method can then be used to
   obtain more accurate peak identification and quantification. Plants confirmed to have
   the desired alkaloid profile are transplanted to 200mm (approx. 8 inch) pots for
   growing to maturity.
           As used herein, the term "poppy straw" or "straw" is to be taken to mean the
20 straw material obtained when the mature poppy capsules of a Papaversomniferum
   plant are collected, and threshed to remove the seeds to form a straw.
           As used herein, the term "opium" is to be taken to mean the air-dried, milky
   exudation (i.e., the latex) from incised, unripe poppy capsules of a Papaversomniferum
   plant.
25         As used herein, the term "concentrate of poppy straw" or "CPS" is to be taken
   to mean the material arising when poppy straw has entered into a process for the
   concentration of its alkaloids in either liquid, solid or powder form which contains the
   phenanthrene alkaloids of the opium poppy.
           As used herein, the phrase "stand of Papaversomniferum" or "stand of stably
30 reproducing Papaversomniferum" or the like, refers to a group of two or more Papaver
   somniferum plants or stably reproducing Papaversomniferum plants located together.

                                                   -21
   Typically, the stand will comprise at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
   17, 18, 19, or 20 or more Papaversomniferum plants located together e.g., 30, 40, 50,
   60, 70, 80, 90 or 100 or more of the plants. Typically, the plants are grown or growing
   in a field exposed to ambient environmental conditions.
 5          As used herein, the term "alkaloid combination" is to be taken to refer to a
   combination of alkaloids wherein the alkaloids comprise morphine, codeine and
   thebaine. The alkaloid combination can also include and oripavine in the context of
   plant embodied by the invention or a parent plant as described herein. In further
   embodiments of the present invention, the alkaloid combination may comprise one or
10 more additional alkaloids as may be selected from the group consisting of, codeinone,
   neopinone, protopine, laudanine, laudanosine, salutaridine, reticuline, papaverine and
   noscapine, in addition to morphine, codeine, thebaine and when included, oripavine.
            A "stably reproducing" Papaversomniferum poppy plant as described herein
   refers to a poppy plant that is stably reproducing as required to plant and harvest seed
15 from poppy crops over multiple generations where each generation would be suitable,
   without seed selection, for commercial planting of a field crop or stand of plants
   exhibiting the desired alkaloid characteristic(s). Further, a stably reproducing poppy
   plant in accordance with the invention has the desired alkaloid characteristics as
   described herein, and when self-pollinated, or cross pollinated by a plant with the same
20 genes controlling alkaloid content, produces a subsequent generation of plants which
   all have the same genetic potential to substantially have the same desired alkaloid
   characteristics as the parent plant. Moreover, in the absence of pollination with pollen
   from other chemotypes (e.g., conventional morphine accumulating plants), the line will
   continue to produce similar plants over multiple generations, without the need for
25 selection to maintain the desired alkaloid characteristic.
            As above, the term "stably heritable" as used herein is to be taken to mean the
   Papaversomniferum produces a subsequent generation of plants which all have the
   same genetic potential to substantially have the same alkaloid characteristics as the
   parent plant, when the plant is self-pollinated, or cross pollinated by a plant with the
30 same genes controlling alkaloid content as described above. As above, in the absence
   of pollination with pollen from other chemotypes (e.g., conventional morphine

                                                    -22
   accumulating plants), the line will continue to produce similar plants over multiple
   generations, without the need for selection to maintain the specified alkaloid
   characteristic.
           As used herein the term "trait" is to be taken to mean a distinct heritable
 5 phenotypic characteristic. The desired trait(s), once established are consistently
   inherited by substantially all the progeny. To maintain the desired traits, care should be
   taken to prevent cross-pollination with normal plants unless such cross-pollination is
   part of a controlled breeding program.
           Examples of desired trait(s) and/or alkaloid characteristics of Papaver
10 somniferum plants embodied by the invention which can be passed on to future
   generations (e.g., progeny and descendent plants thereof) include a) a high codeine
   content in poppy straw, latex and/or opium, b) a high codeine content relative to one or
   more confounding alkaloids in the production of codeine, particularly at least thebaine
   in poppy straw, latex and/or opium, and c) a lighter leaf colour as described herein in
15 combination with a) or b).Typically, a plant embodied by the invention has a trait for
   lighter leaf colour as described herein that is controlled by a single recessive gene,
   wherein the trait is associated with at least one of an increase in codeine content and a
   reduction in thebaine content relative to codeine content, in the poppy straw or opium
   of the plant.As used herein, the term "substantially no" when referring to thebaine
20 content means that thebaine constitutes less than 10% by weight, preferably less than
   5.0% by weight, more preferably less than 2% by weight, and most preferably, less
   than 1% of the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine and thebaine, and most
   preferably the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine, of
   the poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw or opium.
25         The term "substantially no", when referring to morphine, oripavine and
   alkaloids other than thebaine as used herein, means that each specified alkaloid
   respectively constitutes less than 1%by weight, preferably, less than 0.5% by weight,
   more preferably, less than 0.3% by weight, and most preferably, from 0% to 0.2% by
   weight of the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine and thebaine, and most
30 preferably, the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine, of
   the poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex or opium.

                                                     -23
           As used herein, the "MI population" is the seeds and resulting plants exposed to
   a mutagenic agent, while "M2 population" is the progeny of self-pollinated M1 plants,
   "M3 population" is the progeny of self-pollinated M2 plants, "M4 population" is the
   the progeny of self-pollinated M3 plants, and generally "Mn population" is the progeny
 5 of self-pollinated Mn-i plants.
           The desired trait(s) can be transferred into Papaversomniferum lines having
   other characteristics (e.g., different height, early or late maturity, or having disease
   resistance) by cross pollinating a plant embodied by the invention with the second
   parent plant, collecting Fl seed, growing a Fl plant which is allowed to self-pollinate
10 and collecting the F2 seed. The F2 seed may then be grown, and individual plants that
   have the desired leaf colour, codeine and/or other alkaloid phenotypic characteristic(s)
   as described herein may be selected according to the methods herein, along with the
   other desired characteristic(s) e.g., disease resistance. Further selection can then be
   undertaken if desired in the F3 and/or subsequent generations in order to produce
15 highly uniform lines. Alternatively, a high codeine plant embodied by the invention
   can be used as the first parent in a crossing program. A skilled operator will be able to
   apply variations to this method as well known in conventional plant breeding.
           Conducting test crosses with plants of known genotype can provide information
   regarding the genetic changes introduced through mutation. The characteristics of the
20 Fl generation produced by crossing to a normal parent will indicate whether a trait
   inherits as a recessive or dominant gene. Self-pollinating the Fl plants and determining
   the phenotypes of the subsequent F2 population of plants will provide information
   regarding the numbers of genes responsible for particular characteristics.
           As used herein, the term "descendent" plant is meant a Papaversomniferum
25 plant which is the progeny of a plant embodied by the invention or is derived from a
   plant embodied by the invention such as a granddaughter plant, great grandaughter
   plant and the like, or a plant as may be obtained by cross-pollinating a plant embodied
   by the invention (or e.g., a progeny plant thereof) with another Papaversomniferum
   poppy line having desirable trait(s) of interest, testing the progeny at the F2 or F3 or
30 subsequent generations, and selecting progeny exhibiting the desired trait(s) through
   incorporation of gene(s) from the new parent plant. In preferred embodiments of the

                                                   -24
   invention, seed from Papaversomniferum which upon harvesting of their capsules
   produce a poppy straw containing codeine as the sole or predominant alkaloid in the
   alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine, or alternatively,
   which upon the drying of latex from their immature poppy capsules will yield an opium
 5 containing codeine as the sole or predominant alkaloid of the alkaloid combination,
   may be used to provide a plant embodied by the present invention. Typically, the
   poppy straw of the Papaversomniferum parent plant will contain codeine constituting
   about 40% by weight or greater of the alkaloid combination. Preferably, codeine will
   constitute about 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, or 90% by weight
10 or greater of the alkaloid combination, e.g., 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97% or
   even 98% or greater.
           Typically, the parent plant yields a poppy straw having a codeine content above
   0.8% w/w of the straw. Preferably, the codeine content of the straw is about 1.0%,
   1.5%, or 2.0% w/w or greater and generally will be in a range of from about 2.0% to
15 about 4.2%w/w of the straw or greater, e.g., 2.1%, 2.2%, 2.3%, 2.4%, 2.5%, 2.6%,
   2.7%, 2.8%, 2.9%, 3.0%, 3.1%, 3.2%, 3.3%, 3.4%, 3.5%, 3.6%, 3.7%, 3.8%, 3.9%,
   4.0%, 4.1%, or 4.2%, or even greater (e.g., up to 4.5% or 5% or more). Typically, the
   codeine content of the poppy straw will be at least about 2.5% w/w of the straw and
   more generally, in a range from about 2.5% to about 4.19% w/w.
20         Typically, the morphine content of the poppy straw of the parent plant is about
   0.05% w/w or less of the poppy straw, e.g., 0.045%, 0.04%, 0.035%, 0.03%, 0.025%,
   0.02%, 0.015%, or less 0.01%.
           Typically, the thebaine content of the poppy straw of the parent plant is about
   3% w/w of the straw or less, e.g., 2.5%, 2%, 1.5%, 1%, 0.9%, 0.8%. 0.7%, 0.6%, 0.5%
25 or 0.4%w/w or less. Most preferably, thebaine constitutes from about 0.4% to about
   0.6% w/w of the poppy straw.
           In at least some embodiments, in the poppy straw of the Papaversomniferum
   parent plant the ratio of codeine and thebaine to the alkaloid combination of morphine,
   codeine, thebaine and oripavine on a w/w basis, is between about 0.90 and 1.00, e.g., in
30 a range from about 0.91 and 1.00, about 0.92 and 1.00, 0.93 and 100, 0.94 and 1.00,
   0.95 and 1.00, 0.96 and 1.00, 0.97 and 100, 0.98 and 1.00, and about 0.99 and 1.00.

                                                  -25
   Typically, the ratio is between about 0.98 and 1.00 and even more preferably, about
   0.99 and 100.
           Typically, the oripavine content of the parent plant straw is less than the
   thebaine content of the straw. Most typically, the oripavine content of the straw is
 5 about 1% w/w of the poppy straw or less and more preferably, is about 0.9%, 0.8%,
   0.7%, 0.6%, 0.5% w/w or less. Most preferably, the oripavine content of the poppy
   straw is about 0.4%, 0.3%, 0.2%, or 0.1% w/w of the straw or less and typically, there
   is no oripavine in the straw.
           In preferred embodiments, the straw of the parent Papaversomniferum plant(s)
10 contains substantially no morphine and/or substantially no oripavine in the alkaloid
   combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine.
           In particularly preferred embodiments, the straw of the parent Papaver
   somniferum plant(s) contains substantially no thebaine in the alkaloid combination of
   morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine. Most preferably, there is substantially no
15 morphine, thebaine and oripavine in the alkaloid combination of morphine, codeine,
   thebaine and oripavine.
           Stably reproducing Papaversomniferum parent plants suitable for use in
   providing a plant having a stably heritable codeine chemotype characterized by higher
   codeine content by weight than a combined morphine and thebaine content in
20 accordance with a method of the present invention are, for example, described in
   International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/143574 in the name of Tasmanian
   Alkaloids Pty Ltd, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by
   cross-reference. Those plants were obtained by crossing plants of Papaversomniferum
   which produced thebaine as the sole or predominant alkaloid in the alkaloid
25 combination of morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine in poppy straw or latex from
   their immature poppy capsules, with Papaversomniferum plants having a morphine
   chemotype that is, plants in which morphine is the predominant alkaloid in poppy straw
   from the plants or latex obtained from their immature poppy capsules. More
   particularly, plants of Papaversomniferum were obtained having codeine as the
30 predominant alkaloid and substantially no oripavine or morphine by the cross. Plants

                                                   -26
   were also obtained having codeine as the predominant alkaloid and substantially no
   oripavine, morphine, thebaine or any other alkaloids.
           The high thebaine plants used in the cross described immediately above are
   described in International Patent Publication No. WO 2009/109012, the entire content
 5 of which is also incorporated herein in its entirety by cross-reference. The high
   thebaine chemotype of those plants is believed to be the result of two independent
   genetic changes in the plants; one genetic change controlling the accumulation of
   thebaine and oripavine compared with morphine and codeine, and the second genetic
   change controlling the accumulation of thebaine compared with oripavine. More
10 particularly, the two independent genetic changes were provided by mutations in two
   genes, the first gene blocking thebaine from being converted to neopinone, and
   oripavine from being converted to morphinone (as exemplified by the TOP 1 mutation
   described below), and the second gene blocking a pathway between thebaine and
   oripavine, see the metabolic pathway set out in Scheme 1 below.
15         More particularly, Papaversomniferum is postulated to have two biosynthetic
   pathways from thebaine to morphine as shown in Scheme 1. Pathway A via neopinone,
   codeinone and codeine was proposed by Parker, H. I., J. Am. Chem. Soc., 94, 1276
   1282 (1972). Pathway B via oripavine and morphinone was proposed by Brochmann
   Hanssen, E., Planta Med., 50, 343-345 (1984). The enzyme codeinone reductase is
20 active in both pathways, reducing codeinone to codeine and morphinone to morphine.
   Further, the TOPI mutation (Millgate et al., Morphine-pathway block in topI poppies.
   Nature, Vol. 431, 413-414, 2004) affects both pathways, preventing thebaine being
   converted to neopinone in Pathway A, and preventing oripavine being converted to
   morphinone in Pathway B. In particular, the TOPI mutation appears to block
25 demethylation of the enol ether which converts thebaine to neopinone, as well as the
   demethylation of the same enol ether in oripavine.
30

                                                                               -27
                                                                    Scheme 1
                        H3CO                        H3 CO    7                     H3 CO
                                   Q                     q                              0
                                           NCH 3                         NCH 3                       NCH 3
                                              0H
                            O                           O           H                 HO'          H
                                 Neopinone                     Codeinone                     Codeine
                           A
   H3CO                                                                                                 HO
        0'
                           NCHS                                                                                      NCH 3
   HCO                                                                                                  HO'
               Thebaine        a           HO                               HO                              Morphine
                                                           NCHS                             NCH3
                                                 Oripavine                         Morphinone
    Postulated biosynthetic pathways in Papaver somniferum
    A; Parker et at.. 1972
    B; Brochmann-Hanssen, 1984
                 Thus, when the gene blocking the conversion of thebaine to oripavine whereby
   the production or activity of the phenolic O-demethylation enzyme that converts
 5 thebaine to oripavine is substantially inhibited and described in WO 2009/109012 as
   producing the high thebaine poppies in conjunction with the exemplified TOPI
   mutation (also known as the Norman mutation)) is introduced into plants lacking that
   mutation (i.e., into Papaversomniferum plants with a morphine chemotype as
   described in WO 2009/143574), plants with a codeine phenotype are produced, and
10 these plants can be utilized in methods described herein to produce plants in accordance
   with the present invention.
                 Typically, a plant produced in accordance with a method embodied by the
   invention is a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will yield a poppy
   straw having a higher absolute codeine content and a lower thebaine to codeine content,
15 than the straw of the parent plant from which the plant of the invention is derived.
                 Typically, the poppy straw of a plant produced in accordance with a method of
   the invention will have a codeine content which is about 4% or greater than the poppy
   straw of the parent plant on a w/w basis, e.g., about 10% w/w or greater, or even about
   15% w/w or greater. Thus, the straw of plant embodied by the invention may have

                                                     -28
   about 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9 %, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14% or even 15% w/w or
   more codeine than the poppy straw of the parent plant.
            Typically, the poppy straw of a plant produced in accordance with a method of
   the invention will have a thebaine content which is about 10% or less than the poppy
 5 straw of the parent plant on a w/w basis. For example, the poppy straw of the plant
   may have a thebaine content which is about 15%, 20%, 25%, 30% or even 40% less on
   a w/w basis compared to the straw of the parent plant.
            Typically, the poppy straw of a plant embodied by the invention will have a
   thebaine to codeine ratio of about 25%, 24%, 23%, 22%, 21%, 20%, 19%, 18%, 17%,
10 16%, 15%, 14%, 13%, 12%, 11%, or 10% or less on a w/w basis, more preferably
   about 9.50%, 9.0%, 8.5 %, 8. 0%, or 7.50% or less on a w/w basis and most preferably,
   about 7.0% w/w or less, 6.5% w/w or less, about 6% w/w or less, about 5.5% w/w or
   less, or even about 5% w/w or less.
            Typically, the poppy straw of a plant embodied by the invention will have a
15 codeine content that is, is about, or is greater than about, 0.8%, 0.832%, 1.0%. 1.5%, or
   2.0% w/w of the poppy straw or greater. Generally, the codeine content of the poppy
   straw will be in a range of at least about 2.0% to about 5% or greater on a w/w basis of
   the poppy straw (e.g., about 2.1%, 2.2%, 2.3%, 2.4%, 2.5%, 2.6%, 2.7%, 2.8%, 2.9%,
   3.0%, 3.1%, 3.2%, 3 .3 %, 3 .4 %, 3 .5%, 3.6%, 3.7%, 3.8%, 3 .9 %, 4.0%, 4.1%, or even
20 4.2%, 4.3%, 4.4%, 4.5%, 5%, or 6% w/w or greater of the poppy straw).
            The term "%w/w" or "0ow/w basis" or the like as used herein in the context of
   the content of a specified alkaloid relative to poppy straw is meant the content of the
   alkaloid in poppy straw obtained from mature, field dried Papaversomniferum.
            Plants contain a variety of pigments that contribute to both prominent visual
25 features (e.g., flower colour) and important physiological processes. One of the most
   well-known classes of plant pigments are the chlorophylls (e.g., chlorophyll a and b).
   These pigments play essential roles in photosynthesis including the capture and
   harvesting of light energy from the sun. Humans recognize pigment colour by
   perceiving the visible light (i.e., wavelengths between ~390 to ~700 nm) which is
30 reflected or transmitted by the pigment. For example, the characteristic green colour of
   chlorophylls can be explained by the fact that chlorophylls absorb light in the violet-to-

                                                  -29
   blue and red light regions, leaving a considerably wide gap in the absorption spectrum
   known as the 'green window' (Chen, M. (2014) Chlorophyll modifications and their
   spectral extension in oxygenic photosynthesis. Annual Review ofBiochemistry, 83,
   317-340). The reflectance of visible light in this so-called green window give
 5 chlorophylls their green colour.
            The importance and prevalence of chlorophylls explains the abundance of
   green-coloured tissues in plants. However, many other non-green plant pigments also
   occur and similarly provide vital physiological roles. A group of pigments called
   carotenoids confer yellow-to-red coloration to flowers and fruits. Along with
10 chlorophylls, carotenoid pigments constitute an essential component of the
   photosystem light-harvesting complexes involved in photosynthesis (Tanaka, Y.,
   Sasaki, N. and Ohmiya, A. (2008) Biosynthesis of plant pigments: anthocyanins,
   betalains and carotenoids. The PlantJournal,54, 733-749). Carotenes are a class of
   the carotenoid pigment family and include p-carotene; a major carotenoid pigment in
15 higher plants (Hopkins, W.G. and Hiiner (2004) Introduction to Plant Physiology     ( 3 rd
   ed.) Wiley and Sons (MA, USA)). Whilst carotenoid pigments including p-carotene
   can serve as accessory pigments in the capture of light energy, their principal function
   is that of an anti-oxidant, preventing photooxidative damage to the chlorophyll
   molecules within the chloroplast (Raven, P.H., Evert, R.F. and Eichhorn, S.E. (1999)
20 Biology of Plants ( 6th ed.) W.H. Freeman and Company (NY, USA)). Further, the
   carotenoid pigments violaxanthin, antheraxanthin and zeaxanthin, also present in
   chloroplasts, function in a process known as the xanthophyll cycle which serves to
   dissipate excess energy and thereby provide photoprotection (Hopkins, W.G. and
   Hiner (2004), vide supra). Although present in leaf tissues, the colours of carotenoid
25 pigments are generally masked by the more abundant chlorophylls. However,
   carotenoids and other plant pigments may become visible in plant leaves under certain
   conditions. For example, during autumn chlorophyll pigments are degraded in leaves
   of deciduous plant species. During this leaf senescence process the more stable
   carotenoid pigments are revealed, resulting in the characteristic orange and yellow
30 foliage colours of autumn (Hopkins and Hiner 2004, vide supra). Alternatively, other
   species may produce brilliant red foliage during autumn (e.g., Quercus rubra; red oak)

                                                    -30
   due to the accumulation of anthocyanin pigments in their leaves (Lee, D.W. and Gould,
   K.S. (2002) Why leaves turn red. American Scientist, 90, 524-53 1).
            Anthocyanins belong to another major class of plant pigments called flavonoids.
   These phenylpropanoid secondary metabolites have a wide colour range, ranging from
 5 pale-yellow to blue. Notably, the anthocyanins are responsible for the orange to blue
   colours found in many flowers, leaves, fruits, seeds and other tissues (Tanaka et al.
   2008, vide supra). Other flavonoids, such as the flavonols, are commonly found in
   leaves and along with flavones are very pale-yellow. Whilst these pigments can be
   mostly invisible to the human eye, their ultra-violet (UV) absorbing properties provide
10 colour and patterns that serve to attract insect pollinators in addition to protecting
   against UV damage (Winkel-Shirley, B. (2002) Biosynthesis of flavonoids and effects
   of stress. CurrentOpinion in Plant Biology, 5, 218-223; Tanaka et al. 2008, vida
   supra).
            As described herein, in at least some embodiments of the invention, plants
15 having a noticeably lighter leaf colour than the parent plant from which they were
   derived were found to nevertheless have an increased codeine content than the parent
   plant, the colour ranging from a visually lighter green to yellow coloured leaves. To
   evaluate the colour of the leaves, spectroscopic measurements were taken to obtain
   three-dimensional (3D) colour coordinates. Chromaticity coordinates were then
20 calculated from the spectrophotometer results in order to reduce the dimensionality of
   the data and to obtain dominant wavelength values for each plant line evaluated. The
   dominant wavelength, as measured in nanometers (nm), is a measure of the hue of an
   object's colour and is used herein to describe leaf colour. Methods of colour
   measurement and colour description as described herein are well known in the art and
25 are described in colourimetry texts including, for example, Wyszecki, G., & Stiles, W.
   S. (1982), Color Science: concepts and methods, quantitative data and formulae (2nd
   Ed.; New York: Wiley).
            The dominant wavelength values of the measured leaves of plants described
   herein corresponded to the green-yellow spectral wavelength region. Thus, the
30 respective plants can be described as all having green-yellow leaves, and plants
   embodied by the invention having lighter coloured leaves than the parent plant can be

                                                   -31
   described as having e.g., light green-yellow leaves or for instance, very light green
   yellow leaves, compared to the parent plant.
            Hence, the term "green-yellow" as used herein in the context of the leaf colour
   of a plant embodied by the invention and/or parent plant, is to be taken to mean green
 5 yellow in the context of the green-yellow colour spectrum.
            Plants embodied by the invention which are grown in the field (and so are
   exposed to ambient weather conditions during their development) typically have leaves
   that are markedly lighter in colour than if those plants were grown in a planthouse. As
   such, plants of the invention that are field grown will typically have a dominant
10 wavelength value that is greater than that if the plants were planthouse grown plants.
   The term "planthouse" is used herein herein to refer to either a plastic covered
   "polyhouse" or to a greenhouse.
            Typically, a plant of Papaversomniferum having a lighter leaf colour embodied
   by the invention as described above will have green-yellow leaves exhibiting a
15 dominant wavelength value in a range of from about 561nm to 568nm or greater, but
   not exceeding 570nm. In other embodiments, plants embodied by the invention, or
   identifiable by the invention, predominantly have leaves exhibiting a dominant
   wavelength that is different to the dominant wavelength of the leaves of the parent
   plant. Typically, the dominant wavelength of at least a majority of the leaves of a plant
20 of the invention is different to the dominant wavelength of at least the majority of the
   leaves of the parent plant.
            Most typically, the dominant wavelength value of a plant embodied by the
   invention will be in a range of from about 561nm to about 568nm e.g., a dominant
   wavelength of about 562nm, 563nm, 564nm, 565nm, 566nm, 567nm, or 568nm. It will
25 also be understood that all ranges with the dominant wavelength identified above are
   expressly encompassed. For instance, a plant embodied by the invention having a
   lighter leaf colour may have a green-yellow leaf colour exhibiting a dominant
   wavelength in a range of from about 561nm to about 570nm, from about 561nm to
   about 569nm, from about 561nm to about 568nm, from about 562nm to about 568nm,
30 from 562nm to about 567nm, or from 563nm to about or 566nm. A method for the
   measurement of the dominant wavelength is exemplified further below.

                                                   -32
           Typically, the dominant wavelength is determined by reflective
   spectrophotometry on the adaxial surface of healthy, leaves using D65 illumination,
   wherein healthy leaves are characterised as leaves being free from visible signs of
   disease, senescence, nutrient deficiency/toxicity, and other forms of stress (e.g.,
 5 temperature-, water, or herbivory-related stress).
           The leaf colour can be evaluated at any stage up until maturity of a plant
   embodied by the invention and compared with the leaf colour of the parent plant at the
   same stage of development, such as running up, late running up, bud in apex, early
   hook, hook, mid-hook, upright bud and first flower stages. In particularly preferred
10 embodiments, leaf colour is assessed in the early hook or hook stages and more
   preferably in the early to mid-hook growth stages. As the leaf colour difference in
   light-leaf colour plants embodied by the invention is more pronounced in field grown
   plants compared to field grown parent plants, it is desirable that the evaluation of leaf
   colour is undertaken on field grown plants. Likewise, it is preferable that leaf colour
15 comparisons be made between plants grown in the same location and/or under the same
   conditions. The determination of conditions for growing plants for purposes of leaf
   colour comparisons are well within the expertise of a person of ordinary skill in the art.
   Conditions suitable for growing plants in a planthouse for the purpose of leaf colour
   comparisons are, for instance, further described below.
20         Whilst dominant wavelength is exemplified herein as a measure of the leaf
   colour, other parameters may be used to evaluate leaf colour of a plant embodied by the
   invention relative to a parent plant as described herein. For example, other methods for
   measuring leaf colour may include evaluating the content of one or more pigments in
   leaves responsible for the leaf colour a plant, such as cholorophyll, (e.g., cholorophyll a
25 and/or chlorophyll b), accessory pigments such as one or more carotenoid(s),
   anthocyanins, and mixtures of the foregoing, and all suitable alternative methods are
   expressly encompassed.
           Typically, a plant embodied by the invention has a reduced leaf pigment content
   comprising a reduced level of at least one of chlorophylls and carotenoids in the leaves
30 of the plant.

                                                    -33
           Most typically, the reduced level of chlorophylls comprises a reduced level of
   both chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b. In at least some embodiments, the level of
   chlorophylls may be reduced by least 10% by weight. In some embodiments, the level
   of chlorophylls may be reduced by up to 20% by weight or even more (e.g., by 10%,
 5 11%, 12%, 13%, 14%, 15%, 16%, 17%, 18%, 19%, 20% or even by 25%, 30%, 35%,
   40%, 45%, or 50% by weight or more).
           The reduced level of carotenoids will typically comprise a reduced level of at
   least one of lutein and p-carotenoid.
           Despite having a lighter leaf colour on the adaxial surface of leaves wherein the
10 lighter leaf colour is associated with a modified alkaloid profile in poppy straw or
   opium, the plants in accordance with the invention as described herein are nevertheless
   healthy, viable plants exhibiting good vigour with no symptoms of disease or nutrient
   deficiency.
           As used herein, the term "field grown" is to be taken to mean plants grown in
15 situ from seed sown in the field and plants that are grown to maturity in the field from
   transplanted seedlings raised from seed e.g., in a planthouse.
           In at least some embodiments, a plant of the present invention may be asexually
   reproduced, including via methods such as tissue culture.
           Recovering the codeine from dried poppy straw, opium or concentrate of poppy
20 straw is a process well established in the art. Until now, thebaine has been extracted
   from this plant species either as a part of the process of extracting morphine and
   codeine, or more recently as part of the process of extracting thebaine and oripavine.
           For example, the poppy straw can be treated with a small amount of lime and
   water to soften the capsules and to form a free base of the alkaloids. Countercurrent
25 extraction of the softened straw with methanol, ethanol or other suitable solvent forms
   a solvent/water extract or "miscella" containing the alkaloids, with morphine at a
   concentration of about 1 g/L where the straw is from standard Papaversomniferum.
   The volume of the miscella is reduced about 30 x under vacuum to produce an aqueous
   concentrate. Any thebaine can be extracted from the aqueous concentrate using one or
30 more liquid/liquid partitioning extraction steps using suitable solvent(s) (e.g., toluene or
   xylene), adjusting pH for the best separation of thebaine. Codeine remains in the

                                                   -34
   aqueous phase and Codeine CPS can be precipitated from the aqueous phase by pH
   adjustment.
            An alternative means of producing alkaloids is to grow plant cells or plant
   organs such as shoots or roots in culture. Cell culture or organ culture are means of
 5 producing alkaloids without being subject to the vagaries of climate and other
   uncertainties associated with crop production. The general methods of establishing cell
   cultures, root cultures and shoot cultures for the purpose of alkaloid production are
   provided by M.F. Roberts, Production of alkaloids in plant cell culture. In Alkaloids,
   Biochemistry, Ecology, and Medicinal Applications, Edited by Roberts and Wink,
10 Plenum Press, New York 1998, pages 159-197, the contents of which is hereby
   incorporated by reference in its entirety. The first step in producing cell cultures is to
   establish growth of callus. One way of achieving this for Papaversomniferum is
   provided by Chitty et al.(2003)., Genetic transformation in commercial Tasmanian
   cultivars of opium poppy, Papaversomniferum L., and movement of transgenic pollen
15 in the field. Functional Plant Biology 30: 1045-1058. In this method, seeds are surface
   sterilized by washing for 30-60 seconds in 70% ethanol, then in 1% (w/v) sodium
   hypochlorite solution plus 1-2 drops of autoclaved Tween 20 for 20 minutes with
   agitation. Seeds are then rinsed three to four times in sterile distilled water, or until no
   smell of bleach remains, and placed on B50 agar medium (Gamborg et al. 1968
20 Nutrient requirements of suspension cultures of soybean root cells. Experimental Cell
   Research 50, 151-158). Dishes are sealed with parafilm and imbibed at 4'C for 24 to
   48 hours. Seeds are germinated at 24'C in a 16 hour light-8 hour dark cycle.
   Hypocotyls are excised from seedlings after 7-8 days of culture, cut into 3-6 mm pieces
   (usually 1-3 explants per seedling) and placed onto callusing media. Culture media
25 consists of B50 macronutrients, micronutrients, iron salts and vitamins (Gamborg et al.
   1968) and sucrose at 20 g/L. pH can be adjusted with IM KOH to pH 5.6 and 0.8%
   Sigma agar (A1296) can be used as a gelling agent.
            All media should be autoclaved at 121 C for 20 minutes. B50 medium contains
   no growth regulators and is used to germinate seeds aseptically, maintain embryogenic
30 callus, and regenerate shoots and plantlets. Callusing Medium (CM) is B50 medium

                                                    -35
   plus 2,4-dichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4-D) at 1 mg/l, added prior to the medium
   being autoclaved.
            To generate a cell suspension culture (method from Staba et al. 1982, Alkaloid
   production from Papaver tissue cultures, Journal of Natural Products, 43,256-262),
 5 callus cultures can be transferred into 125mL Erlenmeyer flasks containing 25 mL of
   liquid RT medium (Khanna and Khanna 1976, Ind J Exp Biol 14,628) supplemented
   with either 5ppm BA for the growth of shoots or 0.1 ppm 2,4-D for the development of
   cell suspensions. Cultures can be grown at 28 0 C on an orbital shaker (78 rpm) with 15
   hours of light per day. In particular, cell cultures can be grown as a batch culture where
10 the cells multiply in a liquid medium which is being continuously agitated to maintain
   the cells as small aggregates and to maintain oxygen levels. Typically, after the initial
   inoculation there is a lag phase, followed by an exponential growth phase, which is
   then followed by a stationary phase where the growth becomes limited by lack of some
   components of the medium. Often, secondary plant products such as alkaloids are
15 accumulated while the culture is in the stationary phase. For some products, alkaloid
   production can be induced by adding elicitors such as fungal cell extracts. There are
   also systems of continuous or semi-continuous culture where fresh medium is added
   either continuously or semi-continuously while cells or media are likewise removed for
   alkaloid recovery. Critical to the success of any cell culture system is the establishment
20 of high yielding cell lines. Generally, selection is required to select individual plants,
   or individual cell cultures that produce the required alkaloid. For the production of
   codeine, a rapid HPLC or UPLC method such as those described in this application
   could be modified to test cell lines for codeine production.
            Techniques such as root culture including hairy root culture where roots are
25 transformed with Agrobacterium rhizogenes may also be a viable means of producing
   codeine in culture. A method for transformation of Papaversomniferum cultures with
   A. rhizogenes is, for instance, described in Yoshimatsu and Shimomura (1992),
   Transformation of opium poppy (Papaversomniferum L.) with Agrobacterium
   rhizogenes MAFF 03-01724. Plant Cell Reports 11,132-136. A person skilled in the
30 art of cell and organ culture would also be able to envisage other means of growing

                                                   -36
   plant cells derived from plants embodied by the present invention in order to produce
   codeine.
           Methods for sampling leaf latex, and measuring the content of codeine,
   thebaine, morphine, oripavine and other alkaloids as described herein in poppy straw,
 5 latex, opium and concentrate or of poppy straw are well known to the skilled person,
   see for instance WO 2009/143574 and WO 2009/109012.
           The invention is further described below with reference to a number of
   Examples. The Examples are not intended and should not be construed as limiting the
   invention in any way.
10
   EXAMPLE 1:              EMS mutagenesis treatment of seed of a Papaver somniferum
   line commercially grown for the production of codeine
           The seed of a stably reproducing Papaversomniferum "Tasman" parent line
15 (PW08-2308) which produces codeine as the predominant alkaloid and relatively low
   levels of thebaine and essentially no morphine or oripavine as described in
   WO 2009/143574 was subjected to EMS mutagenesis treatment.
           In brief, 2 x 2g lots of seed from the commercially grown Papaversomniferum
   "Tasman" line (PW08-2308) were utilised in the present study. Each 2g seed lot was
20 placed in a 15cm x 15cm square of porous mesh curtain material and the corners of the
   material were tied together to form a pouch. The bags of Tasman seed were placed in
   separate 250mL flasks filled with chilled (40C) 100mM phosphate buffer (pH 7). The
   flasks were sealed with a rubber stopper and placed in a refrigerator at 40C) where they
   were left overnight.
25         The next the day the bags of seed were removed from the phosphate buffer
   solution, and a new solution of 0.7% EMS (ethyl methanesulfonate) in phosphate
   buffer was prepared by adding 1.75mL of EMS to 250 mL phosphate buffer. The bags
   of seed were added to the EMS solution, the flask was capped and the solution stirred
   on a magnetic stiffer (without heat). Seed was treated in this way for 5 hours. .
30         At the end of each treatment period the bags of seed were removed from the
   EMS solution and rinsed under running water for 30 minutes. The seed was then left

                                                   -37
   overnight in 200mL distilled H2 0 at 4'C. The next day seeds were again rinsed under
   running water for 30 minutes, spread thinly on a layer of tissue paper and left to air-dry
   for 2 hours to facilitate ease of handling when sowing.
            The air-dried mutagenized M1 seed was immediately sown in 14cm diameter
 5 pots filled with potting soil (a 50:50 mix of coarse and composted pine bark, with
   OsmocoteTM slow release fertiliser added). Seeds were sown at the rate of about 10 per
   pot and 96 pots of each line/EMS treatment combination were sown. After sowing the
   seed was covered with a fine layer of vermiculite. Watering was via overhead
   sprinklers for the first 14 days followed by drip irrigation through to maturity. Plants
10 were fertilised by weekly application of a liquid fertiliser. The M1 generation was
   grown in an enclosed (plastic covered) planthouse under natural day lengths in
   Westbury, Tasmania, Australia. Individual M1 plants were self-pollinated through the
   use of a paper bag placed and secured over individual flower buds prior to anthesis.
            At maturity, M2 seed was harvested from each M1 plant and placed in a
15 separate labelled seed packet. An equal amount (0.08g) of M2 seed was then taken
   from each packet to produce four bulk M2 seed samples.
            Bulked M2 seed was sown in a field breeding nursery (Weetah, Tasmania,
   Australia) on 22 September 2011. The seed was sown in 5m long x 1.6 wide plots,
   with 6 rows per plot, using a custom-built-trial-seed drill. Seventy plots of the
20 Tasman/5 hr treatments were sown, with approximately 0.24 g of seed used to sow
   each plot. Basal fertilizer was incorporated into the soil at the time of sowing.
            Plants were inspected regularly throughout development to screen for
   interesting and potentially useful phenotypes. At early stages of development plants
   with phenotypes of interest were marked with a flag to ensure they were examined
25 further. After 'running up' all of these plants were tagged with a label that described
   their phenotype. All labelled phenotypic mutants were self-pollinated by placing and
   securing a paper bag over the primary flower bud prior to anthesis. In addition, 1200
   'Tasman' M2 plants, with normal phenotypes, were selected at random and self
   pollinated by securing a paper bag over the primary flower bud prior to anthesis.

                                                      -38
           M3 seed from each of the M2 plants was harvested separately when plants were
   fully mature and dry (February 2012) and were assigned line numbers starting with
   EM3 or EM4.
           M3 seed from 'Tasman' phenotypic mutant lines was grown in the planthouse
 5 during April 2012 to further examine their phenotype and bulk M4 seed for future field
   trials. Plants were grown 6-per-pot in 14cm diameter pots in commercial potting soil,
   under a 16hr photoperiod.
   EXAMPLE 2:           M3 field trials
10
   1.      M3 alkaloid/phenotype screening trial
           A number of M2 mutant plants with interesting phenoytpes were identified in
   the M2 populations grown (Weetah, Tasmania, Australia) during the 2011/12 season as
   outlined in Example 1. Some of the phenotypes observed in the M2 field grown plants
15 were not evident when the M3 generation was grown in the planthouse, and these M3
   lines were excluded from further investigations. Overall, 982 M3 lines that appeared
   worthy of further investigation were advanced to field trials (Hagley, Tasmania,
   Australia) during the 2012/13 poppy growing season.
           M3 'Tasman' mutant lines produced in Example 1 were sown in one or more of
20 three different field trials, to assess, various aspects of their alkaloid content, alkaloid
   profiles and/or phenotypes.
           The first of these trials, the M3 alkaloid screening trial, was conducted in a
   paddock (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia) during the 2012/13 poppy growing season.
   Each M3 line was sown in a single, 5m long row within a 5m x 1.8 m plot that
25 contained six such rows. Multiple replicates of the 'Tasman' parent line were grown
   throughout the trial. A visual assessment of plant phenotype was conducted prior to
   flowering. Plants were allowed to mature and dry under field conditions, and all
   capsules from each row (each of the parent and M3 lines) were harvested for analysis
   of alkaloid content and profile. Capsules were weighed and, threshed to remove seed
30 to produce poppy straw. The straw was then weighed and ground using a Retsch
   Grindomix GM 200 in preparation for alkaloid extraction. 2g of the ground straw was

                                                    -39
   placed in a plastic tube and suspended in 40mL of extraction solution (consisting of 2%
   acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water), then shaken on an orbital shaker for 90
   minutes. 240 pL of extractant solution from each sample was filtered through a 0.45
   pM Pall filter prior to the analysis of alkaloid content using a Waters Acquity ULPC*
 5 (Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromotography) system. Sample components were
   separated on a Waters Acquity UPLC BEH C18 Column (Part No. 186002352) by a
   gradient method using A. 2% acetic acid in water and B. acetonitrile (HPLC grade).
   The column temperature was maintained at 44 OC and the detector wavelength was set
   at 284nm. Chromatographic peak areas were analysed and alkaloid content (%w/w)
10 calculated using Empower software.
           The results for each single replicate M3 line were compared to a mean value for
   the parent line (PW08-2308) included in the trial. Two other Papaversomniferum
   lines with a codeine chemotype, namely PW1 1-4063 and PW10-0149 derived from a
   breeding program, were included in the trial for comparison with the mutant M3 lines.
15         Of the 982 M3 lines screened, 80 M3 lines exhibited increased codeine content
   relative to the parent line (PW08-2308), and 139 M3 lines exhibited a thebaine/codeine
   ratio (T/C) lower than the parent line PW08-2308 (T/C of 0.06, that is a reduced
   amount of codeine relative to thebaine, the best lines being (EM3-0281, EM3-0538,
   EM3-0832 and EM3-0515, with a T/C of 0.01). No data was obtained for 68 M3 lines
20 as a result of poor establishment in one section of the trial. Due to the high-vigour
   phenotype of the PW08-2308 parent line, M3 lines having mutations that affected plant
   health and vigour were very obvious. A total of 16 M3 lines were identified as
   showing very low vigour. Determined levels of codeine, thebaine, morphine and
   oripavine in selected M3 lines are shown in Table 1. A graph illustrating the codeine
25 and thebaine content of the poppy straw from the best 20 codeine producing M3 lines is
   shown in Fig. 1
30

                                             -40
Table 1:      Alkaloid content of poppy straw of selected Papaversomniferum M3
lines
                                                                                   00
                                                                                    0
                                                                     00
                                                                  00
                                                             00
                                                      .2:
                                                          00
                E    .0   0    -   .    3         .           1
            PW146
             .6     .000          ~
                                  .4      .7   01      87      94                   E
                 3      E                                 u
  PW8-2308  3.15   0.00   0.00   0.20   3.36   0.06   100     100
  PW1-0149  2.74   0.00   0.01   0.14   2.89   0.05    87      86
  PW11-4063 2.76   0.00   0.00   0.42   3.17   0.15    87      94
   EM3-0407 3.82   0.00   0.00   0.30   4.12   0.08   121     123       codeine
      EM-10
   EM3-0479  .0
            3.76    .0
                   0.00   0.0
                          0.00    .2
                                 0.20   377
                                        3.96 0 0.058  1101
                                                      119     118        oen TIC
                                                                      codeine,
   EM3-0448 3.72   0.00   0.00   0.40   4.12   0.11   118     123       codeine
   EM3-1123 3.64   0.00   0.00   0.15   3.79   0.04   115     113     codeine, TIC
   EM3-1180 3.63   0.00   0.00   0.16   3.79   0.04   115     113     codeine, TIC
   EM3-0034 3.60   0.00   0.00   0.53   4.13   0.15   114     123       codeine
   EM3-0076 3.59   0.00   0.00   0.37   3.96   0.10   114     118       codeine
   EM3-0106 3.50   0.00   0.00   0.28   3.77   0.08   107     112       codeine
   EM3-0505 3.49   0.00   0.00   0.33   3.82   0.09   ill     114       codeine
   EM3-0023 3.46   0.00   0.00   0.28   3.74   0.08   110     ill       codeine
   EM3-0539 3.43   0.00   0.00   0.17   3.59   0.05   109     107     codeine, T/C
   EM3-0285 3.42   0.00   0.00   0.22   3.63   0.06   108     108       codeine
   EM3-0506 3.41   0.00   0.00   0.31   3.73   0.09   108     102       codeine
   EM3-0619 3.41   0.00   0.00   0.19   3.60   0.06   108     107       codeine
   EM3-0191 3.40   0.00   0.00   0.49   3.90   0.15   108     116       codeine
   EM3-1199 3.40   0.00   0.00   0.26   3.65   0.08   108     109       codeine
   EM3-1124 3.39   0.00   0.00   0.40   3.80   0.12   108     113       codeine
   EM3-0331 3.39   0.00   0.00   0.22   3.61   0.06   108     107       codeine
   EM3-0584 3.37   0.00   0.00   0.18   3.55   0.05   107     106     codeine, T/C
   EM3-0072 3.36   0.00 10.00    0.09 13.46    0.03   107     103     codeine, T/C
   EM3-1196 3.36   0.00   0.00   0.20   3.55   0.06   107     106       codeine
   EM3-0390 3.35   0.00   0.00   0.06   3.41   0.02   106     102     codeine, T/C
   EM3-0476 3.35   0.00   0.00   0.19   3.54   0.06   106     105       codeine

                                  -41
EM3-0095 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.62   0.08 106 108   codeine
EM3-1147 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.53   0.06 106 105   codeine
EM3-1166 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.59   0.08 106 107   codeine
EM3-0552 3.34 0.00 0.00 0.39 3.72   0.12 106 111   codeine
EM3-0674 3.33 0.00 0.00 0.29 3.62   0.09 106 108   codeine
EM3-0551 3.32 0.00 0.00 0.20 3.52   0.06 105 105   codeine
EM3-1026 3.32 0.00 0.00 0.20 3.52   0.06 105 105   codeine
EM3-1138 3.32 0.00 0.00 0.24 3.56   0.07 105 106   codeine
EM3-0205 3.31 0.00 0.00 0.24 3.55   0.07 105 106   codeine
EM3-0408 3.31 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.45   0.04 105 103 codeine, T/C
EM3-1195 3.30 0.00 0.03 0.49 3.82   0.15 105 114   codeine
EM3-0361 3.30 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.44   0.04 105 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-1011 3.30 0.00 0.00 0.38 3.67   0.12 105 109   codeine
EM3-0307 3.29 0.00 0.00 0.31 3.60   0.09 105 107   codeine
EM3-1112 3.29 0.00 0.00 0.30 3.58   0.09 104 107   codeine
EM3-0585 3.29 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.42   0.04 104 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-1125 3.28 0.00 0.00 0.39 3.67   0.12 104 109   codeine
EM3-1171 3.28 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.44   0.05 104 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-0618 3.27 0.12 0.00 0.46 3.85   0.14 104 115   codeine
EM3-0111 3.27 0.00 0.00 0.18 3.45   0.06 104 103   codeine
EM3-0426 3.27 0.00 0.00 0.23 3.49   0.07 104 104   codeine
EM3-1020 3.26 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.42   0.05 104 102 codeine, T/C
EM3-1122 3.26 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.38   0.04 104 101 codeine, T/C
EM3-1179 3.26 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.40   0.05 103 101 codeine, T/C
EM3-1136 3.25 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.40   0.04 103 101 codeine, T/C
EM3-0519 3.25 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.35   0.03 103 100 codeine, T/C
EM3-0637 3.25 0.00 0.00 0.50 3.75   0.16 103 112   codeine
EM3-0352 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.34 3.58   0.10 103 107   codeine
EM3-0438 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.42   0.06 103 102   codeine
EM3-0058 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.50   0.08 103 104   codeine
EM3-0532 3.24 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.50   0.08 103 104   codeine
EM3-0733 3.23 0.00 0.00 0.52 3.76   0.16 103 112   codeine
EM3-0449 3.23 0.00 0.00 0.44 3.66   0.14 102 109   codeine
EM3-0320 3.22 0.00 0.00 0.40 3.62   0.12 102 108   codeine
EM3-0943 3.22 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.47   0.08 102 103   codeine
EM3-0826 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.43   0.07 102 102   codeine
EM3-1132 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.28 3.49   0.09 102 104   codeine
EM3-0350 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.48   0.08 102 103   codeine
EM3-0592 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.19 3.40   0.06 102 101   codeine
EM3-1164 3.21 0.00 0.02 0.42 3.64   0.13 102 108   codeine
EM3-0607 3.21 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.47   0.08 102 103   codeine

                                  -42
EM3-1191 3.20 0.00 0.00 0.51 3.71   0.16 102 111 codeine
EM3-0587 3.20 0.00 0.00 0.71 3.91   0.22 102 116 codeine
EM3-1007 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.31 3.50   0.10 101 104 codeine
EM3-0536 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.33 3.53   0.10 101 105 codeine
EM3-0455 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.34 3.53   0.11 101 105 codeine
EM3-0241 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.27 3.46   0.09 101 103 codeine
EM3-0411 3.19 0.00 0.00 0.47 3.65   0.15 101 109 codeine
EM3-0392 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.39   0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-1131 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.21 3.39   0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-0139 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.33 3.50   0.10 101 104 codeine
EM3-0311 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.26 3.44   0.08 101 102 codeine
EM3-0084 3.18 0.00 0.00 0.21 3.38   0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-1079 3.17 0.00 0.00 0.22 3.39   0.07 101 101 codeine
EM3-0158 3.17 0.00 0.00 0.25 3.42   0.08 101 102 codeine
EM3-0200 3.17 0.09 0.00 0.34 3.60   0.11 101 107 codeine
EM3-1163 3.17 0.00 0.00 0.33 3.50   0.10 101 104 codeine
EM3-0646 3.16 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.32   0.05 100 99    T/C
EM3-1161 3.15 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.31   0.05 100 98    T/C
EM3-0484 3.12 0.00 0.00 0.17 3.28   0.05 99  98    T/C
EM3-1039 3.12 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.20   0.03 99  95    T/C
EM3-0698 3.09 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.24   0.05 98  96    T/C
EM3-1113 3.09 0.00 0.00 0.17 3.25   0.05 98  97    T/C
EM3-1116 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.20   0.04 98  95    T/C
EM3-1159 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.22   0.05 98  96    T/C
EM3-0151 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.15   0.03 98  94    T/C
EM3-1022 3.07 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.20   0.04 97  95    T/C
EM3-1110 3.05 0.00 0.00 0.06 3.10   0.02 97  92    T/C
EM3-1183 3.05 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.13   0.02 97  93    T/C
EM3-0501 3.04 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.14   0.03 96  93    T/C
EM3-0273 3.02 0.00 0.00 0.07 3.09   0.02 96  92    T/C
EM3-0498 3.02 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.12   0.03 96  93    T/C
EM3-0843 3.01 0.00 0.00 0.06 3.07   0.02 96  91    T/C
EM3-1066 3.01 0.00 0.01 0.16 3.18   0.05 96  95    T/C
EM3-0183 3.01 0.00 0.00 0.08 3.09   0.03 96  92    T/C
EM3-0664 3.01 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.14   0.05 95  94    T/C
EM3-0617 3.00 0.00 0.00 0.11 3.11   0.04 95  93    T/C
EM3-0208 2.99 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.11   0.04 95  93    T/C
EM3-0284 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.12   0.05 95  93    T/C
EM3-0071 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.14   0.05 95  94    T/C
EM3-0653 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.14   0.05 95  93    T/C
EM3-0577 2.98 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.13   0.05 94  93    T/C

                                  -43
EM3-1117 2.96 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.13   0.05 94 93 T/C
EM3-0573 2.96 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.08   0.04 94 92 T/C
EM3-0730 2.96 0.00 0.06 0.16 3.17   0.05 94 94 T/C
EM3-1184 2.96 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.07   0.04 94 91 T/C
EM3-0515 2.95 0.00 0.00 0.04 3.00   0.01 94 89 T/C
EM3-0638 2.95 0.09 0.00 0.08 3.11   0.03 94 93 T/C
EM3-0990 2.94 0.00 0.00 0.06 3.00   0.02 93 89 T/C
EM3-0301 2.94 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.09   0.05 93 92 T/C
EM3-0333 2.94 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.07   0.05 93 91 T/C
EM3-0132 2.93 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.07   0.05 93 91 T/C
EM3-0467 2.93 0.00 0.00 0.10 3.03   0.03 93 90 T/C
EM3-0424 2.92 0.00 0.00 0.08 2.99   0.03 93 89 T/C
EM3-0611 2.92 0.00 0.00 0.09 3.00   0.03 93 89 T/C
EM3-0633 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.05   0.05 93 91 T/C
EM3-1069 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.06   0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0477 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.06   0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0094 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.14 3.05   0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-1162 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.02   0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0635 2.91 0.00 0.00 0.12 3.02   0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0898 2.90 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.05   0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0170 2.90 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.02   0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0737 2.90 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.05   0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0414 2.90 0.00 0.01 0.16 3.06   0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-0555 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.02   0.04 92 90 T/C
EM3-0871 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.16 3.05   0.05 92 91 T/C
EM3-1009 2.89 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.99   0.04 92 89 T/C
EM3-0868 2.88 0.00 0.01 0.14 3.04   0.05 92 90 T/C
EM3-0928 2.88 0.00 0.00 0.13 3.01   0.04 91 90 T/C
EM3-0558 2.87 0.00 0.00 0.15 3.02   0.05 91 90 T/C
EM3-0383 2.87 0.00 0.00 0.07 2.93   0.02 91 87 T/C
EM3-0726 2.86 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.96   0.03 91 88 T/C
EM3-0832 2.86 0.00 0.00 0.04 2.89   0.01 91 86 T/C
EM3-0670 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.99   0.05 91 89 T/C
EM3-0434 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.99   0.05 91 89 T/C
EM3-0066 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.08 2.92   0.03 90 87 T/C
EM3-0925 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.95   0.03 90 88 T/C
EM3-1182 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.98   0.05 90 89 T/C
EM3-1032 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.06 2.91   0.02 90 87 T/C
EM3-1108 2.85 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.95   0.04 90 88 T/C
EM3-1076 2.84 0.00 0.00 0.16 2.99   0.05 90 89 T/C
EM3-0496 2.84 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.93   0.03 90 87 T/C

                                  -44
EM3-0181 2.83 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.95   0.04 90 88 T/C
EM3-1002 2.82 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.95   0.04 90 88 T/C
EM3-0428 2.82 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.93   0.04 89 87 T/C
EM3-0304 2.81 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.95   0.05 89 88 T/C
EM3-1148 2.81 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.90   0.03 89 86 T/C
EM3-0480 2.81 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.90   0.03 89 86 T/C
EM3-0533 2.80 0.12 0.00 0.14 3.06   0.05 89 91 T/C
EM3-0365 2.79 0.00 0.00 0.05 2.84   0.02 89 85 T/C
EM3-0238 2.78 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.91   0.04 88 86 T/C
EM3-1197 2.78 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.87   0.03 88 85 T/C
EM3-0435 2.78 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.90   0.04 88 86 T/C
EM3-0788 2.77 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.85   0.03 88 85 T/C
EM3-0731 2.76 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.91   0.05 88 86 T/C
EM3-0984 2.76 0.00 0.00 0.08 2.84   0.03 88 84 T/C
EM3-1001 2.74 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.85   0.04 87 85 T/C
EM3-0729 2.73 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.87   0.05 87 85 T/C
EM3-0549 2.73 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.84   0.04 87 84 T/C
EM3-0371 2.73 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.86   0.05 87 85 T/C
EM3-0791 2.72 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.81   0.03 86 84 T/C
EM3-0739 2.71 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.81   0.04 86 84 T/C
EM3-0283 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.84   0.05 86 85 T/C
EM3-1114 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.84   0.05 86 85 T/C
EM3-0651 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.82   0.04 86 84 T/C
EM3-0566 2.70 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.81   0.04 86 84 T/C
EM3-0131 2.69 0.00 0.00 0.15 2.84   0.05 86 85 T/C
EM3-0358 2.68 0.00 0.00 0.06 2.74   0.02 85 82 T/C
EM3-0382 2.68 0.00 0.00 0.05 2.73   0.02 85 81 T/C
EM3-1151 2.67 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.81   0.05 85 84 T/C
EM3-0275 2.67 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.78   0.04 85 83 T/C
EM3-0713 2.66 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.76   0.04 84 82 T/C
EM3-1036 2.66 0.00 0.00 0.05 2.71   0.02 84 81 T/C
EM3-0728 2.65 0.00 0.00 0.11 2.77   0.04 84 82 T/C
EM3-0834 2.65 0.00 0.00 0.13 2.78   0.05 84 83 T/C
EM3-0281 2.64 0.00 0.00 0.02 2.67   0.01 84 79 T/C
EM3-0376 2.64 0.00 0.00 0.09 2.73   0.04 84 81 T/C
EM3-0615 2.64 0.00 0.00 0.14 2.78   0.05 84 83 T/C
EM3-0528 2.63 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.75   0.05 84 82 T/C
EM3-0305 2.63 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.73   0.04 84 81 T/C
EM3-0322 2.61 0.00 0.00 0.12 2.74   0.05 83 81 T/C
EM3-0560 2.60 0.09 0.00 0.12 2.81   0.05 83 84 T/C
EM3-0492 2.60 0.00 0.00 0.10 2.70   0.04 82 80 T/C

                                                       -45
      EM3-0293    2.59   0.00   0.00   0.11    2.70      0.04      82       80    T/C
      EM3-0794    2.58   0.00   0.00   0.08    2.67      0.03      82       79    T/C
      EM3-0894    2.57   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.66      0.04      81       79    T/C
      EM3-0608    2.56   0.17   0.00   0.12    2.85      0.05      81       85    T/C
      EM3-0767    2.55   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.65      0.04      81       79    T/C
      EM3-1118    2.55   0.00   0.00   0.13    2.68      0.05      81       80    T/C
      EM3-0538    2.55   0.00   0.00   0.02    2.57      0.01      81       76    T/C
      EM3-0892    2.53   0.00   0.00   0.13    2.65      0.05      80       79    T/C
      EM3-0857    2.49   0.09   0.00   0.13    2.71      0.05      79       81    T/C
      EM3-0246    2.48   0.00   0.00   0.07    2.56      0.03      79       76    T/C
      EM3-0389    2.42   0.10   0.00   0.05    2.57      0.02      77       76    T/C
      EM3-0298    2.36   0.00   0.00   0.06    2.42      0.03      75       72    T/C
      EM3-0825    2.32   0.00   0.00   0.09    2.42      0.04      74       72    T/C
      EM3-0297    2.30   0.00   0.00   0.10    2.40      0.04      73       71    T/C
      EM3-0644    2.25   0.00   0.00   0.07    2.31      0.03      71       69    T/C
      EM3-1075    2.12   0.00   0.00   0.07    2.19      0.03      67       65    T/C
   MOCT is the alkaloid combination of morphine, oripavine, codeine and thebaine.
   2.       M3 Disease resistance/phenotype screening trial
            A disease resistance screening field trial (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia) was also
 5 conducted during the 2012/13 poppy growing season. A subset of 11 mutant lines
   identified on the basis of phenotype in the M2 (field) and M3 (planthouse) generations
   described above were selected for inclusion in this trial, including the 'Tasman' line
   EM4-0045 derived from parent line PW08-2308 by mutagenesis treatment with EMS
   as described in Example 1. The primary aim of this trial was to determine if the altered
10 phenotypes resulted in any improvement in resistance to, or tolerance of, downy
   mildew (Peronosporameconosidis, previously known as Peronosporaarborescens)
   infection. This trial was also an additional opportunity to further study plant
   phenotypes under field conditions.
            M4 seed, bulked from multiple M3 plants of each line grown in the planthouse
15 over the winter of 2013, was used to sow this trial. The trial was a randomized
   complete-block-design with 3 blocks/replicates per line, each replicate was sown a
   1.8m wide x 2.Om long plot. The trial crop was not sprayed with any preventative or
   curative fungicides. Plants were allowed to mature and dry under field conditions, and
   30 capsules were then harvested from each plot and combined for each individual

                                                    -46
   replicate assay. Each 30-capsule-sample was threshed to remove seed to produce
   poppy straw, the straw was then weighed and ground, and the ground straw was
   extracted in 2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water as described above. An
   aliquot of the extract was filtered prior to the UPLC analysis of alkaloid content and
 5 alkaloid profile as also described above. Data derived from the three replicate plots
   was analysed in Agrobase Generation II (Agronomix Software) using GLM (General
   Linear Model) analysis to produce an overall trial mean for each alkaloid in each M3
   line.
            There was no expectation that altered phenotypes of the mutant lines would
10 result in an increase in alkaloid content, so the actual mutagenesis parent line (PW08
   2308) was not been entered in the trial for comparison. However, 'Tasman' mutant
   line EM4-0045 surprisingly exhibited high-total alkaloid content and an altered leaf
   phenotype characterized by light-green leaves (see Fig. 2).
            In a subsequent field trial (data not shown), the EM4-0045 light-green 'Tasman'
15 mutant line exhibited a 5% increase in codeine relative to the parent line PW08-2308.
   Apart from the light green leaf colour, the phenotype of this line appears to be
   unchanged relative to the parent line, PW08-2308. As such, there appears to be no
   reason why the EM4-0045 mutant cannot be grown commercially.
20 3.       Discussion
            Various M2 plants were selected on the basis of altered phenotypes as outlined
   in Example 1. Some of these phenotypes were also present when M3 plants, derived
   from these M2 plants, were grown in various M3 screening trials. This demonstrates
   that these phenotypes are the result of stable, heritable, genetic changes, as the altered
25 phenotypes were consistent across generations and environments.
            An unexpected result from these trials was the identification of mutant lines
   that exhibited lighter coloured leaves (i.e., lighter green or yellow) and which
   contained high alkaloid content, suggesting a possible relationship between the altered
   leaf colour in these lines and alkaloid accumulation. These plants were not initially
30 considered as being of interest in the M2 screen, and were harvested simply as a
   curiosity. Growing M3 seed from these lines in the greenhouse highlighted that these

                                                   -47
   mutant phenotypes were both stable and heritable. Mutant line EM4-0045 in particular
   showed remarkably good vigour and its phenotype was largely unchanged relative to
   the parent line PW08-2308 other than the obvious difference in leaf colour. This line
   was included in the 2012/2013 disease resistance screening field trial to assess whether
 5 their phenotypic differences altered their level of resistance to downy mildew infection
   (Peronosporameconosidis). Whilst this proved to not to be the case and no apparent
   enhancement in protection against downy mildew infection was observed, the EM4
   0045 (light-green leaf) 'Tasman' mutant exhibited very high codeine content with low
   thebaine contamination, a most striking and unexpected result. As a consequence, the
10 EM4-0045 line was advanced to additional field trials for further assessment.
           Overall, M3 Papaversomniferum mutant 'Tasman' lines were identified which
   showed an increase in codeine content relative to the parent line from which they were
   derived, as well as mutant 'Tasman' lines which also exhibited a reduction in thebaine
   content relative to codeine content. Given the nature of mutagenesis, the complex
15 nature of alkaloid biosynthesis pathways in Papaversomniferum and the involvement
   of feedback mechanisms and the like as described above, it could not be predicted at
   the outset if any desirable changes in alkaloid content or profile were possible or if they
   could even be achieved via mutagenesis, which typically results in point mutations that
   either knock out or have a detrimental effect on gene function. Further, it could not be
20 ascertained or predicted in advance as to whether any plants having altered phenotypes
   could be useful commercially.
   EXAMPLE 3:              Breeding material field trial (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia)
25         A total of 82 mutant 'Tasman' M3 lines produced in Example 1 and their parent
   line, PW08-2308, were included in this field trial. The trial was conducted in a
   paddock (Hagley, Tasmania, Australia) during the 2013/14 poppy growing season, and
   was sown on 6 September 2013. The trial was a randomized-complete-block design
   consisting of 2 blocks/replicates of each M3 line. Each replicate was sown in a single,
30 5m long row within a 5m x 1.8 m plot that contained five individual rows. A visual
   assessment of plant phenotype was conducted prior to flowering. Plants were allowed

                                                  -48
   to mature and dry under field conditions, and all of the capsules from plants in each
   row were then harvested (on 5 February 2014) and pooled for analysis of seed and
   straw weight, and alkaloid content and profile. Capsules were weighed and threshed to
   remove seed to produce straw. The straw was weighed and ground, and the ground
 5 straw was extracted in 2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water as described
   above. An aliquot of the extract was filtered prior to UPLC analysis of alkaloid
   content and alkaloid profile as also described above. The results for each M3 line were
   analysed in Agrobase Generation II (Agronomix Software) using GLM (General
   Linear Model) analysis and compared to the parent line, PW08-2308, and are set out
10 below in Table 2.
   Table 2:       Alkaloid content of poppy straw of selected Papaversomniferum M3
   lines
                     Line    Codeine    Thebaine    %C       Total   T/C  Codeine
                               (C)        (T)         of     T+C    ratio   yield
                             (%w/w)     (%w/w)     PW08-    (%w/w)        (kg/Ha)
                                                    2308
                PW08-2308      3.5        0.4        100      3.9   0.11    29.0
                EM3-0352       4.2        0.5        120      4.6   0.11    43.9
                EM3-0006       4.1        0.1        119      4.2   0.02    49.8
                EM3-0106       4.1        0.3        118      4.4   0.07    34.5
                EM3-0587       4.1        0.4        116      4.5   0.11    39.4
                EM3-0455       4.0        0.3        116      4.3   0.07    39.8
                EM3-1026       4.0        0.2        116      4.2   0.04    70.6
                EM3-0426       4.0        0.1        116      4.2   0.04    26.3
                EM3-1123       4.0        0.3        115      4.3   0.07    41.3
                EM3-0505       4.0        0.4        115      4.4   0.09    58.2
                EM3-0350       4.0        0.3        114      4.3   0.07    60.3
                EM3-0766       3.9        0.5        113      4.4   0.13    21.7
                EM3-1125       3.9        0.3        113      4.2   0.04    37.3
                EM3-1136       3.9        0.2        112      4.1   0.06    46.9
                EM3-0479       3.9        0.2        112      4.1   0.05    56.7
                EM3-1164       3.9        0.2        112      4.1   0.05    49.4
                EM3-1179       3.9        0.1        112      4.1   0.02    39.0
                EM3-0733       3.9        0.3        111      4.2   0.08    69.6
                EM3-0408       3.9        0.1        111      4.0   0.04    47.3

                 -49
EM3-1045 3.9 0.8   111 4.6 0.20 34.2
EM3-0407 3.8 0.3   110 4.2 0.08 49.6
EM3-0686 3.8 0.3   109 4.2 0.09 61.5
EM3-1124 3.8 0.1   109 3.9 0.04  2.9
EM3-1138 3.8 0.1   109 3.9 0.04 17.3
EM3-0056 3.8 0.2   108 4.1 0.06 30.3
EM3-0826 3.8 0.2   108 4.0 0.05 43.2
EM3-0285 3.8 0.2   108 4.0 0.07 58.4
EM3-0331 3.8 0.4   108 4.3 0.10 57.3
EM3-0023 3.8 0.2   108 4.1 0.06 51.2
EM3-0411 3.8 0.4   108 4.1 0.10 41.3
EM3-0191 3.7 0.3   107 4.3 0.05 29.0
EM3-1196 3.7 0.3   107 4.1 0.09 21.5
EM3-0592 3.7 0.4   107 4.1 0.10 46.3
EM3-0072 3.7 0.3   107 4.1 0.08 45.1
EM3-0111 3.7 0.3   107 4.0 0.07 28.2
EM3-1122 3.7 0.2   107 3.9 0.05 30.1
EM3-0018 3.7 0.3   107 4.0 0.04 45.0
EM3-1112 3.7 0.4   106 4.1 0.12 25.1
EM3-0448 3.7 0.5   106 4.3 0.13 35.0
EM3-0607 3.7 0.3   106 4.0 0.09 72.0
EM3-0674 3.7 0.4   106 4.1 0.10 43.2
EM3-0637 3.7 0.2   106 3.9 0.05 24.7
EM3-0076 3.7 0.4   105 4.1 0.11 40.6
EM3-0519 3.7 0.3   105 4.0 0.08 64.2
EM3-0476 3.7 0.1   105 3.8 0.02 47.9
EM3-1011 3.7 0.4   105 4.1 0.11 57.7
EM3-1007 3.7 0.2   105 3.9 0.06 22.0
EM3-0619 3.6 0.3   104 4.0 0.09 42.4
EM3-1132 3.6 0.4   104 4.1 0.12 37.6
EM3-1166 3.6 0.3   103 3.9 0.09 16.2
EM3-0585 3.6 0.4   103 4.0 0.11 22.0
EM3-0390 3.6 0.2   103 3.8 0.06 45.3
EM3-0241 3.6 0.3   103 4.0 0.09 53.4
EM3-0584 3.6 0.3   103 3.9 0.09 34.0
EM3-0058 3.6 0.5   102 4.1 0.08 60.6
EM3-1020 3.5 0.2   102 3.8 0.07 46.8
EM3-0552 3.5 0.3   101 4.0 0.09 30.0
EM3-1180 3.5 0.2   101 3.9 0.07 37.3
EM3-0539 3.5 0.2   101 3.8 0.07 23.7
EM3-0764 3.5 0.9   101 4.4 0.13 58.7
EM3-0034 3.5 0.5   101 4.0 0.16 36.0

                                                     -50
                  EM3-0551       3.5        0.4        101      3.9    0.06   47.7
                  EM3-0307       3.5        0.2        100      3.8    0.06   34.0
                  EM3-1131       3.5        0.3        100      3.7    0.07   71.7
                  EM3-0205       3.5        0.3        100      3.8    0.08   39.4
                  EM3-0801       3.5        0.5         99      4.0    0.14   32.9
                  EM3-0361       3.4        0.2         99      3.9    0.04   58.4
                  EM3-0506       3.4        0.4         99      3.9    0.13   49.0
                  EM3-1147       3.4        0.4         98      3.8    0.06   46.5
                  EM3-1198       3.4        0.9         97      4.3    0.27   30.4
                  EM3-1171       3.3        0.4         95      3.7    0.11   28.5
                  EM3-0095       3.3        0.5         94      3.9    0.14   27.7
                  EM3-1199       3.3        0.8         94      4.1    0.28   50.1
                  EM3-0320       3.3        0.7         94      4.0    0.23   43.9
                  EM3-1191       3.2        0.5         92      3.9    0.19   27.2
                  EM3-0449       3.2        0.7         91      3.8    0.22   23.3
                  EM3-0532       3.1        0.4         90      3.6    0.12   21.5
                  EM3-0934       3.1        0.4         88      3.7    0.14   33.5
                  EM3-0643       2.9        0.5         84      3.8    0.19   21.0
                  EM3-1195       2.9        0.3         84      3.8    0.11   25.1
                  EM3-0438       2.8        0.2         81      3.8    0.06   25.8
                  EM3-0618       2.8        0.6         81      3.6    0.10   38.7
                  EM3-0536       2.5        0.6         71      3.1    0.32   30.7
            Of the 82 lines tested, 61 showed improvement in codeine content relative to
   the PW08-2308 parent line. The best of these M3 lines, EM3-0352, exhibited a 20%
   improvement in codeine content. Interestingly, the next best M3 line, EM3-0006,
 5 which exhibited a 19% improvement in codeine content, also exhibited a very obvious
   light yellow-leaf phenotype. This result is consistent with the study described in
   Example 2 above which show high-alkaloid content in other M3 lines that exhibit a
   similar light leaf colour phenotype compared to the parent line PW08-2308. The co
   occurrence of the lighter (light-green and light-yellow) leaf colour traits in several
10 independent mutant lines suggests mutations in genes that can either directly, or
   indirectly, influence leaf colour as well as alkaloid content and alkaloid profile.
            In addition to those lines that exhibited increases in codeine content, 56 M3
   lines also exhibited lower thebaine content relative to codeine (T/C), than PW08-2308,
   which exhibited a T/C value of 0.11. The best of these M3 lines were EM3-0006 (light
15 yellow leaf phenotype), EM3-1179 and EM3-0476, which all exhibited a T/C of 0.02.

                                                     -51
   This suggests that, in the current trial location and season these lines were more
   efficient at converting thebaine through to codeine. When coupled with a high codeine
   content this low T/C trait is particularly valuable as it maximizes the amount of
   codeine available for extraction whilst reducing the level of thebaine that needs to be
 5 removed during factory processing.
   EXAMPLE 4:                Multi-location trials
            Six field trials were sown in the 2014/15 poppy growing season with the
10 purpose of identifying mutant Tasman lines with wide adaptability to different growing
   regions. The trials contained 18 entries including 3 commercially grown high codeine
   'Tasman' Papaversomniferum producing lines, namely PW08-2308, PW1 1-4027 and
   PW1 1-4118. The trials were sown across a wide geographical distribution (Tunbridge,
   Cressy, Perth, Hagley, Latrobe, and North Motton), representing a diverse range of
15 poppy growing regions in Tasmania, Australia. Each trial was sown within a poppy
   paddock and was treated the same as the surrounding crop in regards to herbicide,
   fertilizer, fungicide and irrigation treatments. Trial plants were not sprayed with any
   plant growth regulators.
            Plants were allowed to mature and dry under field conditions. Immediately
20 prior to the harvest of the surrounding commercial crop, all capsules from within a
   designated quadrat were hand-harvested from each trial plot. The harvested straw
   samples therefore consisted only of plant capsules and seed and contained no plant
   stems. All harvested material was stored for up to one month before being threshed to
   remove seed. These straw samples were ground, and the ground straw was extracted in
25 2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol in distilled water as described above. An aliquot of
   the extract was filtered prior to UPLC analysis of alkaloid content and alkaloid profile
   as also described above.
            For each individual trial site, the alkaloid (%w/w) results for the three replicates
   of each M3 line were analysed in Agrobase Generation II (Agronomix Software) using
30 "Alpha" analysis to produce a mean value for that M3 line at that trial site. An overall
   trial mean for each alkaloid (%w/w), from across the 6 trial sites, was then determined

                                                      -52
   in Agrobase Generation II using the GxE Analysis function "ANOVA-combined
   RCBD: ENV. X ENTRY model. These overall trial means for codeine and thebaine
   content and related traits for these trials are shown in Table 3.
 5 Table 3:        Codeine and thebaine content of poppy straw from Papaversomniferum
   lines in 2014/2015 field trials
                                                                                0C
                                                    F-'C           0C   ~
                                                                          00
                                             0                     0
                                                                              0
                    PW08-2308      3.50   0.35   3.89     0.09 100   100  100   100
                    PW11-4027      3.52   0.29   3.85     0.09 101   83    99    96
                    PW11-4118      3.57   0.29   3.90     0.10 102   81   100    94
                    EM4-0045       4.01   0.20   4.21     0.06 115   56   108   103
                    EM3-1204       3.88   0.21   4.07     0.06 111   61   105   102
                    EM3-1217       3.83   0.31   4.17     0.09 109   90   107   103
                    EM3-0056       3.73   0.41   4.16     0.12 107   116  107    93
                    EM4-0270       3.64   0.30   3.95     0.08 104   85   102    89
                    EM3-1203       3.44   0.56   4.02     0.18 98    159  103    93
                    EM3-1213       3.39   0.33   3.77     0.07 97    94    97    78
           Of the 7 mutant 'Tasman' lines evaluated in the present trials, 5 of the lines
10 showed an improvement in codeine content (relative to the predominant commercial
   variety, PW08-2308) of between 4 and 15 % on a %w/w basis. The best of these new
   lines was the light-green leaf mutant line EM4-0045, which exhibited the highest
   codeine content at 4 of the 6 trial sites.
           Mutant lines EM3-1204 and EM3-1217 both showed high vigour and exhibited
15 improvements in codeine content of 11% and 9 %w/w, respectively, compared to
   PW08-2308.

                                                      -53
             Although thebaine is the precursor to codeine in the alkaloid synthesis pathway
   it is considered to be an undesirable 'impurity" in poppy straw and latex for the
   production of codeine as it has negative implications for codeine extraction efficiency
   and thereby yield. A key criteria is, therefore, to minimize the amount of thebaine in
 5 poppy straw harvested for codeine production. The relevant measure of this trait, "tc",
   is the amount of thebaine relative to the main alkaloid, codeine (tc=thebaine/codeine).
   In the 2014/15 season, the tc was 0.09 in PW08-2308, 0.10 in PW11-4118 and 0.09 in
   PW 11-4027. In the present field trials, the mutant 'Tasman' lines with the highest
   codeine content (EM4-0045 and EM3-1204) both had a tc value of 0.06 in the trials.
10 Moreover, both the EM4-0045 light green leaf mutant line and the EM3-1204 line
   displayed a substantially reduced level of thebaine relative to codeine compared to the
   parent line PW08-2308 from which they were derived.
             Whilst of the 3 Papaversomniferum commercial lines both PW 11-4118 and
   PW1 1-4027 exhibited lower thebaine to codeine levels than the PW08-2308, the 3 lines
15 otherwise displayed very similar impurity profiles in the present trials. Other than the
   altered codeine and thebaine content of the poppy straw of the mutant 'Tasman' lines,
   those lines also showed very similar levels of impurity alkaloids the parent line PW08
   2308 from which they were derived.
            Papaversomniferum 'Tasman' lines generally exhibit even development, high
20 vigour, and early flowering, a near absence of the twisted stem trait, and moderate
   resistance to down mildew (DM) infection. In the present field trials all but 1 (EM3
   0056), exhibited very suitable phenotypes for being grown commercially.
             In particular, of the 7 mutant lines included in these trials, EM3-1204, EM3
   1217, and EM3-1203 all showed exceptional vigour. Clearly these lines do not contain
25 mutations that have a negative visible impact on plant growth and development. The
   EM4-0045 (light-green leaf mutant) line in particular showed very good vigour across
   all trials, and a growth habit that was consistent with the commercially grown parent
   'Tasman' line (PW08-2308) from which it was derived. This was unexpected given
   the light-green coloration of the leaves of these plants particularly during the vegetative
30 stages of plant development. This colour difference between the mutant and the parent

                                                   -54
   line was less obvious closer to flowering although it was still readily apparent in flower
   stems and capsules.
           The observed increased codeine content and decreased t/c ratio of the EM4
   0045 line relative to the parent line PW08-2308 is consistent with results for the EM4
 5 0045 line from other field trials.
           Given the above results it appears the mutation that results in the light green
   leaves in the EM4-0045 line does not cause negative pleiotropic effects on plant vigour
   and further, that this line does not contain other unrelated EMS-induced mutations that
   visibly affect plant growth, development and/or plant vigour.
10
   EXAMPLE 5:             Evaluation of leaf colour of Papaver somniferum line EM4
   0045
           In addition to alkaloid differences, the EM4-0045 line exhibits a substantially
15 lighter leaf and stem colour in comparison to the parental line, PW08-2308, and other
   typical commercially-grown P. somniferum 'Tasman' lines. This colour difference is
   highly marked in field grown plants as further illustrated in Fig. 3, which shows a field
   plot of EM4-0045 (left) growing next to a 'Tasman' line (right plot) exhibiting the
   typical darker green leaf phenotype in a field trial at Forest, Tasmania, in late 2016. To
20 quantify this colour difference, spectrophotometer analysis was conducted on leaf
   tissues obtained from planthouse-grown plants. Also included in this analysis was a
   second high codeine line (EM3-0006) which has a light yellow leaf colour phenotype
   (see Fig. 5).
25 1.      Plant growing conditions
           Plants were grown in a planthouse at Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty Ltd, Westbury,
   Tasmania during the 2016 winter season. Seeds were sown on 23 June 2016 in 20cm
   diameter pots which contained a potting mix consisting of equal parts peat moss and
   composted pine bark. Once sown, seeds were covered with a thin (~0.5 cm) layer of
30 vermiculite and grown under an 18 hour light/8 hour dark photoperiod through use of
   supplemental lighting (high pressure sodium lamps; Horti Master greenPower, 600W

                                                   -55
   400v, E40). Automated irrigation and climate control systems were used to maintain
   pot moisture content at 30-40%volume and planthouse day and night temperatures at
    ~20'C and ~15'C, respectively.
            Following germination, seedlings were thinned to 5 plants per pot. A granular
 5 slow-release fertiliser was added to each pot on 9 August 2016 (~1 g of Basacote Plus
   3M; COMPO GmbH & Co. KG).
   2.       Tissue sampling
            A single leaf from each of ten individual EM4-0045, EM3-0006 and PW08
10 2308 plants was analysed by spectrophotometry. The plants from which the leaves
   were obtained were all healthy and viable with no symptoms of disease or nutrient
   deficiency. Leaves were abscised at the stem and immediately transferred to the
   Chemical Research and Development laboratory at Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty Ltd,
   Westbury, Tasmania for analysis. As Papaversomniferum plants grow, older leaves
15 towards the base of the plant begin to show visible signs of senescence. Therefore,
   younger leaves occurring towards the top of the stem which showed no visible signs of
   senescence and which were of a suitable size for spectrophotometer analysis (> 10 cm
   long x > 5 cm wide) were selected for analysis. For 19 out of 20 EM4-0045 and
   PW08-2308 plants, the fifth youngest leaf was sampled from plants (e.g., the leaf at the
20 fifth leaf node down from the apical meristem). One PW08-2308 plant was sampled at
   the fourth youngest leaf due to the fifth leaf being damaged. In comparison to EM4
   0045 and PW08-2308 lines, plants of the EM3-0006 line exhibit reduced vigour and
   delayed plant development. All plants were sampled on 18 August 2016, 57 days after
   sowing. At this time, plants of EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 lines were 70-90 cm tall
25 and in the early- to mid-hook developmental stage. In contrast, EM3-0006 line plants
   were shorter and in the running up stage.
            The plants sampled for spectrophotometer analysis had been grown as part of a
   larger study involving two additional lines. In total, the experimental population
   comprised nine pots of each of five lines sown in a complete randomised block design.
30 To obtain the 10 plants used for spectrophotometer analysis, a single plant was sampled
   from each of the nine PW08-2308, EM4-0045 and EM3-0006 pots, respectively, with

                                                   -56
   each plant being randomly selected from within each pot. A tenth plant for each line
   was then obtained by sampling a second plant from one randomly selected pot.
   3.      Spectrophotometer analysis
 5         Spectrophotometry measurements were performed using a HunterLab UltraScan
   PRO spectrophotometer (Hunter Associates Laboratory, Virginia, USA). Reflectance
   (specular included) was measured on the upper-third region of each leaf (adaxial
   surface) using D65 illumination. Leaves were backed by a white tile and held against
   the 0.390" port by the instrument's spring loaded clamp arm. Using reflectance
10 measurements, CIE 1976 L*a*b* and tristmulus XYZ values were calculated using
   EasyMatch QC software (Hunter Associates Laboratory, Virginia, USA). To obtain the
   dominant wavelength values for each line, chromaticity x,y coordinates were firstly
   obtained by calculating CIE xyY values from XYZ values; where x = X / (X + Y + Z)
   and y = Y / (X + Y +Z). Each of these sample coordinates, in addition to the x,y
15 coordinates of the D65 illuminant (x   = 0.31382, y  = 0.33 100; CIE 1964 10'), were then
   plotted on a chromaticity graph drawn in Microsoft Excel 2010 using CIE 1964 10'
   chromaticity coordinates (0.lnm interval values). A straight line was then drawn
   between the x,y coordinates of each line and the illuminant, respectively, with the line
   extrapolated out so as to intersect with the spectral locus XD (i.e., the dominant
20 wavelength value).
   4.      Results
           Individual spectrophotometer results (L*a*b* values) and mean dominant
   wavelength values for each line are shown in Fig. 4 and Table 4, respectively. As seen
25 in the 3-dimensiona plot shown in Fig. 4, all samples of each line grouped within their
   respective clusters, and spectrophotometry analysis clearly differentiated the EM3-0006
   line from both the EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 lines. As expected, this yellow leaf line
   (EM3-0006) was detected as being substantially lighter in colour (L* = 66.92 vs. 43.82
   to 45.25; where L* = 0 is black and 100 = 'brightest white') and more yellow (b* =
30 57.698 vs. 18.20 to 22.69; where greater positive values on the b* axis represent higher
   yellow colour values) in comparison to both PW08-2308 and EM4-0045 lines. These

                                                        -57
      differences were reflected in dominant wavelength values, with the EM3-0006 line
      having a higher dominant wavelength of 568nm (Table 4).
               The spectrophotometer analysis of these planthouse-grown plants indicates that
      the leaves of the PW08-2308 and EM4-0045 lines are more similar in colour than when
 5    each is compared to the EM3-0006 line. Despite this, the PW08-2308 and EM4-0045
      lines were separated on both the a* (range: PW08-2308 -9.36 to -10.38; EM4-0045
       10.48 to -11.88) and b* (range: EM4-0045 19.88 to 26.26; PW08-2308 15.78 to 21.21)
      axes (see Fig. 4). Further, the PW08-2308 and EM4-0045 lines were detected as
      having dominant wavelengths of 560 nm and 561 nm, respectively (Table 4).
10
      Table 4:         Spectrophotometry results (mean values for each line) and dominant
      wavelength values
                                                                       CIE xyY colour
                  CIE 1976 L*a*b*         CIE 1931 XYZ colour space         space         Dominant
    Line                                                                                 wavelengtha
               L*        a*       b*        X         Y          Z       x          y       (nm)
   PW08-
                                                                                             560
   2308      43.822    -9.858   18.200    11.5824   13.7306    8.2301  0.3453     0.4093
   EM4-
                                                                                             561
   0045      45.250   -11.040   22.690    12.3415   14.7912    7.6749  0.3546     0.4249
   EM3-
                                                                                             568
   0006      66.920    -7.449   57.698   32.6997    36.6827    8.3704  0.4206     0.4718
      aCalculated using CIE 1964 100 standard observer and illuminant D65
               The lighter leaf colour of EM3-006 plants compared to EM4-0045 plants when
15    these plant lines are grown in a planthouse is shown in Fig. 5.
      5.       Discussion
               When grown under common field conditions, the leaves of plants of the
      EM4-0045 line have a distinct light green-yellow appearance when compared to typical
20    green Papaversomniferum poppy plants such as PW08-2308. Although the colour
      distinction between the planthouse-grown EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 line plants
      examined in this study was less pronounced than what is typically observed under field
      conditions, spectrophotometry analysis identified colour differences and detected the
      EM4-0045 line as being lighter and more yellow in colour, as evidenced by a dominant

                                                    -58
   wavelength value of 561nm for EM4-0045 in comparison to 560nm for PW08-2308
   (see Table 4).
           The dominant wavelength values indicate that all three lines had leaf colours
   within the green-yellow colour spectrum. Thus, the three lines can be described as
 5 having green-yellow (PW08-2308), light green-yellow (EM4-045) and very light
   green-yellow (EM3-0006) leaf colours.
   EXAMPLE 6:            Light green-yellow leaf colour of Papaver somniferum line
   EM4-0045 is associated with reduced leaf chlorophyll and carotenoid pigment
10 content
           The colour of planthouse-grown PW08-2308, EM4-0045 and EM3-0006 lines
   was quantified by spectrophotometry in Example 5 above. The physiological basis of
   the detected colour differences was examined in the present study by quantification of
15 chlorophyll and carotenoid leaf pigments.
   1.      Tissue sampling
           The same populations of plants as described in above Example 5 were sampled
   for pigment analysis. The plants were sown in a complete randomized block design
20 with each of three blocks containing one pot per line. Four plants within each pot were
   selected for sampling, resulting in a total of 12 plants per block, the tissues of which
   were combined to create 'pooled' samples. The EM3-0006 line had low establishment;
   eight plants in each of Blocks 1 and 2 and seven plants in Block 3, totaling 23 plants in
   all.
25         Briefly, the preparation of leaf tissue samples for pigment analysis involved the
   grinding of fresh tissues in a mortar and pestle under liquid nitrogen followed by
   freeze-drying and subsequent pigment extraction for HPLC analysis. The sixth
   youngest leaf was sampled from each plant with tissues being pooled within blocks for
   each line. Once harvested, pooled leaf tissues were segmented roughly (~8 pieces per
30 leaf), mixed, and then randomly selected until the desired fresh tissue weight for freeze
   drying was obtained (I11    g).

                                                   -59
            All plants were sampled when in the early-hook to mid-hook stage. For PW08
   2308 and EM4-0045 lines sampling occurred 55-58 days after sowing. The slower
   development of the EM3-0006 line resulted in plants of this line being sampled
   approximately one week later (64 days after sowing). Leaves from all 23 sampled
 5 plants of the EM3-0006 line were combined into a single sample to obtain the required
   tissue weight for freeze-drying.
            Once ground in liquid nitrogen, tissue samples were freeze-dried on a Christ
   Alpha 2-4-LD Plus freeze-drier. Four out of seven samples were degraded during
   freeze-drying and so were excluded from pigment analysis; the excluded samples
10 comprised two EM4-0045 and two PW08-2308 replicates. A second set of leaves were
   therefore harvested from EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 plants post flowering (70 days
   after sowing). Here, one randomly selected plant from each of nine EM4-0045 and
   PW08-2308 pots were sampled and combined within lines, respectively. On this
   occasion, the fifth youngest leaf was sampled from each plant. Both samples were
15 successfully freeze-dried.
   2.       HPLC pigment analysis
            Following freeze-drying, 50 mg of ground freeze-dried leaf tissue was
   moistened with water (100-200 pl) and then extracted in an acetone:methanol (7:3)
20 solution as described in Albert NW, Lewis DH, Zhang H, Irving LJ, Jameson PE,
   Davies KM. (2009), Light-induced vegetative anthocyanin pigmentation in Petunia. J
   Exp Bot 60 (7):2191-2202. doi:10.1093/jxb/erp097. Samples were analysed using a
   Dionex Ultimate 3000 HPLC system with an Accucore RP C30 column. Absorbance
   was monitored using a photodiode array detector. Carotenoids and chlorophyll b were
25 detected at 450 nm, while chlorophyll a and other chlorophyll derivatives were
   monitored at 430 nm. The levels of carotenoids were determined as p-carotene
   equivalents per gram of dry-weight (DW) of tissue. Chlorophyll a and b, respectively,
   were determined using chlorophyll a and b standard curves derived from a spinach
   extract.  p-carotene and lutein were identified in the extracts by comparison of retention
30 times and on-line spectral data with standard samples. Trans- P-carotene was purchased
   from Sigma Chemicals (St Louis, Missouri, U.S.A.). Other carotenoids (neochrome, a-

                                                  -60
   carotene, violaxanthin and neoxanthin) were putatively identified by comparison with
   published retention times and spectral data for carotenoids present in the spinach
   extract.
 5 3.       Results
            The number of samples in this study was reduced due to the degradation of
   samples during freeze-drying. Ultimately, a single sample for each of EM3-006, EM4
   0045 and PW08-2308 was obtained at the hook timepoint. Furthermore, single samples
   were obtained for EM4-0045 and PW08-2308 at post flowering. Despite this, a marked
10 decrease in leaf plant pigment content was clearly seen in the EM3-0006 line. This line
   contained less than 10% of the total chlorophyll present in the green-yellow progenitor
   line PW08-2308. A substantial reduction in carotenoid content was also observed in
   EM3-0006. Of interest, the lutein content of EM3-006 (341.6 pg-8 DW) exceeded the
   total chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b content of this line (317.1 pg-8 DW; see Table 5
15 below). The severe reduction of chlorophyll in EM3-0006 leaves may 'unmask' the
   yellow-coloured lutein pigment in the leaves of this line; thereby contributing to the
   very light green-yellow leaf colour observed.
            The light green-yellow EM4-0045 line was also found to contain reduced levels
   of leaf chlorophyll; represented by ~10- 18% reductions in total chlorophyll content at
20 both early hook and post flowering timepoints. A slight decrease in carotenoid
   pigments (~4-5%) relative to the green-yellow progenitor line PW08-2308 was also
   observed for the EM4-0045 line.
            The results are shown in Table 5. Values are presented in the table on a pg-8
   dry-weight (DW) basis. Numbers in parentheses represent the percentage of total
25 pigments (within each pigment class), and percentages relative to PW08-2308 values
   are calculated for lines within timepoints. H = hook, PF = post flowering and -car = P
   carotene.
30

                                                                 -61
       Table 5:          Chlorophyll and carotenoid content of planthouse-grown P. somnferum
                                                  Chlorophylls                           Carotenoids
                     Time
                            Pool                      a/b             % of  Lutei                           %Of
    Line    Colour     -
                                           CHL b      rati     Total PWO8    n      -car   Other     Total PW08
                     point  size
                             pon0  CHL a                             -2308                                 2308
    EM3-     Very      H     23    255.0    62.1      4.1      317.1   7.7 341.6  171.5     64.0     577.1  63.0
    0006     Light                 (80.4)  (19.6)                          (59.2) (29.7)   (11.1)
            Green
            yellowI
    EM4-     Light     H     10   2854.6   836.3      3.4     3690.9  89.7 592.9  199.9     92.8     885.6  96.7
    0045    Green-                 (77.3)  (22.7)                          (66.9) (22.6)   (10.5)
            yellow
   PWO8-    Green-     H     12   3192.0   924.8      3.5     4116.8       6114   209.3     95.5     916.2
    2308    yellow                 (77.5)  (22.5)                          (66.7) (22.8)   (10.4)
    EM4-     Light    PF      9   3296.9   963.6      3.4     4260.5  81.6 621.2  296.3     91.0     1008.  94.6
    0045    Green-                 (77.4)  (22.6)                          (61.6) (29.4)    (9.0)      5
            yellow
   PW08-    Green-    PF      9   4025.2  1199.2      3.4     5224.4       716.3  247.6    102.2     1066.
    2308    yellow                 (77.0)  (23.0)                          (67.2) (23.2)    (9.6)      1
      EXAMPLE 7:                 The light green-yellow colour trait is recessive and associated
 5    with capsule alkaloid content
                A planthouse-grown F2 population was generated to examine the inheritance
      pattern of the light green-yellow colour trait. The Tasman light green-yellow line
      EM4-0045 and another P. somnferum line shown to be pure-breeding for the typical
10    wild-type, green leaf phenotype (designated as the "second parent" line) were used as
      parents in the F2 pedigree. Following the initial EM4-0045 x second parent cross, the
      resulting Fl line (X15-0260) was self-pollinated to produce the F2 generation (PH 16
      2253 line).
15     1.       Plant growing conditions
                Eight pots of each parental line (EM4-0045 and the second parent line), the Fl
      (X15-0260) and 50 pots of the F2 generation (PH16-2253) plants were grown in a
      planthouse at Tasmanian Alkaloids Pty Ltd (Westbury, Tasmania, Australia) during the
      2017 winter season. Eight pots of the Tasman green line PW08-2308 from which the
20    EM4-0045 line was derived was also planted as a control. Sowing occurred on 20
      April 2017 with seeds sown in 20cm diameter pots. The potting mixture (per m3 )
      comprised composted pine bark (800L), sand (1OOL), peat moss (1OOL), dolomite lime

                                                   -62
   (3 kg), hydrated lime (3 kg) and rock gypsum (1 kg). Once sown, seeds were covered
   with a thin (~0.5 cm) layer of vermiculite and grown under an 18 hour light/8 hour dark
   photoperiod through use of supplemental lighting (high pressure sodium lamps; Horti
   Master greenPower, 600W 400v, E40). Automated climate control systems were used
 5 to maintain planthouse day and night temperatures at ~20'C and ~15'C, respectively.
   Soil moisture content was maintained at 30-40% volume via an automated fertigation
   system which also supplied plant nutrients.
   2.      Assessment of the colour trait
10         Plants within the population were visually assessed for leaf colour on 12 May
   2017 (22 days after sowing) when seedlings were at the 4-6 true leaf stage (i.e., a
   foliage leaf of the plant as opposed to the cotyledonary leaves). All plants of both the
   PW08-2308 and second parent lines exhibited wild-type green colour phenotypes. As
   expected, all plants of the light green-yellow line EM4-0045 had light green-yellow
15 coloured leaves. All plants of the F1 line X15-0260 were green, suggesting that the
   light green-yellow colour phenotype is a recessive trait. Once assessed for colour
   phenotypes, pots of the PW08-2308, second parent, EM4-0045 and X15-0260 lines
   were thinned to six plants per pot.
           The F2 population (50 pots) contained a total 411 plants. Owing to variable
20 sowing rates the number of plants per pot ranged from between 3 to 21 (average
   number of plants per pot = 8.22, mode = 10). Following an initial assessment of the F2
   population for colour phenotype on <removed-date> a second assessment was undertaken
   (<removed-date>) to double-check colour phenotypes within the segregating F2
   population. Two abnormally small plants were scored as 'unsure' with all other plants
25 being assessed as either green (305) or light green-yellow (104). The observed green
   and light green-yellow frequencies fitted a 3:1 segregation ratio (x2 0.0399, df= 1,
     P = 0.8416; where observed N = 409 and expected green and light green-yellow plant
   frequencies were 306.75 and 102.25, respectively), indicating that the light green
   yellow leaf trait of the EM4-0045 line is inherited as a single-gene recessive trait.
30

                                                    -63
           Pots of the F2 population were thinned to six plants per pot following the
   second phenotype assessment. The low sowing rate in some pots resulted in eight pots
   having less than six plants per pot. For example, a single pot contained three plants,
   two pots contained four plants per pot and five pots contained five plants per pot.
 5
   3.      Capsule alkaloid content
           Plants were grown to maturity and allowed to dry naturally. Very few plants
   developed secondary branches/capsules with nearly all plants within the population
   being single-stemmed plants. To prevent outcrossing with neighboring poppy lines, all
10 plants were 'bagged selfed'. This involved placing a small paper bag over the
   unopened flower bud when in the 'late hook' or 'upright bud' stage and securing the
   bag with a plastic tie. This bagging method prevents pollen dispersal and outcrossing
   of the bagged plant yet still allows for self-pollination to occur.
           Following plant desiccation, capsules were abscised from plants at the position
15 directly below the peduncle. The primary capsule was harvested from 15        x PW08
   2308, 15  x EM4-0045, 20    x  "Green-yellow" F2 and 20     x "Light green-yellow" F2
   individual plants, respectively. Seeds were removed before oven-drying capsules at
   65'C for 12 hours to remove any residual moisture content and to standardize moisture
   content across samples. Individual capsules were then ground to a consistent particle
20 size using an electric coffee/spice grinder. The average weight of dried ground
   capsules was 1.20 g (range 0.39 g to 2.55 g). The whole, ground capsule material was
   used for individual capsule alkaloid extractions. For five samples where the oven-dried
   capsule weight exceeded two grams, a 2.00 g subsample was used for alkaloid
   extraction.
25         Capsule alkaloids were extracted in a 2% acetic acid and 10% ethanol solution
   using a 2.00 g tissue to 40 mL extractant ratio, which was scaled accordingly for the
   variable capsule weights. Samples were shaken for 90 minutes on a Ratek orbital
   shaker before transferring a 240 pL aliquot of each sample to a 96-well Pall filter plate
   (GHP 0.2 pm). Samples were then filtered under vacuum into a 96-well collection
30 plate for UPLC analysis utilising the protocol described in Example 2 above.

                                                                -64
   4.         Capsule alkaloid results
              Capsular alkaloid content was quantified in the light green-yellow parental line
   EM4-0045, the progenitor Tasman line PW08-2308, and two phenotypic classes of the
   F2 generation (F2 Green-yellow and F2 Light Green-yellow).
 5            As seen in Table 6, the light green-yellow line EM4-0045 was found to contain
   a higher mean codeine content and lower mean thebaine content on a percent dry
   weight basis (% w/w) when compared to its green-yellow progenitor line PW08-2308.
   The lower mean thebaine to codeine ratio (T/C) of the EM4-0045 line was found to be
   substantially lower than that of the wild-type PW08-2308 line (0.013 %w/w v 0.061
10 %w/w).
              Further, the F2 Light Green-yellow plants were found to have a higher mean
   codeine content (3.342 %w/w v 3.212 %w/w), lower mean thebaine content
   (0.516 %w/w v 0.727 %w/w) and a lower mean T/C ratio (0.164 v 0.243; Table 6) in
   comparison to F2 Green-yellow plants.
15            The alkaloid values shown in Table 6 are line/class means. Within each pair
   wise comparison, the alkaloid content of the Light Green-yellow line/classes are shown
   as a percentage of the Green-yellow line/classes, respectively.
   Table 6:          Capsule alkaloid results obtained from the greenhouse-grown F2
20 population.
   Generation and          Parental-control pair-wise comparison        F2 generation pair-wise comparison
   comparison
   Line or class       PW08-2308      EM4-0045        % of Green-   F2 Green-      F2 Light       % of Green
                                                      yellow line   yellow         Green-         yellow line
                                                                                   yellow
   N                        15             15200
   Leaf colour            Green-      Light green-                     Green-       Light green
                          yellow         yellow                        yellow          yellow
   Alkaloid trait
   Codeine (C)         3.669          3.838           104.6         3.212          3.342          104.0
   %w/w
   Thebaine (T)        0.243          0.052           21.4          0.727          0.516          70.9
   %w/w
   T/C ratio           0.061          0.013           21.3          0.243          0.164          67.5
              In summary, analysis of segregation patterns in the F2 generation has shown
   that the light green-yellow leaf colour phenotype of the EM4-0045 line is genetically

                                                   -65
   controlled by a single gene, and that the light green-yellow allele is recessive to the
   wild-type allele responsible for the normal green-yellow leaf colour phenotype. The
   results also show that the light green-yellow leaf colour trait is associated with
   beneficial alkaloid traits in poppy straw on a dry weight basis of the straw, namely an
 5 increase in codeine content by weight, a decrease in thebaine content by weight, and an
   overall decrease in the ratio of thebaine to codeine (T/C) by weight in the poppy straw.
           While the foregoing specification teaches the principles of the present invention,
   with examples provided for the purpose of illustration, it will be understood that the
10 practice of the invention encompasses variations, adaptations and/or modifications as
   come within the scope of the following claims and their equivalents.

                                                    -66
   CLAIMS
   1.       A poppy straw yielded by poppy capsules harvested from a plant of Papaver
   somniferum derived from a parent plant and having a stably heritable codeine
 5 chemotype in which codeine is the predominant alkaloid, or from a descendent plant
   thereof, wherein the poppy straw has a higher codeine content by weight and/or a lower
   thebaine to codeine ratio than the parent plant.
   2.       The poppy straw of claim 1, wherein the codeine chemotype of the plant is
   characterised by higher codeine content by weight than a combined morphine and
10 thebaine content of the plant.
   3.       The poppy straw of claim I or 2, wherein the poppy straw has a higher codeine
   content by weight and a lower thebaine to codeine ratio than the parent plant.
   4.       The poppy straw of any one of claims I to 3, wherein the plant from which the
   poppy straw is obtained is a mutant derived from the parent plant.
15  5.       The poppy straw according to any one of claims I to 4 wherein the plant from
   which the poppy straw is obtained has a trait for a light leaf colour phenotype whereby
    the leaves of the plant have a colour that is visually lighter relative to the leaves of the
    parent plant.
    6.       The poppy straw according to claim 5, wherein the colour of the leaves is in the
20  green-yellow colour spectrum and has a dominant reflective wavelength in a range of
    from about 561nm to about 568rn as determined by reflective spectrophotometry of
    the adaxial leaf surface using D65 illumination.
    7.        The poppy straw according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the trait is associated with
    the higher codeine content and/or lower thebaine to codeine ratio.
25  8.        The poppy straw according to claim 7, wherein the parent plant does not have
    the trait
    9.        The poppy straw according to any one of claims 5 to 8, wherein the trait is
    associated with a reduced leaf pigment content comprising a reduced level of at least
    one of chlorophylls and carotenoids in the leaves of the plant.
30   10.      The poppy straw according to claim 9, wherein the reduced level of
    chlorophylls comprises a reduced level of both chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b.

                                                  -67
   11.      The poppy straw according to claim 10, wherein the level of chlorophylls is
   reduced by least 10% by weight.
    12.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the reduced
   level of carotenoids comprises a reduced level of at least lutein and 3-carotenoid.
 5  13.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims I to 12, wherein the poppy
   straw has a codeine content of 0.832% or greater on w/w basis of the poppy straw.
    14.     A poppy straw according to claim 13, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
   content of about 2.5% or greater on a w/w basis of the poppy straw.
    15.     The poppy straw according to claim 14, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
10 content of about 3.0% or greater on a w/w basis.
    16.     The poppy straw according to claim 15, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
    content of about 3.5% or greater on a w/w basis.
    17.     The poppy straw according to claim 16, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
    content of about 4% or greater on a w/w basis.
15  18.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims I to 17, wherein the poppy
    straw has a thebaine to codeine ratio of about 25% or less on a w/w basis.
    19.     The poppy straw according to claim 18, wherein the poppy straw has a thebaine
    to codeine ratio of about 15% or less on a w/w basis.
    20.     The poppy straw according to claim 19, wherein the poppy straw has a thebaine
20  to codeine ratio of about 10% or less on a w/w basis.
    21.     The poppy straw according to claim 20, wherein the poppy straw has a thebaine
    to codeine of about 7.5% or less on a w/w basis.
    22.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims I to 21, wherein there is
    substantially no morphine or oripavine in the poppy straw of the parent plant.
25  23.     The poppy straw according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein there is
     substantially no morphine in the poppy straw of the derived said plant.
     24.    The poppy straw according to any one of claims I to 23, wherein there is
     substantially no oripavine in the poppy straw of the derived said plant.
     25.    Poppy straw yielded by mature poppy capsules harvested from a plant of
30   Papaversomnferum having a stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is
     the dominant alkaloid, wherein the plant has a single-gene recessive trait for a light leaf

                                                  -68
   colour phenotype associated with one or both of a higher codeine content by weight
   and/or a lower thebaine to codeine ratio by weight in the poppy straw.
   26.     The poppy straw according to claim 25, wherein the leaves of the plant are
   predominantly of a colour exhibiting a dominant wavelength in a range of from about
 5 561 nm to about 568 nm as determined by reflective spectrophotometry on the adaxial
   leaf surface using D65 illumination.
   27.     The poppy straw according to claim 25 or 26, wherein the trait is associated
   with a reduced leaf pigment content comprising a reduced level of at least one of
   chlorophylls and carotenoids in the leaves of the plant.
10 28.     The poppy straw according to claim 27, wherein the reduced level of
   chlorophylls comprises a reduced level of both chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b.
   29.     The poppy straw according to claim 28, wherein the level of chlorophylls is
   reduced by least 10% by weight.
   30.      The poppy straw according to any one of claims 27 to 29, wherein the reduced
15  level of carotenoids comprises a reduced level of at least one or both of lutein and p
   carotenoid.
   31.      The poppy straw according to any one of claims 25 to 30, wherein the poppy
    straw has a codeine content of 0.832% or greater on a w/w basis of the poppy straw.
    32.     The poppy straw according to claim 31, wherein the poppy straw has a codeine
20  content of about 2.5% or greater on a w/w basis of the poppy straw.
    33.     Poppy straw of a plant of Papaversomniferum having a stably heritable codeine
    chemotype in which codeine is the predominant alkaloid, wherein the leaves of the
    plant are predominantly of a colour exhibiting a dominant wavelength in a range of
    from about 561 nm to about 568 nm as detennined by reflective spectrophotometry on
25  the adaxial leaf surface using D65 illumination.
    34.     Poppy straw of an asexually produced viable Papaversomniferum having a
    stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is the predominant alkaloid,
    wherein the P. sonnferum has a leaf exhibiting a dominant wavelength in a range of
    from about 561 nm to about 568 nm as determined by reflective spectrophotometry on
30  the adaxial surface of the leaf using D65 illumination.

                                                  -69
   35.     A poppy straw obtained at least partially from a Papaversomniferum having a
   stably heritable codeine chemotype in which codeine is the predominant alkaloid, the
   P. somniferum having a leaf exhibiting a dominant wavelength in a range of from about
   561 nm to about 568 nm as determined by reflective spectrophotometry on an adaxial
 5 surface of the leaf using D65 illumination.
   36.     A method for producing codeine, comprising the steps of:
           a)      obtaining a poppy straw as defined in any one of claims 1 to 35; and
           b)      extracting the codeine from the poppy straw.
   37.     The method according to claim 36, wherein the plant from which the poppy
10 straw is obtained has a codeine chemotype characterised by a higher codeine content by
   weight than a combined morphine and thebaine content.
   38.     A poppy straw obtained from a descendent of a plant as defined in any one of
   claims 33 to 35.
   39.     A concentrate of poppy straw being a concentrate of the poppy straw of any one
15 of claims I to 35 or 38.
   40.     A latex for the extraction of codeine being a latex from immature poppy
   capsules of a plant having a stably heritable codeine chemotype according to any one of
   claims I to 35 or of descendent of a plant as defined in any one of claims I to 32.
   41.     An opium for the extraction of codeine, comprising an opium obtained by
20 drying the latex of claim 40.
   42.     Codeine extracted from the poppy straw of any one of claims 1 to 35 or 38, the
   concentrate of poppy straw of claim 39, the latex of claim 40, or the opium of claim 41.
   43.     A poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex, opium or codeine obtained
   from a plant of Papaversoniniferum wherein the plant is produced by a method
25 comprising the steps of:
           a)      providing at least one poppy seed of a Papaversomniferum parent plant,
   the parent plant being a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will yield
   a poppy straw having codeine constituting about 40% by weight or greater of an
   alkaloid combination comprising morphine, codeine, thebaine and oripavine;
30         b)      exposing the at least one poppy seed to a mutagenizing agent;

                                                  -70
           c)     growing the at least one poppy seed exposed to the mutagenizing agent
   to produce one or more further plants, optionally through one or more self-fertilised
   generations; and
           d)     providing a plant identified from the one or more further plants
 5 produced in step c) to be a plant which upon the harvesting of its poppy capsules will
   yield a poppy straw having a higher absolute codeine content and/or a lower thebaine to
   codeine content, than the poppy straw of the parent plant; and
           wherein the poppy straw, concentrate of poppy straw, latex, opium or codeine is
   obtained from the poppy capsules of the plant identified in step (d) or from poppy
10 capsules harvested from a descendant plant thereof.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
