                                              9
                                          Abstract
An improved alcoholic beverage and a process for making same are disclosed. A
spirit of vitis grapes is diluted by mineralised alkaline water, followed by subjection
of the diluted spirit to ultrasonic energy in a maturation tank. The resultant beverage
demonstrates improved taste and palatability.
COO 7U A II

ALKALINE                              4     CONCENTRATED
WATER                                       GRAPE SPIRIT
CHARCOAL           -                        CHARCOAL
FILTER                                      FILTER
           WATER
                        DILUTED
                          ALCOHOL
         10
NUTRITIONAL
 ADDITIVES                       ,,17
                            FILTERING AND
                           DEODOURIZATION
     IN TANK MATURATION                      ULTRASONIC
        50,000L - 100,000L                     ENERGY
                  PRECISE FILTER       Il
                      BOTTLING          2
             FINISHED END PRODUCT         , 13
                                                     FIG. 1

                                                  1
                                   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to alcoholic beverages and, in particular, to alcoholic
 5 beverages made from grape spirits.
   Background Art
   The Australian wine industry is the world's fourth largest exporter of wine with
   approximately 750 million litres a year consigned to the international export market.
10 The wine industry is a significant contributor to the Australian economy through
   production, employment, export and tourism. During certain economic and weather
   conditions Australian vignerons are often forced to sell their grapes at much lower
   prices for usage in lower margin alcoholic beverages. The net result is that there are
   significant lost opportunities for Australian vignerons and the Australian economy.
15
   Spirit products such as vodka, scotch, brandy, tequila and the like are generally
   produced through a distillation process. As a consequence, all of the mineral content
   contained in the wort or mash does not transfer across to the alcoholic product, and so
   this mineral content is discarded. As a result, there is no beneficial mineral content, or
20 nutrition, in all western spirits. Furthermore, once the alcohol is produced, in order to
   improve the taste and smoothness of the beverage, many products are aged from 2 to
   10 years, for example in wooden casks. The costs of these conventional aging
   processes are enormous.
25 Most Western distillery companies have recognized that the above spirits have had a
   hard time trying to penetrate Asian markets. Especially, the markets for Chinese Baiju
   (40-60% v/v alcohol concentration) and Korean Soju (approximately 20% v/v alcohol
   concentration) which are generally consumed with an Asian meal, have been
   particularly difficult to penetrate. Hitherto, western spirit products such as whiskey,
30 etc. have been consumed by Asian customers at a bar, or before having their oriental
   meals. This is thought to be because all western spirits have strong flavours and are
   less smooth than Baiju and Soju spirt.
     (Y7T; A II

                                                   2
   In addition, it is thought that the digestion of ethanol by the human body results in the
   loss of various minerals and electrolytes, for example, via urine. This explains why
   many drinkers awake the next morning with a substantial thirst. It is therefore
   desirable to replenish minerals and electrolytes after drinking alcohol, in a manner
 5 analogous to replenishing minerals and electrolytes after perspiring due to exercise,
   for example.
   Grape spirit has traditionally been diluted with water and the type of water used is of
   particular interest. In some instances water which has undergone ion exchange and/or
10 reverse osmosis is used to dilute grape spirit, however, this does nothing to add
   minerals and other trace elements.
   Genesis of the Invention
   The genesis of the present invention is a desire to ameliorate the above-mentioned
15 commercial and chemical disadvantages in a process applicable to large scale
   production.
   Summary of the Invention
   In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a method
20 of creating an alcoholic beverage, said method comprising the steps of:
   (i) adding alkaline water to concentrated grape spirit,
   (ii) placing the diluted grape spirit into a maturation tank, and
   (iii) subjecting the tank contents to ultrasonic energy
25 In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is disclosed an
   alcoholic beverage made by the above-mentioned method.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example
30 only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
             Fig. 1 is a flowchart illustrating the process steps of the method of the
   preferred embodiment,
             Fig. 2 is a schematic diagram of a maturation tank including a source of
   ultrasonic energy, and
     I(Y7TV AII

                                                3
            Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic representation of the consequences of the application
   of ultrasonic energy.
   Detailed Description
 5 An important aspect of the preferred embodiment is the use of what is termed
   "alkaline water". One source of alkaline water is water is drawn from aquifers.
   Accordingly, this water is very rich in salts having calcium, sodium, and magnesium
   ions and other trace mineral elements. Such alkaline water has a pH of approximately
   8 compared with a pH of 7 for distilled pure water.
10
   The preferred embodiment is an alkaline water sold under the Registered Trade Mark
   PH8 by PH8 Pty Ltd and drawn from a limestone source on the Yorke Peninsular of
   South Australia. This water has a pH of 8.3 and the following analysis:
   Bicarbonate 322 mg/L
15 Selenium 0.0006 mg/L
   Silica 11 mg/L
   Calcium 72.5 mg/L
   Magnesium 3.26 mg/L
   Potassium 3.26 mg/L.
20
   An alternative source of alkaline water is rainwater, tap water from a municipal
   supply, or other potable water in which has been submerged, or otherwise brought
   into contact with, one or more of various minerals such as Tourmaline, Zeolite,
   Maifan stone, Muyu Jade, etc. A further source of alkaline water is water which has
25 been electrolytically reduced by electrolysis.
   As seen in Fig. 1, the above-mentioned PH8 alkaline water 1 is preferably passed
   through a charcoal filter 2 in order to create filtered alkaline water 3. Concentrated
   grape spirit 4 having an alcoholic content of 95% v/v is preferably similarly passed
30 through a charcoal filter 5 before being mixed with the filtered alkaline water 3. This
   creates diluted alcohol 6 which has an alcoholic content of approximately 20% - 40%
   v/v. Traditionally diluted alcohol has a pH of approximately 6.5, however, because of
   the alkaline water 1 the diluted alcohol 6 has a pH of approximately 7.3.
    I(Y7TV AII

                                                 4
   The diluted alcohol 6 then preferably undergoes a filtering and deodorisation step 7
   before being stored in a maturation tank 8. The preferred embodiment is concerned
   with large-scale production and so the maturation tank 8 preferably has a volume in
   the range of 50,000 litres to 100,000 litres.
 5
   Whilst in the maturation tank 8, the diluted alcohol 6 is subjected to ultrasonic energy
   9. In addition, if desired, various nutritional additives 10 can be added to the
   maturation tank 8.
10 Following a short maturation period, typically from 7 to 50 days, and preferably 20-40
   days, the contents of the tank 8 are passed through a precise filter 11 (that is a filter
   having an aperture size of 5 microns, or less) before undergoing a bottling step 12 so
   as to result in a finished end product 13. The steps indicated by broken lines in Fig. 1
   are preferable or desirable steps.
15
   As seen in Fig. 2, within the maturation tank 8 is a cylindrical float 20 which supports
   an ultrasonic transducer 21 fed with ultrasonic energy via a cable 22. The transducer
   21 is energised with a voltage in the range of from 200 - 1OOOmVpp and having a
   frequency of approximately 40,000 Hz (ie 40kHz). The preferred range is 37-43 kHz.
20 As diagrammatically indicated in Fig. 2, the acoustic energy from the transducer 21
   passes through the tank contents and is reflected by the walls of the tank 8. For this
   reason, the tank 8 is constructed from a material which reflects ultrasound waves and
   so materials such as fibre reinforced plastic which absorb ultrasound should not be
   used. The preferred material for the tank 8 is stainless steel because it is of food grade
25 quality and reflects ultrasound.
   The arrangement indicated in Fig. 2 with the ultrasound transducer 21 located within
   the tank 8 overcomes any noise pollution problems which may occur if an ultrasound
   transducer were to be located externally of the tank 8.
30
   The water molecule is dipolar and these molecules are thought to be attracted to
   ethanol molecules so as to form ethanol clusters 30 as illustrated in Fig. 3. It is
   thought that the effect of the vibration at ultrasound frequencies experienced by the
   clusters 30 results initially in smaller ethanol groups 31 and ultimately in single
     0Y7TV AII

                                                5
   ethanol molecules 32 to which individual water molecules are attracted. This process
   is some extent analogous to homogenisation.
   A chemical analysis of the finished end product 13 after 20 days maturation indicated
 5 a pH of 7.3, a sodium ion concentration of 71.5 mg/L, a calcium ion concentration of
   25.1 mg/L, a magnesium ion concentration of 17.4 mg/L and an ethanol concentration
   of 20% v/v.
   The taste of the finished end product 13 is clearly a very subjective subject. In order to
10 evaluate the results of the process of Fig. 1, a panel of 10 human taste testers was
   used. Each taster indicated their opinion utilising a 7 point scale in which 1 equals
   very bad, 3 equals poor, 5 equals common, and 7 equals good.
   The tasters were asked to give a numerical result for each of the following concepts,
15 Overall acceptability, Smooth taste, Fresh taste, and Flavour. The results of the panel
   were then averaged. The results are as follows:
   Table 1
20 Beverage        Overall acceptability Smooth taste Fresh taste         Flavour
   After step 7    3.80                   1.80            3.40            4.00
   After 20 days
25  Maturation     6.60                   6.50            5.20            5.10
   Despite the inherently subjective character of such taste tests, the results clearly
   demonstrate that 20 days maturation in the tank 8 whilst being subjected to ultrasonic
   energy 9, creates an improved product.
30
   Furthermore, the matured improved product made in accordance with the above has
   been found to hold its improved taste, notwithstanding the passage of a period of
   approximately 1 year. This is to be contrasted with some prior art spirits made using
    I(Y7TV A II

                                               6
   ultrasound vibrations where a short-term improvement is achieved but is rapidly
   diminished with time.
   The foregoing describes only one embodiment of the present invention and
 5 modifications, obvious to those skilled in the alcoholic beverage arts, can be made
   thereto without departing from the scope of the present invention.
   For example, the preferred nutritional additives 10 are amino acids.
10 The term "comprising" (and its grammatical variations) as used herein is used in the
   inclusive sense of "including" or "having" and not in the exclusive sense of
   "consisting only of'.
    OO 7TV A II

                                                7
The following claims define some aspects of the present invention.
     1.    A method of creating an alcoholic beverage, said method comprising the steps
          of:
          (i) adding alkaline water to concentrated grape spirit,
          (ii) placing the diluted grape spirit into a maturation tank, and
          (iii) subjecting the tank contents to ultrasonic energy.
     2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the alkaline water has a pH of
          approximately 8.
     3.   The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the alkaline water includes calcium,
          magnesium and sodium ions.
     4. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-3 were in the ultrasonic energy
          has a frequency of from approximately 37 kHz to approximately 43 kHz,
          preferably approximately 40kHz.
     5.   The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-4 wherein the diluted grape
          spirit has a maturation period within the maturation tank of less than 50 days,
          and preferably in the range of from approximately 20 to approximately 40
          days.
     6. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-5 wherein the maturation tank
          has a capacity of from approximately 50,000 L to approximately 100,000 L.
     7. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-6 wherein the concentrated
          grape spirit has an ethanol content of approximately 95%v/v.
     8.   The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-7 wherein the maturation tank
          contents have an ethanol content of from approximately 20%v/v to
          approximately 40%v/v.
  (Y7T; A II

                                               8
    9. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-8 wherein the maturation tank
          contents have a pH in excess of 7.
     10. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the maturation tank contents have a
          pH of approximately 7.3.
     11. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-10 wherein said alkaline water
          is produced from one or more of the following sources:
          (a) an aquifer,
          (b) an electrolysis device, and
          (c) by being brought into contact with one or more of the following minerals
          Tourmaline, Zeolite, Maifan stone, and Muyu Jade.
     12. The method as claimed in any one of claims 1-11 wherein a nutritional
          additive is added to the beverage.
     13. The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein a nutritional additive comprises at
          least one amino acid.
     14. An alcoholic beverage produced by the method as claimed in any one of
          claims 1-13.
Dated this 31"      day of March 2017
                                          MARIGOLD INTERNATIONAL PTY LTD
                                          By
                                          FRASER OLD & SOHN
                                          Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
  )7T;  A II

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1 / 3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2 / 3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3 / 3

