                                     ABSTRACT
The invention provides a genetically modified non-human animal that comprises in its
genome unrearranged T cell receptor variable gene loci, as well as non-human
embryos, cells, and tissues comprising the same. Also provided are constructs for
making said genetically modified non-human animal and methods of making the same.
Various methods of using the genetically modified non-human animal are also provided.

                   GENETICALLY MODIFIED T CELL RECEPTOR MICE
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
application number <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional application from Australian
patent application number 2012327204, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
[0001a]      This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/552,582, filed October 28, 2011; U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/621,198,
filed April 6, 2012; and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/700,908, filed September 14,
2012, all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
                                 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       Present invention relates to a genetically modified non-human animal, e.g., a
rodent (e.g., a mouse or a rat), that comprises in its genome human or humanized T
Cell Receptor (TCR) variable gene loci (e.g., TCRa and TCRP variable gene loci and/or
TCR6 and TCRy variable gene loci), and expresses human or humanized TCR
polypeptides (e.g., TCRa and TCRP polypeptides and/or TCR6 and TCRy polypeptides)
from the human or humanized TCR variable gene loci. A non-human animal with
human or humanized TCR variable gene loci of the invention comprises unrearranged
human TCR variable region gene segments (e.g., V, D, and/or J segments) at
endogenous non-human TCR gene loci. The invention also relates to embryos, tissues,
and cells (e.g., T cells) that comprise human or humanized TCR variable gene loci and
express human or humanized TCR polypeptides. Also provided are methods for
making the genetically modified non-human animal comprising human or humanized
TCR variable gene loci; and methods of using non-human animals, embryos, tissues,
and cells that comprise human or humanized TCR variable gene loci and express
human or humanized TCR polypeptides from those loci.
                                               1

    WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 [0003]      In the adaptive immune response, foreign antigens are recognized by receptor
 molecules on B lymphocytes (e.g., immunoglobulins) and T lymphocytes (e.g., T cell
 receptors or TCRs). While pathogens in the blood and extracellular space are recognized
 by antibodies in the course of humoral immune response, destruction of pathogens inside
cells is mediated in the course of cellular immune response by T cells.
 [0004]      T cells recognize and attack antigens presented to them in the context of a Major
 Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) on the cell surface. The antigen recognition is mediated
by TCRs expressed on the surface of the T cells. Two main classes of T cells serve this
function: cytotoxic T cells, which express a cell-surface protein CD8, and helper T cells,
which express a cell-surface protein CD4. Cytotoxic T cells activate signaling cascades that
result in direct destruction of the cell presenting the antigen (in the context of MHC 1), while
helper T cells differentiate into several classes, and their activation (primed by recognition of
antigen presented in the context of MHC 11)results in macrophage-mediated pathogen
destruction and stimulation of antibody production by B cells.
[0005]       Because of their antigen specificity, antibodies are presently widely studied for
their therapeutic potential against numerous human disorders. To generate antibodies
capable of neutralizing human targets, while simultaneously avoiding activation of immune
responses against such antibodies, scientists have concentrated their efforts on producing
human or humanized immunoglobulins. One way of producing humanized antibodies in vivo
is by using VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse, a humanized mouse comprising (1) unrearranged
human immunoglobulin V, D, and J segment repertoire operably linked to each other and a
mouse constant region at the endogenous mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain locus and (2)
unrearranged human VK and JK segment repertoire operably linked to each other and a
mouse constant K region at the endogenous mouse immunoglobulin 1<light chain locus. As
such, VELOCIMMUNE@ mice provide a rich source of highly diverse rearranged antibody
variable domains for use in engineering human antibodies.
[0006]       Similar to an antibody, a T cell receptor comprises a variable region, encoded by
unrearranged loci (a and P loci, or 6 and y loci) comprising V(D)J variable region segments,
and this variable region confers upon the T cell its antigen binding specificity. Also similar to
an antibody, the TCR specificity for its antigen can be utilized for development of novel
therapeutics. Thus, there is a need in the art for non-human animals (e.g., rodents, e.g., rats
or mice) that comprise unrearranged human T cell variable region gene segments capable
of rearranging to form genes that encode human T cell receptor variable domains, including
domains that are cognate with one another, and including domains that specifically bind an
                                                  2

    WO 2013/063361                                                        PCT/US2012/062065
 antigen of interest. There is also a need for non-human animals that comprise T cell
 variable region loci that comprise conservative humanizations, including non-human animals
 that comprise unrearranged human gene segments that can rearrange to form T cell
 receptor variable region genes that are linked to non-human (endogenous) T cell receptor
 constant gene sequences. There remains a need for non-human animals that are capable
 of generating a diverse repertoire of human T cell receptor variable sequences. There is a
 need for non-human animals that are capable of rearranging most or all functional T cell
 receptor variable region segments, in response to an antigen of interest, to form T cell
 receptor polypeptides that comprise fully human variable domains.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0007]      Non-human animals, e.g., rodents, comprising non-human cells that express
 humanized molecules that function in the cellular immune response are provided. Non
 human animals that comprise unrearranged TCR variable gene loci are also provided. In
 vivo and in vitro systems are provided that comprise humanized rodent cells, wherein the
 rodent cells express one or more humanized immune system molecules. Unrearranged
 humanized TCR rodent loci that encode humanized TCR proteins are also provided.
 [0008]      In one aspect, provided herein is a genetically modified non-human animal (e.g.,
a rodent, e.g., a mouse or a rat) that comprises in its genome (a) an unrearranged TCRa
variable gene locus comprising at least one human Va segment and at least one human Ja
segment, operably linked to a non-human (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or a rat) TCRa
constant gene sequence, and/or (b) an unrearranged TCRp variable gene locus comprising
at least one human VP segment, at least one human Ds segment, and at least one human
Js segment, operably linked to a non-human (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or a rat) TCRs
constant gene sequence.
[0009]       In one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus replaces
endogenous non-human (e.g., rodent) TCRa variable gene locus at an endogenous TCRa
variable gene locus. In one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus
replaces the endogenous non-human (e.g., rodent) TCRs variable gene locus at an
endogenous TCRP variable gene locus. In one embodiment, the endogenous non-human
(e.g., rodent) Va and Ja segments are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja
sequence. In one embodiment, the endogenous non-human (e.g., rodent) Vp, D[, and JP
segments are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Vp/DP/JP sequence. In one
embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a deletion such that the genome of the
animal does not comprise a functional Va and functional Ja segment. In one embodiment,
                                                3

    WO 2013/063361                                                     PCT/US2012/062065
 the non-human animal comprises a deletion such that the genome of the animal does not
 comprise a functional endogenous VP, a functional endogenous DP, and a functional
 endogenous JP segment. In one embodiment, the animal comprises a deletion of all
 functional endogenous Va and Ja segments. In one embodiment, the rodent comprises a
 deletion of all functional endogenous VP, Ds, and Js segments. In some embodiments, the
 human Va and Ja segments rearrange to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence. In some
 embodiments, the human Vs, DP, and Js segments rearrange to form a rearranged
Vp/Ds/Js sequence. Thus, in various embodiments, the non-human animal (e.g., rodent)
expresses a T cell receptor comprising a human variable region and a non-human (e.g.,
 rodent) constant region on a surface of a T cell.
 [0010]      In some aspects, T cells of the non-human animal undergo T cell development in
the thymus to produce CD4 and CD8 single positive T cells. In some aspects, the non
human animal comprises a normal ratio of splenic CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes. In
various embodiments, the non-human animal generates a population of central and effector
memory T cells in the periphery.
[0011]       In one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus in the non
human animal described herein comprises 61 human Ja segments and 8 human Va
segments. In another embodiment, the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus in the non
human animal comprises a complete repertoire of human Ja segments and a complete
repertoire of human Va segments.
[0012]       In one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus in the non
human animal described herein comprises 14 human JP segments, 2 human DP segments,
and 14 human Vs segments. In another embodiment, the unrearranged TCRp variable
gene locus in the non-human animal comprises a complete repertoire of human JP
segments, a complete repertoire of human DP segments, and a complete repertoire of
human Vs segments.
[0013]      In an additional embodiment, the non-human animal described herein (e.g., a
rodent) further comprises nucleotide sequences of human TCR8 variable segments at a
humanized TCRa locus. In one embodiment, the non-human animal (e.g., rodent) further
comprises at least one human V6, D8, and J6 segments, e.g., a complete repertoire of
human V8, D8, and J6 segments at the humanized TCRa locus.
[0014]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal retains an endogenous non-human
TCRa and/or TCRP locus, wherein the locus is a non-functional locus.
                                                4

     WO 2013/063361                                                       PCT/US2012/062065
 [0015]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a rodent. In one embodiment, the
 rodent is selected from a mouse and a rat. In one embodiment, the rodent is a mouse.
 [0016]      In one aspect, the invention provides a genetically modified mouse comprising in
 its genome (a) an unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus comprising a repertoire of human
Ja segments and a repertoire of human Va segments, operably linked to a non-human (e.g.,
 mouse or rat) TCRa constant gene sequence, and/or (b) an unrearranged TCRs variable
gene locus comprising a repertoire of human JP segments, a repertoire of human DP
segments, and a repertoire of human Vs segments, operably linked to a non-human (e.g., a
mouse or rat) TCRP constant gene sequence. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a
complete repertoire of human Va segments. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a
complete repertoire of human VP segments. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a
complete repertoire of human Va segments and human Ja segments. In one embodiment,
the mouse comprises a complete repertoire of human Va segments and human Vs
segments. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a complete repertoire of human Va,
human Ja, human Vs, human DP, and human JP segments.
[0017]      In one embodiment, the mouse comprises at least one endogenous mouse Va
and at least one endogenous mouse Ja segment, wherein the endogenous segments are
incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence, and also comprises at least
one endogenous mouse Vs, at least one endogenous mouse DP, and at least one
endogenous mouse JP segment, wherein the endogenous segments are incapable of
rearranging to form a rearranged Vp/Dp/Jp sequence.
[0018]        In one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus that comprises
human TCRa variable region segments replaces mouse TCRa variable genes at the
endogenous mouse TCRa variable locus, and the unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus
that comprises human TCRp variable region segments replaces mouse TCRs variable
genes at the endogenous mouse TCRp variable locus.
[0019]      In one embodiment, the human Va and Ja segments rearrange to form a
rearranged human Va/Ja sequence, and the human VP, Ds, and JP segments rearrange to
form a rearranged human Vp/Ds/Jp sequence. In one embodiment, the rearranged human
Va/Ja sequence is operably linked to a mouse TCRa constant region sequence. In one
embodiment, the rearranged human VP/Ds/Jp sequence is operably linked to a mouse
TCRs constant region sequence. Thus, in various embodiments, the mouse expresses a T
                                                5

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
 cell receptor on the surface of a T cell, wherein the T cell receptor comprises a human
 variable region and a mouse constant region.
 [0020]      In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises a repertoire of human TCR8
 variable region segments (e.g., human V8, J8, and D8 segments) at a humanized TCRax
 locus. In one embodiment, the repertoire of human TCR6 variable region segments is a
 complete human TCR6 variable region segment repertoire. In one embodiment, the human
 TCR6 variable region segments are at the endogenous TCRa locus. In one embodiment,
 the human TCR8 variable region segments replace endogenous mouse TCR8 variable
 region segments.
 [0021]     In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse expresses a T cell receptor
 comprising a human variable region and a mouse constant region on a surface of a T cell.
 In one aspect, the T cells of the mouse undergo thymic T cell development to produce CD4
and CD8 single positive T cells. In one aspect, the mouse comprises a normal ratio of
splenic CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes; in one aspect, the mouse generates a population
of central and effector memory T cells to an antigen of interest.
[0022]      Also provided are methods for making genetically modified non-human animals
(e.g., rodents, e.g., mice or rats) described herein.
[0023]      In one aspect, a method for making a humanized rodent (e.g., a mouse or rat) is
provided, comprising replacing rodent TCRax and TCRs variable region segments, but not
rodent constant genes, with human unrearranged TCRa and TCRP variable region
segments, at endogenous rodent TCR loci. In one embodiment, the method comprises
replacing rodent TCRa variable region segments (Va and/or Ja) with human TCRa variable
region segments (Va and/or Ja.), wherein the TCRa variable region segments are operably
linked to a non-human TCR constant region gene to form a humanized TCRa locus; and
replacing rodent TCRs variable region segments (Vs and/or DP and/or JP) with human
TCRP variable region segments (VP and/or DP and/or JP), wherein the TCRs3 variable region
segments are operably linked to a non-human TCR constant region gene to form a
humanized TCRs locus. In one embodiment, the humanized rodent is a mouse and the
germline of the mouse comprises the human TCRa variable region segments operably
linked to an endogenous mouse TCRa constant sequence at an endogenous TCRa locus;
and the germline of the mouse comprises the human TCRs variable region segments
operably linked to an endogenous mouse TCRp constant sequence at an endogenous
TCRP locus.
                                                 6

    WO 2013/063361                                                        PCT/US2012/062065
[0024]       In one embodiment, provided herein is a method for making a genetically
modified non-human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) that expresses a T cell receptor
comprising a human or humanized variable region and a non-human (e.g., rodent) constant
region on a surface of a T cell comprising: replacing in a first non-human animal an
endogenous non-human TCRa variable gene locus with an unrearranged humanized TCRa
variable gene locus comprising at least one human Va segment and at least one human Ja
segment, wherein the humanized TCRa variable gene locus is operably linked to
endogenous non-human TCRa constant region; replacing in a second non-human animal an
endogenous non-human TCRs variable gene locus with an unrearranged humanized TCRp
variable gene locus comprising at least one human Vs segment, at least one human DP
segment, and at least one human JP segment, wherein the humanized TCRs variable gene
locus is operably linked to endogenous TCRp constant region; and breeding the first and the
second non-human animal to obtain a non-human animal that expresses a T cell receptor
comprising a human or humanized variable region and a non-human constant region.
[0025]       In one embodiment of the method, the endogenous non-human (e.g., rodent) Va
and Ja segments are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Jca sequence and
the endogenous non-human (e.g., rodent) VP, Ds, and JP segments are incapable of
rearranging to form a rearranged VP/Dp/Jp sequence. In one embodiment of the method,
the human Va and Ja segments rearrange to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence and the
human VP, Ds, and JP segments rearrange to form a rearranged Vp/DP/JP sequence. In
one embodiment of the method, the unrearranged humanized TCRa variable gene locus
comprises 61 human Ja segments and 8 human Va segments, and the unrearranged
humanized TCRp variable gene locus comprises 14 human VP segments, 2 human Dp
segments, and 14 human JP segments. In another embodiment of the method, the
unrearranged humanized TCRa variable gene locus comprises a complete repertoire of
human Ja segments and a complete repertoire of human Va segments, and the
unrearranged humanized TCRI3 variable gene locus comprises a complete repertoire of
human Vs segments, a complete repertoire of human Dp segments, and a complete
repertoire of human Js segments.
[0026]       In one aspect of the method, the T cells of the non-human animal (e.g., rodent)
undergo thymic T cell development to produce CD4 and CD8 single positive T cells. In one
aspect, the non-human animal (e.g., the rodent) comprises a normal ratio of splenic CD3+ T
cells to total splenocytes. In one aspect, the non-human animal (e.g., rodent) generates a
population of central and effector memory T cells to an antigen of interest.
                                                7

    WO 2013/063361                                                             PCT/US2012/062065
[0027]       In some embodiments, the replacement of the endogenous non-human TCRa
variable gene locus described herein is made in a single ES cell, and the single ES cell is
introduced into a non-human (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or rat) embryo to make a
genetically modified non-human animal (i.e., the first non-human animal, e.g., the first
rodent); and the replacement of the endogenous non-human TCRs variable gene locus
described herein is made in a single ES cell, and the single ES cell is introduced into a non
human (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or rat) embryo to make a genetically modified non
human animal (i.e., the second non-human animal, e.g., the second rodent). In one
embodiment, the first rodent and the second rodent are bred to form a progeny, wherein the
progeny comprises in its germline a humanized TCRa variable locus and a humanized
TCRp variable locus.
[0028]       In one embodiment of the method, the non-human animal is a rodent, e.g., a
mouse. Thus, the present invention also provides a method for making a genetically
modified mouse.
[0029]       Also provided herein are cells, e.g., isolated T cells (e.g., cytotoxic T cells, helper
T cells, memory T cells, etc.), derived from the non-human animals (e.g., rodents, e.g., mice
or rats) described herein. Tissues and embryos derived from the non-human animals
described herein are also provided.
[0030]       In one aspect, a method for making a human TCR variable domain is provided,
comprising genetically modifying a rodent as described herein to comprise a humanized
TCRax locus and/or a humanized TCRP locus, maintaining the rodent under conditions
sufficient to form a T cell, wherein the T cell expresses a human TCRa and/or a human
TCRp variable domain.
[0031]       In one aspect, a method for making a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human
TCR variable domain that binds an epitope of interest is provided, comprising exposing a
non-human animal as described herein to an epitope of interest, maintaining the non-human
animal under conditions sufficient for the animal to present the epitope of interest to a
humanized TCR of the animal, and identifying a nucleic acid of the animal that encodes a
human TCR variable domain polypeptide that binds the epitope of interest.
[0032]       In one aspect, use of a non-human animal as described herein is provided for
making a humanized TCR receptor. In one aspect, use of a non-human animal as described
herein is provided for making a human TCR variable domain. In one aspect, use of a non
human animal as described herein is provided for making a nucleic acid sequence encoding
a human TCR variable domain.
                                                 8

    WO 2013/063361                                                        PCT/US2012/062065
[0033]      In one aspect, use of nucleic acid sequence encoding a human TCR variable
domain or fragment thereof to make an antigen-binding protein is provided. In one
embodiment, the antigen-binding protein comprises a TCR variable domain comprising a
human TCRa and/or human TCRs variable domain that binds an antigen of interest.
[0034]      In one aspect, use of a non-human as described herein is provided for making a
non-human cell that expresses on its surface a humanized T cell receptor.
[0035]      In one aspect, a humanized T cell receptor from a non-human animal as
described herein is provided.
[0036]      In one aspect, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human TCR variable domain
or fragment thereof, made in a non-human animal as described herein, is provided.
[0037]      Any of the embodiments and aspects described herein can be used in
conjunction with one another, unless otherwise indicated or apparent from the context.
Other embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the
ensuing detailed description. The following detailed description includes exemplary
representations of various embodiments of the invention, which are not restrictive of the
invention as claimed. The accompanying figures constitute a part of this specification and,
together with the description, serve only to illustrate embodiments and not to limit the
invention.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0038]      FIG. 1 depicts interaction in a mouse between a TCR molecule and an MHC
molecule: the left panel shows a mouse T cell (top) from a humanized TCR mouse
comprising a T cell receptor with human variable TCR domains and mouse constant TCR
domains, which recognizes an antigen (grey ball) presented through an MHC class I by an
antigen presenting cell (bottom); the right panel shows the same for an MHC class 11.The
MHC I and MHC I complexes are shown together with their respective co-receptors, CD8
and CD4. Mouse regions are in black and human regions are in white.
[0039]      FIG. 2 depicts (not to scale) the general organization of a mouse (top panel, first
locus) and human (top panel, second locus) TCRa locus. The bottom panel illustrates a
strategy for replacing TCRa variable region segments in a mouse (closed symbols) with
human TCRa variable region segments (open symbols) at the endogenous mouse locus on
chromosome 14; a humanized TCRa locus having human Va and Ja segments is shown
with a mouse constant region and a mouse enhancer; in the embodiment shown, the TCR6
locus is deleted in the course of humanization.
                                                 9

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
[0040]       FIG. 3 depicts (not to scale) a progressive strategy for humanization of the
mouse TCRa locus, wherein TCRax variable region gene segments are sequentially added
upstream of an initial humanization of a deleted mouse locus (MAID1 540). Mouse sequence
is indicated by closed symbols; human sequence is indicated by open symbols. MAID refers
to modified allele ID number. TRAV=TCR Va segment, TRAJ=TCR Ja segment
(hTRAJ=human TRAJ), TRAC=TCR Ca domain, TCRD=TCR8.
[0041]       FIG. 4 is a detailed depiction (not to scale) of progressive humanization strategy
at the TCRa locus. FIG. 4A depicts deletion of the mouse TCRa V and J segments; FIG.
4B depicts strategy for insertion of 2V and 61 J human segments into the deleted mouse
TCRa locus; FIG. 4C depicts strategy for insertion of additional human V segments,
resulting in a total of 8V and 61 J human segments; FIG. 4D depicts strategy for insertion of
additional human V segments, resulting in a total of 23V and 61J human segments; FIG. 4E
depicts strategy for insertion of additional human V segments resulting in 35V and 61 J
human segments; FIG. 4F depicts strategy for insertion of additional human segments
resulting in 48V and 61J human segments; and FIG. 4G depicts strategy for insertion of
additional human segments resulting in 54V and 61J human segments. MAID refers to
modified allele ID number.
[0042]      FIG. 5 depicts (not to scale) one embodiment of mouse TCRa locus
humanization strategy, in which human TCR 8 sequences (TCR8 Vs, TCR6 Ds, TCR8 Js,
TCR8 enh (enhancer), and TCR8 constant (C)) are also placed at the humanized TCRa
locus. Mouse sequence is indicated by closed symbols; human sequence is indicated by
open symbols. LTVEC refers to a large targeting vector; hTRD=human TCR8.
[0043]      FIG. 6 depicts (not to scale) the general organization of a mouse (top panel, first
locus; on mouse chromosome 6) and human (top panel, second locus; on human
chromosome 7) TCRs loci. The bottom panel illustrates a strategy for replacing TCRs
variable region segments in the mouse (closed symbols) with human TCRP variable region
segments (open symbols) at the endogenous mouse locus on mouse chromosome 6. The
humanized TCRs locus having human Vp, Ds, and JP segments is shown with mouse
constant regions and a mouse enhancer; in the embodiment shown, the humanized locus
retains mouse trypsinogen genes (solid rectangles); and in the particular embodiment
shown, a single mouse V segment is retained upstream of the 5' mouse trypsinogen genes.
[0044]      FIG. 7 depicts (not to scale) a progressive strategy for humanization of the
mouse TCRs locus, wherein TCRP variable region gene segments are sequentially added to
a deleted mouse TCRs variable locus. Mouse sequence is indicated by closed symbols;
                                                  10

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
human sequence is indicated by open symbols. MAID refers to modified allele ID number.
TRBV or TCRBV= TCRp V segment.
[0045]       FIG. 8 is a detailed depiction of progressive humanization strategy at the TCRs
locus. FIG. 8A depicts the strategy for deletion of the mouse TCRs V segments; FIG. 8B
depicts the strategy for insertion of 14V segments into the deleted TCRP locus; FIG. 8C
depicts the strategy for insertion of 2D and 14J segments into TCRs locus (i), followed by
deletion of the /oxP site (ii), resulting in 14V, 2D and 14J human segments; FIG. 8D depicts
the strategy for inserting additional human V segments resulting in 40V, 2D and 14J human
segments; and FIG. 8E depicts the strategy for insertion of additional human V segments
resulting in the 66V, 2D and 14J human segments; FIG. 8F depicts replacement of the
mouse V segment downstream of a mouse enhancer, resulting in 67V, 2D and 14J human
segments. In this particular embodiment, one mouse V segment is retained 5' of the mouse
trypsinogen genes.
[0046]      FIG. 9 depicts representative FACS analysis histograms for percent spleen cells
(where Y axis is number of cells, X axis is mean fluorescence intensity, and the gate shows
frequency of CD3+ T cells within the single lymphocyte population) stained with anti-CD3
antibody in a wild type (WT) mouse; a mouse homozygous for a deleted TCRaL locus (first
top panel; MAID 1540 of FIG. 3); a mouse homozygous for a deleted TCRa locus and
comprising 8 human Va and 61 human Ja segments (second top panel; MAID 1767 of FIG.
3 or a humanized TCRax mouse); a mouse homozygous for a deleted TCRs locus with the
exception of one upstream and one downstream mouse VP segments (first bottom panel;
MAID 1545 of FIG. 7); a mouse homozygous for a deleted TCRP locus with one upstream
and one downstream mouse Vs segments and comprising 14 human Vs, 2 human Ds, and
14 human JP segments (second bottom panel; MAID 1716 of FIG. 7 or a humanized TCRs
mouse); and a mouse homozygous for both TCRa and TCRP loci deletions (with the
exception of said two mouse VP segments) and comprising 8 human Va and 61 human Ja
segments at the endogenous TCRa locus as well as 14 human VP, 2 human Ds, and 14
human Js segments at the endogenous TCRp loci (MAID 1767/1716 or a humanized
TCRa/s mouse).
[0047]      FIG.10 is a representative FACS contour plot of mouse thymus cells from a WT,
homozygous humanized TCRa (1767 HO; hTCRx); homozygous humanized TCRs (1716
HO; hTCRs); and homozygous humanized TCRa/p mouse (1716 HO 1767 HO; hTCRa/s)
stained with anti-CD4 (Y axis) and anti-CD8 (X axis) antibodies (top panel), and anti-CD44
(Y axis) and anti-CD25 (X axis) antibodies (bottom panel). The FACS plot in the top panel
                                                   11

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
allows to distinguish double negative (DN), double positive (DP), CD4 single positive (CD4
SP), and CD8 single positive (SP CD8) T cells. The FACS plot in the bottom panel allows to
distinguish various stages of double negative T cells during T cell development (DN1, DN2,
DN3, and DN4). 1716 and 1767 refer to MAID numbers as identified in FIGs. 3 and 7.
[0048]      FIG. 11 demonstrates either frequency (top panel) or absolute number (bottom
panel) of DN, DP, CD4 SP, and CD SP T cells in the thymus of either WT, hTCRa (1767
HO); hTCR3 (1716 HO); or hTCRa/s (1716 HO 1767 HO) mice (n=4).
[0049]      FIG. 12 is a representative FACS analysis of spleen cells of a WT, hTCRa (1767
HO); hTCRs (1716 HO); or hTCRat/s (1716 HO 1767 HO) mouse: left panel represents
analysis of singlet cells based anti-CD1 9 antibody (Y axis; stain for B lymphocytes) or anti
CD3 antibody (X axis; stain for T lymphocytes) staining; middle panel represents analysis of
CD3+ cells based on anti-CD4 (Y axis) or anti-CD8 (X axis) antibody staining; and right
panel represents analysis of either CD4+ or CD8+ cells based on anti-CD44 (Y axis) or anti
CD62L (X axis) antibody staining, the stains allow to distinguish various types of T cells in
the periphery (naive T cells vs. central memory T cells (Tcm) vs. effector or effector memory
T cells (Teff/Tem)).
[0050]      FIG. 13 demonstrates the number of CD4+ (left panel) or CD8+ (right panel) T
cells per spleen (Y axes) of WT, hTCRa (1767 HO); hTCRp (1716 HO); or hTCRa/s (1716
HO 1767 HO) mice (n=4).
[0051]      FIG. 14 demonstrates the number of T naive, Tcm, and Teff/em cells per spleen
(Y axes) of CD4+ (top panel) or CD8+ (bottom panel) T cells of WT, hTCRa (1767 HO);
hTCRs (1716 HO); or hTCRa/P (1716 HO 1767 HO) mice (n=4).
[0052]      FIG. 15 are tables summarizing expression (determined by FACS analysis using
variable segment-specific antibodies) of various human TCRs V segments in the splenic
CD8+ T cells (FIG. I5A) or CD4+ T cells (FIG. 15B) of WT, hTCRP (1716 HO) or hTCRa/s
(1716 HO 1767 HO) mice. Data presented as Mean±SD (n=4 mice per group)
[0053]      FIG. 16 depicts mRNA expression (Y axes) of various human TCRP V segments
present in WT, hTCRat (1767 HO); hTCRs (1716 HO); or hTCRa/s (1716 HO 1767 HO)
mice in thymic or splenic T cells; FIG. 16A represents analysis of mRNA expression of
human TCRs variable segment (hTRBV) 18, 19, 20, and 24; and FIG. 16B represents
analysis of mRNA expression of hTRBV 25, 27, 28, and 29.
[0054]      FIG. 17 depicts representative FACS histograms of spleen cells (where Y axis is
number of cells, X axis is mean fluorescence intensity, and the gate shows frequency of
                                               12

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
CD3+ T cells within the single lymphocyte population) stained with anti-CD3 antibody in a
WT mouse, a mouse homozygous for a deleted TCRax locus (TCRA AV), a mouse
homozygous for deleted TCRa locus with 2 human V segments and 61 human J segments
(TCRA 2 hV; MAID 1626 of FIG. 3), a mouse homozygous for deleted TCRa locus with 8
human V segments and 61 human J segments (TCRA 8 hV; MAID 1767 of FIG. 3), and a
mouse homozygous for deleted TCRa locus with 23 human V segments and 61 human J
segments (TCRA 23 hV; MAID 1979 of FIG. 3).
[0055]      FIG. 18, at left top panel, is a representative FACS analysis of CD3+ T cells of
the thymus obtained from either a WT or homozygous hTCRca mouse with 23 human V
segments and 61 human J segments (1979 HO) stained with either anti-CD4 (Y axis) or anti
CD8 (X axis) antibody; at left bottom panel, is a FACS analysis of DN T cells from either a
WT or 1979 mouse stained with either anti-CD44 (Y axis) or anti-CD25 (X axis); at right
panel are graphs of percent of thymocytes (Y axis) that are DN, DP, CD4 SP, or CD8 SP in
either WT or 1979 HO mice (n=4).
[0056]      FIG. 19, at left panel, is a representative FACS analysis of splenic lymphocytes
from a WT or 1979 HO mouse stained either with anti-CD1 9 or anti-CD3 antibodies; at right
panel, are graphs of percent splenocytes (Y axis) obtained from WT and 1979 HO mice
(n=4) that are CD3+.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Definitions
[0057]      The present invention provides genetically modified non-human animals, e.g.,
rodents, e.g., mice or rats, that express humanized T cell receptors. The present invention
also relates to genetically modified non-human animals that comprise in their germline
unrearranged T cell receptor variable gene loci. Also provided are embryos, cells, and
tissues comprising the same; methods of making the same; as well as methods of using the
same. Unless defined otherwise, all terms and phrases used herein include the meanings
that the terms and phrases have attained in the art, unless the contrary is clearly indicated or
clearly apparent from the context in which the term or phrase is used.
[0058]      The term "conservative," when used to describe a conservative amino acid
substitution, includes substitution of an amino acid residue by another amino acid residue
having a side chain R group with similar chemical properties (e.g., charge or hydrophobicity).
Conservative amino acid substitutions may be achieved by modifying a nucleotide sequence
so as to introduce a nucleotide change that will encode the conservative substitution. In
general, a conservative amino acid substitution will not substantially change the functional
                                                  13

     WO 2013/063361                                                            PCT/US2012/062065
properties of interest of a protein, for example, the ability of a T cell to recognize a peptide
presented by an MHC molecule. Examples of groups of amino acids that have side chains
with similar chemical properties include aliphatic side chains such as glycine, alanine, valine,
leucine, and isoleucine; aliphatic-hydroxyl side chains such as serine and threonine; amide
containing side chains such as asparagine and glutamine; aromatic side chains such as
phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan; basic side chains such as lysine, arginine, and
histidine; acidic side chains such as aspartic acid and glutamic acid; and, sulfur-containing
side chains such as cysteine and methionine. Conservative amino acids substitution groups
include, for example, valine/leucine/isoleucine, phenylalanine/tyrosine, lysine/arginine,
alanine/valine, glutamate/aspartate, and asparagine/glutamine. In some embodiments, a
conservative amino acid substitution can be a substitution of any native residue in a protein
with alanine, as used in, for example, alanine scanning mutagenesis. In some
embodiments, a conservative substitution is made that has a positive value in the PAM250
log-likelihood matrix disclosed in Gonnet et al. ((1992) Exhaustive Matching of the Entire
Protein Sequence Database, Science 256:1443-45), hereby incorporated by reference. In
some embodiments, the substitution is a moderately conservative substitution wherein the
substitution has a nonnegative value in the PAM250 log-likelihood matrix.
[0059]      Thus, encompassed by the invention is a genetically modified non-human animal
expressing humanized TCR a and P polypeptides (and/or humanized TCR5 and TCRy
polypeptides) comprising conservative amino acid substitutions in the amino acid sequence
described herein.
[0060]      One skilled in the art would understand that in addition to the nucleic acid
residues encoding humanized TCR a and p polypeptides described herein, due to the
degeneracy of the genetic code, other nucleic acids may encode the polypeptides of the
invention. Therefore, in addition to a genetically modified non-human animal that comprises
in its genome nucleotide sequences encoding humanized TCR polypeptides described
herein, a non-human animal that comprises in its genome nucleotide sequences that differ
from those described herein due to the degeneracy of the genetic code are also provided.
[0061]      The term "identity" when used in connection with sequence includes identity as
determined by a number of different algorithms known in the art that can be used to
measure nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence identity. In some embodiments described
herein, identities are determined using a ClustalW v. 1.83 (slow) alignment employing an
open gap penalty of 10.0, an extend gap penalty of 0.1, and using a Gonnet similarity matrix
(MacVector T M 10.0.2, MacVector Inc., 2008). The length of the sequences compared with
respect to identity of sequences will depend upon the particular sequences. In various
                                                14

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
embodiments, identity is determined by comparing the sequence of a mature protein from its
N-terminal to its C-terminal. In various embodiments, when comparing a chimeric
human/non-human sequence to a human sequence, the human portion of the chimeric
human/non-human sequence (but not the non-human portion) is used in making a
comparison for the purpose of ascertaining a level of identity between a human sequence
and a human portion of a chimeric human/non-human sequence (e.g., comparing a human
ectodomain of a chimeric human/mouse protein to a human ectodomain of a human
protein).
[0062]      The terms "homology" or "homologous" in reference to sequences, e.g.,
nucleotide or amino acid sequences, means two sequences which, upon optimal alignment
and comparison, are identical in at least about 75% of nucleotides or amino acids, at least
about 80% of nucleotides or amino acids, at least about 90-95% nucleotides or amino acids,
e.g., greater than 97% nucleotides or amino acids. One skilled in the art would understand
that, for optimal gene targeting, the targeting construct should contain arms homologous to
endogenous DNA sequences (i.e., "homology arms"); thus, homologous recombination can
occur between the targeting construct and the targeted endogenous sequence.
[0063]      The term "operably linked" refers to a juxtaposition wherein the components so
described are in a relationship permitting them to function in their intended manner. As
such, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein may be operably linked to regulatory
sequences (e.g., promoter, enhancer, silencer sequence, etc.) so as to retain proper
transcriptional regulation. In addition, various portions of the humanized protein of the
invention may be operably linked to retain proper folding, processing, targeting, expression,
and other functional properties of the protein in the cell. Unless stated otherwise, various
domains of the humanized protein of the invention are operably linked to each other.
[0064]      The term "replacement" in reference to gene replacement refers to placing
exogenous genetic material at an endogenous genetic locus, thereby replacing all or a
portion of the endogenous gene with an orthologous or homologous nucleic acid sequence.
In one instance, an endogenous non-human gene or fragment thereof is replaced with a
corresponding human gene or fragment thereof. A corresponding human gene or fragment
thereof is a human gene or fragment that is an ortholog of, a homolog of, or is substantially
identical or the same in structure and/or function, as the endogenous non-human gene or
fragment thereof that is replaced. As demonstrated in the Examples below, nucleotide
sequences of endogenous non-human TCR a and           P variable gene loci were replaced by
nucleotide sequences corresponding to      human TCR a and P variable gene loci.
                                                15

    WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
[0065]       "Functional" as used herein, e.g., in reference to a functional protein, refers to a
protein that retains at least one biological activity normally associated with the native protein.
For example, in some embodiments of the invention, a replacement at an endogenous locus
(e.g., replacement at endogenous non-human TCRa, TCRs, TCR6 and/or TCRy variable
gene loci) results in a locus that fails to express a functional endogenous protein.
[0066]      TCR locus or TCR gene locus (e.g., TCRa locus or TCRs locus), as used herein,
refer to the genomic DNA comprising the TCR coding region, including the entire TCR
coding region, including unrearranged V(D)J sequences, enhancer, sequence, constant
sequence(s), and any upstream or downstream (UTR, regulatory regions, etc.), or
intervening DNA sequence (introns, etc.). TCR variable locus or TCR variable gene locus
(e.g., TCRa variable gene locus or TCRs variable gene locus), refers to genomic DNA
comprising the region that includes TCR variable region segments (V(D)J region) but
excludes TCR constant sequences and, in various embodiments, enhancer sequences.
Other sequences may be included in the TCR variable gene locus for the purposes of
genetic manipulation (e.g., selection cassettes, restriction sites, etc.), and these are
encompassed herein.
Genetically Modified TCR Animals
[0067]       In various embodiments, the invention generally provides genetically modified
non-human animals wherein the non-human animals comprise in the genome unrearranged
humanized TCR variable gene loci.
[0068]      T cells bind epitopes on small antigenic determinants on the surface of antigen
presenting cells that are associated with a major histocompatibility complex (MHC; in mice)
or human leukocyte antigen (HLA; in humans) complex. T cells bind these epitopes through
a T cell receptor (TCR) complex on the surface of the T cell. T cell receptors are
heterodimeric structures composed of two types of chains: an a (alpha) and P (beta) chain,
or a y (gamma) and 5 (delta) chain. The a chain is encoded by the nucleic acid sequence
located within the a locus (on human or mouse chromosome 14), which also encompasses
the entire 8 locus, and the  P chain  is encoded by the nucleic acid sequence located within
the P locus   (on mouse chromosome 6 or human chromosome 7). The majority of T cells
have an as TCR; while a minority of T cells bear a y8 TCR.       Interactions of TCRs with MHC
class I (presenting to CD8+ T cells) and MHC class II (presenting to CD4+ T cells)
molecules are shown in FIG. 1 (closed symbols represent non-human sequences; open
symbols represent human sequences, showing one particular embodiment of the TCR
protein of the present invention).
                                                 16

    WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
[0069]      T cell receptor a and  P polypeptides  (and similarly y and 6 polypeptides) are
linked to each other via a disulfide bond. Each of the two polypeptides that make up the
TCR contains an extracellular domain comprising constant and variable regions, a
transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic tail (the transmembrane domain and the
cytoplasmic tail also being a part of the constant region). The variable region of the TCR
determines its antigen specificity, and similar to immunoglobulins, comprises 3
complementary determining regions (CDRs). Also similar to immunoglobulin genes, T cell
receptor variable gene loci (e.g., TCRa and TCRp loci) contain a number of unrearranged
V(D)J segments (variable (V), joining (J), and in TCRs and 6, diversity (D) segments).
During T cell development in the thymus, TCRa variable gene locus undergoes
rearrangement, such that the resultant TCR a chain is encoded by a specific combination of
VJ segments (Va/Ja sequence); and TCRp variable gene locus undergoes rearrangement,
such that the resultant TCR    P chain is encoded by a specific combination of VDJ segments
(Vp/Dp/Jp sequence).
[0070]      Interactions with thymic stroma trigger thymocytes to undergo several
developmental stages, characterized by expression of various cell surface markers. A
summary of characteristic cell surface markers at various developmental stages in the
thymus is presented in Table 1. Rearrangement at the TCRp variable gene locus begins at
the DN2 stage and ends during the DN4 stage, while rearrangement of the TCRa variable
gene locus occurs at the DP stage. After the completion of TCRP locus rearrangement, the
cells express TCRp chain at the cell surface together with the surrogate a chain, pTa. See,
Janeway's Immunobiology, Chapter 7, supra.
Table 1: Developmental Stages of T cells in the Thymus
  Developmental       DNI              DN2             DN3               DN4        DP           SP
  Stage
  Marker(s)           CD44+/CD25-      CD44+/CD25+     CD44'"'lCD25+     CD44-/     CD4+/CD8+    CD4+
                                                                         CD25-                   or
                                                                                                 CD8+
[0071]      Naive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells exit the thymus and enter the peripheral lymphoid
organs (e.g., spleen) where they are exposed to antigens and are activated to clonally
expand and differentiate into a number of effector T cells (Teff), e.g., cytotoxic T cells, TREG
cells, TH 7 cells, TH1 cells, TH2 cells, etc. Subsequent to infection, a number of T cells
persist as memory T cells, and are classified as either central memory T cells (Tcm) or
effector memory T cells (Tem). Sallusto et al. (1999) Two subsets of memory T lymphocytes
                                                17

    WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
with distinct homing potentials and effector functions, Nature 401:708-12 and Commentary
by Mackay (1999) Dual personality of memory T cells, Nature 401:659-60. Sallusto and
colleagues proposed that, after initial infection, Tern cells represent a readily available pool
of antigen-primed memory T cells in the peripheral tissues with effector functions, while Tcm
cells represent antigen-primed memory T cells in the peripheral lymphoid organs that upon
secondary challenge can become new effector T cells. While all memory T cells express
CD45RO isoform of CD45 (naYve T cells express CD45RA isoform), Tcm are characterized
by expression of L-selectin (also known as CD62L) and CCR7+, which are important for
binding to and signaling in the peripheral lymphoid organs and lymph nodes. Id. Thus, all T
cells found in the peripheral lymphoid organs (e.g., naYve T cells, Tcm cells, etc.) express
CD62L. In addition to CD45RO, all memory T cells are known to express a number of
different cell surface markers, e.g., CD44. For summary of various cell surface markers on
T cells, see Janeway's Immunobiology, Chapter 10, supra.
[0072]      While TCR variable domain functions primarily in antigen recognition, the
extracellular portion of the constant domain, as well as transmembrane, and cytoplasmic
domains of the TCR also serve important functions. A complete TCR receptor complex
requires more than the c and     P or y and 6 polypeptides; additional molecules required
include CD3y, CD36, and CD3c, as well as the         chain homodimer (C).   At the completion of
TCRs rearrangement, when the cells express TCRp/pTa, this pre-TCR complex exists
together with CD3 on the cell surface. TCRa (or pTa) on the cell surface has two basic
residues in its transmembrane domain, one of which recruits a CD3yE heterodimer, and
another recruits     via their respective acidic residues. TCRs has an additional basic
residue in its transmembrane domain that is believed to recruit CD36E heterodimer. See,
e.g., Kuhns et al. (2006) Deconstructing the Form and Function of the TCR/CD3 Complex,
Immunity 24:133-39; Wucherpfennig et al. (2009) Structural Biology of the T-cell Receptor:
Insights into Receptor Assembly, Ligand Recognition, and Initiation of Signaling, Cold Spring
Harb. Perspect. Biol. 2:a005140. The assembled complex, comprising TCRap heterodimer,
CD3yE, CD38e, and        , is expressed on the T cell surface. The polar residues in the
transmembrane domain have been suggested to serve as quality control for exiting
endoplasmic reticulum; it has been demonstrated that in the absence of CD3 subunits, TCR
chains are retained in the ER and targeted for degradation. See, e.g., Call and
Wucherpfennig (2005) The T Cell Receptor: Critical Role of the Membrane Environment in
 Receptor Assembly and Function, Annu. Rev. Immunol. 23:101-25.
 [0073]     CD3 and      chains of the assembled complex provide components for TCR
signaling as TCRap heterodimer (or TCRy8 heterodimer) by itself lacks signal transducing
                                                  18

    WO 2013/063361                                                               PCT/US2012/062065
activity. The CD3 chains possess one Immune-Receptor-Tyrosine-based-Activation-Motif
(ITAM) each, while the ; chain contains three tandem ITAMs. ITAMs contain tyrosine
residues capable of being phosphorylated by associated kinases. Thus, the assembled
TCR-CD3 complex contains 10 ITAM motifs. See, e.g., Love and Hayes (2010) ITAM
Mediated Signaling by the T-Cell Antigen Receptor, Cold Spring Harb. Perspect. Biol.
2:e002485. Following TCR engagement, ITAM motifs are phosphorylated by Src family
tyrosine kinases, Lck and Fyn, which initiates a signaling cascade, resulting in Ras
activation, calcium mobilization, actin cytoskeleton rearrangements, and activation of
transcription factors, all ultimately leading to T cell differentiation, proliferation, and effector
actions. Id., see also, Janeway's Immunobiology,        7 th Ed., Murphy et al. eds., Garland
Science, 2008; both incorporated herein by reference.
[0074]      Additionally, TCRs transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains are thought to have
a role in mitochondrial targeting and induction of apoptosis; in fact, naturally occurring N
terminally truncated TCRs molecules exist in thymocytes. Shani et al. (2009) Incomplete T
cell receptor--p peptides target the mitochondrion and induce apoptosis, Blood 113:3530-41.
Thus, several important functions are served by the TCR constant region (which, in various
embodiments, comprises a portion of extracellular as well as transmembrane and
cytoplasmic domains); and in various embodiments the structure of this region should be
taken into consideration when designing humanized TCRs or genetically modified non
human animals expressing the same.
[0075]      Mice transgenic for rearranged T cell receptor sequences are known in the art.
The present invention relates to genetically modified non-human animals (e.g., rodents, e.g.,
rats, mice) that comprise unrearranged human or humanized T cell variable gene loci that
are capable of rearranging to form nucleic acid sequences that encode human T cell
receptor variable domains, including animals that comprise T cells that comprise rearranged
human variable domains and non-human (e.g., mouse or rat) constant regions. The present
invention also provides non-human animals (e.g., rodents, e.g., rats, mice) that are capable
of generating a diverse repertoire of human T cell receptor variable region sequences; thus,
the present invention provides non-human animals that express TCRs with fully human
variable domains in response to an antigen of interest and that bind an epitope of the
antigen of interest. In some embodiments, provided are non-human animals that generate a
diverse T cell receptor repertoire capable of reacting with various antigens, including but not
limited to antigens presented by APCs.
[0076]      In one embodiment, the invention provides genetically modified non-human
animals (e.g., rodents, e.g., rats, mice) that comprise in their genome unrearranged human
                                                  19

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
TCR variable region segments (V(D)J segments), wherein the unrearranged human TCR
variable region segments replace, at an endogenous non-human (e.g., rodent) TCR variable
gene locus (e.g., TCRa, P, 8, and/or y variable gene locus), endogenous non-human TCR
variable region segments. In one embodiment, unrearranged human TCR variable gene
locus replaces endogenous non-human TCR variable gene locus.
[0077]       In another embodiment, the invention provides genetically modified non-human
animals (e.g., rodents, e.g., rats, mice) that comprise in their genome unrearranged human
TCR variable region segments (V(D)J segments), wherein the unrearranged human TCR
variable region segments are operably linked to a non-human TCR constant region gene
sequence resulting in a humanized TCR locus, wherein the humanized TCR locus is at a
site in the genome other than the endogenous non-human TCR locus. Thus, in one
embodiment, a non-human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse, rat) comprising a transgene
that comprises unrearranged human TCR variable region segments operably linked to non
human TCR constant region sequence is also provided.
[0078]       In one aspect, the genetically modified non-human animals of the invention
comprise in their genome human TCR variable region segments, while retaining non-human
(e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse, rat) TCR constant gene segments. In various embodiments,
constant regions include transmembrane domain and the cytoplasmic tail of the TCR. Thus,
in various embodiments of the present invention, the genetically modified non-human
animals retain endogenous non-human TCR transmembrane domain and cytoplasmic tail.
In other embodiments, non-human animals comprise non-human non-endogenous TCR
constant gene sequences, e.g., non-human non-endogenous TCR transmembrane domain
and cytoplasmic tail. As indicated above, the constant region of the TCR participates in a
signaling cascade initiated during antigen-primed T cell activation; thus, endogenous TCR
constant region interacts with a variety of non-human anchor and signaling proteins in the T
cell. Thus, in one aspect, the genetically modified non-human animals of the invention
express humanized T cell receptors that retain the ability to recruit a variety of endogenous
non-human anchor or signaling molecules, e.g., CD3 molecules (e.g., CD3y, CD35, CDE),
the ; chain, Lck, Fyn, ZAP-70, etc. A nonlimiting list of molecules that are recruited to the
TCR complex is described in Janeway's Immunobiology, supra. In addition, similar to
VELOCIMMUNE@ mice, which exhibit normal B cell development and normal clonal
selection processes believed to be due at least in part to the placement of variable regions
at the endogenous mouse loci and the maintenance of mouse constant domains, in one
aspect, the non-human animals of the present invention exhibit normal T cell development
and T cell differentiation processes.
                                                20

   WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
[0079]     In some embodiments, a non-human animal is provided that comprises in its
genome unrearranged human TCRa variable region segments, wherein the unrearranged
human TCRa variable region segments are operably linked to a non-human TCRa constant
region gene sequence resulting in a humanized TCRa locus. In one embodiment, the
humanized TCRa locus is at a site in the genome other than the endogenous non-human
TCRa locus. In another embodiment, the unrearranged human TCRa variable region
segments replace endogenous non-human TCRa variable region segments while retaining
endogenous non-human TCRa constant region. In one embodiment, the unrearranged
human TCRa variable gene locus replaces endogenous non-human TCRa variable gene
locus. In some embodiments, the animal retains endogenous non-human TCRs variable
region and constant region gene sequences. Thus, the animal expresses a TCR that
comprises a chimeric human/non-human (i.e., humanized) TCRa chain and a non-human
TCRp chain.
[0080]     In other embodiments, a non-human animal is provided that comprises in its
genome unrearranged human TCRp variable region segments, wherein the unrearranged
human TCRp variable region segments are operably linked to a non-human TCRp constant
region gene sequence resulting in a humanized TCRp locus. In one embodiment, the
humanized TCRs locus is at a site in the genome other than the endogenous non-human
TCRp locus. In another embodiment, the unrearranged human TCRP variable region
segments replace endogenous non-human TCRs variable region segments while retaining
endogenous non-human TCRp constant region. In one embodiment, the unrearranged
human TCRs variable gene locus replaces endogenous non-human TCRs variable gene
locus. In some embodiments, the animal retains endogenous non-human TCRa variable
region and constant region gene sequences. Thus, the animal expresses a TCR that
comprises a chimeric human/non-human (i.e., humanized) TCRP chain and a non-human
TCRa chain.
[0081]     In some specific embodiments, the invention provides a genetically modified non
human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) that comprises in its genome (a) an
unrearranged T cell receptor (TCR) a variable gene locus comprising at least one human Va
segment and at least one human Ja segment, operably linked to an endogenous non
human (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) TCRa constant gene sequences, and/or (b) an
unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus comprising at least one human VP segment, at
least one human DP segment, and at least one human Js segment, operably linked to an
endogenous non-human (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) TCRs constant gene sequence.
                                             21

   WO 2013/063361                                                       PCT/US2012/062065
[0082]      In various embodiments of the invention, the unrearranged human or humanized
TCR variable gene locus (e.g., TCRa and/or TCRs variable gene locus gene locus) is
comprised in the germline of the non-human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat). In
various embodiments, the replacements of TCR V(D)J segments by unrearranged human
TCR V(D)J segments (e.g., Va and Ja, and/or Vs and DP and JP segments) are at an
endogenous non-human TCR variable locus (or loci), wherein the unrearranged human V
and J and/or V and D and J segments are operably linked to non-human TCR constant
region genes.
[0083]      In some embodiments of the invention, the non-human animal comprises two
copies of the unrearranged human or humanized TCRa variable gene locus and/or two
copies of the unrearranged human or humanized TCRs variable gene locus. Thus, the non
human animal is homozygous for one or both unrearranged human or humanized TCRa and
TCRs variable gene locus. In some embodiments of the invention, the non-human animal
comprises one copy of the unrearranged human or humanized TCRa variable gene locus
and/or one copy of the unrearranged human or humanized TCRs variable gene locus.
Thus, the non-human animal is heterozygous for one or both unrearranged human or
humanized TCRa and TCRp variable gene locus.
[0084]      In one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus comprising
human variable region segments (e.g., human Va and Ja segments) is positioned in the
non-human genome such that the human variable region segments replace corresponding
non-human variable region segments. In one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRat variable
gene locus comprising human variable region segments replaces endogenous TCRa
variable gene locus. In one aspect, endogenous non-human Va and Ja segments are
incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence. Thus, in one aspect, the
human Va and Ja segments in the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus are capable of
rearranging to form a rearranged human Va/Ja sequence.
[0085]      Similarly, in one embodiment, the unrearranged TCRp variable gene locus
comprising human variable region segments (e.g., human VP, Ds, and JP segments) is
positioned in the non-human genome such that the human variable region segments replace
corresponding non-human variable region segments. In one embodiment, the unrearranged
TCRs variable gene locus comprising human variable region segments replaces
endogenous TCRs variable gene locus. In one aspect, endogenous non-human VP, Ds,
and JP segments are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Vp/DP/JP sequence.
Thus, in one aspect, the human Vp, Ds, and Js segments in the unrearranged TCRp
                                              22

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
variable gene locus are capable of rearranging to form a rearranged human Vap/Ds/JP
sequence.
[0086]      In yet another embodiment, both the unrearranged TCRaX and p variable gene
loci comprising human variable region segments replace respective endogenous TCRaL and
P variable gene   loci. In one aspect, endogenous non-human Va and Jat segments are
incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence, and endogenous non
human Vs, Ds, and JP segments are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged
VP/Ds/Jp sequence. Thus, in one aspect, the human Va and Ja segments in the
unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus are capable of rearranging to form a rearranged
human Va/Ja sequence and the human VP, DP, and JP segments in the unrearranged
TCRP variable gene locus are capable of rearranging to form a rearranged human
Vap/DP/Jp sequence.
[0087]      In some aspects of the invention, the non-human animal comprising a humanized
TCRax and/or TCRs gene locus (comprising an unrearranged TCRa and/or TCRp variable
gene locus) retains an endogenous non-human TCRa and/or TCRP variable gene locus. In
one embodiment, the endogenous non-human TCRa and/or TCRs variable gene locus is a
non-functional locus. In one embodiment, the non-functional locus is an inactivated locus,
e.g., an inverted locus (e.g., the coding nucleic acid sequence of the variable gene locus is
in inverted orientation with respect to the constant region sequence, such that no successful
rearrangements are possible utilizing variable region segments from the inverted locus). In
one embodiment, the humanized TCRa and/or TCRs variable gene locus is positioned
between the endogenous non-human TCRax and/or TCRs variable gene locus and the
endogenous non-human TCRa and/or TCRP constant gene locus.
[0088]      The number, nomenclature, position, as well as other aspects of V and J and/or
V, D, and J segments of the human and mouse TCR loci may be ascertained using the
IMGT database, available at www.imgt.org. The mouse TCRa variable locus is
approximately 1.5 megabases and comprises a total of 11 0Vat and 60 Jat segments (FIG. 2).
The human TCRa variable locus is approximately 1 megabase and comprises a total of
54Va and 61JJa segments, with 45Va and 5OJa believed to be functional. Unless stated
otherwise, the numbers of human V(D)J segments referred to throughout the specification
refers to the total number of V(D)J segments. In one embodiment of the invention, the
genetically modified non-human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) comprises at least
one human Va and at least one human Ja segment. In one embodiment, the non-human
animal comprises a humanized TCRa locus that comprises 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15,
                                               23

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
20, 23, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 48, 50, or up to 54 human Va segments. In some embodiments,
the humanized TCRa locus comprises 2, 8, 23, 35, 48, or 54 human Va segments. Thus, in
some embodiments, the humanized TCRa locus in the non-human animal may comprise
5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%,
85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98% 99%, or 100% of human Va; in some embodiments, it may
comprise about 2%, about 3%, about 15%, about 65%, about 90%, or 100% of human Va.
[0089]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRa locus
that comprises a DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human Va40
to Va4l (Va segment is also referred to as "TRAV" or "TCRAV") and a DNA fragment
comprising a contiguous human sequence of 61 human Ja segments (Ja segment is also
referred to as "TRAJ" or "TCRAJ"). In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a
humanized TCRa locus that comprises a DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human
sequence of human TRAV35 to TRAV41 and a DNA fragment comprising a contiguous
human sequence of 61 human TRAJs. In one embodiment, the non-human animal
comprises a humanized TCRa locus that comprises a DNA fragment comprising a
contiguous human sequence of human TRAV22 to TRAV41 and a DNA fragment comprising
a contiguous human sequence of 61 human TRAJs. In one embodiment, the non-human
animal comprises a humanized TCRa locus that comprises a DNA fragment comprising a
contiguous human sequence of human TRAV1 3-2 to TRAV41 and a DNA fragment
comprising a contiguous human sequence of 61 human TRAJs. In one embodiment, the
non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRa locus that comprises a DNA fragment
comprising a contiguous human sequence of human TRAV6 to TRAV41 and 61 human
TRAJs. In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRa locus
that comprises a DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human
TRAV1-1 to TRAV 41 and 61 human TRAJs. In various embodiments, the DNA fragments
comprising contiguous human sequences of human TCRa variable region segments also
comprise restriction enzyme sites, selection cassettes, endonucleases sites, or other sites
inserted to facilitate cloning and selection during the locus humanization process. In various
embodiments, these additional sites do not interfere with proper functioning (e.g.,
rearrangement, splicing, etc.) of various genes at the TCRa locus.
[0090]      In one embodiment, the humanized TCRa locus comprises 61 human Ja
segments, or 100% of human Ja segments. In a particular embodiment, humanized TCRa
locus comprises 8 human Va segments and 61 human Ja segments; in another particular
embodiment, humanized TCRa locus comprises 23 human Va segments and 61 human Ja
                                                24

    WO 2013/063361                                                        PCT/US2012/062065
segments. In another particular embodiment, the humanized TCRa locus comprises a
complete repertoire of human Va and Ja segments, i.e., all human variable a region gene
segments encoded by the a locus, or 54 human Va and 61 human Ja segments. In various
embodiments, the non-human animal does not comprise any endogenous non-human Va or
Ja segments at the TCRa locus.
[0091]       The mouse TCRs variable locus is approximately 0.6 megabases and comprises
a total of 33 VP, 2 Ds, and 14 JP segments (FIG. 6). The human TCRs variable locus is
approximately 0.6 megabases and comprises a total of 67 Vs, 2 DP, and 14 JP segments.
In one embodiment of the invention, the genetically modified non-human animal (e.g.,
rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) comprises at least one human VP, at least one human Ds, and at
least one human Ja segment. In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a
humanized TCRP locus that comprises 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 23, 25, 30, 35, 40,
45, 48, 50, 55, 60, or up to human 67 Vs segments. In some embodiments, the humanized
TCRP locus comprises 8, 14, 40, 66, or human 67 Vs segments. Thus, in some
embodiments, the humanized TCRs locus in the non-human animal may comprise 5%, 10%,
15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%,
95%, 96%, 97%, 98% 99%, or 100% of human Vs; in some embodiments, it may comprise
about 20%, about 60%, about 15%, about 98%, or 100% of human Vs.
[0092]       In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRp locus
that comprises a DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human VP1 8
to Vp29-1 (VP segment is also referred to as "TRBV" or "TCRBV"). In one embodiment, the
non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRp locus that comprises a DNA fragment
comprising a contiguous human sequence of human TRBV1 8 to TRBV29-1, a separate DNA
fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human DP1-Js1 (i.e., human Dp11
Jp1-1-Jp1-6 segments), and a separate DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human
sequence of human Dp2-Js2 (i.e., human Dp2-Js2-1-Js2-7 segments). In one embodiment,
the non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRp locus that comprises a DNA fragment
comprising a contiguous human sequence of human TRBV6-5 to TRBV29-1, a separate
DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human DP1-JP1 (i.e., human
DP1-Jp1-1-JP11-6 segments), and a separate DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human
sequence of human Dp2-Js2 (i.e., human Dp2-Js2-1-Js2-7 segments). In one embodiment,
the non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRs locus that comprises a DNA fragment
comprising a contiguous human sequence of human TRBV1 to TRBV29-1, a separate DNA
fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human DP1-JP1, and a separate
                                               25

   WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human Dp2-Js2. In one
embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a humanized TCRs locus that comprises a
DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human TRBV1 to TRBV29-1, a
separate DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human Dp1-Js1, a
separate DNA fragment comprising a contiguous human sequence of human D32-Jp2, and
a separate DNA fragment comprising the sequence of human TRBV30. In various
embodiments, the DNA fragments comprising contiguous human sequences of human
TCRp variable region segments also comprise restriction enzyme sites, selection cassettes,
endonucleases sites, or other sites inserted to facilitate cloning and selection during the
locus humanization process. In various embodiments, these additional sites do not interfere
with proper functioning (e.g., rearrangement, splicing, etc.) of various genes at the TCRp
locus.
[0093]      In one embodiment, the humanized TCRs locus comprises 14 human JP
segments, or 100% of human JP segments, and 2 human DP segments or 100% of human
JP segments. In another embodiment, the humanized TCRs locus comprises at least one
human Vs segment, e.g., 14 human VP segments, and all mouse DP and JP segments. In a
particular embodiment, humanized TCRp locus comprises 14 human VP segments, 2 human
DP segments, and 14 human JP segments. In another particular embodiment, the
humanized TCRs locus comprises a complete repertoire of human VP, Ds, and JP
segments, i.e., all human variable  P region gene segments encoded by the      P locus or 67
human Vs, 2 human DP, and 14 human JP segments. In one embodiment, the non-human
animal comprises one (e.g., 5') non-human Vs segment at the humanized TCRP locus. In
various embodiments, the non-human animal does not comprise any endogenous non
human VP, Ds, or Js segments at the TCRP locus.
[0094]      In various embodiments, wherein the non-human animal (e.g., rodent) comprises
a repertoire of human TCRa and TCRp (and optionally human TCR8 and TCRy) variable
region segments (e.g., a complete repertoire of variable region segments), the repertoire of
various segments (e.g., the complete repertoire of various segments) is utilized by the
animal to generate a diverse repertoire of TCR molecules to various antigens.
[0095]      In various aspects, the non-human animals comprise contiguous portions of the
human genomic TCR variable loci that comprise V, D, and J, or D and J, or V and J, or V
segments arranged as in an unrearranged human genomic variable locus, e.g., comprising
promoter sequences, leader sequences, intergenic sequences, regulatory sequences, etc.,
arranged as in a human genomic TCR variable locus. In other aspects, the various
                                               26

     WO 2013/063361                                                        PCT/US2012/062065
segments are arranged as in an unrearranged non-human genomic TCR variable locus. In
various embodiments of the humanized TCRa and/or         P locus, the humanized locus can
comprise two or more human genomic segments that do not appear in a human genome
juxtaposed, e.g., a fragment of V segments of the human V locus located in a human
genome proximal to the constant region, juxtaposed with a fragment of V segments of the
 human V locus located in a human genome at the upstream end of the human V locus.
 [0096]      In both mouse and human, the TCR8 gene segments are located with the TCRa
locus (see FIGs. 2 and 5). TCR8 J and D segments are located between Va and Ja
segments, while TCR8 V segments are interspersed throughout the TCRa locus, with the
majority located among various Va segments. The number and locations of various TCR6
segments can be determined from the IMGT database. Due to the genomic arrangement of
TCR6 gene segments within the TCRa locus, successful rearrangement at the TCRa locus
generally deletes the TCR8 gene segments.
[0097]       In some embodiments of the invention, a non-human animal comprising an
unrearranged human TCRa variable gene locus also comprises at least one human V5
segment, e.g., up to complete repertoire of human V8 segments. Thus, in some
embodiments, the replacement of endogenous TCRa variable gene locus results in a
replacement of at least one non-human V8 segment with a human V6 segment. In other
embodiments, the non-human animal of the invention comprises a complete repertoire of
human V6, D8, and J8 segments at the unrearranged humanized TCRa locus; in yet other
embodiments, the non-human animal comprises a complete unrearranged human TCR8
locus at the unrearranged humanized TCRa locus (i.e., a TCR8 locus including human
variable region segments, as well as human enhancer and constant region). An exemplary
embodiment for constructing an unrearranged humanized TCRa locus comprising complete
unrearranged TCR8 locus is depicted in FIG. 5.
 [0098]      In yet another embodiment, the non-human animal of the invention further
comprises an unrearranged humanized TCRy locus, e.g., a TCRy locus comprising at least
one human Vy and at least one human Jy segments (e.g., a complete repertoire of human
Vy and human Jy variable region segments). The human TCRy locus is on human
chromosome 7, while the mouse TCRy locus is on mouse chromosome 13. See the IMGT
database for more detail on the TCRy locus.
 [0099]      In one aspect, the non-human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) comprising
 humanized TCRa and      s variable gene loci (and, optionally humanized TCR8/y variable gene
 loci) described herein expresses a humanized T cell receptor comprising a human variable
                                                27

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
region and a non-human (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) constant region on a surface of a
T cell. In some aspects, the non-human animal is capable or expressing a diverse repertoire
of humanized T cell receptors that recognize a variety of presented antigens.
[00100]      In various embodiments of the invention, the humanized T cell receptor
polypeptides described herein comprise human leader sequences. In alternative
embodiments, the humanized TCR receptor nucleic acid sequences are engineered such
that the humanized TCR polypeptides comprise non-human leader sequences.
[00101]      The humanized TCR polypeptides described herein may be expressed under
control of endogenous non-human regulatory elements (e.g., rodent regulatory elements),
e.g., promoter, silencer, enhancer, etc. The humanized TCR polypeptides described herein
may alternatively be expressed under control of human regulatory elements. In various
embodiments, the non-human animals described herein further comprise all regulatory and
other sequences normally found in situ in the human genome.
[00102]      In various embodiments, the human variable region of the humanized TCR
protein is capable of interacting with various proteins on the surface of the same cell or
another cell. In one embodiment, the human variable region of the humanized TCR
interacts with MHC proteins (e.g., MHC class I or 11proteins) presenting antigens on the
surface of the second cell, e.g., an antigen presenting cell (APC). In some embodiments,
the MHC I or Il protein is a non-human (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) protein. In other
embodiments, the MHC I or 11protein is a human protein. In one aspect, the second cell,
e.g., the APC, is an endogenous non-human cell expressing a human or humanized MHC
molecule. In a different embodiment, the second cell is a human cell expressing a human
MHC molecule.
[00103]      In one aspect, the non-human animal expresses a humanized T cell receptor with
a non-human constant region on the surface of a T cell, wherein the receptor is capable of
interacting with non-human molecules, e.g., anchor or signaling molecules expressed in the
T cell (e.g., CD3 molecules, the C chain, or other proteins anchored to the TCR through the
CD3 molecules or the      chain).
[00104]      Thus, in one aspect, a cellular complex is provided, comprising a non-human T
cell that expresses a TCR that comprises a humanized TCRa chain as described herein and
humanized TCRs chain as described herein, and a non-human antigen-presenting cell
comprising an antigen bound to an MHC I or MHC II. In one embodiment, the non-human
constant TCRa and TCRp chains are complexed with a non-human zeta ( ) chain
homodimer and CD3 heterodimers. In one embodiment, the cellular complex is an in vivo
cellular complex. In one embodiment, the cellular complex is an in vitro cellular complex.
                                                28

    WO 2013/063361                                                            PCT/US2012/062065
[00105]     The genetically modified non-human animal may be selected from a group
consisting of a mouse, rat, rabbit, pig, bovine (e.g., cow, bull, buffalo), deer, sheep, goat,
chicken, cat, dog, ferret, primate (e.g., marmoset, rhesus monkey). For the non-human
animals where suitable genetically modifiable ES cells are not readily available, other
methods are employed to make a non-human animal comprising the genetic modification.
Such methods include, e.g., modifying a non-ES cell genome (e.g., a fibroblast or an
induced pluripotent cell) and employing nuclear transfer to transfer the modified genome to a
suitable cell, e.g., an oocyte, and gestating the modified cell (e.g., the modified oocyte) in a
non-human animal under suitable conditions to form an embryo.
[00106]     In one aspect, the non-human animal is a mammal. In one aspect, the non
human animal is a small mammal, e.g., of the superfamily Dipodoidea or Muroidea. In one
embodiment, the genetically modified animal is a rodent. In one embodiment, the rodent is
selected from a mouse, a rat, and a hamster. In one embodiment, the rodent is selected
from the superfamily Muroidea. In one embodiment, the genetically modified animal is from
a family selected from Calomyscidae (e.g., mouse-like hamsters), Cricetidae (e.g., hamster,
New World rats and mice, voles), Muridae (true mice and rats, gerbils, spiny mice, crested
rats), Nesomyidae (climbing mice, rock mice, with-tailed rats, Malagasy rats and mice),
Platacanthomyidae (e.g., spiny dormice), and Spalacidae (e.g., mole rates, bamboo rats,
and zokors). In a specific embodiment, the genetically modified rodent is selected from a
true mouse or rat (family Muridae), a gerbil, a spiny mouse, and a crested rat. In one
embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is from a member of the family Muridae. In
one embodiment, the animal is a rodent. In a specific embodiment, the rodent is selected
from a mouse and a rat. In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse.
[00107]     In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal is a rodent that is a mouse of a
C57BL strain selected from C57BL/A, C57BL/An, C57BL/GrFa, C57BL/KaLwN, C57BL/6,
C57BL/6J, C57BL/6ByJ, C57BL/6NJ, C57BL/10, C57BL/1OScSn, C57BL/1OCr, and
C57BL/Ola. In another embodiment, the mouse is a 129 strain selected from the group
consisting of a strain that is 129P1, 129P2, 129P3, 129X1, 129S1 (e.g., 129S1/SV,
129S1/Svim), 129S2, 129S4, 129S5, 129S9/SvEvH, 129S6 (129/SvEvTac), 129S7, 129S8,
129T1, 129T2 (see, e.g., Festing et al. (1999) Revised nomenclature for strain 129 mice,
Mammalian Genome 10:836, see also, Auerbach et al (2000) Establishment and Chimera
Analysis of 129/SvEv- and C57BL/6-Derived Mouse Embryonic Stem Cell Lines). In a
specific embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is a mix of an aforementioned 129
strain and an aforementioned C57BL/6 strain. In another specific embodiment, the mouse is
a mix of aforementioned 129 strains, or a mix of aforementioned BL/6 strains. In a specific
embodiment, the 129 strain of the mix is a 129S6 (129/SvEvTac) strain. In another
                                                29

    WO 2013/063361                                                       PCT/US2012/062065
embodiment, the mouse is a BALB strain, e.g., BALB/c strain. In yet another embodiment,
the mouse is a mix of a BALB strain and another aforementioned strain.
[00108]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a rat. In one embodiment, the rat
is selected from a Wistar rat, an LEA strain, a Sprague Dawley strain, a Fischer strain, F344,
F6, and Dark Agouti. In one embodiment, the rat strain is a mix of two or more strains
selected from the group consisting of Wistar, LEA, Sprague Dawley, Fischer, F344, F6, and
Dark Agouti.
[00109]     Thus, in one embodiment, the invention provides a genetically modified mouse
comprising in its genome an unrearranged human or humanized TCR variable gene locus,
e.g., TCRa, TCRs, TCR8, and/or TCRy variable gene locus. In some embodiments, the
unrearranged human or humanized TCR variable gene locus replaces endogenous mouse
TCR variable gene locus. In other embodiments, unrearranged human or humanized TCR
variable gene locus is at a site in the genome other than the corresponding endogenous
mouse TCR locus. In some embodiments, human or humanized unrearranged TCR variable
gene locus is operably linked to mouse TCR constant region.
[00110]     In one embodiment, a genetically modified mouse is provided, wherein the
mouse comprises in its genome an unrearranged T cell receptor (TCR) a variable gene
locus comprising at least one human Ja segment and at least one human Va segment,
operably linked to a mouse TCRa constant gene sequence, and an unrearranged TCRs
variable gene locus comprising at least one human JP segment, at least one human DP
segment, and at least one human VP segment, operably linked to a mouse TCRp constant
gene sequence. In one specific embodiment, the mouse comprises in its genome an
unrearranged TCRx variable gene locus comprising a complete repertoire of human Ja
segments and a complete repertoire of human Va segments, operably linked to a mouse
TCRa constant gene sequence, and an unrearranged TCRp variable gene locus comprising
a complete repertoire of human JP segments, a complete repertoire of human DP segments,
and a complete repertoire of human Vs segments, operably linked to a mouse TCRp
constant gene sequence.
 [00111]    In some embodiments, the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus comprising
 human TCRa variable region segments replaces endogenous mouse TCRa variable gene
 locus, and the unrearranged TCRp variable gene locus comprising human TCRP variable
 region segments replaces the endogenous mouse TCRs variable gene locus. In some
embodiments, the endogenous mouse Va and Ja segments are incapable of rearranging to
form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence, and the endogenous mouse Vs, Ds, and JP segments
                                               30

    WO 2013/063361                                                                 PCT/US2012/062065
are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Vp/DP/Jp sequence. In some
embodiments, the human Vat and Ja segments rearrange to form a rearranged human
Va/Ja sequence, and the human VP, Ds, and JP segments rearrange to form a rearranged
human Vp/DP/Js sequence.
[00112]      In various embodiments, the non-human animals (e.g., rodents, e.g., mice or
rats) described herein produce T cells that are capable of undergoing thymic development,
progressing from DN1 to DN2 to DN3 to DN4 to DP and to CD4 or CD8 SP T cells. Such T
cells of the non-human animal of the invention express cell surface molecules typically
produced by a T cell during a particular stage of thymic development (e.g., CD25, CD44, Kit,
CD3, pTa, etc.). Thus, the non-human animals described herein express pTaX complexed
with TCRs at the DN3 stage of thymic development. The non-human animals described
herein express T cells capable of undergoing thymic development to produce CD4+ and
CD8+ T cells. Normally, in the thymus the physiological ratio of CD4+ to CD8+ T cells is
between about 2:1 and 3:1. See, e.g., Ge and Stanley (2008) The 0-fucose glycan in the
ligand-binding domain of Notch 1 regulates embryogenesis and T cell development, Proc.
NatI. Acad. Sci. USA 105:1539-44. Thus, in one embodiment, the non-human animals
described herein produce CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in the thymus at a ratio of between about
2:1 and 3:1 (CD4+:CD8+).
[00113]      In various embodiments, the non-human animals described herein produce T
cells that are capable of undergoing normal T cell differentiation in the periphery. In some
embodiments, the non-human animals described herein are capable of producing a normal
repertoire of effector T cells, e.g., CTL (cytotoxic T lymphocytes), TH1, TH2, TREG, TH 7, etc.
Thus, in these embodiments, the non-human animals described herein generate effector T
cells that fulfill different functions typical of the particular T cell type, e.g., recognize, bind,
and respond to foreign antigens. In various embodiments, the non-human animals
described herein produce effector T cells that kill cells displaying peptide fragments of
cytosolic pathogens expressed in the context of MHC I molecules; recognize peptides
derived from antigens degraded in intracellular vesicles and presented by MHC I molecules
on the surface of macrophages and induce macrophages to kill microorganisms; produce
cytokines that drive B cell differentiation; activate B cells to produce opsonizing antibodies;
induce epithelial cells to produce chemokines that recruit neutrophils to infection sites; etc.
[00114]      In additional embodiments, the non-human animals described herein comprise a
normal number of CD3+ T cells in the periphery, e.g., in the spleen. In some embodiments,
the percent of peripheral CD3+ T cells in the non-human animals described herein is the
comparable to that of the wild type animals (i.e., animals comprising all endogenous TCR
                                                     31

     WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
variable region segments). In one embodiment, the non-human animals described herein
comprise a normal ratio of splenic CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes.
[00115]       In other aspects, the non-human animals described herein are capable of
generating a population of memory T cells in response an antigen of interest. For example,
the non-human animals generate both central memory T cells (Tcm) and effector memory T
cells (Tem) to an antigen, e.g., antigen of interest (e.g., antigen being tested for vaccine
development, etc.).
[00116]      DN1 and DN2 cells that do not receive sufficient signals (e.g., Notch signals) may
develop into B cells, myeloid cells (e.g., dendritic cells), mast cells and NK cells. See, e.g.,
Yashiro-Ohtani et al. (2010) Notch regulation of early thymocyte development, Seminars in
Immunology 22:261-69. In some embodiments, the non-human animals described herein
develop normal numbers of B cells, myeloid cells (e.g., dendritic cells), mast cells and NK
cells. In some embodiments, the non-human animals described herein develop normal
dendritic cell population in the thymus.
[00117]      The predominant type of T cell receptors expressed on the surface of T cells is
TCRc/p, with the minority of the cells expressing TCR8/y. In some embodiments of the
invention, the T cells of the non-human animals comprising humanized TCRa and/or P loci
exhibit normal utilization of TCRa/s and TCR6/y loci, e.g., utilization of TCRX/s and TCR6/y
loci that is similar to the wild type animal (e.g., the T cells of the non-human animals
described herein express TCRa/s and TCR8/y proteins in comparable proportions to that
expressed by wild type animals). Thus, in some embodiments, the non-human animals
comprising humanized TCRax/s and endogenous non-human TCR6/y loci exhibit normal
utilization of all loci.
[00118]      In addition to genetically engineered non-human animals described herein, a
non-human embryo (e.g., a rodent embryo, e.g., mouse or a rat embryo) is also provided,
wherein the embryo comprises a donor ES cell that is derived from a non-human animal
(e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or a rat) as described herein. In one aspect, the embryo
comprises an ES donor cell that comprises an unrearranged humanized TCR locus, and
host embryo cells.
[00119]      Also provided is a tissue, wherein the tissue is derived from a non-human animal
(e.g., a mouse or a rat) as described herein, and expresses a humanized TCR polypeptide
(e.g., TCRa and/or TCRs, or TCR6, and/or TCRy polypeptide).
[00120]      In addition, a non-human cell isolated from a non-human animal as described
herein is provided. In one embodiment, the cell is an ES cell. In one embodiment, the cell is
                                                  32

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
a T cell. In one embodiment, the T cell is a CD4+ T cell. In another embodiment, the T cell
is a CD8+ T cell.
[00121]     Also provided is a non-human cell comprising a chromosome or fragment thereof
of a non-human animal as described herein. In one embodiment, the non-human cell
comprises a nucleus of a non-human animal as described herein. In one embodiment, the
non-human cell comprises the chromosome or fragment thereof as the result of a nuclear
transfer.
[00122]     Also provided is a non-human cell that expresses a TCR protein comprising a
human variable region and a non-human constant region. The TCR protein may comprise
TCRa, TCRp, or a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the cell is a T cell, e.g., a
CD4+ or a CD8+ T cell.
[00123]     In one aspect, a non-human induced pluripotent cell comprising an unrearranged
humanized TCR locus encoding a humanized TCR polypeptide as described herein is
provided. In one embodiment, the induced pluripotent cell is derived from a non-human
animal as described herein.
[00124]     In one aspect, a hybridoma or quadroma is provided, derived from a cell of a
non-human animal as described herein. In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a
rodent, e.g., a mouse or rat.
[00125]     Also provided is a method for making a genetically modified non-human animal
(e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) described herein. The method for making a genetically
modified non-human animal results in the animal whose genome comprises a humanized
unrearranged TCR locus (e.g., a humanized unrearranged TCRa, TCRp, TCR6, and/or
TCRy locus). In one embodiment, a method for making a genetically modified non-human
animal (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) that expresses a T cell receptor comprising a human
variable region and a non-human (e.g., rodent, e.g., mouse or rat) constant region on a
surface of a T cell is provided, wherein the method comprises replacing in a first non-human
animal an endogenous non-human TCRa variable gene locus with an unrearranged
humanized TCRx variable gene locus comprising at least one human Va segment and at
least one human Ja segment, wherein the humanized TCRax variable gene locus is operably
linked to endogenous TCRa constant region; replacing in a second non-human animal an
endogenous non-human TCRs variable gene locus with an unrearranged humanized TCRs
variable gene locus comprising at least one human Vs segment, one human DP segment,
and one human JP segment, wherein the humanized TCRs variable gene locus is operably
linked to endogenous TCRP constant region; and breeding the first and the second non
                                                33

    WO 2013/063361                                                            PCT/US2012/062065
human animal to obtain a non-human animal that expresses a T cell receptor comprising a
human variable region and a non-human constant region. In other embodiments, the
invention provides methods of making a genetically modified non-human animal whose
genome comprises a humanized unrearranged TCRa locus, or a non-human animal whose
genome comprises a humanized unrearranged TCRp locus, generated according to the
methods described herein. In various embodiments, the replacements are made at the
endogenous loci. In some embodiments, the method utilizes one or more targeting
constructs made using VELOCIGENE@ technology, introducing the construct(s) into ES
cells, and introducing targeted ES cell clones into a mouse embryo using VELOCIMOUSE@
technology, as described in the Examples. In some embodiments, the ES cells are derived
from a mouse that is a mix of 129 and C57BL/6 strains. In various embodiments, the
method comprises progressive humanization strategy, wherein a construct comprising
additional variable region segments is introduced into ES cells at each subsequent step of
humanization, ultimately resulting in a mouse comprising a complete repertoire of human
variable region segments (see, e.g., FIGs. 3 and 7).
[00126]      Thus, nucleotide constructs used for generating genetically engineered non
human animals described herein are also provided. In one aspect, the nucleotide construct
comprises: 5' and 3' homology arms, a human DNA fragment comprising human TCR
variable region gene segment(s), and a selection cassette flanked by recombination sites.
In one embodiment, the human DNA fragment is a TCRa gene fragment and it comprises at
least one human TCRa variable region segment. In another embodiment, the human DNA
fragment is a TCRs fragment and it comprises at least one human TCRP variable region
gene segment. In one aspect, at least one homology arm is a non-human homology arm
and it is homologous to non-human TCR locus (e.g., non-human TCRa or TCRP locus).
[00127]      A selection cassette is a nucleotide sequence inserted into a targeting construct
to facilitate selection of cells (e.g., ES cells) that have integrated the construct of interest. A
number of suitable selection cassettes are known in the art. Commonly, a selection cassette
enables positive selection in the presence of a particular antibiotic (e.g., Neo, Hyg, Pur, CM,
Spec, etc.). In addition, a selection cassette may be flanked by recombination sites, which
allow deletion of the selection cassette upon treatment with recombinase enzymes.
Commonly used recombination sites are /oxP and Frt, recognized by Cre and Flp enzymes,
respectively, but others are known in the art.
[00128]       In one embodiment, the selection cassette is located at the 5' end the human
DNA fragment. In another embodiment, the selection cassette is located at the 3' end of the
human DNA fragment. In another embodiment, the selection cassette is located within the
                                                   34

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
human DNA fragment, e.g., within the human intron. In another embodiment, the selection
cassette is located at the junction of the human and mouse DNA fragment.
[00129]     Various exemplary embodiments of the targeting strategy for generating
genetically engineered non-human animals, the constructs, and the targeting vectors used
for the same are presented in FIGs. 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8.
[00130]      Upon completion of gene targeting, ES cells or genetically modified non-human
animals are screened to confirm successful incorporation of exogenous nucleotide sequence
of interest or expression of exogenous polypeptide (e.g., human TCR variable region
segments). Numerous techniques are known to those skilled in the art, and include (but are
not limited to) Southern blotting, long PCR, quantitative PCT (e.g., real-time PCR using
TAQMAN@), fluorescence in situ hybridization, Northern blotting, flow cytometry, Western
analysis, immunocytochemistry, immunohistochemistry, etc. In one example, non-human
animals (e.g., mice) bearing the genetic modification of interest can be identified by
screening for loss of mouse allele and/or gain of human allele using a modification of allele
assay described in Valenzuela et al. (2003) High-throughput engineering of the mouse
genome coupled with high-resolution expression analysis, Nature Biotech. 21(6):652-659.
Other assays that identify a specific nucleotide or amino acid sequence in the genetically
modified animals are known to those skilled in the art.
[00131]      The disclosure also provides a method of modifying a TCR variable gene locus
(e.g., TCRa, TCRs, TCR5, and/or TCRy gene locus) of a non-human animal to express a
humanized TCR protein described herein. In one embodiment, the invention provides a
method of modifying a TCR variable gene locus to express a humanized TCR protein on a
surface of a T cell wherein the method comprises replacing in a non-human animal an
endogenous non-human TCR variable gene locus with an unrearranged humanized TCR
variable gene locus. In one embodiment wherein the TCR variable gene locus is a TCRa
variable gene locus, the unrearranged humanized TCR variable gene locus comprises at
least one human Va segment and at least one human Ja segment. In one embodiment
wherein the TCR variable gene locus is a TCRs variable gene locus, the unrearranged
humanized TCR variable gene locus comprises at least one human Vs segment, at least
one human Ds segment, and at least one human Js segment. In various aspects, the
unrearranged humanized TCR variable gene locus is operably linked to the corresponding
endogenous non-human TCR constant region.
[00132]      A humanized TCR protein made by a non-human animal (e.g., rodent, e.g.,
mouse or rat) as described herein is also provided, wherein the humanized TCR protein
comprises a human variable region and a non-human constant region. Thus, the humanized
                                               35

    WO 2013/063361                                                            PCT/US2012/062065
TCR protein comprises human complementary determining regions (i.e., human CDR1, 2,
and 3) in its variable domain and a non-human constant region.
[00133]     Although the Examples that follow describe a genetically engineered non-human
animal whose genome comprises humanized TCRa and/or humanized TCRp variable gene
locus, one skilled in the art would understand that a similar strategy may be used to produce
genetically engineered animals whose genome comprises humanized TCR6 and/or TCRy
variable gene locus. A genetically engineered non-human animal with humanization of all
four TCR variable gene loci is also provided.
Use of Genetically Modified TCR Animals
[00134]      In various embodiments, the genetically modified non-human animals of the
invention make T cells with humanized TCR molecules on their surface, and as a result,
would recognize peptides presented to them by MHC complexes in a human-like manner.
The genetically modified non-human animals described herein may be used to study the
development and function of human T cells and the processes of immunological tolerance;
to test human vaccine candidates; to generate TCRs with certain specificities for TCR gene
therapy; to generate TCR libraries to disease associated antigens (e.g., tumor associated
antigens (TAAs); etc.
[00135]      There is a growing interest in T cell therapy in the art, as T cells (e.g., cytotoxic T
cells) can be directed to attack and lead to destruction of antigen of interest, e.g., viral
antigen, bacterial antigen, tumor antigen, etc., or cells that present it. Initial studies in
cancer T cell therapy aimed at isolation of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs; lymphocyte
populations in the tumor mass that presumably comprise T cells reactive against tumor
antigens) from tumor cell mass, expanding them in vitro using T cell growth factors, and
transferring them back to the patient in a process called adoptive T cell transfer. See, e.g.,
Restifo et al. (2012) Adoptive immunotherapy for cancer: harnessing the T cell response,
Nature Reviews 12:269-81; Linnermann et al. (2011) T-Cell Receptor Gene Therapy: Critical
Parameters for Clinical Success, J. Invest. Dermatol. 131:1806-16. However, success of
these therapies have thus far been limited to melanoma and renal cell carcinoma; and the
TIL adoptive transfer is not specifically directed to defined tumor associated antigens
(TAAs). Linnermann et al., supra.
[00136]      Attempts have been made to initiate TCR gene therapy where T cells are either
selected or programmed to target an antigen of interest, e.g., a TAA. Current TCR gene
therapy relies on identification of sequences of TCRs that are directed to specific antigens,
e.g., tumor associated antigens. For example, Rosenberg and colleagues have published
several studies in which they transduced peripheral blood lymphocytes derived from a
                                                 36

    WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
 melanoma patient with genes encoding TCRa and         p chains specific for melanoma
associated antigen MART-1 epitopes, and used resulting expanded lymphocytes for
adoptive T cell therapy. Johnson et al. (2009) Gene therapy with human and mouse T-cell
receptors mediates cancer regression and targets normal tissues expressing cognate
antigen, Blood 114:535-46; Morgan et al. (2006) Cancer Regression in Patients After
Transfer of Genetically Engineered Lymphocytes, Science 314:126-29. The MART-1
specific TCRs were isolated from patients that experienced tumor regression following TIL
therapy. However, identification of such TCRs, particularly high-avidity TCRs (which are
most likely to be therapeutically useful), is complicated by the fact that most tumor antigens
are self antigens, and TCRs targeting these antigens are often either deleted or possess
suboptimal affinity, due primarily to immunological tolerance.
[00137]      In various embodiments, the present invention solves this problem by providing
genetically engineered non-human animals comprising in their genome an unrearranged
human TCR variable gene locus. The non-human animal described herein is capable of
generating T cells with a diverse repertoire of humanized T cell receptors. Thus, the non
human animals described herein may be a source of a diverse repertoire of humanized T
cell receptors, e.g., high-avidity humanized T cell receptors for use in adoptive T cell
transfer.
[00138]      Thus, in one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of generating
a T cell receptor to a human antigen comprising immunizing a non-human animal (e.g., a
rodent, e.g., a mouse or a rat) described herein with an antigen of interest, allowing the
animal to mount an immune response, isolating from the animal an activated T cell with
specificity for the antigen of interest, and determining the nucleic acid sequence of the T cell
receptor expressed by the antigen-specific T cell.
[00139]      In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of producing a human T cell
receptor specific for an antigen of interest (e.g., a disease-associated antigen) comprising
immunizing a non-human animal described herein with the antigen of interest; allowing the
animal to mount an immune response; isolating from the animal a T cell reactive to the
antigen of interest; determining a nucleic acid sequence of a human TCR variable region
expressed by the T cell; cloning the human TCR variable region into a nucleotide construct
comprising a nucleic acid sequence of a human TCR constant region such that the human
TCR variable region is operably linked to the human TCR constant region; and expressing
from the construct a human T cell receptor specific for the antigen of interest. In one
embodiment, the steps of isolating a T cell, determining a nucleic acid sequence of a human
TCR variable region expressed by the T cell, cloning the human TCR variable region into a
                                                 37

     WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
nucleotide construct comprising a nucleic acid sequence of a human TCR constant region,
and expressing a human T cell receptor are performed using standard techniques known to
those of skill the art.
[00140]       In one embodiment, the nucleotide sequence encoding a T cell receptor specific
for an antigen of interest is expressed in a cell. In one embodiment, the cell expressing the
TCR is selected from a CHO, COS, 293, HeLa, PERC.6 T M cell, etc.
[00141]      The antigen of interest may be any antigen that is known to cause or be
associated with a disease or condition, e.g., a tumor associated antigen; an antigen of viral,
bacterial or other pathogenic origin; etc. Many tumor associated antigens are known in the
art. A selection of tumor associated antigens is presented in Cancer Immunity (A Journal of
the Cancer Research Institute) Peptide Database
(archive.cancerimmunity.org/peptidedatabase/Tcellepitopes.htm).        In some embodiments of
the invention, the antigen of interest is a human antigen, e.g., a human tumor associated
antigen. In some embodiments, the antigen is a cell type-specific intracellular antigen, and a
T cell receptor is used to kill a cell expressing the antigen.
[00142]       In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of identifying a T cell with
specificity against an antigen of interest, e.g., a tumor associated antigen, comprising
immunizing a non-human animal described herein with the antigen of interest, allowing the
animal to mount an immune response, and isolating from the non-human animal a T cell with
specificity for the antigen.
[00143]       The present invention provides new methods for adoptive T cell therapy. Thus,
provided herein is a method of treating or ameliorating a disease or condition (e.g., a cancer)
in a subject (e.g., a mammalian subject, e.g., a human subject) comprising immunizing a
non-human animal described herein with an antigen associated with the disease or
condition, allowing the animal to mount an immune response, isolating from the animal a
 population of antigen-specific T cells, and infusing isolated antigen-specific T cells into the
subject. In one embodiment, the invention provides a method of treating or ameliorating a
disease or condition in a human subject, comprising immunizing the non-human animal
described herein with an antigen of interest (e.g., a disease- or condition-associated antigen,
e.g., a tumor associated antigen), allowing the animal to mount an immune response,
 isolating from the animal a population of antigen-specific T cells, determining the nucleic
 acid sequence of a T cell receptor expressed by the antigen-specific T cells, cloning the
 nucleic acid sequence of the T cell receptor into an expression vector (e.g., a retroviral
vector), introducing the vector into T cells derived from the subject such that the T cells
 express the antigen-specific T cell receptor, and infusing the T cells into the subject. In one
                                                  38

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
embodiment, the T cell receptor nucleic acid sequence is further humanized prior to
introduction into T cells derived from the subject, e.g., the sequence encoding the non
human constant region is modified to further resemble a human TCR constant region (e.g.,
the non-human constant region is replaced with a human constant region). In some
embodiments, the disease or condition is cancer. In some embodiments, an antigen-specific
T cell population is expanded prior to infusing into the subject. In some embodiments, the
subject's immune cell population is immunodepleted prior to the infusion of antigen-specific
T cells. In some embodiments, the antigen-specific TCR is a high avidity TCR, e.g., a high
avidity TCR to a tumor associated antigen. In some embodiments, the T cell is a cytotoxic T
cell. In other embodiments, the disease or condition is caused by a virus or a bacterium.
[00144]      In another embodiment, a disease or condition is an autoimmune disease.      TREG
cells are a subpopulation of T cells that maintain tolerance to self-antigens and prevent
pathological self-reactivity. Thus, also provided herein are methods of treating autoimmune
disease that rely on generation of antigen-specific TREG cells in the non-human animal of the
invention described herein.
[00145]     Also provided herein is a method of treating or ameliorating a disease or
condition (e.g., a cancer) in a subject comprising introducing the cells affected by the
disease or condition (e.g., cancer cells) from the subject into a non-human animal, allowing
the animal to mount an immune response to the cells, isolating from the animal a population
of T cells reactive to the cells, determining the nucleic acid sequence of a T cell receptor
expressed by the T cells, cloning the T cell receptor sequence into a vector, introducing the
vector into T cells derived from the subject, and infusing the subject's T cells harboring the T
cell receptor into the subject.
[00146]     Also provided herein is the use of a non-human animal as described herein to
make nucleic acid sequences encoding human TCR variable domains (e.g., TCR a and/or            p
variable domains). In one embodiment, a method is provided for making a nucleic acid
sequence encoding a human TCR variable domain, comprising immunizing a non-human
animal as described herein with an antigen of interest, allowing the non-human animal to
mount an immune response to the antigen of interest, and obtaining therefrom a nucleic acid
sequence encoding a human TCR variable domain that binds the antigen of interest. In one
embodiment, the method further comprises making a nucleic acid sequence encoding a
human TCR variable domain that is operably linked to a non-human TCR constant region,
comprising isolating a T cell from a non-human animal described herein and obtaining
therefrom the nucleic acid sequence encoding TCR variable domain linked to TCR constant
region.
                                                 39

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
[00147]     Also provided herein is the use of a non-human animal as described herein to
make a human therapeutic, comprising immunizing the non-human animal with an antigen of
interest (e.g., a tumor associated antigen), allowing the non-human animal to mount an
immune response, obtaining from the animal T cells reactive to the antigen of interest,
obtaining from the T cells a nucleic acid sequence(s) encoding a humanized TCR protein
that binds the antigen of interest, and employing the nucleic acid sequence(s) encoding a
humanized TCR protein in a human therapeutic.
[00148]     Thus, also provided is a method for making a human therapeutic, comprising
immunizing a non-human animal as described herein with an antigen of interest, allowing the
non-human animal to mount an immune response, obtaining from the animal T cells reactive
to the antigen of interest, obtaining from the T cells a nucleic acid sequence(s) encoding a
humanized T cell receptor that binds the antigen of interest, and employing the humanized T
cell receptor in a human therapeutic.
[00149]      In one embodiment, the human therapeutic is a T cell (e.g., a human T cell, e.g.,
a T cell derived from a human subject) harboring a nucleic acid sequence of interest (e.g.,
transfected or transduced or otherwise introduced with the nucleic acid of interest) such that
the T cell expresses the humanized TCR protein with affinity for an antigen of interest. In
one aspect, a subject in whom the therapeutic is employed is in need of therapy for a
particular disease or condition, and the antigen is associated with the disease or condition.
In one aspect, the T cell is a cytotoxic T cell, the antigen is a tumor associated antigen, and
the disease or condition is cancer. In one aspect, the T cell is derived from the subject.
[00150]      In another embodiment, the human therapeutic is a T cell receptor. In one
embodiment, the therapeutic receptor is a soluble T cell receptor. Much effort has been
expanded to generate soluble T cell receptors or TCR variable regions for use therapeutic
agents. Generation of soluble T cell receptors depends on obtaining rearranged TCR
variable regions. One approach is to design single chain TCRs comprising TCRa and
TCRs, and, similarly to scFv immunoglobulin format, fuse them together via a linker (see,
e.g., International Application No. WO 2011/044186). The resulting scTv, if analogous to
scFv, would provide a thermally stable and soluble form of TCRa/p binding protein.
Alternative approaches included designing a soluble TCR having TCRs constant domains
(see, e.g., Chung et al., (1994) Functional three-domain single-chain T-cell receptors, Proc.
NatI. Acad. Sci. USA. 91:12654-58); as well as engineering a non-native disulfide bond into
the interface between TCR constant domains (reviewed in Boulter and Jakobsen (2005)
Stable, soluble, high-affinity, engineered T cell receptors: novel antibody-like proteins for
specific targeting of peptide antigens, Clinical and Experimental Immunology 142:454-60;
                                                  40

    WO 2013/063361                                                             PCT/US2012/062065
see also, U.S. Patent No. 7,569,664). Other formats of soluble T cell receptors have been
described. The non-human animals described herein may be used to determine a sequence
of a T cell receptor that binds with high affinity to an antigen of interest, and subsequently
design a soluble T cell receptor based on the sequence.
[00151]      A soluble T cell receptor derived from the TCR receptor sequence expressed by
the non-human animal can be used to block the function of a protein of interest, e.g., a viral,
bacterial, or tumor associated protein. Alternatively, a soluble T cell receptor may be fused
to a moiety that can kill an infected or cancer cell, e.g., a cytotoxic molecules (e.g., a
chemotherapeutic), toxin, radionuclide, prodrug, antibody, etc. A soluble T cell receptor may
also be fused to an immunomodulatory molecule, e.g., a cytokine, chemokine, etc. A
soluble T cell receptor may also be fused to an immune inhibitory molecule, e.g., a molecule
that inhibits a T cell from killing other cells harboring an antigen recognized by the T cell.
Such soluble T cell receptors fused to immune inhibitory molecules can be used, e.g., in
blocking autoimmunity. Various exemplary immune inhibitory molecules that may be fused to
a soluble T cell receptor are reviewed in Ravetch and Lanier (2000) Immune Inhibitory
Receptors, Science 290:84-89, incorporated herein by reference.
[00152]      The present invention also provides methods for studying immunological
response in the context of human TCR, including human TCR rearrangement, T cell
development, T cell activation, immunological tolerance, etc.
[00153]      Also provided are methods of testing vaccine candidates. In one embodiment,
provided herein is a method of determining whether a vaccine will activate an immunological
response (e.g., T cell proliferation, cytokine release, etc.), and lead to generation of effector,
as well as memory T cells (e.g., central and effector memory T cells).
                                              EXAMPLES
[00154]      The invention will be further illustrated by the following nonlimiting examples.
These Examples are set forth to aid in the understanding of the invention but are not
intended to, and should not be construed to, limit its scope in any way. The Examples do not
include detailed descriptions of conventional methods that would be well known to those of
ordinary skill in the art (molecular cloning techniques, etc.). Unless indicated otherwise,
parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is average molecular weight, temperature is
indicated in Celsius, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
 Example 1. Generation of Mice with Humanized TCR Variable Gene Loci
 [00155]     Mice comprising a deletion of endogenous TCR (a or @)variable loci and
replacement of endogenous V and J or V, D, and J segments are made using
                                                   41

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and
Valenzuela, D.M., et al. (2003) High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome coupled
with high-resolution expression analysis. Nat. Biotech. 21(6): 652-659), wherein human
sequences derived from BAC libraries using bacterial homologous recombination are used
to make large targeting vectors (LTVECs) comprising genomic fragments of human TCR
variable loci flanked by targeting arms to target the LTVECs to endogenous mouse TCR
variable loci in mouse ES cells. LTVECs re linearized and electroporated into a mouse ES
cell line according to Valenzuela et al. ES cells are selected for hygromycin or neomycin
resistance, and screened for loss of mouse allele or gain of human allele.
[00156]      Targeted ES cell clones are introduced into 8-cell stage (or earlier) mouse
embryos by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (Poueymirou, W.T. et al. (2007). FO generation
mice fully derived from gene-targeted embryonic stem cells allowing immediate phenotypic
analyses. Nat. Biotech. 25: 91-99.). VELOCIMICE@ (F0 mice fully derived from the donor
ES cell) bearing humanized TCR loci are identified by screening for loss of endogenous
TCR variable allele and gain of human allele using a modification of allele assay (Valenzuela
et al.). FO pups are genotyped and bred to homozygosity. Mice homozygous for humanized
TCRa and/or TCRs variable loci (e.g., comprising a subset of human TCRa and/or TCRs
variable segments) are made and phenotyped as described herein.
 [00157]     All mice were housed and bred in the specific pathogen-free facility at Regeneron
 Pharmaceuticals. All animal experiments were approved by IACUC and Regeneron
 Pharmaceuticals.
 Example 2: Progressive Humanization of TCRa Variable Locus
 [00158]     1.5 megabases of DNA at mouse TCRa locus corresponding to 110 V and 60 J
 mouse segments was replaced with 1 megabase of DNA corresponding to 54V and 61 J
 segments of human TCRx using a progressive humanization strategy summarized in FIGs.
 2 and 3. Junctional nucleic acid sequences of various targeting vectors used for progressive
 humanization strategy of TCRa locus are summarized in Table 2, and included in the
 Sequence Listing.
 Table 2: Junctional Nucleic Acid Sequences for Various TCRa Locus Targeting
 Vectors
  MAID         SEQ ID      Description
  NO.           NO
                1          Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
  1626                     sequence upstream of the TCRa variable locus and the 5' end of
                           loxP-Ub-Hyg-/oxP cassette.
                                               42

    WO 2013/063361                                                      PCT/US2012/062065
  MAID        SEQ ID      Description
  NO.         NO
              2           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of loxP-Ub
                          Hyg-loxP cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVa40-TCRVa41
                          TCRJa1 insertion, including AsiSI site.
              3           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of human
                          TCRVc40-TCRVax41-TCRJa1 insertion and the 5' end of the
                          mouse sequence downstream of the human TCRa variable locus,
                          including Notl site.
              4           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                          sequence upstream of the TCRa variable locus and the 5' end of
                          loxP-Ub-Neo-loxP cassette.
  1767
              5           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of /oxP-Ub
                          Neo-/oxP cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVa35-TCRVa39
                          insertion, including AsiSI site.
              6           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                          sequence upstream of the TCRax variable locus and the 5' end of
 1979                     frt-Pgk-Hyg-frt cassette.
              7           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of frt-Pgk
                          Hyg-frt cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVa22-TCRVa34
                          insertion, including AsiSI site.
              8           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                          sequence upstream of the TCRa variable locus and the 5' end of
                          loxP-Ub-Neo-loxP cassette.
 1769
              9           Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of loxP-Ub
                          Neo-loxP cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVat13-2
                          TCRVca21 insertion, including AsiSI site.
              10          Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                          sequence upstream of the TCRa variable locus and the 5' end of
 1770                      oxP-Ub-Hyg-/oxP cassette.
              11          Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of loxP-Ub
                          Hyg-loxP cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVa6-TCRVax8-5
                          insertion, including AsiSI site.
              12          Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                          sequence upstream and the TCRa variable locus to the 5' end of
                          loxP-Ub-Neo-loxP cassette.
 1771
              13          Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of /oxP-Ub
                          Neo-loxP cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVc1-1-TCRVa5
                          insertion, including AsiSI site.
  Human TCRa variable region segments are numbered as in IMGT database. At least 100
  bp at each junction (about 50 bp from each end) are included in the Sequence Listing.
[00159]    Specifically, as demonstrated in FIG. 4A, DNA from mouse BAC clone
RP23-6A14 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination and used as a targeting
vector (MAID 1539) to replace TCRAJ1-TCRAJ28 region of the endogenous mouse TCRax
                                               43

     WO 2013/063361                                                      PCT/US2012/062065
 locus with a Ub-hygromycin cassette followed by a loxP site. DNA from mouse BAC clone
 RP23-117i19 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination and used as a
targeting vector (MAID 1535) to replace -15kb region surrounding (and including) TCRAV1
of the endogenous mouse TCRat and 8 locus with a PGK-neomycin cassette followed by a
loxP site. ES cells bearing a double-targeted chromosome (i.e., a single endogenous
mouse TCRa locus targeted with both targeting vectors) were confirmed by karyotyping and
screening methods (e.g., TAQMAN TM) known in the art. Modified ES cells were treated with
CRE recombinase, thereby mediating the deletion of the region between the two loxP sites
(i.e., the region consisting of the endogenous mouse TCRa locus from TCRAV1 to TCRAJ1)
and leaving behind only a single loxP site, neomycin cassette and the mouse constant and
enhancer regions. This strategy resulted in generation of a deleted mouse TCR a/8 locus
(MAID 1540).
 [00160]     The first human targeting vector for TCRa had 191,660 bp of human DNA from
the CTD2216p1 and CTD2285m07 BAC clones (Invitrogen) that contained the first two
consecutive human TCRaV gene segments (TRAV40 & 41) and 61 TCRaJ (50 functional)
gene segments. This BAC was modified by homologous recombination to contain a Not1
site 403 bp downstream (3') of the TCRaxJ1 gene segment for ligation of a 3' mouse
homology arm and a 5' AsiSI site for ligation of a 5' mouse homology arm. Two different
homology arms were used for ligation to this human fragment: the 3' homology arm
contained endogenous mouse TCRca sequences from the RP23-6A14 BAC clone and the 5'
homology arm contained endogenous TCRa sequence 5' of mouse TCRaV from mouse
 BAC clone RP23-117i19. This mouse-human chimeric BAC was used as a targeting vector
 (MAID 1626) for making an initial insertion of human TCRa gene segments plus an
 upstream Ioxp-ub-hygromycin-/oxp cassette at the mouse TCRat loci (FIG. 4B). The
junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 1-3) for the MAID 1626 targeting vector are
described in Table 2.
 [00161]     Subsequently, a series of human targeting vectors were made that utilized the
 same mouse 5' arm that contained endogenous TCRa sequence 5' of mouse TCRaxV from
 mouse BAC clone RP23-117i19 with alternating /oxP-neomycin-loxP and /oxP-hygromycin
loxP (or frt-hygromycin-frt for MAID 1979) selection cassettes.
 [00162]     To generate a human TCRa mini-locus containing a total 8 human
TCRaV (7 functional) and 61 human TCRaJ (50 functional) gene segments, DNA from
 human BAC clone RP1 1-349p1 1 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination
 and used as a targeting vector (MAID 1767) (FIG. 4C). This added 104,846 bp of human
 DNA containing the next 6 (5 functional) consecutive human TCRaV gene segments
                                                44

    WO 2013/063361                                                       PCT/US2012/062065
(TRAV35 to TRAV39) and a 5' loxP-ub-neomycin-IoxP cassette. Resulting TCRa locus
contained a 5'loxp-ub-neomycin-loxP cassette plus a total of 8 human TCRaXV (7 functional)
and 61 human TCRaxJ gene segments operably linked to mouse TCRa constant genes and
enhancers. The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 4 and 5) for the MAID
1767 targeting vector are described in Table 2.
[00163]      To generate a human TCRa mini-locus containing total of 23 human TCRaV (17
functional) and 61 human TCRxJ gene segments, DNA from mouse BAC clone containing
from 5' to 3': a unique I-Ceul site, a 20 kb mouse TCRA arm 5' of the mouse TCRA locus to
be used for homologous recombination into ES cells, and a loxP-Ub-Hyg-loxP cassette in
reverse orientation, was modified by bacterial homologous recombination to contain from 5'
to 3': a unique I-Ceul site, a 20 kb mouse TCRA arm 5' of the mouse TCRA locus, an frt
pgk-Hyg-frt cassette, and a unique AsiSi site. DNA from human BAC clone RP11-622o20
(Invitrogen), harboring human TCRcV22-V34 was modified by homologous recombination to
contain a Spec cassette flanked by unique I-Ceul and AsiSi sites. Subsequently, the Spec
cassette in the modified human BAC clone was replaced by the sequence comprised
between the I-Ceul and AsiSI sites in the modified mouse BAC clone by standard restriction
digestion/ligation techniques. The resulting targeting vector (MAID 1979; FIG. 4D) added
136,557 bp of human DNA that contained the next 15 (10 functional) consecutive human
TCRaJ gene segments (TRAV22 to TRAV34) and a 5' frt-pgk-Hyg-frt cassette. Resulting
TCRa locus contained a 5' frt-pgk-Hyg-frt cassette plus a total of 23 human TCRaXV (17
functional) and 61 human TCRaV gene segments operably linked to mouse TCRa constant
genes and enhancers. The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 6 and 7) for the
MAID 1979 targeting vector are described in Table 2.
[00164]      To generate human TCRa mini-locus containing a total of 35 human TCRXV (28
functional) and 61 human TCRaJ gene segments, DNA from human BAC clone CTD2501
k5 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination and used as a targeting vector
(MAID 1769) (FIG. 4E). This added 124,118 bp of human DNA that contained the next 12
(11 functional) consecutive human TCRaxV gene segments (TRAV13-2 to TRAV21) and a 5'
loxp-ub-neomycin-loxP cassette. Resulting TCRa locus contained a 5' loxp-ub-neomycin
loxP cassette plus a total of 35 human TCRaV (28 functional) and 61 human TCRCJ gene
segments operably linked to mouse TCRa constant genes and enhancers. The junctional
nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 8 and 9) for the MAID 1769 targeting vector are
described in Table 2.
                                               45

    WO 2013/063361                                                       PCT/US2012/062065
[00165]     To generate a human TCRa mini-locus containing total of 48 human TCRaV (39
functional) and 61 human TCRcaJ gene segments, DNA from human BAC clone RP1 1
92F1 1 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination and used as a targeting
vector (MAID 1770) (FIG. 4F). This added 145,505 bp of human DNA that contained the
next 13 (11 functional) consecutive human TCRaJ gene segments (TRAV6 to TRAV8.5) and
a 5' loxp-ub-hygromycin-loxP cassette. Resulting TCRat locus contains a 5' loxp-ub
hygromycin-loxP cassette plus a total of 48 human TCRaV (39 functional) and 61 human
TCRaxJ gene segments operably linked to mouse TCRa constant genes and enhancers.
The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 10 and 11) for the MAID 1770
targeting vector are described in Table 2.
[00166]     To generate a human TCRa mini-locus containing total of 54 human TCRaV (45
functional) and 61 human TCRaJ gene segments, DNA from human BAC clone RP1 1
780M2 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination and used as a targeting
vector (MAID 1771) (FIG. 4G). This added 148,496 bp of human DNA that contained the
next 6 (6 functional) consecutive human TCRaV gene segments (TRAV1-1 to TRAV5) and a
5' loxp-ub-neomycin-loxP cassette. Resulting TCRa locus contains a 5' loxp-ub-neomycin
loxP cassette plus a total of 54 human TCRaV (45 functional) and 61 human TCRaJ gene
segment operably linked to mouse TCRa constant genes and enhancers. The junctional
nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 12 and 13) for the MAID 1771 targeting vector are
described in Table 2.
[00167]     In any of the above steps, the selection cassettes are removed by deletion with
Cre or Flp recombinase. In addition, human TCR8 locus may be introduced as depicted in
FIG. 5.
Example 3: Progressive Humanization of TCRs Variable Locus
[00168]     0.6 megabases of DNA at mouse TCRp locus corresponding to 33 V, 2 D, and 14
J mouse segments were replaced with 0.6 megabases of DNA corresponding to 67 V, 2D,
and 14 J segments of human TCRs using a progressive humanization strategy summarized
in FIGs 6 and 7. Junctional nucleic acid sequences of various targeting vectors used for
progressive humanization strategy of TCRs locus are summarized in Table 3, and included
in the Sequence Listing.
                                               46

   WO 2013/063361                                                    PCT/US2012/062065
Table 3: Junctional Nucleic Acid Sequences for Various TCRs Locus Targeting
Vectors
 MAID       SEQ ID     Description
 NO.        NO
            14         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                       sequence upstream of the TCRp variable locus (nearby the
                       upstream mouse trypsinogen genes) and the 5' end of frt-Ub-Neo
                       frt cassette.
            15         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of frt-Ub
 1625                  Neo-frt cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVp1 8-TCRVp29-1
                       insertion.
            16         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of human
                       TCRVp18-TCRVp29-1 insertion and the 5' end of the mouse
                       sequence downstream of the mouse TCRVP segments (nearby
                       downstream mouse trypsinogen genes).
            17         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between 3' of the downstream
                       mouse trypsinogen genes and the 5' end of human TCRDp1
                       TCRJp1-1-TCRJp1-6 insertion, including Iceul site.
            18         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of human
                       TCRDp1-TCRJp1-1-TCRJp1-6 insertion and the 5' end of loxP
                       Ub-Hyg-loxP cassette.
            19         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of loxP-Ub
                       Hyg-loxP cassette and the 5' end of mouse sequence nearby the
 1715                  mouse Cp1 gene.
            20         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of the
                       mouse sequence nearby the mouse Cp1 gene and the 5' end of
                       human TCRDp2-TCRJs2-1-TCRJs2-7 insertion, including NotI
                       site.
            21         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of human
                       TCRDP2-TCRJs2-1-TCRJs2-7 insertion and the 5' end of the
                       mouse sequence downstream of the TCRs variable locus (nearby
                       the Cp2 mouse sequence).
            22         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                       sequence upstream of the TCRs variable locus (nearby the
                       upstream mouse trypsinogen genes) and the 5' end of frt-Ub-Hyg
 1791                  frt cassette.
            23         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of frt-Ub
                       Hyg-frt cassette and the 5' end of human TCRV6-5-TCRVp17
                       insertion.
            24         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                       sequence upstream of the TCRs variable locus (nearby the
 1792                  upstream mouse trypsinogen genes) and the 5' end of frt-Ub-Neo
                       frt cassette.
            25         Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of frt-Ub
                       Hyg-frt cassette and the 5' end of human TCRVp1-TCRVp12-2
                                           47

    WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
  MAID         SEQ ID      Description
  NO.          NO
                           insertion.
               26          Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end of mouse
                           sequence nearby the mouse C32 gene and the 5' end of the
  6192                     human TCRBV30 exon 2 sequence.
               27          Junctional nucleic acid sequence between the 3' end human
                           TCRBV30 exon 1 sequence and the 5' end of mouse sequence
                           downstream of TCRP locus.
   Human TCRs variable region segments are numbered as in IMGT database. At least 100
   bp at each junction (about 50 bp from each end) are included in the Sequence Listing.
[00169]     Specifically, DNA from mouse BAC clone RP23-153p19 (Invitrogen) was
modified by homologous recombination and used as a targeting vector (MAID 1544) to
replace 17kb region (including TCRBV30) just upstream of the 3' trypsinogen gene cluster in
the endogenous mouse TCRp locus with a PGK-neo cassette followed by a loxP site
(FIG. 8A). DNA from mouse BAC clone RP23-461h15 (Invitrogen) was modified by
homologous recombination and used as a targeting vector (MAID 1542) to replace 8355 bp
region (including TCRBV2 and TCRBV3) downstream of 5' trypsinogen gene cluster in the
endogenous mouse TCRP locus with a Ub-hygromycin cassette followed by a loxP site. ES
cells bearing a double-targeted chromosome (i.e., a single endogenous mouse TCRp locus
targeted with both targeting vectors) were confirmed by karyotyping and screening methods
(e.g., TAQMAN TM ) known in the art. Modified ES cells were treated with CRE recombinase,
mediating the deletion of the region between the 5' and 3' loxP sites (consisting of the
endogenous mouse TCRs locus from TCRBV2 to TCRBV30) and leaving behind only a
single loxP site, hygromycin cassette and the mouse TCRBDs, TCRBJs, constant, and
enhancer sequences. One mouse TCRVs was left upstream of the 5' cluster of trypsinogen
genes, and one mouse TCRBp was left downstream of the mouse EP, as noted in Fig 8A.
[00170]     The first human targeting vector for TCRp had 125,781 bp of human DNA from
the CTD2559j2 BAC clone (Invitrogen) that contained the first 14 consecutive human
TCRpV gene segments (TRBV18-TRBV29-1). This BAC was modified by homologous
recombination to contain a 5' AsiSI site and a 3' Ascl site for ligation of a 5' and 3' mouse
homology arms. Two different homology arms were used for ligation to this human
fragment: one set of homology arms contained endogenous TCRs sequence surrounding
the downstream mouse trypsinogen genes from the RP23-153p19 BAC clone and another
set contained endogenous TCRp sequence surrounding the upstream mouse trypsinogen
genes from mouse BAC clone RP23-461h15. This mouse-human chimeric BAC was used
                                               48

    WO 2013/063361                                                        PCT/US2012/062065
as a targeting vector (MAID 1625) for making an initial insertion of human TCRs gene
segments plus an upstream frt-ub-neomycin-frt cassette at the mouse TCRP locus, and
resulted in a human TCRp mini-locus containing 14 human (8 functional) TCRpV (FIG. 8B).
The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 14-16) for the MAID 1625 targeting
vector are described in Table 3.
[00171]     In order to replace mouse TCRP D and J segments with human TCRp D and J
segments, DNA from mouse BAC clone RP23-302p18 (Invitrogen) and from human BAC
clone RP11-701D14 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination and used as a
targeting vector (MAID 1715) into the ES cells that contained the TCRpV mini-locus
described above (i.e., MAID 1625). This modification replaced -18540 bp region (from 100
bp downstream of the polyA of the 3' trypsinogen genes to 100bp downstream from the J
segments in the D2 cluster which included mouse TCRBD1-J1, mouse constant 1, and
mouse TCRBD2-J2) in the endogenous mouse TCRP locus with -25425 bp of sequence
containing human TCRBD1-J1, loxP Ub-hygromycin-/oxP cassette, mouse constant 1,
human TCRBD2-J2 (FIG. 8C(i)). ES cells bearing a double-targeted chromosome (i.e., a
single endogenous mouse TCRP locus targeted with both targeting vectors) were confirmed
by karyotyping and screening methods (e.g., TAQMAN T M) known in the art. Modified ES
cells were treated with CRE recombinase thereby mediating the deletion the hygromycin
cassette leaving behind only a single loxP site downstream from human J segments in D1J
cluster (FIG. 8C(ii)). The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 17-21) for the
MAID 1715 targeting vector are described in Table 3.
[00172]     Subsequently, a series of human targeting vectors were made that utilized the
same mouse 5' arm that contained endogenous TCRp sequence surrounding the upstream
mouse trypsinogen genes from mouse BAC clone RP23-461h15 with alternating selection
cassette.
[00173]     To generate a human TCRs mini-locus containing a total 40 human
TCRpV (30 functional) and the human TCRp D and J segments, DNA from human BAC
clones RP1 1-134h14 and RP1 1-785k24 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous
recombination and combined into a targeting vector (MAID 1791) using standard bacterial
homologous recombination, restriction digestion/ligation, and other cloning techniques.
Introduction of the MAID 1791 targeting vector resulted in addition of 198,172 bp of human
DNA that contained the next 26 (22 functional) consecutive human TCRpV gene segments
(TRBV6-5 to TRBV1 7) and a 5' frt-ub-hygromycin-frt cassette. Resulting TCRs locus
contained a 5' frt-ub-hygromycin-frt cassette plus a total of 40 human TCRpV (30 functional)
and human TCRp D and J gene segments operably linked to mouse TCRP constant genes
                                               49

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
and enhancers (FIG. 8D). The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 22 and 23)
for the MAID 1791 targeting vector are described in Table 3.
[00174]     To generate a human TCRp mini-locus containing a total 66 human
TCRPV (47 functional) and the human TCRp D and J segments, DNA from human BAC
clone RP1 1-902B7 (Invitrogen) was modified by homologous recombination and used as a
targeting vector (MAID 1792). This resulted in addition of 159,742 bp of human DNA that
contained the next 26 (17 functional) consecutive human TCRpV gene segments (TRBV1 to
TRBV1 2-2) and a 5' frt-ub-neomycin-frt cassette. Resulting TCRP locus contained a 5' frt
ub-neomycin-frt cassette plus a total of 66 human TCRPV (47 functional) and human
TCRp D and J gene segments operably linked to mouse TCRs constant genes and
enhancers. (FIG. 8E). The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 24 and 25) for
the MAID 1792 targeting vector are described in Table 3.
[00175]     In any of the above steps, the selection cassettes are removed by deletion with
Cre or Flp recombinase. For example, as depicted in FIG. 7, MAID 1716 corresponds to
MAID 1715 with the hygromycin cassette deletion.
[00176]     Finally, a human TCRs mini-locus containing a total 67 human
TCRpV (48 functional) and the human TCRs D and J segments was generated. Mouse
TCRBV31 is located -9.4 kb 3' of TCRBC2 (second TCRB constant region sequence) and is
in the opposite orientation to the other TCRBV segments. The equivalent human V segment
is TCRBV30, which is located in a similar position in the human TCRB locus.
[00177]     To humanize TCRBV31, the mouse BAC clone containing mouse TCRBV31, was
modified by bacterial homologous recombination to make LTVEC MAID 6192 (FIG. 8F). The
entire coding region, beginning at the start codon in exon 1, the intron, the 3' UTR, and the
recombination signal sequences (RSS) of TCRBV31 were replaced with the homologous
human TCRBV30 sequences. The 5' UTR was kept as mouse sequence. For selection, a
self-deleting cassette (lox2372-Ubiquitin promoter-Hyg-PGKpolyA-Protamine promoter-Cre
SV40polyA-lox2372) was inserted in the intron (72 bp 3' of exon 1,289 bp 5' of exon 2). For
simplicity, FIGs. 7 and 8 depict the selection cassette 3' of the hTCRBV30, while it was
engineered to be located in the intron between exon 1 and exon 2 of the hTCRBV30 gene.
The protamine promoter driving Cre expression is transcribed exclusively in post-meiotic
spermatids, so the cassette is "self-deleted" in the F1 generation of mice.
 [00178]    The junctional nucleic acid sequences (SEQ ID NOs: 26 and 27) for the MAID
6192 targeting vector are described in Table 3. MAID 6192 DNA is electroporated into
                                               50

    WO 2013/063361                                                          PCT/US2012/062065
MAID1 792 ES cells. ES cell clones are selected for hygromycin-resistance and screened for
loss of mouse TCRB31 allele and gain of human TCRB30 allele.
[00179]     Similar engineering strategy is used to optionally delete the remaining 5' mouse
TCRs V segment.
Example 4: Generation of TCRa/TCRp Mice
[00180]     At each step of progressive humanization of TCRax and TCRP loci, mice
homozygous for humanized TCRa variable locus may be bred with mice homozygous for
humanized TCRs variable locus to form progeny comprising humanized TCRat and TCRs
variable loci. Progeny are bred to homozygosity with respect to humanized TCRa and
humanized TCRp loci.
[00181]     In one embodiment, mice homozygous for humanized TCRa variable locus
comprising 8 human Va and 61 human Ja (MAID 1767; "1767 HO") were bred with mice
homozygous for humanized TCRp variable locus comprising 14 human VP, 2 human Ds,
and 14 human JP (MAID 1716; "1716 HO"). Progeny were bred to homozygosity with
respect to both humanized loci.
Example 5: Splenic T cell Production in Mice Homozygous for Humanized TCRa
and/or TCRp Locus
[00182]     Spleens from wild type (WT) mice; mice with deleted mouse TCRa locus
("MAID1540", see FIG.3); mice homozygous for human TCRa locus ("MAID 1767", see
FIG. 3); mice with deleted TCRp V segments with the exception of two remaining mouse V
segments ("MAID1 545", see FIG.7); mice homozygous for human TCRs locus, also
comprising the two remaining mouse V segments ("MAID 1716", see FIG. 7); and mice
homozygous for both human TCRa and TCRp loci, with TCRs locus also comprising the two
remaining mouse V segments ("MAID 1767 1716") were perfused with Collagenase D
(Roche Bioscience) and erythrocytes were lysed with ACK lysis buffer, followed by washing
in RPMI medium.
[00183]     Splenocytes from a single WT, MAID 1540, 1767, 1545, 1716, and 1716 1767
representative animal were evaluated by flow cytometry. Briefly, cell suspensions were
made using standard methods. 1x10 6 cells were incubated with anti-mouse CD16/CD32
(2.4G2, BD) on ice for 10 minutes stained with the appropriate cocktail of antibodies for 30
minutes on ice. Following staining, cells were washed and then fixed in 2% formaldehyde.
Data acquisition was performed on an LSRII/Cantoll/LSRFortessa flow cytometer and
analyzed with FlowJo.
                                               51

    WO 2013/063361                                                           PCT/US2012/062065
 [00184]      For staining of splenocytes, anti-mouse FITC-CD3 (17A2, BD) was used. As
 demonstrated in FIG. 9, mice with human TCR segments were able to produce significant
 numbers of CD3+ T cells, while mice with TCRa mouse locus deletion did not. Mice with
 TCRp locus deletion also produced CD3+ T cells, presumably due to utilization of the
 remaining 3' mouse V segment (see below).
 Example 6: Thymic T Cell Development in Mice Homozygous for Humanized TCRa
 and/or TCRP Locus
 [00185]     To determine whether mice homozygous for humanized TCRa and/or TCRs
 locus exhibited normal T cell development in the thymus, splenocytes from four of each WT,
 1767 HO, 1716 HO, and 1716 HO 1767 HO age matched animals (7-10 weeks old) were
 used in flow cytometry to evaluate production of T cells at various developmental stages, as
well as to evaluate frequency and absolute number of each of DN, DP, CD4 SP, and CD8
 SP T cells.
 [00186]     Cell type determinations were made based on the presence of CD4, CD8, CD44,
and CD25 cell surface markers as summarized in Table 1. Correlation between cell type
designation and expression of cell surface markers in the thymus is as follows: double
negative (DN) cells (CD4- CD8-), double positive (DP) cells (CD4+ CD8+), CD4 single
positive cells (CD4+ CD8-), CD8 single positive cells (CD4- CD8+), double negative 1/DN1
cells (CD4- CD8-, CD25- CD44+), double negative 2/DN2 cells (CD4- CD8-, CD25+
CD44+), double negative 3/DN3 cells (CD4- CD8-, CD25+ CD44-), double negative 4/DN4
cells (CD4- CD8-, CD25- CD44-).
[00187]      Thymocytes were evaluated by flow cytometry. Briefly, cell suspensions were
made using standard methods. Flow cytometry was conducted as described in Example 5.
Antibodies used were: anti-mouse PE-CD44 (IM7, BioLegend), PeCy7-CD25 (PC61,
BioLegend), APC-H7-CD8a (53-6.7, BD), and APC-CD4 (GK1 .5, eBioscience).
[00188]      As shown in FIGs 10 and 11, mice homozygous for humanized TCRa, TCRp,
and both TCRa and TCRs were able to produce a DN1, DN2, DN3, DN4, DP, CD4 SP, and
CD8 SP T cells, indicating that the T cells produced from the humanized loci are capable of
undergoing T cell development in the thymus.
Example 7: Splenic T Cell Differentiation in Mice Homozygous for Humanized TCRa
and/or TCRP Locus
[00189]      To determine whether mice homozygous for humanized TCRa and/or TCRp
locus exhibited normal T cell differentiation in the periphery (e.g., spleen), four of each WT,
1767 HO, 1716 HO, and 1716 HO 1767 HO age matched animals (7-10 weeks old) were
                                                 52

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
used in flow cytometry to evaluate production of various T cell types in the spleen (CD3+,
CD4+, CD8+, T naive, Tcm, and Teff/em), as well as to evaluate the absolute number of
each T cell type in the spleen.
[00190]      Cell type determinations were made based on the presence of CD19 (B cell
marker), CD3 (T cell marker), CD4, CD8, CD44, and CD62L (L-selectin) cell surface
markers. Correlation between cell type designation and expression of cell surface markers
in the spleen is as follows: T cells (CD3+), CD4 T cells (CD3+ CD4+ CD8-), CD8 T cells
(CD3+ CD4- CD8+), CD4 effector/effector memory T cells (CD3+ CD4+ CD8- CD62L
CD44+), CD4 central memory T cells (CD3+ CD4+ CD8- CD62L+ CD44+), CD4 naive T
cells (CD3+ CD4+ CD8- CD62L+ CD44-), CD8 effector/effector memory T cells (CD3+ CD4
CD8+ CD62L- CD44+), CD8 central memory T cells (CD3+ CD4- CD8+ CD62L+ CD44+),
CD8 naive T cells (CD3+ CD4- CD8+ CD62L+ CD44-).
[00191]      Splenocytes were evaluated by flow cytometry. Briefly, cell suspensions were
made using standard methods. Flow cytometry was conducted as described in Example 5.
Antibodies used were: anti-mouse FITC-CD3 (17A2, BD), PE-CD44 (IM7, BioLegend),
PerCP-Cy5.5-CD62L (Mel-14, BioLegend), APC-H7-CD8a (53-6.7, BD), APC-CD4 (GK1.5,
eBioscience), and V450-CD19 (1D3, BD).
[00192]      As shown in FIGs. 12-14, T cells in the spleen of mice homozygous for
humanized TCRax, TCRs, and both TCRa and TCRp were able to undergo T cell
differentiation, and both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were present. In addition, memory T cells
were detected in the spleens of the mice tested.
Example 8: Utilization of Human V Segments in Humanized TCR Mice
[00193]      Expression of human TCRs V segments was evaluated on protein and RNA level
using flow cytometry and TAQMAN Tm real-time PCR, respectively, in mice homozygous for
humanized TCRs locus (1716 HO) and mice homozygous for both humanized TCRp and
TCRa locus (1716 HO 1767 HO).
[00194]      For flow cytometry, splenic T cell were prepared and analysis conducted as
described in Example 5. For flow cytometry, TCRs repertoire kit (IOTEST@ Beta Mark,
Beckman Coulter) was used. The kit contains anti-human antibodies specific for a number
of human TCRBVs, e.g., hTRBV-18, -19, -20, -25, -27, -28, and -29.
[00195]      Results are summarized in FIG. 15. The tables presented in FIG. 15A (CD8 T
cell overlay) and FIG. 15B (CD4 T cell overlay) demonstrate that splenic T cells in both 1716
HO and 1716 HO 1767 HO mice utilized a number of human TCRP V segments. The wild
type mice were used as a negative control.
                                                 53

    WO 2013/063361                                                      PCT/US2012/062065
[00196]     For real-time PCR, total RNA was purified from spleen and thymus using
MAGMAX TM-96 for Microarrays Total RNA Isolation Kit (Ambion by Life Technologies)
according to manufacturer's specifications. Genomic DNA was removed using
MAGMAX TmTURBO TmDNase Buffer and TURBO DNase from the MAGMAX kit listed above
(Ambion by Life Technologies). mRNA (up to 2.5ug) was reverse-transcribed into cDNA
using SUPERSCRIPT@ VILO TM Master Mix (Invitrogen by Life Technologies). cDNA was
diluted to 2-5ng/ L, and 10-25ng cDNA was amplified with the TAQMAN@ Gene Expression
Master Mix (Applied Biosystems by Life Technologies) using the ABI 7900HT Sequence
Detection System (Applied Biosystems), using the primers and Taqman MGB probes
(Applied Biosystems) or BHQ1/BHQ-Plus probes (Biosearch Technologies) depicted in
Table 4 according to manufacturer's instructions. The relative expression of each gene was
normalized to the murine TCR beta constant 1 (TRBC1) control.
Table 4: Primers and Probes Used for Detecting RNA Expression of TCRs V
Segments and Constant Region in Humanized TCR Mice by Real-Time PCR
(TAQMAN"')
 TRBV        Sense Primer (5'-3')       Antisense Primer (5'-3')             Probe (5'-3')
          Sequence            SED     Sequence                 SED    Sequence             SED
                              ID NO                            ID NO                       ID NO
hTRBV     CCGGCGTCATGC        28      GGGCTGCATCTCAGT          29     FAM-                 30
18        AGAA                        CTTGC                           CACCTGGTCAGG
                                                                      AGGAGG -MGB
hTRBV     GGAATCACTCAG        31      ATTCTGTTCACAACTC         32     FAM-                 33
19        TCCCCAAAG                   AGGGTCA                         TCAGAAAGGAAG
                                                                      GACAGAAT-MGB
hTRBV     CGAGCAAGGCGT        34      GGACAAGGTCAGGCT          35     FAM-                 36
20        CGAGAA                      TGCA                            ACAAGTTTCTCAT
                                                                      CAACC- MGB
hTRBV     TGTTACCCAGAC        37      TCTGAGAACATTCCA          38     FAM-                 39
24        CCCAAGGA                    GCATAATCCT                      TAGGATCACAAAG
                                                                      ACAGGAA - MGB
hTRBV     TCCCCTGACCCT        40      TGCTGGCACAGAGGT         41      FAM-                 42
25        GGAGTCT                     ACTGAGA                         CAGGCCCTCACAT
                                                                      AC- MGB
hTRBV     AAGCCCAAGTGA        43      ATTCTGAGAACAAGT         44      FAM-                 45
27        CCCAGAA                     CACTGTTAACTTC                   CTCATCACAGTGA
                                                                      CTGGAA- MGB
                                              54

    WO 2013/063361                                                       PCT/US2012/062065
 TRBV       Sense Primer (5'-3')          Antisense Primer (5'-3')           Probe (5'-3')
          Sequence             SED     Sequence                SED    Sequence              SED
                               ID NO                           ID NO                        ID NO
hTRBV     GTGAAAGTAACC         46      ATCCTGGACACATTC         47     FAM-                  48
28        CAGAGCTCGAG                  CAGAAAAAC                      ATATCTAGTCAAA
                                                                      AGGACGGGA
                                                                      MGB
hTRBV     TGTCATTGACAA         49      TGCTGTCTTCAGGGC         50     FAM-                  51
29        GTTTCCCATCAG                 TCATG                          TCAACTCTGACTG
                                                                      TGAGCA- MGB
mTRBC     AGCCGCCTGAGG         52      GCCACTTGTCCTCCT         53     FAM-                  54
1         GTCTCT                       CTGAAAG                        TACCTTCTGGCAC
                                                                      AATCCTCGCA
                                                                      BHQ
[00197]    As demonstrated in FIGs. 16A-B, mice homozygous for humanized TCRs locus
(1716 HO) and mice homozygous for both humanized TCRp and TCRa locus (1716 HO
1767 HO) exhibited RNA expression of various human TCRs segments in both the thymus
and the spleen. Mice also exhibited RNA expression of mouse TRBV-1 and TRBV-31
segments (data not shown), but no mouse TRBV-1 protein was detected by flow cytometry
(data not shown).
[00198]    Mouse TRBV-31 segment is replaced with human TRBV-30 segment as
demonstrated in FIG. 8F, and mice are generated from MAID 6192 ES cells as described
herein. The spleens and thymi of resulting homozygous animals are tested for utilization of
human Vs segments, including TRBV-30, by flow cytometry and/or real-time PCR as
described herein. mTRBV-1 segment may also be deleted.
Example 9: T Cell Development in Mice Homozygous for 23 Human TCR Va
Segments
[00199]     Homozygous humanized TCRa mice characterized in the previous examples
contained 8 human Va segments and 61 human Ja segments (1767 HO, see FIG. 3).
Homozygous humanized TCRat mice comprising 23 human Va segments and 61 human Ja
segments (1979 HO, see FIG. 3) were tested for their ability to generate splenic CD3+ T
cells and exhibit T cell development in the thymus.
[00200]     Experimental data was obtained using flow cytometry using appropriate
antibodies as described in the preceding examples. As depicted in FIG. 17, a mouse
homozygous for 23 human Va segments and 61 human Ja segments produced a significant
                                               55

    WO 2013/063361                                                            PCT/US2012/062065
number of splenic CD3+ T cells, and the percent of peripheral CD3+ T cells was comparable
to that of the wild type animals (FIG. 19).
[00201]      Moreover, thymocytes in 1979 HO mice were able to undergo T cell development
and contained T cells at DN1, DN2, DN3, DN4, DP, CD4 SP, and CD8 SP stages (FIG. 18).
Example 10: T Cell Development and Differentiation in Mice Homozygous for a
Complete Repertoire of Both Human TCRa and TCR               P Variable   Region Segments
[00202]      Mice homozygous for a complete repertoire of human TCRa variable region
segments (i.e., 54 human Va and 61 human Jat) and homozygous for a complete repertoire
of human TCRs variable region segments (67 human Vs, 2 human DP, and 14 human Js),
"1771 HO 6192 HO" (see FIGs. 3 and 7), are tested for their ability to produce thymocytes
that undergo normal T cell development, produce T cells that undergo normal T cell
differentiation in the periphery, and utilize the complete repertoire of their human Vc and VP
segments.
[00203]      Flow cytometry is conducted to determine the presence of DN1, DN2, DN3, DN4,
DP, CD4 SP and CD8 SP T cells in the thymus using anti-mouse CD4, CD8, CD25, and
CD44 antibodies as described above in Examples 5 and 6. Flow cytometry is also
conducted to determine the number of CD3+ T cells in the periphery, as well as to evaluate
T cell differentiation in the periphery (e.g., presence of effector and memory T cells in the
periphery). The experiment is conducted using anti-mouse CD3, CD19, CD4, CD8, CD44,
and CD62L antibodies as described above in Examples 5 and 7.
[00204]      Finally, flow cytometry and/or real-time PCR are conducted to determine whether
T cells in 1771 HO 6192 HO mice utilize a complete repertoire of TCRB and TCRA V
segments. For protein expression using flow cytometry, TCRs repertoire kit (IOTEST@ Beta
Mark, Beckman Coulter), containing anti-human hTCRBV-specific antibodies, is utilized (see
Example 8). For RNA expression using real-time PCR, cDNAs from spleens or thymi are
amplified using human TCR-V primers and Taqman probes, according to manufacturers
instructions and as described above in Example 8.
Equivalents
[00205]      Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
routine experimentation, many equivalents of the specific embodiments of the invention
described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following
claims.
                                                  56

    WO 2013/063361                                                         PCT/US2012/062065
[00206]     Entire contents of all non-patent documents, patent applications and patents
cited throughout this application are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
                                               57

What is claimed is:
1.     A genetically modified non-human animal, comprising in its genome:
       an unrearranged T cell receptor (TCR) a variable gene locus comprising at least
one human Va segment and at least one human Ja segment, operably linked to a non
human TCRa constant gene sequence.
2.     The animal of claim 1, wherein the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus
replaces an endogenous non-human TCRa variable gene locus.
3.     The animal of claim 1, wherein endogenous non-human Va and Ja segments are
incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence.
4.     The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal lacks a functional endogenous non
human TCRa variable locus.
5.     The animal of claim 4, wherein the lack of the functional endogenous non-human
TCRa variable locus comprises a deletion selected from the group consisting of (a) a
deletion of all endogenous Va gene segments, (b) a deletion of all endogenous Ja gene
segments, and (c) a combination thereof.
6.     The animal of claim 1, wherein the human Va and Ja segments rearrange to
form a rearranged human Va/Ja sequence.
7.     The animal of claim 6, wherein the animal expresses a T cell receptor comprising
a human TCRa variable region on the surface of a T cell.
8.     The animal of claim 1, wherein T cells of the animal undergo thymic T cell
development to produce CD4 and CD8 single positive T cells.
9.     The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal comprises a normal ratio of splenic
CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes.
10.    The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal generates a population of central and
effector memory T cells to an antigen of interest.
                                            58

11.    The animal of claim 1, wherein the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus
comprises a complete repertoire of human Ja segments and a complete repertoire of
human Va segments.
12.    The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal retains an endogenous non-human
TCRa variable gene locus, and wherein the locus is a non-functional locus.
13.    The animal of claim 1, wherein the animal is a rodent.
14.    The animal of claim 13, wherein the rodent is a mouse.
15.    A genetically modified non-human animal, comprising in its genome:
       an unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus comprising at least one human VP
segment, at least one human DP segment, and at least one human JP segment,
operably linked to a non-human TCR constant gene sequence.
16.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus
replaces an endogenous non-human TCRP variable gene locus.
17.    The animal of claim 15, wherein endogenous rodent VP, DP, and JP segments
are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
18.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the animal lacks a functional endogenous non
human TCRP variable locus.
19.    The animal of claim 18, wherein the lack of the functional endogenous rodent
TCRP variable locus comprises a deletion selected from the group consisting of (a) a
deletion of all endogenous VP gene segments, (b) a deletion of all endogenous DP gene
segments, (c) a deletion of all endogenous JP gene segments, and (d) a combination
thereof.
20.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the human VP, DP, and JP segments rearrange
to form a rearranged human Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
                                            59

21.    The animal of claim 20, wherein the animal expresses a T cell receptor
comprising a human TCRP variable region on the surface of a T cell.
22.    The animal of claim 15, wherein T cells of the animal undergo thymic T cell
development to produce CD4 and CD8 single positive T cells.
23.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the animal comprises a normal ratio of splenic
CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes.
24.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the animal generates a population of central and
effector memory T cells to an antigen of interest.
25.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus
comprises a complete repertoire of human JP segments, a complete repertoire of
human DP segments, and a complete repertoire of human VP segments.
26.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the animal retains an endogenous non-human
TCRP variable gene locus, and wherein the locus is a non-functional locus.
27.    The animal of claim 15, wherein the animal is a rodent.
28.    The animal of claim 27, wherein the rodent is a mouse.
29.    A genetically modified non-human animal, comprising in its genome:
       an unrearranged T cell receptor (TCR) a variable gene locus comprising at least
one human Va segment and at least one human Ja segment, operably linked to a non
human TCRa constant gene sequence; and,
       an unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus comprising at least one human VP
segment, at least one human DP segment, and at least one human JP segment,
operably linked to a non-human TCRP constant gene sequence.
30.    The animal of claim 29, wherein the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus
replaces an endogenous non-human TCRa variable gene locus, and wherein the
                                            60

unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus replaces an endogenous non-human TCRP
variable gene locus.
31.     The animal of claim 29, wherein endogenous non-human Va and Ja segments
are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence, and wherein
endogenous non-human VP, DP, and JP segments are incapable of rearranging to form
a rearranged Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
32.     The animal of claim 29, wherein the animal lacks a functional endogenous non
human TCRa variable locus and lacks a functional endogenous non-human TCRP
variable locus.
33.     The animal of claim 32, wherein the lack of the functional endogenous non
human TCRa variable locus comprises a deletion selected from the group consisting of
(a) a deletion of all endogenous Va gene segments, (b) a deletion of all endogenous Ja
gene segments, and (c) a combination thereof;
        and the lack of the functional endogenous non-human TCRP variable locus
comprises a deletion selected from the group consisting of (a) a deletion of all
endogenous vp gene segments, (b) a deletion of all endogenous DP gene segments, (c)
a deletion of all endogenous JP gene segments, and (d) a combination thereof.
34.     The animal of claim 29, wherein the human Va and Ja segments rearrange to
form a rearranged human Va/Ja sequence, and the human VP, DP, and JP segments
rearrange to form a rearranged human Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
35.     The animal of claim 34, wherein the animal expresses a T cell receptor
comprising a human variable region and a non-human constant region on a surface of a
T cell.
36.     The animal of claim 29, wherein T cells of the animal undergo thymic T cell
development to produce CD4 and CD8 single positive T cells.
37.     The animal of claim 29, wherein the animal comprises a normal ratio of splenic
CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes.
                                           61

38.    The animal of claim 29, wherein the animal generates a population of central and
effector memory T cells to an antigen of interest.
39.    The animal of claim 29, wherein the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus
comprises 61 human Ja segments and 8 human Va segments, and wherein the
unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus comprises 14 human JP segments, 2 human
DP segments, and 14 human vp segments.
40.    The animal of claim 29, wherein the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus
comprises a complete repertoire of human Ja segments and a complete repertoire of
human Va segments, and wherein the unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus
comprises a complete repertoire of human JP segments, a complete repertoire of
human DP segments, and a complete repertoire of human VP segments.
41.    The animal of claim 29, wherein the animal retains endogenous non-human
TCRa and TCRP variable gene loci, and wherein the loci are non-functional loci.
42.    The animal of claim 29, wherein the animal further comprises nucleotide
sequences of human V6 segments at a humanized TCRa locus.
43.    The animal of claim 42, wherein the animal further comprises a complete
repertoire of human V6 segments, a complete repertoire of human D6 segments, and a
complete repertoire of human J6 segments at the humanized TCRa locus.
44.    The animal of claim 29, wherein the animal is a rodent.
45.    The animal of claim 44, wherein the rodent is a mouse.
46.    A method for making a genetically modified non-human animal that expresses a
T cell receptor comprising a human variable region and a non-human constant region
on a surface of a T cell comprising:
        replacing in a first non-human animal an endogenous non-human TCRa variable
gene locus with an unrearranged humanized TCRa variable gene locus comprising at
least one human Va segment and at least one human Ja segment to generate a
                                            62

humanized TCRa variable gene locus, wherein the humanized TCRa variable gene
locus is operably linked to endogenous non-human TCRa constant region;
       replacing in a second non-human animal an endogenous non-human TCRP
variable gene locus with an unrearranged humanized TCRP variable gene locus
comprising at least one human VP segment, at least one human DP segment, and at
least one human JP segment to generate a humanized TCRP variable gene locus,
wherein the humanized TCRP variable gene locus is operably linked to endogenous
non-human TCR constant region; and
       breeding the first and the second animal to obtain a non-human animal that
expresses a T cell receptor comprising a human variable region and a non-human
constant region.
47.    The method of claim 46, wherein endogenous non-human Va and Ja segments
are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence, and wherein
endogenous non-human VP, DP, and JP segments are incapable of rearranging to form
a rearranged Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
48.    The method of claim 46, wherein the genetically modified animal lacks a
functional endogenous non-human TCRa variable locus and lacks a functional
endogenous non- human TCRP variable locus.
49.    The method of claim 48, wherein the lack of the functional endogenous non
human TCRa variable locus comprises a deletion selected from the group consisting of
(a) a deletion of all endogenous Va gene segments, (b) a deletion of all endogenous Ja
gene segments, and (c) a combination thereof;
       and the lack of the functional endogenous non-human TCRP variable locus
comprises a deletion selected from the group consisting of (a) a deletion of all
endogenous VP gene segments, (b) a deletion of all endogenous DP gene segments,
(c) a deletion of all endogenous JP gene segments, and (d) a combination thereof.
                                           63

50.    The method of claim 46, wherein the human Va and Ja segments rearrange to
form a rearranged human Va/Ja sequence, and the human VP, DP, and JP segments
rearrange to form a rearranged human Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
51.    The method of claim 46, wherein T cells of the rodent undergo thymic T cell
development to produce CD4 and CD8 single positive T cells.
52.    The method of claim 46, wherein the animal comprises a normal ratio of splenic
CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes.
53.    The method of claim 46, wherein the animal generates a population of central
and effector memory T cells to an antigen of interest.
54.    The method of claim 46, wherein the unrearranged humanized TCRa variable
gene locus comprises 61 human Ja segments and 8 human Va segments, and wherein
the unrearranged humanized TCRP variable gene locus comprises 14 human JP
segments, 2 human DP segments, and 14 human VP segments.
55.    The method of claim 46, wherein the unrearranged humanized TCRa variable
gene locus comprises a complete repertoire of human Ja segments and a complete
repertoire of human Va segments, and wherein the unrearranged humanized TCRP
variable gene locus comprises a complete repertoire of human JP segments, a
complete repertoire of human DP segments, and a complete repertoire of human VP
segments.
56.    The method of claim 46, wherein the non-human animal is a rodent.
57.    The method of claim 56, wherein the rodent is a mouse.
58.    A genetically modified mouse comprising in its genome:
       an unrearranged T cell receptor (TCR) a variable gene locus comprising a
complete repertoire of human Ja segments and a complete repertoire of human Va
segments, operably linked to a mouse TCRa constant gene sequence, and
                                           64

       an unrearranged TCRP variable gene locus comprising a complete repertoire of
human JP segments, a complete repertoire of human DP segments, and a complete
repertoire of human VP segments, operably linked to a mouse TCRP constant gene
sequence.
59.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein the unrearranged TCRa variable gene locus
replaces endogenous mouse TCRa variable gene locus, and wherein the unrearranged
TCRP variable gene locus replaces the endogenous mouse TCRP variable gene locus.
60.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein the endogenous mouse Va and Ja segments
are incapable of rearranging to form a rearranged Va/Ja sequence, and wherein the
endogenous mouse VP, DP, and JP segments are incapable of rearranging to form a
rearranged Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
61.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein the human Va and Ja segments rearrange to
form a rearranged human Va/Ja sequence, and the human VP, DP, and JP segments
rearrange to form a rearranged human Vp/DP/Jp sequence.
62.    The mouse of claim 61, wherein the mouse expresses a T cell receptor
comprising a human variable region and a mouse constant region on a surface of a T
cell.
63.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein T cells of the mouse undergo thymic T cell
development to produce CD4 and CD8 single positive T cells.
64.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein the mouse comprises a normal ratio of splenic
CD3+ T cells to total splenocytes.
65.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein the mouse generates a population of central and
effector memory T cells to an antigen of interest.
66.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein the mouse further comprises a complete
repertoire of V6, a complete repertoire of D6, and a complete repertoire of J6 segments
at a humanized TCRa locus.
                                            65

67.    The mouse of claim 58, wherein the mouse retains endogenous mouse TCRa
and TCRP variable gene loci, and wherein the loci are non-functional loci.
68.    A method of producing a human T cell receptor to an antigen of interest
comprising:
       immunizing a non-human animal of claim 1 with the antigen of interest;
       allowing the animal to mount an immune response;
       isolating from the animal a T cell reactive to the antigen of interest;
       determining a nucleic acid sequence of a human TCR variable region expressed
by the T cell;
       cloning the human TCR variable region into a nucleotide construct comprising a
nucleic acid sequence of a human TCR constant region, wherein the human TCR
variable region is operably linked to the human TCR constant region; and
       expressing a human T cell receptor in a cell.
                                             66

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
