A cassette integrated system, the cassette integrated system includes a mixing cassette, a
balancing cassette, a middle cassette fluidly connected to the mixing cassette and the
balancing cassette and at least one pod. The mixing cassette is fluidly connected to the middle
cassette by at least one fluid line and the middle cassette is fluidly connected to the balancing
cassette by at least one fluid line. The at least one pod is connected to at least two of the
cassettes wherein the pod is located in an area between the cassettes.

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
                     CASSETTE SYSTEM INTEGRATED APPARATI US
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
             This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No,
 5  11/871,803, filed October 12, 2007, entitled Cassette System [itegrated Apparatus
    (Attorney Docket No. DEKA-023XX) which is herein incorporated by reference in its
    entirety, which claims prior iv from the following United States Provisional Patent
    Applications, both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties:
             U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60/904,024 entitled Hemodialysis System
10  and Methods filed on February 27, 2007; and
             U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60/921314 entitled Sensor Apparatus
    filed on April 2, 2007 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
                                         TECHNICAL FIELD
             The present invention relates to a cassette system integrated apparatus for pumping
15  fluid,
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             In accordance with one aspect of the cassette integrated system, the cassette
    integrated system includes a mixing cassette, a balancing cassette, a middle cassette fluidly
    connected to the mixing cassette and the balancing cassette and at least one pod. The
20  mixing cassette is fluidly connected to the niiddle cassette by at least one fluid line and the
    middle cassette is fluidly connected to the balancing cassette by at least one fhid line. The
    at least one pod is connected to at least two of the cassettes wherein the pod is located in an
    area between the cassettes.
             Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
25  following. Where the housing includes a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate. Where
    the pod includes a curved rigid chamber wall having at least one fluid inlet and at least one
    fluid outlet. Where the mixing cassette, middle cassette and said balancing cassette further
    include at least one valve, In some embodiments the valve is a membrane valve, Where at
    least one of the fluid lines connecting the cassettes is a rigid hollow cylindrical structure,
30  Some embodiments include where at least one of the fluid lines cornecting the cassettes
    contain a check valve within the cylindrical structure. Some embodiments of the system
    include where the mixing cassette further includes at least one metering membrane pump
    within the mixing cassette housing. The mixing chamber fluidly connects to the fluid outlet

    WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
     line. Some embodiments of the system include where the balancing cassette further
     includes at least one metering pump within the housing and fluidly connected to a fluid line.
     The metering pump pumps a predetermined volume of a fluid such that the fluid bypasses
     the balancing chambers and wherein the metering pump is a membrane pmp.
  5           In accordance with one aspect of the cassette integrated system, the cassette
     integrated system includes a mixing cassette, a middle cassette and a balancing cassette.
     The mixing cassette includes a mixing cassette housing including at least one fluid inlet line
     and at least one fluid outlet line. The mixing cassette also includes at least one
     reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump fluidly connected to the housing. The
10   pressure pump pumps at least one fluid from the fluid Inlet Eie to at least one of the fluid
     outlet line. The mixing cassette also includes at least one mixing chamber fluidly connected
     to the housing, The mixing chamber is fluidly connected to the fluid outlet line. The
     middle cassette includes a housing. having at least one fluid port and at least one air vent
     port, the air vent port vents a fluid source outside the middle cassette housing. The middle
1.5  cassette also includes at least one reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump
     fluidly connected to the housing, The pump pumps a fluid. The balancing cassette includes
     a housing including at least two inlet fluid lines and at least two outlet fluid lines. Also, at
     least one balancing pod fluidly connected to the1balancing cassette housing and in fluid
     connection with the fluid paths. The balancing pod balances the flow of a first fluid and the
20   flow of a second fluid such that the volume of the first fluid equals the volume of the second
     fluid. The balancing pod includes a membrane wherein the membrane forms two balancing
     chambers. The balancing cassette also includes at least one reciprocating pressure
     displacement membrane pump fluidly connected to the balancing cassette housing. The
     pressure pump pumps a fluid from the fluid inlet line to the fluid outlet line. The mixing
25   cassette is fluidly connected to the middle cassette by at least one fluid line, and the middle
     cassette is fluidly connected to the balancing pod by at least one fluid line, The
     reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pumps, mixing chamber and balancing pod
     are connected to the housings such that the reciprocating pressure displacement membrane
     pumps, mixing chamber and balancing pod are located in areas between the cassettes.
30            Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
     following. Where the cassette housings include a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate.
     Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pump includes a curved rigid chamber wall
     and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall The flexible membrane and
     the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Also, in some embodiments, the

   WO 2008/106538                                                              PCT/US2008/055168
    balancing pod includes a curved rigid chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the
    rigid chamber wall, The flexible membrane and the rigid chamber wall define two
    balancing chambers. Where the mixing chamber includes a curved rigid chamber wall
    having at least one fluid inlet and at least one fluid outlet. Where the mixing cassette,
 5  middle cassette and the balancing cassette further include at least one valve. Some
    embodirments of the valve inchide where the valve is a membrane valve. Some
    embodiments include where the membrane valve is a volcano valve.
             Soie embodiments include where the at least one of the fluid lines connecting the
    cassettes is a rigid hollow cylindrical structure. Some embodiments include where at least
10  one of the fluid lines connecting the cassettes contain a check valve within the cylindrical
    structure. Some embodiments of the system include where the mixing cassette further
    includes at least one metering membrane pump within the mixing cassette housing, The
    mixing chamber fluidly connects to the fluid outlet line. Some embodiments of the system
    include where the balancing cassette further includes at least one metering pump within the
15  housing and fluidly connected to a fluid line. The metering pump pumps a predetermined
    volume of a fluid such that the fluid bypasses the balancing chambers and wherein the
    metering pump is a membrane pump,
             In accordance with one aspect of the cassette integrated system, the cassette
    integrated system includes a mixing cassette, a middle cassette and a balancing cassette.
20  The mixing cassette includes a mixing cassette housing including at least one fluid inlet line
    and at least one fluid outlet line. Also, at least one reciprocating pressure displacement
    membrane pump fluidly connected to the housing. The pressure pump puipsf            at least one
    fluid from the fluid inlet line to at least one of the fluid outlet line. The mixing cassette also
    inlUdes at least one mixing chamber fluidly connected to the housing. The mixing
25  chamber is fluidly connected to the fluid outlet line. A plurality of membrane valves and a
    plurality of fluid lines are also included. The valves control the flow of fluid in the fluid
    lines. The mixing cassette also includes at least one metering membrane punp within the
    mixing cassette housing. The mixing chamber is fluidly connected to the fluid outlet line.
             The middle cassette includes a middle cassette housing having at least one fluid port
30  and at least one air vent port. The air vent port vents a fluid source outside the housing,
    Also includes are a plurality of fluid lines within the middle cassette housing and a plurality
    of membrane valves. The valves control the flow of fluid in the fluid. At least one
    reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump fluidly connected to the housing is
    also included. The pump pumps a fluid.
                                                     3

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
             The balancing cassette includes a balancing cassette housing including at least one
    inlet fluid line and at least one outlet fluid line. A plurality of membrane valves and a
    plurality of fluid paths are also included, The valves control the flow of fluid in thie fluid
    paths. At least one balancing pod fluidly connected to the balancing cassette housing and in
 5  fluid connection with the fluid paths is also included. The balancing pod balances the flow
    of a first fluid and the flow of a second fluid such that the volume of the first fluid equals
    the volume of the second fluid. The balancing pod includes a membrane which forms two
    balancing chambers- The balancing cassette also includes at least one reciprocating
    pressure displacement membrane pump fluidly connected to the balancing cassette housing.
10  The pressure pump pumps a fluid from the fluid inlet line to the fluid outlet line. Also, at
    least one metering pump within said housing and fluidly connected to a fluid line, wherein
    said metering pump is included, The metering pump pumps a predetermined volume of a
    fluid such that the fluid bypasses the balancing chambers. The metering pump is a
    membrane pump,
15           The mixing cassette is fluidly connected to the middle cassette by at least one fluid
    line. Also, the middle cassette is fluidly connected to the balancing pod by at least one fluid
    line. The reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pumps, mixing chamber and
    balancing pod are connected to the housings such that they are located in areas between said
    cassettes.
20           Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include where at least one of the
    fluid lines connecting the cassettes is a rigid hollow cylindrical structure.
             In accordance with one aspect of the pumping cassette, the cassette is a cassette
    including a housing having at least two inlet fluid lines and at least two outlet fluid lines.
    At least one balancing pod within the housing and in fluid connection with the fluid paths.
25  The balancing pod balances the flow of a first fluid and the flow of a second fluid such that
    the volume of the first fluid equals the volume of the second fluid. The balancing pod also
    includes a membrane that forms two balancing chambers. Also included in the cassette is at
    least two reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pumps. The pumps are within the
    housing and they pump the fluid from a fluid inlet to a fluid outlet line and pump the second
30  fluid from a fluid inlet to a fluid outlet.
             Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
    following. Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pumps includes a curved rigid
    chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall, The flexible
    membrane and the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Also, where the cassette
                                                       4

   WO 2008/106538                                                              PCT/US2008/055168
    housing includes a top plate, midplate and a bottom plate, Also, where the cassette further
    includes a metering pump within the housing. The metering pump is fluidly connected to a
    fluid line and pumps a volume of a fluid, Also, where the pressure pump and the metering
    pump are pneumati           actuated pumps. Also, where the metering pump pumps a volume
 5  of a fluid such that the fluid bypasses the balancing chambers and the metering pump is a
    membrane pump. Also, where the cassette includes at least one fluid valve. Also, where
    the cassette includes at least two fluid valves actuated by one pneumatic valve.
             In accordance with another aspect of the cassette is a cassette including a housing
    that includes at least one inlet fluid line and at least one outlet fluid line. The cassette also
10  includes at least one balancing pod within the housing and in fluid connection with the fluid
    paths. The balancing pod balances the flow of a first fluid and the flow of a second fluid
    such that the volume of the first fluid equals the volume of the second fluid. The balancing
    pod includes a membrane wherein the membrane forms two chambers within the balancing
    pod. Also included in the cassette is at least one reciprocating pressure displacement
15  membrane pump within the housing. The pressure pump pumps a fluid from the fluid inlet
    line to the fluid outlet line. A metering pump is also included within the housing. The
    metering pump is fluidly connected to a fluid line, The metering pump pumps a
    predetermined volume of a fluid such that the fluid bypasses the balancing chambers and
    wherein the metering pump is a membrane pump.
20           Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
    following. Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pumps includes a curved rigid
    chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall. The flexible
    membrane and the rigid. chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Also, where the cassette
    housing includes a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate. Also, where the cassette further
25  includes a at least one fluid valve, and/or where the fluid valve is actuated by one pneumatic
    valve. Also, where the cassette includes at least two fluid valves actuated by one pneumatic
    valve.
             In accordance with another aspect of the pumping cassette, the pumping cassette
    incILides a housing that includes at least two inlet fluid lines and at least two outlet fluid
30  lines. Also, at least two balancing pods within the housing and in fluid connection with the
    fluid lines, The balancing pods balance the flow of pure dialysate and impure dialysate
    such that the volume of pure dialysate equals the volume of impure dialysate, At least two
    reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pumps are also included in the housing, The
    pressure pumps pump the pure dialysate and said impure dialysate. A UF metering pump is
                                                      5

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
    also included within the housing. The UF metering pump pumps a predetermined volume
    of impure dialysate from the at least one fluid line such that the predetermined volume
    bypasses said balancing chamber.
             Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
 5  following. Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pumps includes a curved rigid
    chamber wail and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall. The flexible
    membrane and the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Also, where the cassette
    housing includes a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate, Also, a plurality
             of pneumatically actuated fluid valves.
10           In accordance with one aspect of the pump cassette the cassette includes housing.
    The housing includes at least one fluid inlet line and at least one tluid outlet line, Also, the
    cassette includes at least one reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump within
    the housing. The pressure pump pumps at least one fluid from the fluid inlet line to at least
    one of the fluid outlet line, Also, the cassette includes at least one mixing chamber within
15  the housing. The mixing chamber is fluidly connected to the fluid outlet line.
             Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
    following. Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pump includes a curved rigid
    chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall. The flexible
    membrane and the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Where the cassette
20  housing includes a top plate, a midplate and abottom plate. Where the cassette also
    includes at least one valve, In some embodiments, the at least one valve includes a valve
    housing having a membrane. The membrane divides the housing into two chambers. Where
    the mixing chamber includes a curved rigid chamber wall having at least one fluid inlet and
    at least one fluid outlet. Where the cassette also includes t least one metering membrane
    pump within the housing. The metering pump fluidly connects to the mixing chamber on
    the housing and to a metering pump fluid line. The metering pump fluid line is fluidly
    connected to the at least one of the at least one fluid inlet lines. Some embodiments of the
    metering pump include where the fluid ime is connected to at second fluid inlet line.
             In accordance with another aspect of the pump cassette the cassette includes a
30  housing including at least two fluid inlet lines and at least one fluid, outlet line, Also
    included is at least one reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump within the
    housing. The pressure pump pumps a fluid from at least one of the fluid inlet line to at lease
    one of the fluid outlet line. The cassette also includes at least one mixing chamber within
    the housing, the mixing chamber fluidly connected to the fluid outlet line. Also included is
                                                     6

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
    at least one metering membrane pump within the housing. The metering membrane pump
    fluidly connects to the mixing chamber on the housing and to a metering pump fluid line.
    The metering pump fluid line is fluidly connected to the at least one of the at least two fluid
    inlet lines.
 5           Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
    following. Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pump includes a curved rigid
    chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall. The flexible
    membrane and the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Where the cassette
    housing includes a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate. Where the mixing chamber
10  includes a curved rigid chamber wall having at least one fluid inlet and at least ore fluid
    outlet. Where the cassette further includes at least one valve, In some embodiments, the
    valve includes a valve housing having a membrane dividing the housing into two chambers.
             In accordance with another aspect of the pump cassette includes a housing. The
    housing includes at least three fluid inlet lines and at least one fluid outlet line. The cassette
15  also includes at least two reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pumps within the
    housing that pump a fluid from at least one of the fluid inlet lines to at lease one of the fluid
    outlet line. Also, the cassette includes at least one mixing chamber within the housing that
    is fluidly connected to the fluid outlet line. The cassette also includes at least two metering
    membrane pumps within the hiusing. The metering pumps are fluidly connected to
20  respective fluid inlet lines and to the mixing chamber on the housing. The metering pumps
    pump a volume of a respective fluid from the fluid inlet lines to a fluid line fluidly
    connected to the mixing chamber.
             Various embodiments of this aspect of the cassette include one or more of the
    following. Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pump includes a curved rigid
25  chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall. The flexible
    membrane and the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Where the cassette
    housing includes a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate. Where the cassette includes at
    least one valve. Some embodiments include where the valve includes a valve housing
    having a membrane, the membrane dividing the housing into two chambers.
30           In accordance with one aspect of the pumping cassette, the cassette includes a
    housing. The housing includes at least one fluid port and at least one air vent port, The air
    vent port vents a fluid source outside the housing. The pumping cassette also includes at
    least one reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump within the housing. The
    puimp pumps fluid.
                                                     7

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
             Various embodiments of this aspect of the pumping cassette include one or more of
    the following, Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pump includes a curved rigid
    chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall, The flexible
    membrane and the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Where the pumping
 5  cassette housing includes a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate. Where the pumping
    cassette further includes at least one valve. And, in some embodiments, the valves is a
    membrane valve. Also, where the pumping cassette includes at least one valve including a
    valve housing having a membrane, where the membrane divides the valve housing into two
    chambers, Where the two chambers are an actuation chamber and a fluid pumping
10  chamber. Where the actuation chamber has at least one aperture and said fluid pumping
    chamber having at least one aperture. Where the actuation chamber includes two apertures.
    Also, in some embodiments, where the valve is a volcano valve. In some embodiments of
    the valve, the fluid pumping chamber includes a substantially smooth surface. In some
    embodiments of the valve, the valve is a check valve,
15           In accordance with another aspect of the pumping cassette, the pumping cassette
    includes a housing having at least one source fluid inlet fluid path, at least one source
    reservoir vent flaid path and at least one source fluid outlet path. The pumping cassette also
    includes at least one reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump within the
    housing. The pump pumps source fluid from a source tank outside the housing and through
20  said source fluid inlet fluid path. Also, the pumping cassette includes at least one valve.
    The valve includes a valve housing having a membrane dividing the valve housing into two
    chambers, a fluid chamber and an actuation chamber.
             Various embodiments of this aspect of the pumping cassette include one or more of
    the following. Where the reciprocating pressure displacement pump includes a curved rigid
25  chamber wall and a flexible membrane attached to the rigid chamber wall. The flexible
    membrane and the rigid chamber wall define a pumping chamber. Where the pumping
    cassette housing includes a top plate, a midplate and a bottom plate, Where the pumping
    cassette includes a valve controlling a measurement system fluidly connected to the source
    tank vent fluid path. In some embodimnents, this measurement system measures the volume
30  of a source tank, Some embodiments includes where the at least one source reservoir vent
    fl uid path fluidly connects to a vent. The vent maintains the source tank at atmospheric
    pressure. Also, some embodiments of the pumping cassette include where the at least one
    reciprocating pressure displacement membrane pump pumps fluid from the source tank
    through the housing and through a filter outside the housing.
                                                    8

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
            These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features,
    aspects, and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of
    ordinary skill in the at when read in conjunction with the appended claims and
 5  accompanying drawings.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be better
10  understood by reading the following detailed description, taken together with the drawings
    wherein:
            FIG. 1A is a sectional view of one embodiment of a pod-pump that is incorporated
    into embodiments of cassette;
            FIG. I B is a sectional view of an exemplary embodiment of a pod pump that is
15  incorporated into embodiments of the cassette;
            FIG. 2A is an illustrative sectional view of one embodiment of one type of
    pneumatically controlled valve that is incorporated into some embodiments of the cassette;
            FIG. 2B is a sectional view of another embodiment of one type of pneumatically
    controlled valve that is incorporated into some embodiments of the cassette;
20          FIG. 2C is a sectional view of another embodiment of one type of pneumatically
    controlled valve that is incorporated into some embodiments of the cassette;
            FIG, 2D is a sectional view of another embodiment of one type of pneumatically
    controlled valve that is incorporated into some embodiments of the cassette:
             FIGS. 2E-2F are top and bottom views of embodiments of the valving membrane;
25          FIG. 2G shows pictorial, top and cross sectional views of one embodiment of the
    valving membrane;
            FIGS. 3 is a sectional view of a pod pump within a cassette;
             FIG. 4 is a sectional view of a pod pump within a cassette having a variable
    membrane:
30          FIGS. 4A and 4B are top and section views respectively of a pod pump within a
    cassette having a dinpled/variable membrane;
            FIGS- 4C and 4D are pictorial views of a single ring membrane with a variable
    surface:
            FIGS. SA-SD are side views of various embodiments of variable membranes;
                                                    9

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
            SE-5 H are pictorial views of various embodiments of the metering pump membrane;
             FIGS. 6A and 6B are pictorial views of a double ring membrane with a smooth
    surface;
            FIGS. 6C and 6D are pictorial views of a double ring membrane with a dimple
 5  surface;
             FIGS. 6E and 6F are pictorial views of double ring membranes with variable
    surfaces;
            FIG 6G is a cross sectional view of a double ring membrane with a variable surface;
            F IG, 7 is a schematic showing a pressure actuation system that may be used to
10  actuate a pod pnump;
             FIG. 8 is one embodiment of the fluid flow-path schematic of the cassette;
            FIG. 9 is an altemate embodiment fluid flow-path schematic for an altemate
    embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG S. 10 is an isometric front view of the exemplary embodiment of the actuation
15  side of the midplate of the cassette with the valves indicated corresponding to FIGS. 8:
            FIGS. I LA are front and isometric views of the exemplary embodiment of the outer
    top plate of the cassette;
            FIGS. I I B are front and isometric views of the exemplary embodiment of the inner
    top plate of the cassette;
20           FIG. I IC is a side view of the exemplary embodiment of the top plate of the
    cassette:
            FIGS. I 2A are front and isometric views of the exemplary embodiment of the fluid
    side of the midplate of the cassette:
             FIGS. 12B are front and isometric views of the exemplary embodiment of the air
25  side of the midplate of the cassette;
            FIG. 12C is a side view of the exemplary embodiment of the miidpiate of the
    cassette:
            FIGS. 13A are front and isometric views of the exemplary embodiment of the inner
    side of the bottom plate of the cassette;
30          FIGS. 1313 are front and isometric views of the exemplary embodiment of the outer
    side of the bottom plate of the cassette:
            FIG. 13C is a side view of the exemplary embodiment of the midplate of the
    cassette:
             FIG. 14A is a top view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
                                                   10

   WO 2008/106538                                                      PCT/US2008/055168
            FIG. 14B is a bottom view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 14C is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette;
            FIG 14D is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
 5  cassette;
            FIGS. ISA-15C show cross sectional views of the exemplary embodiment of the
    assembled cassette:
            FIGS. 16A show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the top plate
    according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
10          FIGS. 16B show bottom views of an alternate embodiment of the top plate
    according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 16C shows a side view of the alternate embodiment of the top plate;
            FIGS. 17A show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the
    midplate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
15          F1IS 171B show isometric and bottom views of an alternate embodiment of the
    midplate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 17C shows a side view of the altemate embodiment of the midplate;
            FIGS. ISA show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the bottom
    plate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
20          FIGS. 188 show isometric and bottom views of an alternate embodiment of the
    bottom according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 18C shows a side view of the alternate embodiment of the bottom plate;
            FIG. 19A is a top view of an assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            11G. 19B is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the
25  cassette;
            FIG. 19C is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the
    cassette;
            FIGS. 20A-20B shows a cross sectional view of the exemplary embodiment of the
    assembled cassette.
30          FIG. 38A is one embodiment of the fluid flow-path schematic of the cassette;
            FIG. 38B is an ahernate embodiment the fluid flow-path schematic of the cassette;
          FIGS. 39A and 39B are isometric and front views of the exemplary embodiment of the
    outer top plate of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
                                                 11

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
           FIGS. 39C and 39D are isometric and front views of the exemplary embodiment of the
    inner top plate of the cassette;
           FIG, 39E is a side view of the top plate of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
           FIGS. 310A and 310B are isometric and front views of the exemplary embodiment of
 5  the liquid side of the midplate of the cassette:
           FIGS. 3 10 C and 310D are isometric and front views of the exemplary embodiment of
    the air side of the midplate of the cassette:
           FIG. 31 OE is a side view of the midplate according to the exemplary embodiment of
    the cassette:
10         FIGS. 3 I A and 311 B are isometric and front views of the inner side of the bottom
    plate according to the exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
           FIGS, 31 1C and 31 ID are isometric and front views of the exemplary embodiment of
    the outer side of the bottom plate of the cassette;
           FIG, 311 E is a side view of the bottom plate according to the exemplary embodiment
15  of the cassette;
           FIG. 312A is a top view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
           FIG. 312B is a bottom view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
           FIG, 312C is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette:
20         FIG. 312D is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette:
           FIGS. 313 shows a cross sectional view of the exemplary embodiment of the
    assembled cassette;
           FIGS. 3 14A and 3 1413 are isometric and front views of an alternate embodiment of the
25  outer top plate of the cassette;
           FIGS. 314C and 31 4D are isometric and front views of an alternate embodiment of the
    inner top plate of the cassette:
           FIG. 314E is a side view of the top plate of an altemate embodiment of the cassette;
           FIG. 3 15 is a front view of the top plate gasket according to an alternate embodiment
30  of the cassette;
           FIGS. 316A and 316B are isometric and front views of an alternate embodiment of the
    liquid side of their midplate of the cassette;
           FIGS. 3 16C and 3161) are isometric and front views of an alternate embodiment of the
    air side of the midplate of the cassette:
                                                     1:2

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
          FIG. 316E is a side view of the midplate according of an alternate embodiment of the
    cassette
          FIG 3 17 is a front view of the bottom plate gasket according to an alternate
    embodiment of the cassette;
 5        FIGS. 318A and 318B are isometric and front views of an alternate embodiment of
    the inner side of the bottom plate of the cassette:
          FIGS, 31 SC and 31 8D are isometric and front views of an alternate embodiment of the
    outer side of the bottom plate of the cassette;
          FIG. 31 SE is a side view of the bottom plate according to an alternate embodiment of
10  the cassette;
          FIG. 319A is a top view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette;
          FIG. 319B is a bottom view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette;
          FIG. 319C is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette;
          FIG, 319D is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette'
15        FIGS. 320A-320B show cross sectional views of the assembled alternate embodiment
    of the cassette:
            FIGS. 32 1A-321 B show cross sectional views of one embodiment of the check
    valve; and
            FIGS- 321C-321D show pictorial views of one embodiment of the check valve.
20          FIG. 48A is one embodiment of the fluid flow-path schematic of the cassette;
            FIG. 48B is an alternate embodiment of the fluid flow-path schematic of the
    cassette:
            FIG. 49A isan isometric bottom view of the exemplary embodiment of the midplate
    of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
25          FIG. 49B is an isometric top view of the of the midplate of the exemplary
    embodiment of the cassette'
            FIG. 49C is an isometric bottom view of the exemplary embodiment of the midplate
    of the cassette:
            FIG. 49D is a side view of the exemplary embodiment of the midplate of the
30  cassette:
            FIGS. 41 OA-41 0B are isometric and top views of the exemplary embodiment of the
    top plate of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
            FIGS. 410C-410.GD are isometric views of the of the exemplary embodiment of the
    top plate of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
                                                    13

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
            FIG. 41 OE is a side view of the exemplary embodiment of the top plate of the
    cassette
            FIGS. 411A and 4111B are isometric bottom views of the exemplary embodiment of
    bottom plate of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette:
 5          FIGS, 411 C and 411 D are isometric top views of the exemplary embodiment of the
    bottom plate of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG 41 1E is a side view of the exemplary embodiment of the bottom plate of the
    exemplary embodiment of the cassette;
            FG, 412A is an isometric view of the top of the assembled exemplary embodiment
10  of the cassette:
             FIG. 412:B is an isometric view of the bottom of the assembled exemplary
    embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 412C is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette;
15           FIG. 412D is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette:
            FIGS. 413A-413C show cross sectional views of the exemplary embodiment of the
    assembled cassette;
            FIGS- 414A-414B show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the
20  top plate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIGS. 414C-414D show isometric and bottom views of an alternate embodiment of
    the top plate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 414E shows a side view of the alternate embodiment of the top plate;
             1:1S. 415A-415B show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the
25  midplate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIGS. 415C-415D show isometric and bottom views of an alternate embodiment of
    the midplate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette:
            FIG. 415E shows a side view of the alternate embodiment of the midplate;
             FIGS. 416A-416B show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the
30  bottom plate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette:
            FIGS. 416(-416D show isometric and bottom views of an alternate embodiment of
    the bottom plate according to an atternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 416E shows a side view of the alternate embodiment of the bottom plate;
                                                   14

   WO 2008/106538                                                       PCT/US2008/055168
            FIG. 417A is an isometric top view of an assembled alternate embodiment of the
    cassette;
            FIG. 417B is an isometric bottom view of an assembled alternate embodiment of the
    cassette;
 5          FIG. 417C is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the
    cassette:
            FIG. 417D is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the
    cassette;
            FIGS. 417E shows a cross sectional view of the exemplary embodiment of the
10  assembled cassette;
            FIGS. 418A-418B show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the
    top plate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIGS. 418C-418D show isometric and bottom views ofan alternate embodiment of
    the top plate according to an altemate embodiment of the cassette;
15          FIG. 41 8 shows a side view of the altemate embodiment of the top plate;
            FIGS. 419A-419B show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the
    midplate according to an alternate enbodiment of the cassette
            FIGS. 419C-419D show isometric and bottom views of an alternate embodiment of
    the midplate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
20          FIG. 419E shows a side view of the alternate embodiment of the midplate;
            FIGS. 420A-420B show isometric and top views of an alternate embodiment of the
    bottom plate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIGS, 420C-420D show isometric and bottom views of an altemate embodiment of
    the bottom plate according to an alternate embodiment of the cassette;,
25          FIG. 420E shows a side view of the alternate embodiment of the bottom plate;
            FIG. 421 A is a top view of an assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette
            FIG. 421 B is a bottom view of an assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette;
            FIG. 421C is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the
    cassette:
30          FIG. 421 D is an exploded view of the assembled alternate embodiment of the
    cassette;
            FIGS. 42,2A shows a cross sectional view of the exemplary embodiment of the
    assembled cassette;
                                                  15

   WO 2008/106538                                                     PCT/US2008/055168
            FIG. 422B shows a cross sectional view of the exemplary embodiment of the
    assembled cassette.
            FIG. 500A is an exploded view of the exemplary embodiment of the mixing cassette
    of the cassette system;
 5          FIG. 500B is an exploded view of the exemplary embodiment of the mixing cassette
    of the cassette system;
            FIG. 600A is an exploded view of the exemplary embodiment of the middle cassette
    of the cassette system;
            FG, 600B is an exploded view of the exemplary embodiment of the middle cassette
10  of the cassette system:
            FIG. 700A is an exploded view of the exemplary embodiment of the balancing
    cassette of the cassette system;
            FIG. 700B is an exploded view of the exemplary embodiment of the balancing
    cassette of the cassette system;
15           1G. 800A is a front view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the cassette
    system;
            FIG. 800B is an isometric view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette system;
            FIG. 800C is an isometric view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
20  cassette system;
            FIG. 800D is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette system;
            FIG. 800E is an exploded view of the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette system:
25          FIG. 900A is an isometric view of an exemplary embodiment of the pod of the
    cassette system;
            FIG. 900B is an isometric view of an exemplary embodiment of the pod of the
    cassette system;
            FIG. 900C is a side view of an exemplary embodiment of the pod of the cassette
30  system:
            FIG. 900D is an isometric view of an exemplary embodiment of one half of the pod
    of the cassette system;
            FIG. 900E is an isometric view of an exemplary embodiment of one half of the pod
    of the cassette system;
                                                 16

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
            FIG. 1 OOA is a pictorial view of the exemplary embodiment of the pod membrane
    of the cassette system:
            FIG. 1000B is a pictorial view of the exemplary embodiment of the pod membrane
    of the cassette system;
 5          FIG. 1100 is an exploded view of an exemplary embodiment of the pod of the
    cassette system;
            FIG. 1200 is an exploded view of one embodiment of a check valve fluid line in the
    cassette system;
            HG, 1300 is an exploded view of one embodiment of a check valve fluid line in the
10  cassette system;
            FIG. 1400 is an isometric view of an exemplary embodiment of a fluid line in the
    cassette system:
            FIG. 1500A is one embodiment of the fluid flow-path schematic of the cassette
    system integrated;
15          1G. 1500B is one embodiment of the fluid flow-path schematic of the cassette
    system integrated; and
            FIGS. 1600A-F are various views of one embodiment of the block for connecting
    the pneumatic tubes to the manifold according to one embodiment of the present system.
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
20
     1.         Pumping Cassette
                1 I Cassette
25              The pumping cassette includes various features, namely, pod pumps, fluid lines
    and in some embodiment, valves. The cassette embodiments shown and described in this
    description include exemplary and some alternate embodiments. Hhowever, any variety of
    cassettes having a similar functionality is contemplated. As well, although the cassette
    embodiments described herein are implementations of the fluid schematics as shown in
30  FIGS. SA and 8B, in other embodiments, the cassette may have varying fluid paths and/or
    valve placement and/or pod pump placements and numbers and thus, is still within the
    scope of the invention.
                In the exemplary embodiment, the cassette includes a top plate, a mnidplate and a
    bottom plate. There are a variety of embodiments for each plate. In general, the top plate
35  includes pump chambers and fluid lines, the midplate includes complementary fluid lines,
    metering pumps and valves and the bottom plate includes actuation chambers (and in some
                                                   17

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
    embodiments, the top plate and the bottom plate include complementary portions of a
    balancing chamber),
                 In general, the membranes are located between the midplate and the bottom
    plate, however, with respect to balancing chambers, a portion of a membrane is located
 5  between the midplate and the top plate. Some embodiments include where the membrane is
    attached to the cassette, either overmolded, captured, bonded, press fit, welded in or any
    other process or method for attachment, however, in the exemplary embodiments, the
    membranes are separate from the top plate, midplate and bottom plate until the plates are
    assembled.
10               The cassettes may be constructed of a variety of materials. Generally, in the
    various embodiment, the materials used are solid and non flexible. In the preferred
    embodiment, the plates are constructed of polysulfone, but in other embodiments, the
    cassettes are constructed of any other solid material and in exemplary embodiment, of any
    thermoplastic or thermoset,
15               In the exemplary embodiment, the cassettes are formed by placing the
    membranes in their correct locations, assembling the plates in order and connecting the
    plates, In one embodiment, the plates are connected using a laser welding technique.
    However, in other embodiments, the plates may be glued, mechanically fastened, strapped
    together, ultrasonically welded or any other mode of attaching the plates together.
20           In practice, the cassette may be used to pump any type of fluid from any source to
    any location. The types of fluid include nutritive, nonnutritive, inorganic chemicals,
    organic chemicals, bodily fluids or any other type of fluid. Additionally., fluid in some
    embodiments include a gas, thus, in some embodiments, the cassette is used to pump a gas.
            The cassette serves to pump and direct the fluid from and to the desired locations. In
25  some embodiments, outside pumps pump the fluid into the cassette and the cassette pumps
    the fluid out, However, in some embodiments., the pod pumps serve to pull the fluid into
    the cassette and pump the fluid out of the cassette.
            As discussed above, depending on the valve locations, control of the fluid paths is
    imparted. Thus, the valves being in different locations or additional valves are alternate
30  embodiments of this cassette. Additionally, the fluid lines and paths shown in the figures
    described above are mere examples of fluid lines and paths. Other embodiments may have
    more, less and/or different fluid paths. In still other embodiments, valves are not present in
    the cassette,
                                                    18

   WO 2008/106538                                                              PCT/US2008/055168
             The number of pod pumps described above may also vary depending on the
    embodiment. For example, although the exemplary and alternate embodiments shown and
    described above include two pod pumps, in other embodiments, the cassette includes one.
    In still other embodiments, the cassette includes more than two pod pumps. The pod pumps
 5  can be single pumps or work in tandem to provide a more continuous flow, Either or both
    may be used in various embodiments of the cassette.
             The various fluid inlets and fluid outlets are fluid ports, In practice, depending on
    the valve arrangement and control, a fluid inlet can be a fluid outlet. Thus, the designation
    of the fluid port as a fluid inlet or a fluid outlet is only for description purposes. The
10  various embodiments have interchangeable fluid ports. The fluid ports are provided to
    impart particular fluid paths onto the cassette. These fluid ports are not necessarily all used
    all of the time; instead, the variety of fluid ports provides flexibility of use of the cassette in
    practice.
                  1.2 Exemplary Pressure Pod Pump Embodim ents
15
                 FIG, IA is a sectional view of an exemplary pod pump 100 that is incorporated
    into a fluid control or pump cassette (see also FIGS. 3 and 4), in accordance with an
    exemplary embodiment of the cassette. In this embodiment, the pod pump is formed from
    three rigid pieces, namely a "top" plate 106, a midplate 108, and a "bottom" plate 110 (it
20  should be noted that the terms "top" and "bottom" are relative and are used here for
    convenience with reference to the orientation shown in FIG. IA). The top and bottom
    plates 106 and 110 inchlde generally hemispheroid portions that when assembled together
    define a hemispheroid chamber, which is a pod ptimp 100.
                 A    embrane 11 2 separates the central cavity of the pod pump into two
25  chambers, In one embodiment, these chambers are: the pumping chamber that receives the
    fluid to be pumped and an actuation chamber for receiving the control gas that
    pneumatically actuates the pump. An inlet 102 allows fluid to enter the pumping chamber,
    and an outlet 104 allows fluid to exit the pumping chamber. Tie inlet 1.02 and the outlet
    104 may be formed between midplate 108 and the top plate 106. Pneumatic pressure is
30  provided through a pneumatic port 114 to either force, with positive gas pressure, the
    membrane 112 against one wall of the pod pump cavity to minimize the pumping chamber's
    volume, or to draw, with negative gas pressure, the membrane 112 towards the other wall of
    the pod pump 100 cavity to maximize the pumping chamber's volune.
                                                      19

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
                 The membrane 112 is provided with a thickened rim 116, which is held tightly
    by a protrusion 118 in the midplate 108. 'Thus, in manufacturing, the membrane 112 can be
    placed in and held by the groove 108 before the bottom plate 110 is connected (in the
    exemplary embodiment) to the midplate 108.
 5               Although not shown in FIGS. IA and 1B, in some embodiments of the pod
    pump, on the fluid side, a groove is present on the chamber wall- The groove acts to
    prevent folds in the membrane from trapping fluid in the chamber when emptying.
                 Referring first to FIG IA a cross sectional view of a reciprocating positive
    displacement punp 100 in a cassette is shown. The pod pump 100 includes a flexible
10  membrane 112 (also referred to as the "pump diaphragm" or "membrane") mounted where
    the pumping chamber (also referred to as a "liquid chamber" or "liquid pumping chamber")
    wall 122 and the actuation chamber (also referred to as the "pneumatic chamber") wall 120
    meet. The membrane 112 effectively divides that interior cavity into a variable-volume
    pumping chamber (defined by the rigid interior surface of the pumping chamber wall 122
15  and a surface of the membrane 112) and a complementary variable-volume actuation
    chamber (defined by the rigid interior surface of the actuation chamber wall 120 and a
    surface of the membrane 112)- The top portion 106 includes a fluid inlet 102 and a fluid
    outlet 104, both of which are in fluid communication with the pumping/liquid chamber.
    The bottom portion 110 includes an actuation or pneumatic interface 114 in fluid
20  communication with the actuation chamber, As discussed in greater detail below, the
    membrane 112 can be urged to move back and forth within the cavity by alternately
    applying negative or vent to atmosphere and positive pneumatic pressure at the pneumatic
    interface 114. As the membrane 112 reciprocates back and forth, the sun of the volumes of
    the pumping and actuation chambers remains constant.
25               During typical fluid pumping operations, the application of negative or vent to
    atmosphere pneumatic pressure to the actuation or pneumatic interface 114 tends to
    withdraw the membrane 112 toward the actuation chamber wall 120 so as to expand the
    pumping/liquid chamber and draw fluid into the pumping chamber through the inlet 102,
    while the application of Positive pneumatic pressure tends to push the membrane 11.2
30  toward the pumping chamber wall 122 so as to collapse the pumping chamber and expel
    fluid in the pumping chamber through the outlet 104. During such pumping operations, the
    interior surfaces of the pumping chamber wall 122 and the actuation chamber wall 120 limit
    movement of the membrane 11.2 as it reciprocates back and forth. In the embodiment
    shown in FIG, 1A, the interior surfaces of the pumping chamber wall 122 and the actuation
                                                   20

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
    chamber wall 120 are rigid, smooth, and hemispherical. In lieu of a rigid actuation chamber
    wall 120, an alternative rigid limit structure - or example, a portion of a bezel used for
    providing pneumnatic pressure and/or a set of ribs - may be used to limit the movement of
    the membrane as the pumping chamber approaches maximum value. Bezels and rib
 5  structures are described generally in United States Patent Application No. 10/697 450
    entitled BEZEL ASSEMBLY FOR PNEUMATIC CONTROL filed on October 30, 2003
    and published as Publication No. US 2005/0095154 (Attorney Docket No. 1062/D75) and
    related PCT Application No. PCT/US2004/035952 entitled BEZEL ASSEMBLY FOR
    PNEUMATIC CONTROL filed on October 29, 2004 and published as Publication No. WO
10  2005/044435 (Attorney Docket No. .1062/1)71 WO), both of which are hereby incorporated
    herein by reference in their entireties. Thus, the rigid limit structure    such as the rigid
    actuation chamber wall 120, a bezel, or a set of ribs - defines the shape of the membrane
    112 when the pumping chamber is at its maximum value In a preferred embodiment, the
    membrane 112 (when urged against the rigid limit structure) and the rigid interior surface of
15  the pumping chamber wall 1:22 define a spherical pumping chamber volume when the
    pumping chamber volume is at a min11iuTh
                Thus, in the embodiment shown in FIG, IA, movement of the membrane 112 is
    limited by the pumping chamber wall 122 and the actuation chamber wall 120. As long as
    the positive and vent to atmosphere or negative pressurizations provided through the
20  pneumatic port 114 are strong enough, the membrane 112 will move from a position limited
    by the actuation chamber wal 120 to a position limited by the pumping chamber wall 122.
    When the membrane 112 is forced against the actuation chamber wall 120, the membrane
    and the pumping chamber wall 122 define the maximum volume of the pumping chamber.
    When the membrane is forced against the pumping chamber wall 122, the pumping
25  chamber is at its minimum volume.
                In an exemplary embodiment, the pumping chamber wall 122 and the actuation
    chamber wall 120 both have a hemispheroid shape so that the pumping chamber wi1 have a
    spheroid shape when it is at its maximum volume. By using a pumpintg chamber that attains
    a spheroid shape-and particularly a spherical shape-at maximum volume, circulating
30  flow may be attained throughout the pumping chamber, Such shapes accordingly tend to
    avoid stagnant pockets of fluid in the pumping chamber. As discussed further below, the
    orientations of the inlet 102 and outlet 104 also tend to have an impact on the flow of fluid
    through the pumping chaner and in some enbodinents. reduce the likelihood of stagnant
    pockets of fluid forming. Additionally, compared to other volumetric shapes, the spherical
                                                   21

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
    shape (and spheroid shapes in general) tends to create less shear and turbulence as the fluid
    circulates into, through, and out of the pumping chamber.
                 Referring now to FIGS. 3-4, a raised flow path. 30 is shown in the pumping
    chamber. This raised flow path 30 allows for the fluid to continue flowing through the pod
 5  pumps after the membrane reaches the end of stroke, Thus, the raised flow path 30
    minimizes the chances of the membrane causing air or fluid to be trapped in the pod pump
    or the membrane blocking the inlet or outlet of the pod pump which would inhibit
    continuous flow. The raised flow path 30 is shown in the exemplary embodiment having
    particular dimensions, however, in alternate embodiments, as seen in FIGS. I SA-I SE, the
10  raised flow path 30 is narrower, or in still other embodiments, the raised flow path 30 can be
    any dimensions as the purpose is to control fluid flow so as to achieve a desired flow rate or
    behavior of the fluid. Thus, the dimensions shown and described here with respect to the
    raised flow path, the pod pumps, the valves or any other aspect are mere exemplary and
    alternate embodiments. Other embodiments are readily apparent,
15           1.3 Exenplary Balancing Pods Embodiment
            Referring now to FIGS. IB, an exemplary embodiment of a balancing pod is shown.
    The balancing pod is constructed similar to the pod pump described above with respect to
    FIG. IA. However, a balancing pod includes two fluid balancing chambers, rather than an
20  actuation chamber and a pumping chamber, and does not include an actuation port.
    Additionally, each balancing chamber includes an inlet 102 and an outlet 104. In the
    exemplary embodiment, a groove 126 is included on each of the balancing chamber walls
    1.20, 122. The groove 126 is described in further detail below.
            The membrane 112 provides a seal between the two chambers. The balancing
25  chambers work to balance the flow of fluid into and out of the chambers such that both
    chambers maintain an equal volume rate flow. Although the inlets 102 and outlets 104 for
    each chamber are shown to be on the same side, in other embodiments, the inlets 102 and
    outlets 104 for each chamber are on different sides. Also, the inlets 102 and outlets 104 can
    be on either side., depending on the flow path in which the balancing pod is integrated.
30          In one embodiment of the balancing pod the membrane 112 includes an embodiment
    similar to the one described below with respect to FIG. 6A-6G. However, in alternate
    embodiments, the membrane 112 can be over molded or otherwise constructed such that a
    double-ring seal is not applicable.
             1.4 Metering Pumps and Fluid Management System
                                                    22

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
                 The metering pump can be any pump that is capable of adding any fluid or
    removing any fluid. The fluids include but are not limited to pharmaceuticals, inorganic
    compounds or elements, organic compounds or elements, nutraceuticals, nutritional
    elements or compounds or solutions, Or any other fluid capable of being pumped. ]n one
 5  embodiment, the metering pump is a membrane pump. In the exemplary embodiment, the
    metering pump is a smaller volume pod pump. In the exemplary embodiment, the metering
    pump includes an inlet and an outlet, similar to a larger pod pump (as shown in FIG. IA for
    example). However, the inlet and outlet are generally iuch smaller than a pod pump and,
    in one exemplary embodiment, includes a volcano valve-like raised Ting around either the
10  inlet or outlet. Metering pumps include a merubrane, and various embodiments of a
    metering pump membrane are shown in FIGS, 5E-5H The metering pump, in some
    embodiments, pumps a volume of fluid out of the fluid line. Once the fluid is in the pod
    pump, a reference chamber, located outside the cassette, using the FMS. determines the
    volume that has been removed.
15               Thus, depending on the embodiment, this volune of fluid that has been removed
    will not then flow to the fluid outlet, the balance chambers or to a pod pump. Thus, in some
    embodiments, the metering pump is used to remove a volume of fluid from a fluid line, In
    other embodiments, the metering pump is used to remove a volume of fluid to produce other
    results.
20               FMS may be used to perform certain fluid management system measurements,
    such as, for example, measuring the volume of subject fluid pumped through the pump
    chamber during a stroke of the membrane or detecting air in the pumping chamber, e.g,
    using techniques described in U.S. Patent Nos, 4,808,161; 4,826,482; 4,976,162; 5,088,515;
    and 5,350,357, which are hereby incorporated herei.i by reference in their entireties.
25               Metering pumps are also used in various embodiments to pump a second fluid
    into the fluid line. In some embodiments, the metering pump is used to pump a therapeutic
    or a compound into a fluid line. One embodiment uses the metering pump to pump a
    volume of compound into a mixing chamber in order to constitute a solution In some of
    these embodiments, the metering pumps are configured for EMS volume measurement. In
30  other embodiments, the metering pumps are not.
                 For FMS measurement, a small fixed reference air chamber is located outside of
    the cassette, for example, in the pneumatic manifold (not shown). A valve isolates the
    reference chamber and a second pressure sensor, The stroke volume of the metering pump
    may be precisely computed by charging the reference chamber with air, measuring the
                                                    2 .3

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
    pressure, and then opening the valve to the pumping chamber. The volume of air on the
    chamber side may be computed based on the fixed volume of the reference chamber and the
    change in pressure when the reference chamber was connected to the pump chamber.
             1.5     Valves
 5
            The exemplary embodiment of the cassette includes one or more valves. Valves are
    used to regulate flow by opening and closing fluid lines, The valves included in the various
    embodiments of the cassette include one or more of the following: volcano valves or
    smooth valves. In some embodiment of the cassette, check valves may be included.
10  Embodiments of the volcano valve are shown in Fl GS. 2A and 2B, while an embodiment of
    the smooth valve is shown in FIG. 2C. Additionally, FIGS. 3 and 4 show cross sections of
    one embodiment of a pod pump in. a cassette with an inlet and an outlet valve.
            Generally speaking, reciprocating positive-displacement pumps of the types just
    described may include, or may be used in conjunction with, various valves to control fluid
15  flow through the pump. Thus, for example, the reciprocating positive-displacement pump
    or the balancing pods may include, or be used in. conjunction with, an inlet valve and/or an
    outlet valve. The valves may be passive or active. In the exemplary embodiment of the
    reciprocating positive-displacement pump the membrane is urged back and forth by positive
    and negative pressurizations, or by positive and vent to atmosphere pressurizations, of a gas
20  provided through the pneumatic port, which connects the actuation chamber to a pressure
    actuation system. The resulting reciprocating action of the membrane pulls fluid into the
    pumping chamber from the inlet (the outlet valve prevents liquid from being sucked back
    into the pumping chamber from the outlet) and then pushes the fluid out of the pumping
    chamber through the outlet (the inlet valve prevents fluid from being forced back from the
25  inlet).
            In the exemplary embodiments, active valves control the fluid flow through the
    pump(s) and the cassette. The active valves may be actuated by a controller in such a
    manner as to direct flow in a desired direction. Such an arrangement would generally
    permit the controller to cause flow in either direction through the pod pump. In a typical
30  system, the flow would normally be in a first direction, e.g, from the inlet to the outlet. At
    certain other times, the flow may be directed in the opposite direction, e.g., from the outlet
    to the inlet. Such reversal of flow may be employed, for example, during priming of the
    puimp, to check for an aberrant line condition (e g., a line occlusion, blockage, disconnect,
    or leak), or to clear an aberrant line condition (e . to try to dislodge a blockage).
                                                    24

    WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
             Pneumatic actuation of valves provides pressure control and a natural limit to the
     maximum pressure that may be developed in a system In the context of a system,
     pneumatic actuation has the added benefit of providing the opportunity to locate all the
     solenoid control valves on one side of the system away from the fluid paths.
  5          Referring now to FIGS, 2A and 23, sectional views of two embodiments of a
     volcano valve are shown. The volcano valves are pneumatically controlled valves that may
     be used in embodiments of the cassette, A membrane 202, along with the midplate 204,
     defines a valving chamber 206. Pneumatic pressure is provided through a pneumatic port
     208 to either force, with positive gas pressure, the membrane 202 against a valve seat 210 to
10   close the valve, or to draw, with negative gas pressure, or in some embodiments, with vent
     to atmospheric pressure, the membrane away from the valve seat 210 to open the valve, A
     control gas chamber 212 is defined by the membrane 202, the top plate 214, and the
     midplate 204 The midplate 204 has an indentation formed on it, into which the membrane
     202 is placed so as to form the control gas chamber 212 on one side of the membrane 202
1.5  and the valving chamber 206 on the other side.
             The pneumatic port 208 is defined by a channel formed in the top plate 214. By
     providing pneumatic control of several valves in a cassette, valves can be ganged together
     so that all the valves ganged together can be opened or closed at the same time by a single
     source of pneumatic pressure. Channels formed on the midplate 204, corresponding with
20   fluid paths along with the bottom plate 216, define the valve inlet 218 and the valve outlet
     220. Holes formed through the midplate 204 provide communication between the inlet 218
     and the valving chamber 206 and between the valving chamber 206 and the outlet 220.
             The membrane 202 is provided with a thickened rim 222, which fits tightly in a
     groove 224 in the midplate 204. Thus, the membrane 202 can be placed in and held by the
25   groove 224 before the top plate 214 is connected to the midplate 204. Thus, this valve
     design may impart benefits in manufacturing. As shown in FIGS. 2B and 2C, the top plate
     214 may include additional material extending into control gas chamber 212 so as to
     prevent the membrane 202 from being urged too much in a direction away from the groove
     224, so as to prevent the membrane's thickened rim 222 front popping out of the groove
30   224. The location of the pneumatic port 208 with respect to the control gas chamber 212
     varies in the two embodiments shown in FIGS, 2A and 213.
             FIG. 2C shows an embodiment in which the valving chamber lacks a valve seat
     feature. Rather, in FIG. 2C, the valve in this embodiment does not include any volcano
     features and thus, the valving chamber 206, i.e., the fluid side, does not include any raised
                                                    25

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
    features and thus is smooth. This embodiment is used in cassettes used to pump fluid
    sensitive to shearing. FIG. 2D shows an embodiment in which the valving chamber has a
    raised area to aid in the sealing of the valving membrane, Referring now to FIGS. 2E-2G
    various embodiments of the valve membrane are shown. Although some exemiplary
 5  embodiments have been shown and described, in other embodiments, variations of the valve
    and valving membrane may be used.
            1.6 Exemplary Embodiments of the Pod Membrane
            In some embodiments, the membrane has a variable cross-sectional thickness, as
10  shown in FII. 4. Thinner, thicker or variable thickness membranes may be used to
    accommodate the strength, flexural and other properties of the chosen membranes materials,
    Thinner, thicker or variable membrane wall thickness may also be used to manage the
    membrane thereby encouraging it to flex more easily in some areas than in other areas,
    thereby aiding in the management of pumping action and flow of subject fluid in the pump
15  chamber. In this embodiment the membrane is shown having its thickest cross-sectional
    area closest to its center. However in other embodiments having a. membrane with a
    varying cross-sectional, the thickest and thinnest areas may be in any location on the
    membrane Thus., foir example, the thinner cross-section may be located near the center and
    the thicker cross-sections located closer to the perimeter of the membrane. Still other
20  configurations are possible. Referring to FIGS. SA-SD, one embodiment of a membrane is
    shown having various surface embodiments, these include smooth (1IG. 5A), rings (F1G.
    SD), ribs (FIG. SC), dimples or dots (FIG. SB) of variable thickness and or geometry
    located at various locations on the actuation and or pumping side of the membrane. In one
    embodiment of the membrane, the membrane has a tangential slope in at least one section,
25  but in other embodiments, the membrane is completely smooth or substantially smooth,
            Referring now to FIGS. 4A, 4C and 4:D, an alternate embodiment of the membrane
    is shown, In this embodiment, the membrane has a dimpled or dotted surface,
            The membrane may be made of any flexible material having a desired durability and
    compatibility with the subject fluid. The membrane can be made from any material that
30  may flex in response to fluid, liquid or gas pressure or vacuum applied to the actuation
    chamber. The membrane material may also be chosen for particular bio-compatibility,
    temperature compatibility or compatibility with various subject fluids that may be pumped
    by the membrane or introduced to the chambers to facilitate movement of the membrane.
    In the exemplary embodiment, the membrane is made from high elongation silicone.
                                                    26

    WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
     However, in other embodiments, the membrane is made from any elastomer or rubber,
     including, but not limited to, silicone, urethane, nitrile, .EPDM or any other rubber,
     elastomer or flexible material,
             The shape of the membrane is dependent on multiple variables. These variables
  5  include, but are not limited to: the shape of the chamber; the size of the chamber; the subject
     fluid characteristics; the volume of subject fluid pumped per stroke; and the means or mode
     of attachment of the membrane to the housing. The size of the membrane is dependent on
     multiple variables. These variables include, but are not limited to: the shape of the
     chamber; the size of the chamber; the subject fluid characteristics; the volume of subject
1.0  fluid pumped per stroke; and the means or mode of attachment of the membrane to the
     housing. 'Thus,depending on these or other variables, the shape and size of the membrane
     may vary in various embodiments.
             The membrane can have any thickness. However, in some embodiments. the range
     of thickness is between .002 inches to . 125 inches. Depending on the material used for the
15   membrane, the desired thickness may vary. In one embodiment, high elongation silicone is
     used in a thickness ranging from .015 inches to .050 inches. However in other
     embodiments, the thickness may vary.
             In the exemplary embodiment, the membrane is pre-formed to include a
     substantially dome-shape in at least part of the area of the membrane. One embodiment of
20   the dome-shaped membrane is shown in FIG. 4E and 4F. Again, the dimensions of the
     dome may vary based on some or more of the variables described above, However, in
     other embodiments, the membrane may not include a pre-formed done shape.
             In the exemplary embodiment, the membrane dome is formed using liquid injection
     molding. However, in other embodiments, the dome may be formed by using compression
25   molding. In alternate embodiments, the membrane is substantially flat, In other
     embodiments, the dome size, width or height may vary.
             In various enibodiments, the membrane may be held in place by various means and
     methods. In one embodiment, the membrane is clamped between the portions of the
     cassette, and in somC of thCse embodiments, the rim of the cassette may include features to
30   grab the membrane. In others of this embodiment, the membrane is clamped to the cassette
     using at least one bolt or another device. In another embodiment, the membrane is over
     molded with a piece of plastic and then the plastic is welded or otherwise attached to the
     cassette. In another embodiment, the membrane is pinched between the mid plate described
     with respect to FIGS. 1A and IB and the bottom plate. Although some embodiments for
                                                     27

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
    attachment of the membrane to the cassette are described, any method or means for
    attaching the membrane to the cassette can be used. The membrane, in one altemate
    embodiment, is attached directly to one portion. of the cassette. In some embodiments, the
    membrane is thicker at the edge, where the membrane is pinched by the plates, than in other
 5  areas of the membrane. In some embodiments, this thicker area is a gasket, in some
    embodiments an O-ring, ring or any other shaped gasket. Referring again to 6A.-6D, one
    embodiment of the membrane is shown with two gaskets 62, 64, In some of these
    embodiments, the gasket(s) 62, 64 provides the attachment point of the membrane to the
    cassette.  In other embodiments, the membrane includes more than two gaskets.
10  Membranes with one gasket are also included in. some embodiments (see FIGS. 4A-4D).
            In some embodiments of the gasket, the gasket is contiguous with the membrane.
    However, in other embodiments, the gasket is a separate part of the membrane. In some
    embodiments, the gasket is made from the same material as the membrane. However, in
    other embodiments, the gasket is made of a material different from the membrane. In some
15  embodiments the gasket is formed by over-molding a ring around the membrane. The
    gasket can be any shape ring or seal desired so as to complement the pod pump housing
    embodiment. in some embodiments, the gasket is a compression type gasket.
            17 Mixing Pods
20          Some embodiments of the cassette include a mixing pod, A mixing pod includes a
    chamber for mixing. In some embodiments, the mixig pod is a flexible structure, and in
    some embodiments, at least a section of the mixing pod is a flexible structure, The mixing
    pod can include a seal, such as an o-ring, or a membrane. The mixing pod can be any shape
    desired. In the exemplary embodiment, the mixing pod is similar to a pod pump except it
25  does not include a membrane and does not include an actuation port. Some embodiments of
    this embodiment of the mixing pod include an o-ring seal to seal the mixing pod chamber.
    Thus, in the exemplary embodiment, the mixing pod is a spherical hollow pod with a fluid
    inlet and a fluid outet. As with the pod pumps, the chamber size can be any size desired.
    2.      Pressure Pump Actuation System
30          FIG 7 is a schematic showing an embodiment of a pressure actuation system that
    may be used to actuate a pod pump with both positive and negative pressure, such as the
    pod pump shown in FIG. IA. The pressure actuation system is capable of intermittently or
    alternately providing positive and negative pressurizations to the gas in the actuation
    chamber of the pod pump. However, in some embodiments, FIG. 7 does not apply in these
                                                   28

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
    embodiments, actuation of the pod pump is accomplished by applying positive pressure and
    vent to atmosphere (again, not shown in FIG. 7). The pod pump         including the flexible
    membrane, the inlet, the outlet, the pneumatic port, the pumping chamber, the actuation
    chamber, and possibly including an inlet check valve and an outlet check valve or other
 5  valves -     is part of a larger disposable system. The pneumatic actuation system
      cicluding an actuation-chanber pressure transducCr, a positive-supply valve, a negative
    supply valve, a positive-pressure gas reservoir, a negative-pressure gas reservoir, a positive
    pressure-reservoi r pressure transducer, a negative-pressure-reservoir pressure transducer, as
    well as an electronic controller including, in some embodiments, a user interface console
10  (such as a touch-panel. screen) -     may be Part of a base unit.
             The positive-pressure reservoir provides to the actuation chamber the positive
    pressurization of a control gas to urge the membrane towards a position where the pumping
    chamber is at its mnimum volume (i.e-, the position where the membrane is against the
    rigid pumping-chamber wall). The negative-pressure reservoir provides to the actuation
15  chamber the negative pressurization of the control gas to urge the membrane in the opposite
    direction, towards a position where the pumping chamber is at its maximum volume (i.e.,
    the position where the membrane is against the rigid actuation-chamber wall),
             A valving mechanism isused to control fluid communication between each of these
    reservoirs and the actuation chamber. As shown in FIG, 7, a separate valve is used for each
20  of the reservoirs; a positive-supply valve controls fluid communication between the
    positive-pressure reservoir and the actuation chamber, and a negative-supply valve controls
    fluid communication between the negative-pressure reservoir and the actuation chamber.
    These two valves are controlled by the controller. Alternatively, a single three-way valve
    may be used in lieu of the two separate valves. The valves may be binary on-off valves or
25  variable-restriction valves.
             The controller also receives pressure information from the three pressure
    transducers: an actuation-chamber pressure transducer, a posit ive- pressure-reservoir
    pressure transducer, and a negative-pressure-reservoir pressure transducer. As their names
    suggest, these transducers respectively measure the pressure in the actuation chamber, the
30  positive-pressure reservoir, and the negative-pressure reservoir. The actuation-chamber
    pressure transducer is located in a base unit but is in fluid communication with the actuation
    chamber through the pod pump pneumatic port. The controller monitors the pressure in the
    two reservoirs to ensure they are properly pressurized (either positively or negatively). In
                                                     29

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
    one exemplary embodiment, the positive-pressure reservoir may be maintained at around
    750mmHG, while the negative-pressure reservoir may be maintained at around -450mmH.,
            Still referring to FIG. 7, a compressor-type pump or pumps (not shown) may be used
    to maintain the desired pressures in these reservoirs- For example, two independent
 5  compressors may be used to respectively service the reservoirs. Pressure in the reservoirs
    may be managed using a simple bang-bang control technique in which the compressor
    servicing the positive-pressure reservoir is turned on if the pressure in the reservoir falls
    below a predetermined threshold and the compressor servicing the negative-pressure
    reservoir is tumed on if the pressure in the reservoir is above a predetermined threshold.
10  The amount of hysteresis may be the same for both reservoirs or may be different. Tighter
    control of the pressure in the reservoirs can be achieved by reducing the size of the
    hysteresis band, although this will generally result in higher cycling frequencies of the
    compressors. If very tight control of the reservoir pressures is required or otherwise
    desirable for a particular application, the bang-bang technique could be replaced with a P1D
15  control technique and could use PWM signals on the compressors.
            The pressure provided by the positive-pressure reservoir is preferably strong enough
    -  under normal conditions -      to urge the membrane all the way against the rigid pumping
    chamber wall. Similarly, the negative pressure (ie., the vacuum) provided by the negative
    pressure reservoir is preferably strong enough - under normal conditions -        to urge the
20  membrane all the way against the actuation-chamber wall. In a further preferred
    embodiment, however, these positive and negative pressures provided by the reservoirs are
    within safe enough limits that even with either the positive-supply valve or the negative
    supply valve open all the way, the positive or negative pressure applied against the
    membrane is not so strong as to damage the pod pump or create unsafe fluid pressures (e.g.,
25  that may harm a patient receiving pumped blood or other fluid).
            It will be appreciated that other types of actuation systems miay be used to move the
    membrane back and forth instead of the two-reservoir pneumatic actuation system shown in
    FIG. 7, although a two-reservoir pneumatic actuation system is generally preferred. For
    example, alternative pneumatic actuation systems may include either a single positive
30  pressure reservoir or a single negative-pressure reservoir along with a single supply valve
    and a single tank pressure sensor, particularly in combination with a resilient membrane.
    Such pneuratic actuation systems may intermittently provide either a positive gas pressure
    or a negative gas pressure to the actuation chamber of the pod pump. In embodiments
    having a single positive-pressure reservoir, the pump may be operated by intermittently
                                                    30

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
    providing positive gas pressure to the actuation chamber, causing the membrane to move
    toward the pumping chamber wall and expel the contents of the pumping chamber, and
    releasing the gas pressure, causing the membrane to return to its relaxed position and draw
    fluid into the pumping chamber. In embodinments having a single negative-pressure
 5  reservoir, the pump may be operated by intermittently providing negative gas pressure to
    the actuation chamber, causing the membrane to .movetoward the actuation chamber wall
    and draw fluid into the pumping chamber, and releasing the gas pressure, causing the
    membrane to return to its relaxed position and expel fluid from the pumping chamber,
10  3.      Fluid Handling
            As shown and described with respect to FIGS. 2A-2D, a fluid valve in the
    exemplary embodiment consists of a small chamber with a flexible membrane or membrane
    across the center dividing the chamber into a fluid half and a pneumatic half The fluid
15  valve, in the exemplary embodiment, has 3 entry/exit ports, two on the fluid half of the
    chamber and one the pneumatic half of the chamber. The port on the pneumatic half of the
    chamber can supply either positive pressure or vacuum (or rather than vacuum, in some
    embodiments, there is a vent to atmosphere) to the chamber. When a vacuum is applied to
    the pneumatic portion of the chamber, the membrane is pulled towards the pneumatic side
20  of the chamber, clearing the fluid path and allowing fluid to flow into and out of the fluid
    side of the chamber. When positive pressure is applied to the pneumatic portion of the
    chamber, the membrane is pushed towards the fluid side of the chamber, blocking the fluid
    path and preventing fluid flow. In the volcano valve embodiment (as shown in FIGS 2A
    2B) on one of the fluid ports, that port seals off first when closing the valve and the
25  remainder of any fluid in the valve is expelled through the port without the volcano feature.
    Additionally, in one embodiment of the valves, shown in FIG. 2D, the raised feature
    between the two ports allows for the membrane to seal the two ports from each other earlier
    in the actuation stroke (i.e, before the membrane seals the ports directly).
            Referring again to FG, 7, pressure valves are used to operate the pumps located at
30  different points in the flow path. This architecture supports pressure control by using two
    variable-orifice valves and a pressure sensor at each pump chamber which requires pressure
    control. In one embodiuent one valve is connected to a high-pressure source and the other
    valve is connected to a low-pressure sink. A high-speed control loop monitors the pressure
    sensor and controls the valve positions to maintain the necessary pressure in the pump
35  chamber.
                                                    31

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
            Pressure sensors are used to monitor pressure in the pneumatic portion of the
    chambers themselves. By alternating between positive pressure and vacuum on the
    pneumatic side of the chamber, the membrane is cycled back and forth across the total
    chamber volume. With each cycle, fluid is drawn through the upstream valve of the inlet
 5  fluid port when the pneumatics pull a vacuum on the pods, The fluid is then subsequently
    expelled through the outlet port and the downstream valve when the pneumatics deliver
    positive pressure to the pods.
            In many embodiments pressure punps consist of a pair of chambers. When the two
    chambers are run 180 degrees out of phase from one another the flow is essentially
10  continuous.
    4.      Volume Measurement
            These flow rates in the cassette are controlled using pressure pod pumps which can
15  detect end-o-f-stroke. An outer control loop determines the correct pressure values to deliver
    the required flow. Pressure pumps can run an end of stroke algorithm to detect when each
    stroke completes. While the membrane is moving, the measured pressure in the chamber
    tracks a desired sinusoidal pressure, When the membrane contacts a chamber wall, the
    pressure becomes constant, no longer tracking the sinusoid. This change in the pressure
20  signal is used to detect when the stroke has ended, i.e., the end-of-stroke.
            The pressure pumps have a known volume. Thus, an end of stroke indicates a
    known volume of fluid is in the chamber, Thus, using the end-of-stroke, fluid flow may be
    controlled using rate equating to volume.
            As described above in more detail, FMS may be used to determine the volume.of
25  fluid pumped by the metering pumps. In some embodiments, the metering pump may pump
    fluid without using the FMS volume measurement system, however, in the exemplary
    embodiments, the FMS volume measurement system is used to calculate the exact volume
    of fluid pumped.
30  5.      Exemplary Embodiment of the Mixing Cassette
            The terms inlet and outlet as well as first fluid, second fluid, third fluid, and the
    number designations given to valving paths (ie. "first valving path") are used for
    description purposes only. In other embodiments, an inlet can be an outlet, as well, an
    indication of a first, second, third fluid does not denote that they are different fluids or are in
                                                    3:2

   WO 2008/106538                                                             PCT/US2008/055168
    a particular hierarchy. The denotations simply refer to separate entrance areas into the
    cassette and the first, second, third, etc, fluids may be different fluids or the same fluid types
    or composition or two or more may be the same. Likewise, the designation of the first,
    second, third, etc. valving paths do not have any particular meaning, but are used for
 5  clearness of description.
             The designa tons given for the fluid inlets (which can also be fluid outlets), for
    example, first fluid outlet, second fluid outlet, merely indicate that a fluid may travel out of
    or into the cassette via that inlet/outlet. In some cases, more tian one ilet/outlet on the
    schenatic is designated with an identical name. This merely describes that all of the
10  inlet/outlets having that designation are pumped by the same metering pump or set of pod
    pumps (which in alternate embodiments, can be a single pod pump).
             Referring now to FIG. 8, an exemplary embodiment of the fluid schematic of the
    cassette 800 is shown. Other schematics are readily discernable. The cassette 800 includes
    at least one pod pump 828, 820 and at least one mixing chamber 818, The cassette 800 also
15  includes a first fluid inlet 810, where a first fluid enters the cassette. The first fluid includes
    a flow rate provided by one of the at least one pod pump 820, 828 in the cassette 800. The
    cassette 800 also includes a first fluid outlet 824 where fluid exits the cassette 800 having a
    flow rate provided by one of the at least one pod pump 820, 828. The cassette 800 includes
    at least one metering fluid line 812, 814, 816 that is in fluid connection with the first fluid
20  outlet. The cassette also includes at least one second fluid inlet 826 where the second fluid
    enters the cassette 800. In some embodiments of the cassette 800 a third fluid inlet 825 is
    also included.
             Metering pumps 822., 830 pump the second fluid and the third fluid into the first
    fluid outlet line. The second fluid and, in some embodiments, the third fluid, connected to
25  the cassette 800 at the second fluid inlet 826 and third fluid inlet 825 respectively, are each
    fluidly connected to a metering pump 822, 830 and to the first fluid outlet line through a
    metering fluid line 812, 814, 816. The metering pumps 822, 830, described in more detail
    below, in the exemplary embodiment, include a volume measurement capacity such that the
    volume of fluid pumped by the meteriug Pumps 822, 830 is readily discermable.
30           The mixing chamber 818 is connected to the first fluid outlet line 824 and includes a
    fluid inlet and a fluid outlet. In some embodiments, sensors are located upstream and
    downstream from the mixing chamber 818, The location of the sensors in the exemplary
    embodiment are shown and described below with respect to FIGS. 14C, 14D and FIGS.
    15B and 15C.
                                                      33

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
             The cassette 800 is capable of internally mixing a solution made up of at least two
    components. The cassette 800 also includes the capability of constituting a powder to a
    fluid prior to pumping the fluid into the mixing chamber. These capabilities will be
    described in greater detail below.
 5           Various valves 832-860 impart the various capabilities of the cassette 800. The
    components of the cassette 800 may be used differently in the different embodiments based
    on various valving controls.
             The fluid schematic of the cassette 800 shown in FIG. 8 may be embodied into
    various cassette apparatus, Thus, the embodiments of the cassette 800 including the fluid
10  schematic shown in FIG, 8 are not the only cassette embodiments that may incorporate this
    or an alternate embodiment of this fluid schematic. Additionally, the types of valves, the
    ganging of the valves, the number of pumps and chambers may vary in various cassette
    embodiments of this fluid schematic.
             Referring now to FIG. 8, a fluid flow-path schematic 800 is shown with the fluid
15  paths indicated based on different valving flow paths. The fluid flow-path schematic 800 is
    described herein corresponding to the valving flow paths in one embodiment of the cassette.
    The exemplary embodiment of the midplate 900 of the cassette are shown in FIGS. 10 with
    the valves indicated corresponding to the respective fluid flow-path schematic 800 in FIGS,
    8. For the purposes of the description, the fluid flow paths will be described based on the
20  valving. The term "valving path" refers to a fluid path that may, in some embodiments, be
    available based on the control of particular valves, The corresponding fluid side structures
    of F[G. 10 are shown in FIGS 12A,
             Referring now to FIGS. S and 10 the first valving path includes valves 858, 860,
    This valving path 858, 860 includes the metering fluid line 812, which connects to the
25  second fluid inlet 826. As shown in these FIGS., in some embodiments of the cassette,
    there are two second fluid inlets 826. In practice, these two second fluid inlets 826 can be
    connected to the same fluid source or a different fluid source. Either way, the same fluid or
    a different fluid ray be connected to each second fluid inlet 826. Each second fluid inlet
    826 is connected to a different metering fluid line 812, 814.
30           The first of the two metering fluid lines connected to the second fluid inlet 826 is as
    follows. When valve 858 opens and valve 860 is closed and metering pump 822 is actuated,
    fluid is drawn from the second fluid inlet 826 and into metering fluid line 812. When valve
    860 is open and valve 858 is closed and the metering pump 822 is actuated, second fluid
    continues on metering fluid line 812 into pod pump 820,
                                                    34

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
             Referring now to the second valving path including valve 842, when valve 842 is
    open and pod pump 820 is actuated, fluid is pumped from pod pump 820 to one of the third
    fluid inlet 825. in one embodiment, this valving path is provided to send liquid into a
    container or source connected to third fluid inlet 825.
 5           Referring now to the third valving path including valves 832 and 836 this valving
    path 832, 835 Includes the metering fluid line 816, which connects to the third fluid inlet
    825. As shown in these FIGS., in some embodiments of the cassette, there are two third
    fluid inlets 825. In practice, these two third fluid inlets 825 can be connected to the same
    fluid source or a different fluid source. Either way, the same fluid or a different fluid may
10  be connected to each third fluid inlet 825, Each third fluid inlet 825 is connected to a
    different metering fluid line 862, 868.
             When valve 832 opens and valve 836 is closed and metering pump 830 is actuated,
    fluid is drawn from the third fluid inlet 825 and into metering fluid line 830. When valve
    836 is open and valve 832 is closed and the metering pump 830 is actuated, third fluid
15  continues on metering fluid line 816 into first fluid outlet line 824.
             Referring now to the fourth valving path, valve 846, when valve 846 is open and pod
    pump 820 is actuated, fluid is pumped from pod pump 820 to one of the third fluid inlet
    825. In one embodiment, this valving path is provided to send liquid into a container or
    source connected to third fluid inlet 825.
20           Referring now to the fifth valving path, when valve 850 opens and pod pump 820 is
    actuated, fluid is pumped into the cassette 800 through the first fluid inlet 810, and into pod
    pump 820.
             Referring now to the sixth valving path, when valve 838 is open and pod pump 820
    is actuated, fluid is pumped from pod pump 820 to the mixing chamber 818 and to the first
25  fluid outlet 824.
             The seventh valving path includes valves 858, 856. This valving path 858, 856
    includes the metering fluid line 812. which connects to the second fluid inlet 826. As
    shown in these FIGS, in some embodiments of the cassette, there are two second fluid
    inlets 826- In practice, these two second fluid inlets 826 can be connected the same fluid
30  source or a different fluid source. Either way, the same fluid or a different fluid may be
    connected to each second fluid inlet 826. Each second fluid inlet 826 is connected to a
    different metering fluid line 812, 814.
             When valve 858 opens and valve 856 is closed and metering tpump 822 is actuated,
    fluid is drawn from the second fluid inlet 826 and into metering fluid line 812. When valve

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
    856 is open and valve 858 is closed, and the metering pump is actuated, second fluid
    continues on metering fluid line 814 into pod pump 828.
            Referring now to the eighth valving path, -valve848. when valve 848 is open and
    pod pump 828 is actuated, fluid is pumped from pod pump 828 to one of the third fluid inlet
 5  825. In one embodiment, this valving path is provided to send fluid/liquid into a container
    or source connected to third fluid inlet 825.
            Referring now to the ninth valving path including valve 844, when valve 844 is open
    and pod pump 828 is actuated, fluid is pumped from pod pump 828 to one of the third fluid
    inlet 825, In one embodiment, this valving path is provided to send liquid into a container
10  or source connected to third fluid inlet 825.
            Referring now to the tenth valving path, valve 848, when valve 848 is open and pod
    pump 828 is actuated, fluid is pumnped from pod pump 828 to one of the third fluid inlet
    825. In one embodiment, this valving path is provided to send fluid/liquid into a container
    or source connected to third fluid inlet 825.
15          The eleventh valving path including valves 854 and 856 is shown. This valving path
    854, 856 includes the metering fluid line 814, which connects to the second fluid inlet 826.
    As shown in these FIGS, in sonic embodiments of the cassette, there are two second fluid
    inlets 826. In practice, these two second fluid inlets 826 can be connected the same fluid
    source or a different fluid source. Either way, the same fluid or a different fluid may be
20  connected to each second fluid inlet 826. Each second fluid inlet 826 is connected to a
    different metering fluid line 812, 814.
            The second of the two metering fluid lines connected to the second fluid inlet 826 is
    shown in FIG. 8. The twelfth valving path is as follows. When valve 854 opens and valve
    856 is closed and ieternig pump 822 is actuated, fluid is drawn from the second fluid inlet
25  826 and into metering fluid line 814. When valve 856 is open and valve 854 is closed and
    the metering pump 822 is actuated, the second fluid continues on metering fluid line 814
    into pod pump 828
            Similarly, the thirteenth valving path is seen when valve 854 opens and valve 860 is
    closed and metering pump 822 is actuated, fluid is drawn from the second fluid inlet 826
30  and into metering fluid line 814. When valve 860 is open and valve 854 is closed, and the
    metering punp 822 is actuated. the second fluid continues on metering fluid line 814 into
    pod pump 820,
                                                   36

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
             Referring now to the fourteenth valving path including valve 852. When valve 852
    opens and pod pump 828.is actuated, fluid is pumped into the cassette 800 through the first
    fluid inlet 810, and into pod pump 828.
             Referring now to the fifteenth valving path, when valve 840 is open and pod pump
 5  828 is actuated, fluid is pumped from pod pump 828 to the mixing chamber 818 and to the
    first fluid oulet 824.     The sixteenth valving path including valve 834, when valve 834 is
    open and valve 836 opens, and the metering pump 830 is actuated, fluid from the third fluid
    inlet 825 flows on metering fluid line 862 and to metering fluid line 816.
             In the exemplary fluid flow-path embodiment shown in FIG. 8, and corresponding
10  structure of the cassette shown in FIGS. 10, valves are open individually. In the exemplary
    embodiment, the valves are pneumatically open Also, in the exemplary embodiment, the
    fluid valves are volcano valves, as described in more detail in this specification.
             Referring now to FIGS. 11 A-I 11B, the top plate 1100 of exemplary embodiment of
    the cassette is shown. In the exemplary embodiment, the pod pumps 820, 828 and the
15  mixing chambers 818 on the top plate 1100, are forced in a similar fashion. In the
    exemplary embodiment, the pod pumps 820, 828 and mixing chamber 818, when assembled
    with the bottom plate, have a total volume of capacity of 38ml However, in other
    embodiments, the mixing chamber can have any size volume desired.
              Referring now to FIGS. I1B, the bottom view of the top plate 1100 is shown. The
20  fluid paths are shown in this view, These fluid paths correspond to the fluid paths shown in
    FIGS, 12A-12B in the midplate 1200. The top plate 1100 and the top of the midplate 1200
    form the liquid or fluid side of the cassette for the pod pumps 820, 828 and for one side of
    the mixing chamber 818. Thus, most of the liquid flow paths are on the top 1100 and
    midplates 1200. Refering to FIG. 1213 the first fluid inlet 810 and the first fluid outlet 824
25  are shown.
             Still referring to FIGS. .1 A and II B, the pod pumps 820, 828 include a groove 1002
    (in alternate embodiments, this is a groove). The groove 1002 is shown having a particular
    size and shape, however, in other embodiments, the size and shape of the groove 1002 can
    be any size or shape desirable, The size and shape shown in FIGS. I IA and II B is the
30  exemplary embodiment. In all embodiments of the groove 1002, the groove 1002 forms a
    path between the fluid inlet side and the fluid outlet side of the pod pumps 820, 828. in
    alternate embodiments, the groove 1002 is a groove in the inner pumping chamber wall of
    the pod pump.
                                                     37

   WO 2008/106538                                                              PCT/US2008/055168
            The groove 1002 provides a fluid path whereby when the membrane is at the end-of
    stroke there is still a fluid path between the inlet and outlet such that the pockets of fluid or
    air do not get trapped in the pod pump. The groove 1002 is included i both itie liquid/fluid
    and air/actuation sides of the pod pumps 820, 828. In some embodiments, the groove 1002
 5  may also be included in the mixing chamber 818 (see FIGS. 13A- 31B with respect to the
    actuation/air side of the pod pumps 820, 828 and the opposite side of the mixing chamber
    818. In altemate embodiments, the groove 1002 is either not included or on only one side
    of the pod pumps 820, 828.
            In an alternate embodiment of the cassette, the liquid/fluid side of the pod pumps
10  820, 828 may include a feature (not shown) whereby the inlet and outlet flow paths are
    continuous and a rigid outer ring (not shown) is molded about the circumference of the
    pumping chamber is also continuous. This feature allows for the seal, formed with the
    membrane (not shown) to be maintained. Referring to FI           I IE, the side view of the
    exemplary embodiment of the top plate 1100 is shown,
15           Referring now to FIGS. I 2A- 1213, the exemplary embodiment of the midplate 1200
    is shown. The midplate 1200 is also shown in FIGS. 9A-9F and 1IA-IOF, where these
    FIGS. correspond with FIGS. 12A-12B, Thus, FIGS. 9A-9F and 1OA-IOF indicate the
    locations of the various valves and valving paths. The locations of the membranes (not
    shown) for the respective pod pumps 820, 828 as well as the location of the mixing chamber
20  818 are shown,
            Referring now to FIGS, 12A, in the exemplary embodiment of the cassette, sensor
    elements are incorporated into the cassette so as to discern various properties of the fluid
    being pumped. In one embodiment, three sensor elements are included, However, in the
    exemplary embodiment, six sensor elements (two sets of three) are included. The sensor
25  elements are located in the sensor cell 1314, 1316. In this embodiment, a sensor cell 1314,
    1316 is included as an area on the cassette for sensor(s) elements.      In the exemplary
    embodiment, the three sensor elements of the two sensor cells 1314, 1316 are housed in
    respective sensor elements housings 1308, 1310, 1312 and 1318, 1320, 1322. In the
    exemplary embodinent, two of the sensor elements housings 1308, 1312 and 131.8, 1320
30  accommodate a conductivity sensor elements and the third sensor elements housing 1310,
    1322 accommodates a temperature sensor elements. TI'he conductivity sensor elements and
    temperature sensor elements can be any conductivity or temperature sensor elements in the
    art. In one embodiment, the conductivity sensors are graphite posts. In other embodiments.,
    the conductivity sensor elements are posts made from stainless steel, titanium, platinum or
                                                     38

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
    any other metal coated to be corrosion resistant and still be electrically conductive. The
    conductivity sensor elements will include an electrical lead that transmits the probe
    information to a controller or other device. In one embodiment, the temperature sensor is a
    therister potted in a stainless steel probe. However, in alternate embodiments, a
 5  combination temperature and conductivity sensor elements is used similar to the one
    described in co-pending U.S. Patent Application entitled Sensor Apparatus Systems,
    Devices and Methods filed October 12, 2007 (DEKA-024XX)
            In alternate embodiments, there are either no sensors in the cassette or only a
    temperature sensor, only one or more conductivity sensors or one or more of another type of
10  sensor.
            Referring now to FIGS. 12C, the side view of the exemplary embodiment of the
    midplate 1200 is shown,
            Referring now to FIGS. 13.A- 31B, the bottom plate 1300 is shown. :Referring first to
    FIGS. 13A, the inner or inside surface of the bottom plate 1300 is shown. The inner or
15  inside surface is the side that contacts the bottom surface of the midplate (not shown, see
    FIGS. 913). The bottom plate 1300 attaches to the air or actuation lines (not shown). The
    corresponding entrance holes for the air that actuates the pod pumps 820, 828 and valves
    (not shown, see FIGS. IA-10F) in the midplate 1300 can be seen. Holes 810, 824
    correspond to the first fluid inlet and first fluid. outlet shown in FIGS. 12B, 810, 824
20  respectively. The corresponding halves of the pod pumps 820, 828 and mixing chamber
    818 are also shown, as are the grooves 1002 for the fluid paths. The actuation holes in the
    pumps are also shown. Unlike the top plate, the bottom plate 1300 corresponding halves of
    the pod pumps 820, 828 and mixing chamber 818 make apparent the difference between the
    pod pumps 820., 828 and mixing chamber 818. The pod pumps 820, 828 include an
25  air/actuation path on the bottom plate 1300, while the mixing chamber 818 has identical
    construction to the half in the top plate. The nmxing chamber 818 mixes liquid and
    therefore, does not include a membrane (not shown) nor an air/actuation path. The sensor
    cell 1314, 1316 with the three sensor element housings 1308, 1310, 1312 and 1318, 1320,
    1.322 are also shown.
30          Referring now to FIGS. 13B. the actuation ports 1306 are shown on the outside or
    outer bottom plate 1300. An actuation source is connected to these actuation ports 1306.
    Again, the mixing chamber 818 does not have an actuation port as it is not actuated by air.
    Referring to FIG. 13C a side view of the exemplary embodiment of the bottom plate 1300
    is shown.
                                                      39

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
             5.1      Menibranes
              In the exemplary embodiment, the membrane is a gasket o-ring membrane as shown
    in FIG. SA. However, in some enbodiments, a gasket o-ring membranes having texture.
    including, but not limited to, the various embodiments in FIGS. 4D,or 5B-5D may be used.
 5  In still other embodiments, the membranes shown in FIGS. 6A-6G may also be used,
              Referring next to FIGS. I 4A and 14B, the assembled exemplary embodiment of the
    cassette 1400 is shown. FIGS. 14C and 14D are an exploded view of the exemplary
    embodiment of the cassette 1400. The membranes 1600 are shown. As can be seen from
    FIGS. 14C and 14D, there is one membrane 1602 for each of the pods pumps. In the
10  exemplary embodiment, the membrane for the pod pumps is identical. In alternate
    embodiments, any membrane may be used, and one pod pump could use one embodiment
    of the membrane while the second pod pump can use a different embodiment of the
    membrane (or each pod pump can use the same rmembrane)
             The various embodiments of the membrane used in the metering pumps 1604, in the
15  preferred embodiment, are shown in more detail in FIGS. 5E-5-1. The various
    embodiments of the membrane used in the valves 1222 is shown in more detail in FIGS.
    2E-2G, However, in alternate embodiments, the metering pump membrane as well as the
    valve membranes may contain textures for example, but not limited to, the textures shown
    on the pod pump membranes shown in FIGS. SA-5D,
20           One embodiment of the conductivity sensor elements 1314, 1316 and the
    temperature sensor element 1310, which make up the sensor cell 1322, are also shown in
    FIGS. 14C and 14D. Still referring to FIGS. 14C and 14D, the sensor elements are housed
    in sensor blocks (shown as 1314, 1316 in FIGS, 12B and 3A) which include areas on the
    bottom plate 1300 and the midplate 1200. 0-rings seal the sensor housings from the fluid
25  lines located on the upper side of the midplate 1200 and the inner side of the top plate 1100.
    H-owever, in other embodiments, an o-ring is molded into the sensor block or any other
    method of sealing can be used.
             5.2      Cross Sectional Views
              Referring noW to FIGS. ISA-I 5C, various cross sectional views of the assembled
30  cassette are shown, Referring first to FIG. 15A, the membranes 1602 are shown in a pod
    pumps 820, 828 As can be seen from the cross section, the o-ring of the membrane 1602 is
    sandwiched by the midplate 1200 and the bottom plate 1300. A valve membrane 1606 can
    also be seen. As discussed above, each valve includes a membrane.
                                                  40

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
             Referring now to FIG. 15B, the two conductivity sensors 1308, 1312 and the
    temperature sensor 1310 are shown, As can be seen from the cross section. the sensors
    1308, 1310, 131.2 are in the fluid line 824. Thus, the sensors 1308, 1310, 1312 are in fluid
    connection with the fluid line and can determine sensor data of the fluid exiting fluid outlet
 5  one 824. Still referring to FIG. I1, a valve 836 cross section is shown. As shown in this
    FIG., in the exemplary embodiment, the valves are volcano valves similar to the
    embodiment shown and described above with respect to FIG, 2B, However, as discussed
    above, in alternate embodinient., other valves are used including, but not limited, to those
    described and shown above with respect to FI0S. 2;A, 2C and 21.
10           Referring now to FIG. 15C, the twvo conductivity sensor elements 1318, 1320 and
    the temperature sensor element 1322 are shown. As can be seen from the cross section, the
    sensor elements 1318, 1320, 1322 are in the fluid line 824. Thus, the sensor elements 1318,
    1320, 1322 are in fluid connection with the fluid line and can be used to determine sensor
    data of the fluid entering the mixing chamber (not shown in this figure).
15  Thus, in the exemplary embodiment, the sensor elements 1.3.18, 1320, 1322 are used to
    collect data regarding fluid being pumped into the mixing chamber. Referring back to FIG,
     1213, sensor elements 1308, 1310, 1312 are used to collect data regarding fluid being
    pumped from the mixing chamber and to the fluid outlet. However, in alternate
    embodiments, no sensors are or only one set, or only one type of sensor element (i.e., either
20  temperature or conductivity sensor element) is used. Any type of sensor may be used and
    additionally, any embodiment of a temperature, a conductivity sensor element or a
    combined temperature/conductivity sensor element.
             As described above, the exemplary embodiment is one cassette embodiment that
    incorporates the exemplary fluid flow-path schematic shown in FIG. 8. However, there are
25  alternate embodiments of the cassette that incorporate many of the same features of the
    exemplary embodiment, but in a different structural design and with slightly different flow
    paths. One of these alternate embodiments is the embodiment shown in FIGS. 16A- 20B.
             Referring now to FIGS. 16A-16C, views of an alternate embodiment of the top plate
    1.600 are shown- The features of the top plate 1.600 are alternate embodiments of
30  corresponding features in the exemplary embodiment. This alternate embodiment includes
    two mixing chambers 1622, 1624 and three metering pumps. Thus, this embodiment
    represents the flexibility in the cassette design. In various embodiments, the cassette can
    mix any number of fluids, as well, can meter them separately or together. FIG. 9 shows a
    fluid flow-path schematic of the cassette shown in FIGS. 16A-20B.
                                                    41

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
             Referring now to FIGS. 17A-I7C, views of an alternate embodiment of the midplate
    1700 are shown, FIGS. I SA-1 SC show views of an alternate embodiment of the bottom
    plate 1800.
             Referring now to FIG. 19A, an assembled alternate embodiment of the cassette 1900
 5  is shown. FIGS, 19C-19D show exploded views of the cassette 1900 where the pod pump
    membranes 1910, valve membranes 1914 and metering pump membranes 1.912 are shown.
    The three metering pumps 1616, 1618, 1620 can be seen as well as the respective
    membranes 1912. In this embodiment, three fluids can be metered and controlled volumes
    of each can be mixed together in the mixing chambers 1622, 1624.
10  FIGS. 20A and 20B show a cross sectional view of the assembled cassette 1900.
             As this alternate embodiment shows, there are many variations of the pumping
    cassette and the general fluid schematic shown in FIG. 8. Thus, additional mixing chambers
    and metering pumps can add additional capability to the pumping cassette to mix more than
    two fluids together.
15           5.3      Exemplary Embodiments of the Mixing Casseite
              In practice, the cassette may be used to punmp any type of fluid from any source to
    any location. The types of fluid include nutritive, nonnutritive, inorganic chemicals,
    organic chemicals, bodily fluids or any other type of fluid. Additionally, fluid in some
    embodiments includes a gas, thus, in some enbodiments; the cassette is used to pump a gas.
20           The cassette serves to pump and direct the fluid from and to the desired locations, In
    some embodiments, outside pumps pump the fluid into the cassette and the cassette pumps
    the fluid out. However, in. some embodiments, the pod pumps serve to pull the fluid into
    the cassette and pump the fluid out of the cassette.
             As discussed above, depending on the valve locations, control of the fluid paths is
25  imparted. Thus, the valves being in different locations or additional valves are altemate
    embodiments of this cassette. Additionally, the fluid lines and paths shown in the figures
    described above are mere examples of fluid lines and paths. Other embodiments may have
    more, less and/or different fluid paths. In still other embodiments, valves are not present in
    the cassette.
30           The number of pod pumps described above may also vary depending on the
    embodiment. For example, although the exemplary and alternate embodiments shown and
    described above include two pod pumps, in other embodiments, the cassette includes one,
    In still other embodiments, the cassette includes more than two pod pumps. The pod pumps
                                                     42

   WO 2008/106538                                                             PCT/US2008/055168
    can be single pumps or work in tandem to provide a more continuous flow, Either or both
    may be used in various embodiments of the cassette.
             The various ports are provided to impart particular fluid paths onto the cassette.
    These ports are not necessarily all used all of the time, instead, the variety of pots provide
 5  flexibility of use of the cassette in practice.
             The pumping cassette can be used in a myriad of applications. -owever, in one
    exemplary embodiment, the pumping cassette is used to mix a solution that includes at least
    two inredients/conpounds.           the exemplary embodiment, three ingredients are mixed.
    However, in other embodiments, less than three or more than three can be mixed by adding
10  metering pumps, mixing chanibers, inlets/outlets, valves and fluid lines. These variations to
    the cassette design are readily discernable.
             As used herein, the terms "source ingredient" or "sources of ingredients" refers to
    ingredients other than the fluid pumped into the cassette from the first fluid inlet. These
    source ingredients are contained in a container, or provided by a source, connected to the
15  cassette.
             in the exemplary embodiment, the pumping cassette includes the ability to connect
    four sources of ingredients to the cassette in addition to the fluid inlet line, In the
    exemplary embodiment, the fluid inlet is connected to a water source. However, in other
    embodiments, the fluid inlet line is connected to a container of a.liquid/fluid solution or to
20  another source of fluid/liquid,
             In the exemplary embodiment, the four additional sources of ingredients can be four
    of the sate source ingredients, or two of one source ingredient and two of another. Using
    two of each source ingredient. or four of one source ingredient, pumping and mixing can be
    done in a continuous manner without having to replace the sources. However, depending
25  on the source, the number of redundant sources of each ingredient will vary. For example,
    the source could be a connection to a very large contamier, a smaller container or a
    seemingly "endless" source. Thus, depending on the volume being pumped and the size of
    the source, the number of containers of a source ingredient may vary.
             One of the fluid paths described above with respect to FIG. 8 includes a path where
30  the pod pumps pump liquid into the cassette and to two of the source ingredients sources or
    containers. This available functionality of the cassette allows two of the source ingredients
    to be, at least initially, powder that is constituted with the fluid/liquid from the fluid inlet
    line. As well, there is a valving path for both pod pumps that can accomplish pumping fluid
    to the ingredient sources. Thus, in one embodiment, the valves are control led for a period
                                                      43

    WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
     of time such that continuous pumping of fluid into the fluid inlet and to two source
     ingredient containers is accomplished. This same valving path can be instituted to the other
     two source ingredient containers or to one of the other two source ingredient containers Im
     addition to or in lieu oflthe valving path shown in FIG. 8S In other embodiments, fluid inlet
  5  liquid is pumped to only one source ingredient container.
             Additionally, in some embodiments, fluid is pumped into the fluid inlet and to the
     source ingredients where the source ingredients are fluid. This embodiment may be used in
     situations where the fluid inlet fluid is a source ingredient that needs to be mixed with one
     of the source ingredients prior to pumping. This functionality can be designed into any
10   embodiment of the pumping cassette.        -lowever in. some embodiments, this valving path is
     not included.
             In the exemplary embodiment, the metering pumps allow for the pumping of the
     source ingredients in known volumes. Thus, careful pumping allows for mixing a solution
     requiring exact concentrations of the various ingredients, A single metering pump could
1.5  pump multiple source ingredients.      however, as an ingredient is pumped, small amounts of
     that ingredient may be present in the metering fluid line and thus, could contaminate the
      ingredient and thus, provide for an incorrect assessment of the volume of that second
     ingredient being pumped. Therefore, in the exemplary embodiment, at least one metering
     pump is provided for each source ingredient, and thus, a single metering pump is provided
20   for two sources of source ingredients where those two sources contain identical source
     ingredients.
             in the exemplary embodiment, for each source ingredient, a metering pump is
     provided, Thus, in embodiments where more than two source ingredients are present,
     additional metering pumps may be included for each additional source ingredient in the
25   pumping cassette. In the exemplary embodiment, a single metering pump is connected to
     two source ingredients because in the exemplary emibodiment, these two source ingredients
     are the same. However, in alternate embodiments, one metering pump can pump more than
     one source ingredient and be connected to more than one source ingredient even if they are
     not the same.
30           Sensors or sensor elements may be included in the fluid lines to determine the
     concentration, temperature or other characteristic of the fluid being pumped. Thus, in
     embodiments where the source ingredient container included a powder, water having been
     pumped by the cassette to the source ingredient container to constitute the powder into
     solution, a sensor could be used to ensure the correct concentration of the source ingredient.
                                                     44

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
    Further, sensor elements may be included in the fluid outlet line downstream from the
    mixing chamber to determine characteristics of the mixed solution prior to the mixed
    solution exiting the cassette through the fluid outlet, Additionally, a downstream valve can
    be provided to ensure badly mixed solution is not pumped outside the cassette through the
 5  fluid outlet. Discussion of the exemplary embodiment of the sensor elements is included
    above.
             One example of the pumping cassette in use is as a mixing cassette as part of a
    hemodialysis system. The mixing cassette would be used to mix dialysate to feed a
    dialysate reservoir outside the cassette. Thus, the cassette would be connected to two
10  containers of each citric acid and NaCl/ bicarbonate. Two metering pumps are present in
    the cassette, one dedicated to the citric acid and the other to the NaCIlBicarbonate. Thus,
    one metering pump works with two source ingredient containers.
             In the exemplary embodiment, the NaCl/Bicarbonate is a powder and requires the
    addition of water to create the fluid source ingredient solution. Thus, water is pumped into
15  the first fluid inlet and into the source containers of NaCBlicarbonate. Both pod puimps can
    pump out of phase to rapidly and continuously provide the necessary water to the source
    containers of NaCl/Bicarbonate.
             To mix the dialysate, the citric acid is pumped by a metering pump into a pod pump
    and then towards the mixing chamber. Water is pumped into the pod pumps as well,
20  resulting in a desired concentration of citric acid. Sensor elements are located upstream
    from the mixing chamber to determine if the citric acid is in the proper concentration and
    also, the pod pumps can pump additional water towards themixIng chamber if necessary to
    achieve the proper concentration.
             The NaO./Bicarbonate is pumped by the second metering pump and into the fluid
25  outlet line upstream from the mixing chamber. The citric acid and fluid NaCl/Bicarbonate
    will enter the mixing chamber. The two source ingredients will then mix and be pumriped
    out the fluid outlet.
             In some embodiments, sensor elements are located downstream from the mixing;
    chamber. These sensor elements can ensure the concentration of the fished solution is
30  proper. Also, in some embodiments, a valve may be located downstream from the fluid
    outlet, In situations where the sensor data shows the mixing has riot been successful or as
    desired, this valve can block the dialysate from flowing into the reservoir located outside the
    cassette.
                                                     45

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
            In alternate embodiments of the cassette, addition metering pumps can be includes to
    remove fluid from the fluid lines. Also, additional pod pumps may be included for
    additional pumping features. In alternate embodiments of this dialysate mixing process,
    three metering pumps and two mixing chambers are used (as shown in FIG. 9. The citric
 5  acid, salt, and bicarbonate are each pumped separately in this embodiment. One mixing
    chamber is similar to the one described above, and the second mixing chamber is used to
    mix the salt and bicarbonate prior to flowing to the other mixing chamber, where the mixing
    between the citric acid, NaCl/Bicarbonate will be accomplished.
            Various embodiments of the cassette for mxing various solutions are readily
10  discernable. The fluid lines, valving, metering pumps, mixing chambers, pod pumps and
    inlet/outlets are modular elements that can be mixed and matched to impart the desired
    mixing functionality onto the cassette.
            In various embodiments of the cassette, the valve architecture varies in order to alter
    the fluid flow-path. Additionally, the sizes of the pod pumps, metering pump and mixing
15  chambers may also vary, as well as the number of valves, pod pumps, metering pumps,
    sensors, mixing chambers and source ingredient containers connected to the cassette.
    Although in this embodiment, the valves are volcano valves, in other embodiments, the
    valves are not volcano valves and in some embodiments are smooth surface valves.
    6.       Exemplary Embodiment of the Middle Cassette
20           Referring now to FIG. 38A, an exemplary embodiment of the ftlid schematic of the
    pumping cassette 3800 is shown. Other schematics are readily discernable and one alternate
    embodiment of the schematic is shown in FMI. 38A. Still referring to FIG. 38A, the
    cassette 3800 includes at least one pod pump 3820, 3828 and at least one vent 3830. The
    cassette 3800 also includes at least one fluid port. In the schematic, a plurality of ports
25  3804, 3810, 3824, 3826, 3830, 3832, 3846, 3848, 3850, 3852, 3854 are shown. However,
    in atemate embodiments, the number of ports and/or locations can be different. The
    plurality of port options presents a number of possible pumping schematics for any type of
    fluid for any function.
            The cassette additionally includes at least one pod pump 3820, 3828 to pumnp fluid
30  through at least one port and into and/or out of the cassette. The exemplary embodiment
    includes two pod pumps 3820, 3828. However, in alternate embodiments, one or more pod
    pumps are included in the cassette. In the exemplary embodiment, two pod pumps 3820,
    3828 may provide for continuous or steady flow. The vent 3830 provides a vent to
    atmosphere for a fluid reservoir fluidly connected to, but outside of, the cassette.
                                                   46

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
             The fluid schematic of the cassette 3800 shown in FIG. 38A may be embodied into
    various cassette apparatus. Thus, the various embodiments of the cassette 3800 that include
    a fluid flow path represented bv the fluid schematic shown in FIG. 38 A are nrot the only
    cassette enbodiments that may incorporate this or an alternate embodiment of this fluid
 5  schematic. Additionally, the types of valves, the order of actuation of the valves, and the
    number of pumps may vary in various cassette embodiments of this fluid schematic. Also,
    additional features may be present in embodiments of the pumping cassette that are not
    represented in the schematic or on the cassette embodiments shown and described herein.
             Still referring to FIG. 38A, in one scenario, fluid enters the cassette through a port
10  3810 and is pumped to either first pump fluid path 3812 or a second pump fluid path
    3818, In one embodinient, pump inlet valves 3808, 3814 alternately open and close, and the
    valve 3808, 3814 that is open at any given time allows the fluid to flow into its respective
    fluid path 3812, 381.8 and into the respective pod pump 3820, 3828. The respective pump
    inlet valve 3808, 3814 then closes, and the corresponding pump outlet valve 3816. 3822
15  opens. The fluid is pumped out of the pod pump 3820, 3828 and though first fluid outlet
    3824. However, in other embodiments, both valves 3808, 3814 open and close at the same
    time, In some embodiments, no valves are in the cassette.
             A vent 3830 provides a location for a reservoir or other container or fluid source to
    vent to atmosphere. In some embodiments, the source of the first fluid is connected to the
20  vent 3830. A valve 3802 controls the venting pathway.
             Although in one scenario, fluid is pumped into port 3810, in other embodiments,
    fluid is pumped into the cassette through any of the ports 3804, 3824, 3826, 830, 832, 846,
    848, 850, 852, 854 aid then out of the cassette through any of the ports 3804, 3810, 3824,
    3826, 3830, 3832, 3846, 38438, 3850, 3852, 3854. Additionally, the pod pumps 3820, 3828
25  in vaio.s embodiments pump fluid in the opposite direction than described above.
             In general, the cassette 3800 provides pumping power to pump fluid as well as fluid
    flow paths between ports and around the cassette.
             In one embodiment, the one or more ports 3804, 3810, 3824, 3826, 3830, 3832,
    3846, 3848, 3850, 3852, 3854 are attached to a filter or other treatment area for the fluid
30  being pumped out of the cassette. In some embodiments, pod pumps 3820, 3828 provide
    enough pumping force to push the fluid through a filter or other treatment area.
             in some embodiments, the pumping cassette includes additional fluid paths and one
    or more additional pod pumps. Additionally, the cassette in some embodiments includes
    additional venting paths.
                                                    47

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
            The various flow paths possible in the cassette, represented by one embodiment in
    FIG. 38A, are controlled by the valves 3802, 3808,3814, 3816 3822, 3836, 38338, 3840,
    3842, 3844, 3856. Opening and closing the valves 3802,3808,3814,3816,3822,3836,
    3838, 3840, 3842, 3844, 3856 in different orders leads to very different flid pumping paths
 5  and options for pumping, Referring now to FIGS. 39C, 310A, 3101B and 310.C, the various
    valves and ports are shown on an exemplary embodiment of the cassette.
            In some embodiments of the pumping cassette, more valves are included or
    additional flow paths and/or ports are included. In other enbodiments, there are a smaller
    number of valves, flow paths and/or ports. In sone embodiments of the cassette, the
10  cassette may include one or more air traps, one or more filters, and/or one or more check
    valves.
            The embodiments of the fluid flow-path schematic shown in FIG, 38A, or alternate
    embodiments thereof, can be embodied into a structure. In the exemplary embodiment, the
    structure is a three plate cassette with actuating membranes. Alternate embodiments of the
15  cassette are also described below.
            Referring now to FIGS. 39A and 3913, the outer side of the top plate 3900 of the
    exemplary embodiment of the cassette is shown. The top plate 3900 includes one half of
    the pod pumps 3820, 3828. This balf is the fluid/liquid half where the source fluid will flow
    through. The inlet and outlet pod pump fluid paths are shown. These fluid paths lead to
20  their respective pod pumps 3820, 3828.
            The pod pumps 3820, 3828 include a raised flow path 3908, 3910. The raised flow
    path 3908, 3910 allows for the fluid to continue to flow through the pod pumps 3820, 3828
    after the membrane (not shown) reaches the end of stroke. Thus, the raised flow path 3908,
    3910 minimizes the membrane causing air or fluid to be trapped in the pod punp 3820,
25  3828 or the membrane blocking the inlet or outlet of the pod pump 3820, 3828, which
    would inhibit flow. The raised flow path 3908, 3910 is shown in the exemplary
    embodiment having particular dimensions. In alternate embodiments, the raised flow path
    3908, 3910 is larger or narrower, or in still other embodiments, the raised flow path 3908,
    3910 can be any dimension as the purpose is to control fluid flow so as to achieve a desired
30  flow rate or behavior of the fluid. Thus, the dimensions shown and described here with
    respect to the raised flow path. the pod pumps, the valves, or any other aspect are mere
    exemplary and alternate embodiments. Other embodiments are readily apparent.
            FIGS. 39C and 39D show the inner side of the top plate 3900 of the exemplary
    embodiment of the cassette. FIG. 39E shows a side view of the top plate 3900.
                                                    48

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
             Referring now to FIGS. 310A and 310B, the fliid/liquid side of the midplate 31000
    is shown. The areas complementary to the fluid paths on the inner top plate shown in FIGS.
    39C and 39D are shown. These areas are slightly raised tracks that present a surface finish
    that is conducive to laser welding, which is one mode of manufacturing in the exemplary
 5  embodiment, Other modes of manufacturing the cassette are discussed above, Referring to
    FIGS. 310 A and 3 10B, the ports of the exemplary embodiment of the cassette are labeled
    corresponding to the schematic shown and described above with respect to FIG. 38A. One
    port is not labeled, port 3852. This port is best seen in FIG, 39C.
             Referring next to FIGS. 3 10C and 310D, the air side, or side facing the bottom plate
10  (not shown, shown in FIGS. 31.1 A-31 IE) of the midplate 31000 is shown according to the
    exemplary embodiment, The air side of the valve holes 3802, 3808, 3814, 3816, 3822,
    3836, 3838, 3840, 3842, 3844, 3856 correspond to the holes in the fluid side of the midplate
    310)0 (shown in FIGS. 310A and 310B). As seen in FIGS 312(C and 312D, membranes
    31220 complete pod pumps 3820, 3828 while membranes 31222 complete valves 3802,
15  3808, 3814, 3816, 3822, 3836, 38338, 3840, 3842 3844, 3856          The valves 3802, 3808,
    3814, 3816, 3822, 3836, 3838, 3840, 3842, 3844. 3856 are actuated pneumatically, and as
    the membrane is pulled away from the holes, liquid/fluid is allowed to flow, As the
    membrane is pushed toward the holes, fluid flow is inhibited. The fluid flow is directed by
    the opening and closing of the valves 3802, 3808, 3814, 3816, 3822. 3836, 3838, 3840,
20  3842, 3844, 3856. The exemplary embodiment of the valve is a volcano valve, shown in
    described above with respect to FIGS. 2A and 2B. One embodiment of the valve membrane
    31222 is shown in FIG. 2E, alternate enbodiments are shown in FIS. 2R2G.
             Referring next to FIGS. 31 1A and 3118, the inner view of the bottom plate 31100 is
    shown. The inside view of the pod pumps 3820, 3828, and the valves 3802, 3808, 3814,
25  3816, 3822, 3836, 3838, 3840, 3842, 3844, 3856 actuation/air chamber is shown. The pod
    pumps 3820, 3828, and the valves 3802, 3808, 3814, 3816, 3822, 3836, 3838, 3840, 3842,
    3844, 3856 are actuated by a pneumatic air source. Referring now to FIGS, 311C and
    3 11D, the outer side of the bottom plate 31100 is shown. The source of air is attached to
    this side of the cassette. In one embodiment, tubes connect to the tubes on the valves and
30  pumps 1102, In some embodiments, the valves are ganged, and more than one valve is
    actuated by the same air line.
             Referring now to FIGS. 312A and 3128, an assembled cassette 31200 is shown. An
    exploded view of the assembled cassette 31200 shown in FIGS 31 2A and 312B is shown in
    FIGS. 312(C and 312D. In these views, the exemplary embodiment of the pod pump
                                                   49

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
    membranes 31220 is shown. The exemplary embodiment includes membranes shown in
    FIGS, SA-5D. The gasket of the membrane provides a seal between the liquid chamber (in
    the top plate 3900) and the ar/actuation chamber (in the bottom plate 31100) In some
    embodiment, including those shown in FIGS. 513-51), texture on the dome of the
 5  membranes 31220 provide, amongst other features, additional space for air and liquid to
    escape the chamber at the end of stroke. In alternate embodiments of the cassette, the
    membranes shown in FIGS. 6A-6G may be used. Referring to FIGS, 6A-6G, as discussed
    in greater detail above, these membranes include a double gasket 62, 64. The double gasket
    62, 64 feature would be preferred in embodiments where both sides of the pod pump
10  include liquid or in applications where sealing both chambers' sides is desired. In these
    embodiments, a rim complementary to the gasket or other feature (not shown) would be
    added to the inner bottom plate 31100 for the gasket 62 to seal the pod pump chamber in the
    bottom plate 311400.
            Referring now to FIG. 313., a cross sectional view of the pod pumps 3828 in the
15  cassette is shown. The details of the attachment of the membrane 31220 can be seen in this
    view. Again, in the exemplary embodiment, the membrane 31220 gasket is pinched by the
    midplate 31000 and the bottom plate 31100. A rim on the midplate 31000 provides a
    feature for the gasket to seal the pod ptump 3828 chamber located in the top plate 3900.
             Referring next to FIG. 3 13, this cross sectional view shows the valves 3834, 3836 in
20  the assembled cassette. The membranes 31220 are shown assembled and are held in place.,
    in the exemplary embodiment, by being sandwiched between the midplate 31000 and the
    bottom plate 31100.
            Still referring to FIG. 313, this cross sectional view also shows a valve 3822 in the
    assembled cassette. The nernbrane 31222 is shown held in place by being sandwiched
25  between the midplate 31000 and the bottom plate 31100.
            As described above, the exemplary embodiment described above represents one
    cassette embodiment that incorporates the exemplary fluid flow-path schematic shown in
    FIG. 38A. However, there are alternate embodiments of the cassette that incorporate many
    of the same features of the exemplary embodiment, but in a different structural design. One
30  of these alternate embodiments is the embodiment shown in FIGS. 314A- 321D, An
    alternate schematic is shown in F1G. 38B. This schematic, although similar to the
    schematic shown in FIG, 38A, can be viewed to show the fluid paths of the alternate
    embodiment shown in FIGS. 314A-321)D.
                                                    50

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
             Referring now to FIGS, 314A-314E, views of an alternate embodiment of the top
    plate 31400 are shown, The features of the top plate 31400 are alternate embodiments of
    corresponding features in the exemplary embodiment. Referring to FIGS, 314C and 314D),
    the pod pups 3820, 3828 are cut into the inside of the top plate 1400, And, as can be seen
 5  in FIGS. 3 14A and 314B, the pod pumps 3820, 3828 do not protrude on the outside top
    plate 31400.
             In this embodiment, when the cassette is assembled, as shown in FIGS. 3 19A-3 19B,
    the plates 31400, 31600, 31800 are sealed from each other using gaskets shown in FIGS.
    315 and 317 as 31500 and 31700 respectively. Referring now to the exploded view of the
10  cassette in FIGS. 31.9C and 319D, the pod pump membranes 31220 and valving membranes
    31222 are shown. Additionally, in soi        embodiments, a check valve housing cell 31114 is
    additionally included.
             Still referring to F lGS. 31 9C-319D, in this alternate embodiment, the cassette 1900
    is assembled with connection hardware 31910. Thus. the cassette 31900 is mechanically
15  assembled and held together by connection hardware 31910. In this embodiment, the
    connection hardware is screws but in other embodiments, the connection hardware 31910 is
    metal posts. Any connection hardware may be used in alternate embodiments including, but
    not limited, to rivets, shoulder bolts, and bolts, In additional alternate embodiments, the
    plates are held together by an adhesive.
20           Still referring to FIGS. 319C and 319D, check valves 31920 are shown. In this
    embodiment, the check valves 31920 are duck-bill check valves, but in other embodiments.
    the check valves can be any type of check valve. In this embodiment, the check valves are
    held by a check valve cell 31922. Additionally, in some embodiments, more check valves
    are used in the cassette. For example, in this embodiment, and in some embodiments of the
25  exemplary embodiment described above that includes check valves, additional check valve
    holders 31926, 31928 are shown, These provide holders for additional check valves. in
    still other embodiments, an air trap 31924 may be included as shown in this embodiment
    Referring now to FIGS. 321 A-321D, one embodiment of the duck-bill check valve is
    shown. However, in other embodiments, any check valve or alternate embodiments of a
30  duck-bill check valve may be used,
             Referring now to FIGS. 320A and 320B, cross sectional views of the assembled
    cassette and the gaskets' 31500, 31700 relation to the assembled cassette assembly is
    shown.
                                                    51

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
             In the alternate embodiment, the gaskets 31500, 31700 are made from silicone, but
    in other embodiments, the gaskets 31500, 31700 may be made front other materials. Still
    referring to FIGS. 320A and 320B, the connection hardware 31910 is shown. Referring to
    FIG. 320B, the cross sectional view shows the duck-bill check valvNes 31920 in the
 5  assembled cassette.
             6.1      Exemplary Embodiments of the Middle Cassette
             In practice, the cassette may be used to pump any type of fluid from any source to
    any location- The types of fluid include nutritive, nonnutritive, inorganic chemicals,
    organic chemicals, bodily fluids, or any other type of fluid. Additionally, fluid in some
10  embodiments include a gas, thus, in some embodineits, the cassette is used to pump a gas.
             The cassette serves to pump and direct the fluid from and to the desired locations, In
    some embodiments, outside pumps pump the fluid into the cassette and the cassette pumps
    the fluid out. However, in some embodiments, the pod pumps serve to pull the fluid into
    the cassette and pump the fluid out of the cassette,
15           As discussed above, depending on the valve locations, control of the fluid paths is
    imparted. Thus, the valves being in different locations or additional valves are alternate
    embodiments of this cassette, Additionally, the fluid lines and paths shown in the figures
    described above are mere examples of fluid lines and paths. Other embodiments may have
    more, less, and/or different fluid paths. In still other embodiments, valves are not present in
20  the cassette,
             The number of pod pumps described above may also vary depending on the
    embodiment. For example, although the exemplary and alternate embodiments shown and
    described above include two pod pumps, in other embodiments, the cassette includes one.
    In still other emubodinents, the cassette includes more than two pod pumps. The pod pumps
25  can be single pumps or work in tandem to provide a more continuous flow. Either or both
     nay be used in various embodiments of the cassette.
             The tears inlet and outlet as well as fluid paths are used for description purposes
    only, In other embodiments, an inlet can be an outlet. The denotations simply refer to
    separate entrance areas into the cassette.
30           The designations given for the fluid inlets (which can also be fluid outlets), for
    example, first fluid outlet, second fluid outlet, merely indicate that a fluid may travel out of
    or into the cassette via that inlet/outlet. In some cases, more than one inlet/outlet on the
    schematic is designated with an identical name. This merely describes that all of the
                                                     52)

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
    inlet/outlets having that designation are pumped by the same metering pump or set of pod
    pumps (which in alternate embodiments, can be a single pod pump)
            The various ports are provided to impart particular fluid paths onto the cassette.
    These ports are not necessarily all used all of the time, instead, the variety of pots provide
 5  flexibility of use of the cassette in practice.
             Referring again to FIG. 38A, one embodiment provides for a fluid reservoIr to be
    fluidly attached to the vent port 3830 allowing for the reservoir to vent to atmosphere
    Additionally, in some embodiments, an FNIS reference chamber is fluidly attached to the
    reservoir and thus, as fluid is added or removed from the reservoir, the volume may be
10  determined using the FMS. Some embodiments include additional vent ports in the cassette
    and thus, some embodiments of the cassette may be attached to more than one fluid
    reservoir.
            One embodiment includes a fluid line extending from port 3850 to port 3848 and
    controlled by valves 3838, 3836. In one embodiment, port 3848 may be fluidly attached to
15  a reservoir. As such, port 3810 may also be attached to the same reservoir. Thus, in one
    embodiment, port 3850 provides a fluid line to the reservoir, and port 38 10 provides a fluid
    line such that the pod puips pump fluid from the reservoir into the cassette, In some
    embodiments, valve 3858 controls a bypass line from the reservoir to another fluid line
    controlled by valve 3842,
20          Sone embodiments may include an air trap within the fluid lines and/or at least one
    sensor. The sensor can be any sensor having a capability to determine any fluid or non-fluid
    sensor data. In one embodiment; three sensor elements are included in a single fluid line.
    In some embodiments, more than one fluid line includes the three sensor elements, In the
    three sensor element embodiment, two of the sensor elements are conductivity sensor
25  elements and the third sensor element is a temperature sensor element, The conductivity
    sensor elements and temperature sensor element can be any conductivity or temperature
    sensor in the art. In one embodiment, the conductivity sensors are graphite posts. In other
    embodiments, the conductivity sensor elements are posts made from stainless steel,
    titanium, platinum, or any other metal coated to be corrosion resistant and still be
30  electrically conductive, The conductivity sensor elements will include an electrical lead that
    transmits the probe information to a controller or other device. In one embodiment, the
    temperature sensor is a thermister potted in a stainless steel probe, However, in alternate
    embodiments, a combination temperature and conductivity sensor elements is used similar
                                                    53

    WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
     to the one described in co-pending U.S. Patent Application entitled Sensor Apparatus
     Systems, Devices and Methods filed October 12, 2007 (DEKA-024XX).
              In alternate embodiments, there are either no sensors in. the cassette or only a
     temperature sensor, only one or more conductivity sensors or one or more of another type of
  5  sensor.
     7.        Exemplary Embodiment of the Balancing Cassette
              Referring now to FIG. 448A, an exemplary embodiment of the fluid schematic of
     the balancing pumping and metering cassette 4800 is shown. Other schematics are readily
     discernable. The cassette 4800 includes at least one pod pump 4828, 4820 and at least one
10   balancing pod 4822, 4812. The cassette 4800 also includes a first fluid inlet 4810, where a
     first fluid enters the cassette. The first fluid includes a flow rate provided outside the
     cassette 4800, The cassette 4800 also includes a first fluid outlet 4824 where the first fluid
     exits the cassette 4800 having a flow rate provided by one of the at least one pod pumps
     4828. The cassette 4800 includes a second fluid inlet 4826 where the second fluid enters
1.5  the cassette 4800, and a second fluid outlet 4816 where the second fluid exits the cassette.
               Balancing pods 4822, 4812 in the cassette 4800 provide for a desired balance of
     volume of fluid pumped into and out of the cassette 4800, i.e., between the first fluid and
     the second fluid, The balancing pods 4822., 4812, however, may be bypassed by way of the
     metering pump 4830. The metering pump 4830 pumps a volume of second fluid (or first
20   fluid in other embodiments) out of the fluid line, bypassing the balancing pod 4822, 4812.
     Thus, a smaller or reduced volume (i.e, a "new" volume) of the fluid that has been removed
     by the metering pump 4830 will actually enter the balancing pod 4822, 4812 and thus. the
     metering pump 4830 functions to provide a "new" volume of second fluid by removing the
     desired volume -fromthe fluid path before the second fluid reaches the balancing pod 4822,
25   4812 (or in other embodiments. removing first fluid the desired volume from the fluid path
     before the second fluid reaches the balancing pod 4822, 4812) resulting in less first fluid (or
     in other embodiments, second fluid) being pumped for that pump cycle.
              The fluid schematic of the cassette 4800 shown In FIG. 48A may be embodied into
     various cassette apparatus. Thus, the embodiments of the cassette 4800 including the fluid
30   schematic shown in FIG. 48A are not the only cassette embodiments that may incorporate
     this or an alternate embodiment of this fluid schematic. Additionally, the types of valves,
     the ganging of the valves, the number of pumps and chambers may vary in various cassette
     embodiments of this fluid schematic.
                                                       54

   WO 2008/106538                                                             PCT/US2008/055168
            Referring still to FIG. 48A, a fluid flow-path schematic 4800 is shown. The fluid
    flow-path schematic 4800 is described herein corresponding to the flow paths in one
    embodiment of the cassette. The exemplary embodiment of the midplate 4900 of the
    cassette is shown in FIG. 49A with the valves corresponding to the fluid flow-path
 5  schematic in FIG. 48A indicated. The valving side of the midplate 4900 shown in FIG.
    49A corresponds to the fluid side shown in FIG. 49B.
            Referring first to FIG. 48A with FIG. 49A, a first fluid enters the cassette at the first
    fluid inlet 4810. The first fluid flows to balancing pod A 4812, Balancing pod A 4812 is a
    balancing pod as described above. Balancing pod A 4812 initially contained a first volume
10  of second fluid. When the first fluid flows into the balancing pod A 4812, the membrane
    forces the second fluid out of balancing pod A 4812. The second fluid flows through the
    drain path 4814 and out the first fluid outlet 4816.
            At the same time, pod pump B 4820 includes a volume of second fluid. The volume
    of second fluid is pumped to balancing pod B 4822. Balancing pod B 4822 contains a
15  volume of first fluid, and this volume of first fluid is displaced by the volume of second
    fluid. The volume of first fluid from balancing pod B 4822 flows to the second fluid outlet
    4824 and exits the cassette, A volume of a second fluid enters the cassette at fluid inlet two
    4826 and flows to pod pump A 4828,
            Referring still to FIG. 48A with FIG. 49A, the second fluid is pumped from pod
20  pump A 4828 to balancing pod A 4812. The second fluid displaces the first fluid in
    balancing pod A 4812. The first fluid from balancing pod A 4812 flows to the second fluid
    outlet 4824.
            First fluid flows into the cassette through the first fluid inlet 4810 and flows to
    balancing pod B 4822. The first fluid displaces the second fluid in balancing pod B 4822,
25  forcing the second fluid to flow out of the cassette through the first fluid outlet 4816,
    Second fluid flows into the cassette through the second fluid inlet 4826 and to pod punm~p B
    4820.
            The metering pump can be actuated at any tine and its function is to remove fluid
    from the fluid path in order to bypass the balancing pod. Thus, any volume of fluid
30  removed would act to decrease the volume of the other fluid flowing out of the second fluid
    outlet 4824. The metering pump is independent of the balancing pods 4812, 4822 and the
    pod pumps 4820., 4828. The fluid enters through fluid inlet two 4826 and is pulled by the
    metering pump 4830. The metering pump then pumps the volume of fluid through the
    second fluid outlet 4816,
                                                    55

    WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
             Although in the embodiment of the fluid schematic shown in FIG. 48A. the metering
     pump is described only with respect to second fluid entering the cassette through fluid inlet
     two 4826, the metering pump can easily bypass first fluid entering the cassette through fluid
     inlet one 4810. Thus, depending on whether the desired end result is to have less of the first
  5  fluid or less of the second fluid, the metering pump and valves that control the fluid lines in
     the cassette can perform accordingly to accomplish the result.
             In the exemplary fluid flow-path embodiment shown in FIG, 48A, and
     corresponding structure of the cassette shown in FIG. 49A. valves are ganged such that they
     are actuated at the same time. In the preferred embodiment, there are four gangs of valves
1.0  4832, 4834, 4836, 4838. In the preferred embodiment, the ganged valves are actuated by
     the same air line. However, in other embodiments, each valve has its own air line. Ganging
     the valves as shown in the exemplary embodiment creates the fluid-flow described above.
     In some embodiments. ganging the valves also ensures the appropriate valves are opened
     and closed to dictate the fluid pathways as desired.
15           In the exemplary embodiment, the fluid valves are volcano valves, as described in
     more detail in this specification. Although the fluid flow-path schematic has been described
     with respect to a particular flow path., in various embodiments, the flow paths can change
     based on the actuation of the valves and the pumps. Additionally, the terms inlet and outlet
     as well as first fluid and second fluid are used for description purposes only. In other
20   embodiments, an inlet can be an outlet, as well as, a first and second fluid may be different
     fluids or the same fluid types or composition.
             Referring now to FIG S. 41 0A-4 I0E, the top plate 41.000 of the exemplary
     embodiment of the cassette is shown. Referring first to FIGS. 41OA and 410B, the top view
     of the top plate 41000 is shown. In the exemplary emnbodiment, the pod pmps 4820, 4828
25   and the balancing pods 4812. 4822 on the top plate, are formed in a similar fashion. In the
     exemplary embodiment, the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and balancing pods 4812, 4822, when
     assembled with the bottom plate, have a total volume of capacity of 38ml. However, in
     various embodiments, the total volume capacity can be greater or less than in the exemplary
     embodiment. The first fluid inlet 48.10 and the second fluid outlet 4816 are shown.
30           Referring now to FIGS. 410C and 410D, the bottom view of the top plate 41000 is
     shown. The fluid paths are shown in this view. These fluid paths correspond to the fluid
     paths shown in FIG, 49B in the midplate 4900. The top plate 41000 and the top of the
     midplate form the liquid or fluid side of the cassette for the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and for
     one side of the balancing pods 4812, 4822. Thus, most of the liquid flow paths are on the
                                                      56

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
    top and midplates. The other side of the balancing pods' 4812, 4822 flow paths is located
    on the inner side of the bottom plate, not shown here, shown in TICS. 411 A-4 I 13
             Still referring to FIGS, 410C and 410D, the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and balancing
    pods 4812, 4822 include a groove 41002. The groove 41002 is shown having a particular
 5  shape, however, in other embodiments, the shape of the groove 41002 can be any shape
    desirable. The shape shown. in FIGS. 410C and 410D is the exemplary embodiment. in all
    embodiments of the groove 41002, the groove forms a path between the fluid inlet side and
    the fluid outlet side of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and balancing pods 4812. 4822
             The groove 41002 provides a fluid path whereby when the membrane is at the end Of
10  stroke, there is still a fluid path between the inlet and outlet such that the pockets of fluid or
    air do not get trapped in the pod pump or balancing pod. The groove 41002 is included in
    both the liquid and air sides of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and balancing pods 4812, 4822
    (see FIGS. 411 A- 411 B with respect to the air side of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and the
    opposite side of the balancing pods 4812, 4822).
15           The liquid side of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and balancing pods 4812, 4822. in the
    exemplary embodiment, include a feature whereby the inlet and outlet flow paths are
    continuous while the outer ring 41004 is also continuous, This feature allows for the seal,
    formed with the membrane (not shown) to be maintained.
             Referring to FIG. 410E, the side view of the exemplary embodiment of the top plate
20  41000 is shown, The continuous outer ring 41004 of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and
    balancing pods 4812, 4822 can be seen.
             Referring now to FIGS. 411A- 41 E, the bottom plate 41100 is shown. Referring
    first to FIGS, 411A and 411B, the inside surface of the bottom plate 41100 is shown. The
    inside surface is the side that contacts the bottom surface of the midplate (not shown, see
25  FIGS. 49E). The bottom plate 41100 attaches to the air lines (not shown). The
    corresponding entrance holes for the air that actuates the pod pumps 4820, 4928 and valves
    (not shown, see FI G. 49 E) in the midplate can be seen 41106. Holes 41.108, 41110
    correspond to the second fluid inlet and second fluid outlet shown in FIGS. 49G, 4824,
    4826 respectively. The corresponding halves of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and balancing
30  pods 4812, 4822 are also shown, as are the grooves 41112 for the fluid paths, Unlike the
    top plate, the bottom plate corresponding halves of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and
    balancing pods 4812, 4822 make apparent the difference between the pod pumps 4820,
    4828 and balancing pods 4812, 4822. The pod pumps 4820, 4828 include only a air path on
    the second half in the bottom plate, while the balancing pod 4812, 4822 have identical
                                                     57

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
    construction to the half in the top plate. Again, the balancing pods 4812 4822 balance
    liquid, thus, both sides of the meibrane, not shown, will include a liquid fluid path, while
    the pod punips 4820, 4828 are pressure pumps that pump liquid, thus, one side includes a
    liquid fluid path and the other side, shown in the bottom plate 41100, includes an air
 5  actuation chamber or air fluid path,
             in the exemplary embodiment of the cassette, sensor elements are incorporated into
    the cassette so as to discern various properties of the fluid being pumped, In one
    embodiment, the three sensor elements are included, in the exemplary embodiment, the
    sensor elements are located in the sensor cell 41114. The cell 41114 accommodates three
10  sensor elements in the sensor element housings 41116, 41118, 41120. In the exemplary
    embodiment, two of the sensor housings 41116, 41118 accommodate a conductivity sensor
    element and the third sensor element housing 41120 accommodates a temperature sensor
    element. The conductivity sensor elements and temperature sensor elements can be ary
    conductivity or temperature sensor elements in the art. In one embodiment, the conductivity
15  sensor elements are graphite posts. In other embodiments, the conductivity sensor elements
    are posts made from stainless steel, titanium, platinum or any other metal coated to be
    corrosion resistant and still be electrically conductive. The conductivity sensor elements
    will include an electrical lead that transmits the probe information to a controller or other
    device. In one embodiment, the temperature sensor is a thermister potted in a stainless steel
20  probe. However, in alternate embodiments, a combination temperature and conductivity
    sensor elements is used similar to the one described in co-pending U.S. Patent Application
    entitled Sensor Apparatus Systems, Devices and Methods filed October 12, 2007 (DEKA
    024XX).
             In this embodiment, the sensor cell 41114 is a single opening to the fluid line or a
25  single connection to the fluid line.
             In alternate embodiments, there are either no sensors in the cassette or only a
    temperature sensor, only one or more conductivity sensors or one or more of another type of
    sensor.
             Still referring to FIGS. 41 IA and 411 3, the actuation side of the metering pump
30  4830 is also shown as well as the corresponding air entrance hole 41106 for the air that
    actuates the pump,
             Referring now to FIGS. 41 IC and 411 D, the outer side of the bottom plate 41100 is
    shown. The valve, pod pumps 4820, 4828 and metering pump 4830 air line connection
    points 41122 are shown. Again, the balancing pods 4812. 4822 do not have air line
                                                    58

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
    connection points as they are not actuated by air. As well, the corresponding openings in
    the bottom plate 41100 for the second flud outlet 4824 and second Nhid inlet 4826 are
    shown.
            Referring now to FIG. 411 E, a side view of the bottom plate 41100 is shown. In the
 5  side view, the rim 41124 that surrounds the inner bottom plate 41100 can be seen, The rim
    41124 is raised and continuous. providing for a connect point for the membrane (not
    shown). The membrane rests on this continuous and raised rim 41124 providing for a seal
    between the half of the pod pumps 4820, 4828 and balancing pods 4812, 4822 in the bottom
    plate 41100 and the half of the pod pumps 4820. 4828 and balancing pods 4812, 4822 in the
10  top plate (not shown, see FIGS. 410A-410D).
            7.1      Membranes
            In the exemplary embodiment, the membrane is a double o-ring membrane as shown
    in FIG. 6A.    -lowever, in some embodiments, a double o-ring membrane having texture,
    including, but not limited to, the various embodiments in FIGS. 6B-6F may be used.
15          Referring now to FIGS. 41 2A and 412B, the assembled exemplary embodiment of
    the cassette 41200 is shown. FIGS, 412C and 412D are exploded views of the exemplary
    embodiment of the cassette 41200. The membranes 41210 are shown, As can be seen from
    FIGS. 412C and 4 121), there is one membrane 41220 for each of the pods pumps and
    balancing pods. In the exemplary embodiment, the membrane for the pod pumps and the
20  balancing pods are identical. The membrane in the exemplary embodiment is a double o
    ring membrane as shown in FIGS. 6A-6B. However, in alternate embodiments, any double
    o-ring membrane may be used, including, but not limited to, the various embodiments
    shown in FIGS. 6C-6F. However, in other embodiments, the double o-ring membrane is
    used in the balancing pods, but a single o-ring membrane, as shown in FIGS. 4A-4D is used
25  in the pod pumps.
            The membrane used in the metering pump 41224, in the preferred embodiment, is
    shown in more detail in F1G.5G with alternate embodiments shown in FIGS. 5E, 5F and
    51-.  The membrane used in the valves 41222 is shown in more detail in FIG. 2E, with
    alternate embodiments shown in FIGS. 2F-2G. However, in alternate embodiments, the
30  metering pump membrane as well as the valve membranes may contain textures, for
    example, but not limited to, the textures shown on the pod punp/ balancing pod membranes
    shown in FIGS. SA-5D.
            One embodiment of the conductivity sensor elements 41214, 41216 and. the
    temperature sensor 41218, which make up the sensor cell 41212, are also shown. in FIGS.
                                                  59

   WO 2008/106538                                                             PCT/US2008/055168
    412C and 412D. Still referring to FIGS. 412C and 412D, the sensor cell housing 41414
    includes areas on the bottom plate 41.100 and the midplate 4900. O-rings seal the sensor
    housing 41414 from the fluid lines located on the upper side of the midplate 4900 shown in
    FIG. 412C and the inner side of the top plate 41000 shown in FIG. 412D. However in
 5  other embodiments, an o-ring is molded into the sensor cell, or any other method of sealing
    can be used.
            7.2     Cross Sectional Views
            Referring now to FIGS. 413A-413C, various cross sectional views of the assembled
    cassette are shown. Referring first to FIG. 41 3A, the membrane 41220 is shown i a
10  balancing pod 481.2 and a pod purmip 4828. As can be seen frorn the cross section, the
    double o-ring of the membrane 41220 is sandwiched by the midplate 4900, the bottom plate
    41100 and the top plate 41000.
            Referring now to FIG. 413B, the two conductivity sensor elements 41214, 41216
    and the temperature sensor element 41218 are shown. As can be seen from the cross
15  section, the sensor elements 41214, 41216, 41218 are in the fluid line 41302. Thus, the
    sensor elements 41214, 41216, 41218 are in fluid connection with the fluid line and can
    determine sensor data of the first fluid entering the first fluid inlet 4810. Referring now to
    FIG, 413C, this cross sectional view shows the metering pump 4830 as well as the structure
    of the valves.
20          As described above, the exemplary embodiment is one cassette embodiment that
    incorporates the exemplary fluid flow-path schematic shown in FIG. 48A. However, there
    are alternate embodiments of the cassette that incorporate many of the same features of the
    exemplary embodiment, but in a different structural design. Additionally, there are alternate
    embodiment fluid flow paths, for example, the fluid flow path schematic shown in FIG
25  48B. The alternate embodiment cassette structure corresponding to this schematic is shown
    in FIGS. 414A- 418.
            Referring now to FIGS. 414A-414E, views of an altemate embodiment of the top
    plate 41400 are shown.- The features of the top plate 41400 are alternate enbodiments of
    corresponding features in the exemplary embodiment.
30          Referring now to FIGS. 415A-415E, views of an alternate embodiment of the
    midplate 41.500 are shown. FIGS. 416A-416E show views of an altemate embodiment of
    the bottom plate 41600.
                                                    60

    WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
              Referring now to FIGS. 417A-417B, an assembled alternate embodiment of the
     cassette 41700 is shown, FIGS, 417C-4171) show exploded views of the cassette 41700.
     FIG. 417E is a cross sectional view of the assembled cassette 41700.
              Referring now to FIGS. 418.A-42213, another alternate embodiment of the cassette is
  5  shown. In this embodiment, when the cassette is assembled, as shown in FIGS, 421A
     421B, the plates 41800, 41900, 42000 are sealed from each other using gaskets. Referring
     to FIGS. 421C-421 D, the gaskets 42110, 42112 are shown. This embodiment additionally
     includes iembranes (not shown). FIG. 422A is a cross sectional view of the assembled
     cassette, the gaskets 42110, 42112 relation to the assembled cassette assembly is shown.
10                    7,3     Exemplary Embodiments of th Balancing (Cassette
              The pumping cassette can be used in a myriad of applications, However, in one
     exemplary embodiment, the pumping cassette is used to balance fluid going into the first
     fluid inlet and out the first fluid outlet with fluid coming into the cassette through the
     second fluid inlet and exiting the cassette through the second fluid outlet (or vice versa),
1.5  The pumping cassette additionally provides a metering pump to remove a volume of fluid
     prior to that volume affecting the balancing chambers or adds a volume of fluid prior to the
     fluid affecting the balancing chambers,
              The pumping cassette may be used in applications where it is critical that two fluid
     volumes are balanced. Also, the pumping cassette imparts the extra functionality of
20   metering or bypassing a fluid out of the fluid path, or adding a volume of the same fluid or a
     different fluid into the fluid path. The flow paths shown in the schematic are bi-directional,
     and various flow paths may be created by changing the valve locations and or controls, or
     adding or removing valves. Additionally, more metering pumps, pod pumps and/or
     balancing pods may be added, as well as, more or less fluid paths and valves. Additionally,
25   inlets and outlets may be added as well, or the number of inlets or outlets may be reduced.
              One example is using the pumping cassette as an inner dialysate cassette as part of a
     hemodialysis system. Clean dialysate would enter the cassette through the first fluid inlet
     and pass through the sensor elements, checking if the dialysate is at the correct
     concentration and/or temperature. This dialysate would pass through the balancing
30   chambers and be pumped through the first fluid outlet and into a dialyzer, The second fluid
     in this case is used or impure dialysate from the dialyzer. This second fluid would enter
     through the second fluid inlet and balance with the clean dialysate, such that the amount of
     dialysate that goes into the dialyzer is equal to the amount that comes out.
                                                       61

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
            The metering pump may be used to remove additional used dialysate prior to that
    volume being accounted for in a balancing chamber, thus, creating a "false" balancing
    chamber through an ultra filtration ("UP) bypass. The situation is created where less clean
    dialysate by a vol ume equaled to the bypassed vOhmie Will cmncr the dialyzer.
 5          In this embodiment, the valves controlling fluid connections to the balancing pods
    shall be oriented such that the volcano feaurTe of the valve is on the fluid port connected to
    the balancing pod. This orientation directs most of the fluid displaced by the valve as it is
    thrown away from the balancing pod.
            The valves controlling, fluid connections to the UF pump shall be oriented such that
10  the volcano feature of the valve is on the fluid port connected to the pumping chamber, In
    the exemplary embodiment, the nominal stroke volume of each inside dialysate pump
    chamber shall be 38ml. The nominal volume of each balancing pod shall be 38mI The
    stroke volume of the UF pump shall be 1 ml +/- 0.05 mt         The inner dialysate pump low
    pressure pneumatic variable valves shall vent to ambient atmospheric pressure, This
15  architecture feature minimizes the chance that dissolved gas will leave the dialysate while
    inside of the balancing chambers. Other volumes of pod pumps, balancing pods and
    metering pumps are easily discernable and would vary depending on the application.
    Additionally, although the embodiment described discusses venting to ambient, in other
    applications, negative pressure can be administered.
20           In various embodiments of the cassette, the valve architecture varies in order to alter
    the fluid flow path. Additionally, the sizes of the pod pumps, metering pump and balancing
    pods may also vary, as well as the number of valves, pod pumps, metering pumps and
    balancing pods. Although in this embodiment, the valves are volcano valves, in other
    eibodinents, the valves are not volcano valves and in some embodiments are smooth
25  surface valves,
    8.      Exemplary embodiment of the Cassette System Integrated
            As described above, a mixing cassette may be used to mix dialysate, and then send
    the dialysate to a storing vessel or reservoir. The middle, also called the outer dialysate,
    cassette provides a vent for a container and a variety of fluid lines and pors, and the
30  balancing cassette provides a system for balancing the volume of fluid that enters a cassette
    in one direction with the volume that enters the cassette in another direction. Additionally,
    the balancing cassette provides a metering function, where a volume of fluid from one
    direction may be pumped such that it bypasses the balancing chambers and. does not affect
    the balancing volumes. In some embodiments, these three cassettes may be combined into a
                                                    62

   WO 2008/106538                                                          PCT/US2008/055168
    system. Fluid lines can connect the cassettes such that a cassette system integrated is
    formed. However, various hoses can be difficult to manage and also, get tangIed, removed
    from the ports or the connection may be disrupted in one of a.variety of ways.
             One embodiment of this would be to simply connect the fluid lines. however, in the
 5  exemplary embodiment, the three cassette exemplary fluid flow-path schematics are
    combined into a cassette device which makes the system more compact and also, there are
    benefits with respect to manufacture.
             In an exemplary' embodiment of this the cassette system integrated, the three
    cassettes are combined in an efficient, stand alone, cassette system. The fluid flow-path
10  schematics shown and described above with. respect to the various individual cassettes are
    combined, Thus, in some cases, fluid lines may be in two different cassettes to save space
    or efficiency, but in fact, the fluid lines follow many of the same paths as shown in the
    schematics.
             The fluid flow --path for the exemplary embodiment of the cassette system
15  integrated is shown in FIG. 1500A. This fluid flow-path is shown with a blood circuit fluid
    flow-path also included. Thus, in one embodiment, the cassette system integrated may be
    used in connection with a hemodialysis system. For description purposes, the cassette
    system integrated is described below with respect to a hemodialysis system, ie., a system
    including a cassette system that mixes dialysate, transports dialysate and balances the
20  volume of dialysate before and after flowing through a dialyzer. The cassette system
    integrated may be used in conjunction with hemodialysis systems and methods, for
    example, similar to the hemodialysis systems and methods described in the United States
    Patent Application entitled Hemodialysis Systems and Methods (Attorney Docket No.
    D0570.70019US00)., which is being filed on even date herewith and is hereby incorporated
25  by reference in its entirety.
             Referring now to FIGS. 50OA-500B, one embodiment of th.e mixing cassette of the
    cassette system is shown. Referring to FIGS, 600A-600B, one embodintent of the middle
    cassette for the cassette system is shown. Finally, referring to FIGS. 700A-700B, one
    embodiment of the balancing cassette for the cassette system is shown.
30           Referring now to FIG. 800A., the assembled cassette system integrated is shown.
    The mixing cassette 500, middle cassette 600 and balucing cassette 700 are linked by fluid
    lines or conduits. The pods are between the cassettes. Referring now to FIGS, 800B and
    800C, the various views show the efficiency of the cassette system integrated. The fluid
    lines or conduits 1200, 1300, 1400 are shown in FIG. 1200, FIG. 1300 and FIG. 1400
                                                     63

   WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
    respectively- The fluid flows between the cassettes through these fluid lines or conduits,
    Referring now to F IGS. 1200 and 1300, these fluid lines or conduits represent larger 1300
    and smaller 1200 check valve fluid lines. In the exemplary embodiment, the check valves
    are duck bill valves, however, in other embodiments, any check valve may be used.
 5  Referring to FIG, 1400, fluid line or conduit 1400 is a fluid line or conduit that does not
    contain a check valve. For purposes of this description, the terms "fluid line" and "conduit"
    are used with respect to 1200, 1300 and 1400 interchangeably.
             Referring now to FIGS. 800B and 800C, and FIG. 1500A, the following is a
    description of one embodinent of the fluid flow through the various cassettes. For ease of
10  description, the fluid flow will begin with the mixing cassette 500. Referring now to FIG.
    800$ and FIG. 1500A, the fluid side of the mixing cassette 500 is shown, The fluid side
    includes a plurality of ports 8000, 8002, 8004, 8006, 8008 and 8010-8026 that are either
    fluid inlets or fluid outlets. In the various embodiments, the fluid inlets and outlets may
    include one or more fluid inlets for reverse osmosis ("RO") water 8004, bicarbonate, an
15  acid, and a dialysate 8006.     Also, one or more fluid outlets, including a drain, acid 8002 and
    at least one air vent outlet as the vent for the dialysate tank. In one embodiment, a tube (not
    shown.) hangs off the outlet and is the vent (to prevent contamination), Additional outlets
    for water, bicarb and water mixture, dialysate mixture (bicarb with acid and water added)
    are also included.
20           The dialysate flows out of the mixing cassette 500, to a dialysate tank (not shown,
    shown as 1502 in FIG. 1500A) and then through a conduit to the inner dialysate cassette
    700 (pumped by the outer dialvsate cassette 600 pod ptunps 602 and 604 (604 not shown,
    shown in FIGS. 800D and 800E). The fluid paths within the cassettes may vary, Thus, the
    location of the various inlet and outlets may vary with various cassette fluid paths
25  [0002I        Referring now to FIG. 1500B, in one embodiment of the cassette system, dhe
    condo cells, conductivity and temperature sensors, are included in a separate cassette 1504
    outside of the cassette system shon in FIGS. 800A --800 C. This outside sensor cassette
    1504 may be one of those described in United States Patent Application Serial No,
    12/038,474 entitled Sensor Apparatus Systems, Devices and Methods (Attomey Docket No.
30  F63) which is being filed on even date herewith and is hereby incorporated by reference in
    its entirety.
             The fluid flow-path for this embodiment is shown in FIG. 1500B. In this
    embodiment, during the mixing process for the dialysate, the bicarb mixture leaves the
    mixing cassette 500 and flows to an outside sensor cassette, and then flows back into the
                                                     64

   WO 2008/106538                                                           PCT/US2008/055168
    mixing cassette 500. If the bicarb mixture meets pre-established thresholds, acid is then
    added to the bicarb mixture. Next, once the bicarb and acid are mixed in the mixing
    chamber 506, the dialysate flows out of the cassette into the sensor cassette and then back to
    the mixing cassette 500.
 5           Referring now to FIG, SOOD, the mixing cassette 500 include a pneumatic actuation
    side. In the block shown as 500, there are a plurality of valves and two pumping chambers
    8030, 8032 build into the cassette 500 for pumping or metering the acid or bicarb. In some
    embodiments, additional metering pumps, or less metering pumps, are included, The
    metering pumps 8030, 8032 can be any size desired. In some embodiments, the pumps are
10  different sizes with respect to one another, however, in other embodiments; the pumps are
    the same size with respect to one another, For example, in one embodiment, the acid pump
    is smaller than the bicarb pump. This may be more efficient and effective when using a
    higher concentration acid, as it may be desirable to use a smaller pump for accuracy and
    also, it may be desirable for control schemes to have a smaller pump so as to use full strokes
15  in the control rather than partial strokes.
             The conduits 1200, 1300 include a check-valve. These conduits 1200, 1300 allow
    for one-way flow. In the exemplary embodiment, these conduits 1200, 1300 all lead to
    drain. Referring to the flow-path schematic FIG, 1500A, the locations of these check-valve
    conduits are apparent. In the embodiment shown, any fluid that is meant for drain flows
20  through the mixing cassette 500. Referring again to FIG. 800B, a fluid drain port 8006 is
    located on the fluid side of the cassette 500.
             Once the dialysate is mixed, and after the dialysate flows to the sensor cassette
    (1504 in FIG. 1500B) and it is determined that the dialysate is not within set parameters'
    thresholds, then the dialysate will be pumped back into the mixing cassette 500, through a
25  plain conduit 1400 then to the outer dialysate cassette 600, then back through conduit a
    check valve conduit 1200 and then through the mixing cassette 500 to the drain fluid outlet.
             Referring now to FIGS. SOD and 800E, the various pods 502, 504, 506, 602, 604,
    702, 704, 706, 708 are shown. Each of the pod housings are constructed identically,
    however, the inside of the pod housing is different depending on whether the pod is a pod
30  ptmp 502, 504, 602, 604, 702, 704 a balancing chamber pods 706, 708 or a mixing
    chamber pod 504.
             Referring now to FIGS. SOOD and 800E, together with FIG. 1500A and 1500B, the
    various pods are shown both in the fluid flow-path and on the cassette system. Pod 502 is
    the water pod pump and 504 is the bicarb water pod pump (sends water to the bicarb) of the
                                                   65

    WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
     mixing cassette 500. Pod 506 is the mixing chamber, Once the dialysate is mixed in the
     mixing chamber 506, and then flows from the mixing cassette 500 to the sensor cassette
     1504, and it is determined that the dialysate qualifies as acceptable, then the dialysate flows
     to the dialysate tank. 1502 through the mixing cassette dialysate tank outlet. However, if the
  5  dialysate is rendered unacceptable, then the fluid is pumped back into the cassette 500, then
     through   a 1400 conduit, to the outer dialysate cassette 600 and then pumped through a 1,200
     check valve conduit, through the mixing cassette 500 and out the drain outlet,
              Referring to FIGS. 800A-800C, together with FIGS. 1500A-B,        the outer dialysate
     cassette is shown 600 between the mixing cassette 500 and the inner dialysate cassette 700.
10   Pod pumps 602, 604, pump the dialysate from the dialysate tank 1502 and send it to the
     balancing chambers 706,708 in the inner dialysate cassette 700 (driving force for the
     dialysate solution). The outer dialysate cassette 600 pushes the dialysate into the inner
     dialy'sate cassette (i.e., the pumps in the inner dialysate cassette 700 do not draw the
     dialysate in). Thus, from the outer dialysate cassette 600, the dialysate is pumped from the
1.5  dialysate tank 1502. through a heater 1506 and through an ultratfiter 1508, and then into the
     inner dialysate cassette 700.
              Still referring now to FIGS. SOOD and 800E, together with FIGS. 1500A-B, the
     inner dialysate cassette 700 includes a metering pod 8038 (i.e., an ultra filtration metering
     pod) and includes balancing pods 706, 708 and pod pumps 702, 704, The inner dialysate
20   cassette 700 also includes fluid outlets and inlets. These inlets and outlets include the outlet
     to the dialyzer 1510, the inlet from the dialyzer 1510, and a dialysate inlet (the ultrafilter
     1508 connects to a port of the inner dialysate cassette). Fluid inlets and outlets are also
     included for the DCA and DCV connections during priming and disinfection, Various
     conduits (1200,1300,1400) serve as fluid connections between the cassettes 500, 600, 700
25   and are used for dialysate fluid flow as well as fluid to pass through in order to drain
     through the mixing cassette 500. The largest check valve 1300 (also shown in FIG. 1300) is
     the largest check-valve, and is used during disinfection. This tube is larger in order to
     accommodate, in the preferred embodiment, blood clots and other contaminants that flow
     through the conduits during disinfection.
30            The valves and pumps of the cassette system are pneumatically actuated in the
     exemplary embodiment. The pneumatics attach to the cassettes via individual tubes, Thus,
     each pump, balancing pod., or valve includes an individual tube connection to a pneumatic
     actuation manifold (not shown). Referring now to FIGS, 1.600A-F, the tubes are connected.,
     in the exemplary embodiment, to at least one block, 1600, In some embodiments, more
                                                      66

   WO 2008/106538                                                         PCT/US2008/055168
    than one block is used to connect the various tubes. The block 1600 is dropped into the
    manifold and then connected to the pneumatics actuators appropriately. This allows for
    easy connection of the pneumatic tubes to the manifold.
            Referring again to FIG. 800D, the cassette system includes springs 8034, in one
 5  embodiment, to aid in holding the system together. The springs 8034 hook onto the mixing
    cassette 500 and inner dialysate cassette 700 via catches 8036. However, in other
    embodiments, any other means or apparatus to assist in maintaining the system in
    appropriate orientation may be used including, but not limited to, latching means or elastic
    means, for example.
10          Referring now to FIGS. 900A-900C, the exemplary embodiment of the pod is
    shown. The pod includes two fluid ports 902, 904 (an inlet and an outlet) and the pod may
    be constructed differently in the various embodiments. A variety of embodiments of
    construction are described in pending U.S. patent application Serial No. 11/787,212, filed
    April 13, 2007 and entitled Fluid Pumping Systems, Devices and Methods (E78), which is
15  hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            Referring now to FIGS. 900A, 900D and 900E the groove 906 in the chamber is
    shown. A groove 906 is included on each half of the pod housing, In other embodiments, a
    groove is not included and in some embodiments, a groove is only included on one half of
    the pod.
20          Referring now to FIGS, I000A and 1000B, the exemplary embodiment of the
    membrane used in the pod pumps 502, 504, 602. 604, 702. 704 is shown. This membrane is
    shown and described above with respect to FIG. SA.       In other embodiments, any of the
    membranes shown in FIGS. 5B-5D may be used, An exploded view of a pod pump
    according to the exemplary embodiment is shown FIG. 1100.
25          The membrane used in the bal ancing chamber pods 706, 708 in the preferred
    embodiments is shown and described above with respect to FIGS. 6A-6G. The mixing
    chamber pod 504 does not include a membrane in the exemplary embodiment. However, in
    the exemplary embodiment, the mixing chamber pod 504 includes a o-ri.ng to seal the
    mixing chamber.
30          In the exemplary embodiment, the membrane valve membrane is shown in FIG. 2E,
    however, alternate embodiments as shown in FIGS. 2F and 2G may also be used.         The
    metering pumps,tn tile exemplary embodiment, may use any of the membranes shown in
    FIGS. SE-SI.
                                                  67

  WO 2008/106538                                                            PCT/US2008/055168
            While the principles of the invention have been described herein, it is to be understood
   by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a
   limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the
   scope of the present inventJon in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described
5  herein, Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be
   withinIthe scope of the present invention.
                                                      68

Claims
1.       A fluid balancing cassette comprising:
         a first fluid flowpath and a separate, second fluid flowpath, each said first fluid flowpath
and second fluid flowpath having a separate inlet to the cassette and a separate outlet from the
cassette;
         a first fluid balancing pod having a fixed first total fluid volume and comprising a
flexible membrane separating a first chamber from a second chamber, the sum of a first chamber
volume plus a second chamber volume equal to the fixed first total fluid volume;
         the first chamber connected to the first fluid flowpath between a first fluid flowpath inlet
valve and a first fluid flowpath outlet valve, and the second chamber connected to the second
fluid flowpath between a second fluid flowpath inlet valve and a second fluid flowpath outlet
valve;
          wherein said valves are pneumatically actuated membrane valves, and the first fluid
flowpath inlet valve and the second fluid flowpath outlet valve have pneumatic connections that
are ganged or interconnected to a source of pneumatic pressure.
2.       The fluid balancing cassette of claim 1, further comprising a second fluid balancing pod
having a fixed second total fluid volume and comprising a flexible membrane separating a first
chamber from a second chamber, the sum of a first chamber volume plus a second chamber
volume equal to the fixed second total fluid volume;
         wherein the first fluid flowpath inlet valve is a first fluid flowpath first branch inlet valve,
the first fluid flowpath outlet valve is a first fluid flowpath first branch outlet valve, the second
fluid flowpath inlet valve is a second fluid flowpath first branch inlet valve, and the second fluid
flowpath outlet valve is a second fluid flowpath first branch outlet valve;
         wherein the first chamber of the second fluid balancing pod is connected to a second
branch of the first fluid flowpath between a first fluid flowpath second branch inlet valve and a
first fluid flowpath second branch outlet valve, and the second chamber of the second fluid
balancing pod is connected to a second branch of the second fluid flowpath between a second
fluid flowpath second branch inlet valve and a second fluid flowpath second branch outlet valve;
and
         wherein all said valves are pneumatically actuated membrane valves, and the second fluid
flowpath second branch inlet valve has a pneumatic connection that is ganged or interconnected
with the pneumatic connections of the first fluid flowpath first branch inlet valve and the second
fluid flowpath first branch outlet valve.
                                                     69

3.       The fluid balancing cassette of claim 2, wherein the second fluid flowpath second branch
outlet valve, the first fluid flowpath second branch inlet valve, and the second fluid flowpath first
branch inlet valve have pneumatic connections that are ganged or interconnected to the source of
pneumatic pressure.
4.       The fluid balancing cassette of claim 1, further comprising a pump with a fluid pumping
chamber connected to the second fluid flowpath between a second fluid flowpath pump inlet
valve and the second fluid flowpath inlet valve that serves as a pump outlet valve.
5.        The fluid balancing cassette of claim 3, further comprising:
          a first pump with a fluid pumping chamber connected to a second fluid flowpath first
branch between a second fluid flowpath first branch pump inlet valve and the second fluid
flowpath first branch inlet valve that serves as a first branch pump outlet valve;
         a second pump with a fluid pumping chamber connected to the second fluid flowpath
second branch between a second fluid flowpath second branch pump inlet valve and the second
fluid flowpath second branch inlet valve that serves as a second branch pump outlet valve;
         wherein the second fluid flowpath first branch pump inlet valve and the second fluid
flowpath second branch pump inlet valve are pneumatically actuated membrane valves; and
         wherein the first branch pump inlet valve has a pneumatic connection that is ganged or
interconnected with the first fluid flowpath second branch outlet valve to the source of pneumatic
pressure, and the second branch pump inlet valve has a pneumatic connection that is ganged or
interconnected with the first fluid flowpath first branch outlet valve.
6.       The fluid balancing cassette of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the second fluid flowpath
has a branch flowpath that bypasses a first or second balancing pod to move fluid through the
second fluid flowpath via a bypass pump connected to the branch flowpath.
7.       The fluid balancing cassette of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the fluid balancing
cassette is connected to a dialyzer so that the outlet of the first fluid flowpath is configured for
connection to a dialysate inlet of the dialyzer, the inlet of the second fluid flowpath is configured
for connection to a dialysate outlet of the dialyzer, the inlet of the first fluid flowpath is
configured for connection to a source of fresh dialysate solution, and the outlet of the second
fluid flowpath is configured for connection to a drain.
                                                   70

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
