  ABSTRACT
           Improved anti-HPV immunogens and nucleic acid molecules that encode them are
  disclosed. Immunogens disclosed include those having consensus HPV 6, HPV 11, HPV 33
5 and HPV58 E6 and E7. Pharmaceutical composition, recombinant vaccines comprising and
  live attenuated vaccines are disclosed as well methods of inducing an immune response in an
  individual against HPV are disclosed.

                               AUSTRALIA
5                           Patents Act 1990
          The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
o                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                          STANDARD PATENT
  Invention Title.
         Vaccines for Human Papilloma Virus and methods for using the same
5
  The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best
  method of performing it known to us:
                                           1

                       VACCINES FOR HUMAN PAPILLOMA VIRUS AND
                                 METHODS FOR USING THE SAME
    RELATED APPLICATION DATA
             This application is a divisional application pursuant to Section 79B of the PatentsAct
    1990 of Australian Application No. 2011378812 which corresponds to International
 5  Application No. PCT/US2011/055932 filed 12 October 2011 in the Australian national phase,
    the full contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.
    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention relates to improved human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines,
 0  improved methods for inducing immune responses, and for prophylactically and/or
    therapeutically immunizing individuals against HPV.
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             Papillomavirus are small DNA viruses that comprise up to seven early genes and two
 5  late genes. Generally, papilloma virus early genes are designated El-E7, and papilloma virus
    late genes are designated LI and L2. Several species of animals can be infected by members
    of the papillomavirus family.
             Human Papillomavirus (HPV) infection is common and can be transmitted sexually.
    HPV have been differentiated into 56 or more types based upon DNA sequence homology.
 '0 HPV types 16 and 18, which cause epithelial dysplasia and other lesions, are often associated
    with an increased risk of cancer, particularly in situ and invasive carcinomas of the cervix,
    vagina, vulva and anal canal. Nearly 88% of cervical cancers worldwide are the result of
    HPV subtypes 16, 18, 45, 31, 33, 52 and 58. Furthermore, various studies have revealed the
    presence of HPV6 and HPV1 1 in most incidences of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis.
25  Though known for their association with genital warts and only found in a small percentage
    of cervical cancer cases, HPV6 and HPV1 1 have been found in 2.6-5.2% of all cases of low
    grade cervical lesions. Furthermore, HPV6 and HPV1 1 have now been associated with
    approximately 20% of low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions that are now considered
    precursors to cervical cancer, including grade 2 and 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and
30  mild cervical dysplasia. Increasing studies have revealed the association of the two serotypes
    with various forms of otolaryngologic diseases, including genital warts, recurrent respiratory
    papillomatosis, lung carcinoma, tonsillar carcinoma, laryngeal carcinoma, and other
                                                      2

    malignant transformations of otherwise benign neoplasms and dysplasia of the head and
    neck. The findings of this study shed light and future promise in the use of consensus
    sequence DNA vaccines against HPV6 and HPV11.
            DNA vaccines have many conceptual advantages over more traditional vaccination
 5  methods, such as live attenuated viruses and recombinant protein-based vaccines. DNA
    vaccines are safe, stable, easily produced, and well tolerated in humans with preclinical trials
    indicating little evidence of plasmid integration [Martin, T., et al., Plasmid DNA malaria
    vaccine: the potential for genomic integration after intramuscular injection. Hum Gene Ther,
    1999. 10(5): p. 759-68; Nichols, W.W., et al., Potential DNA vaccine integration into host
 0  cell genome. Ann N Y Acad Sci, 1995. 772: p. 30-9]. In addition, DNA vaccines are well
    suited for repeated administration due to the fact that efficacy of the vaccine is not influenced
    by pre-existing antibody titers to the vector [Chattergoon, M., J. Boyer, and D.B. Weiner,
    Genetic immunization: a new era in vaccines and immune therapeutics. FASEB J, 1997.
    11(10): p. 753-63]. However, one major obstacle for the clinical adoption of DNA vaccines
 5  has been a decrease in the platforms immunogenicity when moving to larger animals [Liu,
    M.A. and J.B. Ulmer, Human clinical trials of plasmid DNA vaccines. Adv Genet, 2005. 55:
    p. 25-40]. Recent technological advances in the engineering of DNA vaccine immunogen,
    such has codon optimization, RNA optimization and the addition of immunoglobulin leader
    sequences have improved expression and immunogenicity of DNA vaccines [Andre, S., et al.,
 '0 Increased immune response elicited by DNA vaccination with a synthetic gp120 sequence
    with optimized codon usage. J Virol, 1998. 72(2): p. 1497-503; Deml, L., et al., Multiple
    effects of codon usage optimization on expression and immunogenicity of DNA candidate
    vaccines encoding the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 Gag protein. J Virol, 2001.
    75(22): p. 10991-1001; Laddy, D.J., et al., Immunogenicity of novel consensus-based DNA
25  vaccines against avian influenza. Vaccine, 2007. 25(16): p. 2984-9; Frelin, L., et al., Codon
    optimization and mRNA amplification effectively enhances the immunogenicity of the
    hepatitis C virus nonstructural 3/4A gene. Gene Ther, 2004. 11(6): p. 522-33], as well as,
    recently developed technology in plasmid delivery systems such as electroporation [Hirao,
    L.A., et al., Intradermal/subcutaneous immunization by electroporation improves plasmid
30  vaccine delivery and potency in pigs and rhesus macaques. Vaccine, 2008. 26(3): p. 440-8;
    Luckay, A., et al., Effect of plasmid DNA vaccine design and in vivo electroporation on the
    resulting vaccine-specific immune responses in rhesus macaques. J Virol, 2007. 8 1(10): p.
    5257-69; Ahlen, G., et al., In vivo electroporation enhances the immunogenicity of hepatitis
    C virus nonstructural 3/4A DNA by increased local DNA uptake, protein expression,
                                                    3

    inflammation, and infiltration of CD3+ T cells. J Immunol, 2007. 179(7): p. 4741-53]. In
    addition, studies have suggested that the use of consensus immunogens may be able to
    increase the breadth of the cellular immune response as compared to native antigens alone
    [Yan., J., et al., Enhanced cellular immune responses elicited by an engineered HIV-1
 5  subtype B consensus-based envelope DNA vaccine. Mol Ther, 2007. 15(2): p. 411-21;
    Rolland, M., et al., Reconstruction and function of ancestral center-of-tree human
    immunodeficiency virus type 1 proteins. J Virol, 2007. 81(16): p. 8507-14].
            There remains a need for improved vaccines and methods for preventing and treating
    HPV infection, in particular infections leading to cervical cancer and/or carcinomas of the
 0  lung, tonsil, and larynx.
            Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
    been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
    these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
    relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each of the appended
 5  claims.
            Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises"
    or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step,
    or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or
    step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
 10
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            Aspects of the present invention include nucleic acid molecules comprising a
    nucleotide sequence encoding for an HPV antigen selected from the group consisting of: SEQ
    ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:7; fragments thereof having 90%
25  homology; and combinations thereof. In some aspects, the nucleic acid molecules comprise
    nucleic acid molecules comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting
    of: nucleotide sequences that encode SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ
    ID NO:8; nucleotide sequences that encode an amino acid fragments having at least 90%
    homology to SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8; fragments of
30  nucleotide sequences that encode SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID
    NO:8; and fragments of a nucleotide sequence that encode an amino acid fragment having at
    least 90% homology to SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.In
    some aspects, there are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a nucleic acid molecule
    described herein.
                                                     4

             Accordingly, in one example the present invention may provide a nucleic acid
    molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a consensus human papillomavirus
    (HPV) antigen, wherein said nucleotide sequence is selected from the group consisting of:
             (i)    the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID
 5  NO:7;
             (ii)   a nucleotide sequence having at least 90% identitity to a fragment of the
    nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID NO:7;
             (iii)  combinations of any two or more of the nucleotide sequences in (i) and/or the
    fragments in (ii);
 0           (iv)   a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having a sequence set forth in
    SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO:8;
             (v)    nucleotide sequences encoding a polypeptide having at least 90% identity to a
    fragment of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO:8; and
             (vi)   fragments of nucleotide sequences encoding polypeptide fragments that are at
 5  least 90% identity to the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO:8;
    and
             (vii)  combinations of any two or more of the nucleotide sequences in (iv) and/or (v)
    and/or the fragments in (vi).
             The present invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
 '0 nucleic acid molecule as described herein.
             The present invention also includes recombinant vaccines comprising a nucleic acid
    molecule described herein. The recombinant vaccines include recombinant vaccinia vaccine,
    live attenuated vaccine, and DNA plasmids.
             The present invention also provides a consensus protein comprising an amino acid
25  sequence selected from the group consisting of:
             (a)    an amino acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6,
    or SEQ ID NO:8; and
             (b)    an amino acid sequence having at least 90% identity to a fragment of the
    amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
30           Some aspects of the present invention include proteins comprising an amino acid
    sequence selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6,
    or SEQ ID NO:8; and fragments of sequences having at least 90% homology to SEQ ID
    NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
                                                    5

            There are also provided methods of inducing an immune response in an individual
    against HPV comprising administering to said individual a nucleic acid molecule described
    herein or a pharmaceutical composition described herein or a recombinant vaccine described
    herein.
 5          The invention also provides for use of a nucleic acid molecule described herein or a
    pharmaceutical composition described herein or a recombinant vaccine described herein in
    the manufacture of a medicament for inducing an immune response in an individual against
    HPV.
            The invention also provides for use of a nucleic acid molecule described herein or a
 0  pharmaceutical composition described ehrein or a recombinant vaccine described herein in to
    induce an immune response in an individual against HPV.
            For example, the immune response may be against HPV subtype 33, HPV subtype 58
    and/or HPV subtype 11.
            In some aspects, there are provided pharmaceutical compositions comprising
 5  nucleotide sequences encoding for an HPV antigen SEQ ID NO:1 and SEQ ID NO:3; or
    fragments thereof; or fragments having 90% homology thereof. There are also methods of
    inducing an immune response in an individual against HPV subtypes 6 or 11 comprising
    administering to said individual the aforementioned pharmaceutical compositions.
            In some aspects, there are provided pharmaceutical compositions comprising
 ,0 nucleotide sequences encoding for an HPV antigen SEQ ID NO:5 and SEQ ID NO:7; or
    fragments thereof; fragments having 90% homology thereof. There are also methods of
    inducing an immune response in an individual against HPV subtypes 33 or 58 comprising
    administering to said individual the aforementioned pharmaceutical compositions.
25  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURE
            Fig. 1. Phylogenetic trees based on neighbor-joining evaluation of E6 and E7
    alignments (A and B, respectively). Asterisks indicate location of consensus sequences on
    each tree.
            Fig. 2. In vivo expression of p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7. Gene products were isolated from
30  lysed transfected 293-T cells, run through SDS-PAGE gel, and detected using
    autoradiography. Both HPV 6 and HPV 11 E6/E7 proteins are approximately 32kDa each
    (A). Human rhabdomyosarcoma (RD) cells were also transfected with p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7
    and later fixed after immunofluorescence staining. FITC fluorescence confirms expression of
                                                   6

    p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7(B). DAPI fluorescence confirms nuclei localization consequent of
    Hoescht staining.
            Fig. 3. IFN-y ELISpot assays show induction of robust cell-mediated responses by
    p6E6E7 (A) and p1 1E6E7 (B) in C57BL/6 mice. Assays were performed using splenocytes
 5  isolated from mice in each respective group (5 mice per group) after three biweekly
    immunizations. Each immunization consisted of 20pg per construct. Mice in combo group
    received both p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 at 20gg per construct, for a total of 40pg DNA per
    immunization. DNA was administered via IM injection, followed by electroporation (*
    denotes p < 0.0001; f denotes p = 0.0001).
 0          Fig. 4. Additional IFN-7 ELISpot assays performed using individual peptides to
    characterize dominant epitopes. Splenocytes isolated from vaccinated mice and negative
    control were stimulated with overlapping peptides that span the entire HPV 6 E6/E7 fusion
    protein (A) or HPV 11 E6/E7 fusion protein (B).
            Fig. 5. Cytokine production by antigen-specific T-cells characterized by intracellular
 5  cytokine staining. Splenocytes isolated from mice vaccinated with p6E6E7 (A) and p1 1E6E7
    (B) were stimulated with R10 growth medium, PMA, or consensus gene peptides for 4 hours
    prior to surface marker and intracellular staining. Dot plots above show differences in
    background-subtracted percentages of either total CD4+ or CD8+ cells producing IFN-7, IL
    2, and TNF-a. P-values for plots with asterisks were unable to be determined because the
 '0 average of the negative control group was zero.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
            As used herein, the phrase "stringent hybridization conditions" or "stringent
    conditions" refers to conditions under which a nucleic acid molecule will hybridize another
25  nucleic acid molecule, but to no other sequences. Stringent conditions are sequence
    dependent and will be different in different circumstances. Longer sequences hybridize
    specifically at higher temperatures. Generally, stringent conditions are selected to be about
    5'C lower than the thermal melting point (Tm) for the specific sequence at a defined ionic
    strength and pH. The Tm is the temperature (under defined ionic strength, pH and nucleic
30  acid concentration) at which 50% of the probes complementary to the target sequence
    hybridize to the target sequence at equilibrium. Since the target sequences are generally
    present in excess, at Tm, 50% of the probes are occupied at equilibrium. Typically, stringent
    conditions will be those in which the salt concentration is less than about 1.0 M sodium ion,
    typically about 0.01 to 1.0 M sodium ion (or other salts) at pH 7.0 to 8.3 and the temperature
                                                    7

    is at least about 300 C for short probes, primers or oligonucleotides (e.g. 10 to 50 nucleotides)
    and at least about 60'C for longer probes, primers or oligonucleotides. Stringent conditions
    may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents, such as formamide.
             Sequence homology for nucleotides and amino acids may be determined using
 5  FASTA, BLAST and Gapped BLAST (Altschul et al., Nuc. Acids Res., 1997, 25, 3389,
    which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety) and PAUP* 4.0b10 software (D. L.
    Swofford, Sinauer Associates, Massachusetts). "Percentage of similarity" is calculated using
    PAUP* 4.0b10 software (D. L. Swofford, Sinauer Associates, Massachusetts). The average
    similarity of the consensus sequence is calculated compared to all sequences in the
 0  phylogenic tree.
             Briefly, the BLAST algorithm, which stands for Basic Local Alignment Search Tool
    is suitable for determining sequence similarity (Altschul et al., J. Mol. Biol., 1990, 215, 403
    410, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Software for performing
    BLAST analyses is publicly available through the National Center for Biotechnology
 5  Information (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/). This algorithm involves first identifying high
    scoring sequence pair (HSPs) by identifying short words of length W in the query sequence
    that either match or satisfy some positive-valued threshold score T when aligned with a word
    of the same length in a database sequence. T is referred to as the neighborhood word score
    threshold (Altschul et al., supra). These initial neighborhood word hits act as seeds for
 '0 initiating searches to find HSPs containing them. The word hits are extended in both
    directions along each sequence for as far as the cumulative alignment score can be increased.
    Extension for the word hits in each direction are halted when: 1) the cumulative alignment
    score falls off by the quantity X from its maximum achieved value; 2) the cumulative score
    goes to zero or below, due to the accumulation of one or more negative-scoring residue
25  alignments; or 3) the end of either sequence is reached. The Blast algorithm parameters W, T
    and X determine the sensitivity and speed of the alignment. The Blast program uses as
    defaults a word length (W) of 11, the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix (see Henikoff et al., Proc.
    Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 1992, 89, 10915-10919, which is incorporated herein by reference in
    its entirety) alignments (B) of 50, expectation (E) of 10, M=5, N=4, and a comparison of both
30  strands. The BLAST algorithm (Karlin et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 1993, 90, 5873
    5787, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety) and Gapped BLAST perform
    a statistical analysis of the similarity between two sequences. One measure of similarity
    provided by the BLAST algorithm is the smallest sum probability (P(N)), which provides an
    indication of the probability by which a match between two nucleotide sequences would
                                                      8

    occur by chance. For example, a nucleic acid is considered similar to another if the smallest
    sum probability in comparison of the test nucleic acid to the other nucleic acid is less than
    about 1, preferably less than about 0.1, more preferably less than about 0.01, and most
    preferably less than about 0.001.
 5           As used herein, the term "genetic construct" refers to the DNA or RNA molecules that
    comprise a nucleotide sequence which encodes protein. The coding sequence includes
    initiation and termination signals operably linked to regulatory elements including a promoter
    and polyadenylation signal capable of directing expression in the cells of the individual to
    whom the nucleic acid molecule is administered.
 0           As used herein, the term "expressible form" refers to gene constructs that contain the
    necessary regulatory elements operable linked to a coding sequence that encodes a protein
    such that when present in the cell of the individual, the coding sequence will be expressed.
             Improved vaccine are disclosed which arise from a multi-phase strategy to enhance
    cellular immune responses induced by immunogens. Modified consensus sequences were
 5  generated. Genetic modifications including codon optimization, RNA optimization, and the
    addition of a high efficient immunoglobin leader sequence are also disclosed. The novel
    construct has been designed to elicit stronger and broader cellular immune responses than a
    corresponding codon optimized immunogens.
             The improved HPV vaccines are based upon proteins and genetic constructs that
 '0 encode proteins with epitopes that make them particularly effective as immunogens against
    which anti-HPV can be induced. Accordingly, vaccines may induce a therapeutic or
    prophylactic immune response. In some embodiments, the means to deliver the immunogen
    is a DNA vaccine, a recombinant vaccine, a protein subunit vaccine, a composition
    comprising the immunogen, an attenuated vaccine or a killed vaccine. In some embodiments,
25  the vaccine comprises a combination selected from the groups consisting of: one or more
    DNA vaccines, one or more recombinant vaccines, one or more protein subunit vaccines, one
    or more compositions comprising the immunogen, one or more attenuated vaccines and one
    or more killed vaccines.
             According to some embodiments, a vaccine is delivered to an individual to modulate
30  the activity of the individual's immune system and thereby enhance the immune response
    against HPV. When a nucleic acid molecule that encodes the protein is taken up by cells of
    the individual the nucleotide sequence is expressed in the cells and the protein are thereby
    delivered to the individual. Methods of delivering the coding sequences of the protein on
                                                    9

    nucleic acid molecule such as plasmid, as part of recombinant vaccines and as part of
    attenuated vaccines, as isolated proteins or proteins part of a vector are provided.
            Compositions and methods are provided which prophylactically and/or therapeutically
    immunize an individual against HPV.
 5          Compositions for delivering nucleic acid molecules that comprise a nucleotide
    sequence that encodes the immunogen are operably linked to regulatory elements.
    Compositions may include a plasmid that encodes the immunogen, a recombinant vaccine
    comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes the immunogen, a live attenuated pathogen
    that encodes a protein of the invention and/or includes a protein of the invention; a killed
 0  pathogen includes a protein of the invention; or a composition such as a liposome or subunit
    vaccine that comprises a protein of the invention. The present invention further relates to
    injectable pharmaceutical compositions that comprise compositions.
             SEQ ID NO: 1 comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes a consensus immunogen
    of HPV 6 E6 and E7 proteins. SEQ ID NO:1 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID NO:9
 5  linked to the nucleotide sequence at the 5' end of SEQ ID NO: 1. SEQ ID NO:2 comprises
    the amino acid sequence for the consensus immunogen of HPV 6 E6 and E7 proteins. SEQ
    ID NO:2 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID NO: 10 at the N-terminal end of the
    consensus immunogen sequence. The IgE leader sequence is SEQ ID NO: 10 and can be
    encoded by SEQ ID NO:9.
 10         In some embodiments, vaccines include SEQ ID NO:2, or a nucleic acid molecule
    that encodes SEQ ID NO:2.
            In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO: 1 may comprise 786 or more
    nucleotides; in some embodiments, 830 or more nucleotides; in some embodiments 856 or
    more nucleotides; and in some embodiments, 865 or more nucleotides. In some
25  embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO: 1 such as those set forth herein may further comprise
    coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences. In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID
    NO: 1 do not comprise coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences.
            In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:2 may comprise 252 or more amino
    acids; in some embodiments, 266 or more amino acids; in some embodiments, 275 or more
30  amino acids; and in some embodiments, 278 or more amino acids.
             SEQ ID NO:3 comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes a consensus immunogen
    of HPV 11 E6 and E7 proteins. SEQ ID NO:3 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID
    NO:9 linked to the nucleotide sequence at the 5' end of SEQ ID NO:3. SEQ ID NO:4
    comprises the amino acid sequence for the consensus immunogen of HPV 11 E6 and E7
                                                    10

   proteins. SEQ ID NO:4 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID NO: 10 at the N-terminal
   end of the consensus immunogen sequence. The IgE leader sequence is SEQ ID NO: 10 and
   can be encoded by SEQ ID NO:9.
           In some embodiments, vaccines include SEQ ID NO:4, or a nucleic acid molecule
 5 that encodes SEQ ID NO:4.
           In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:3 may comprise 786 or more
   nucleotides; in some embodiments, 830 or more nucleotides; in some embodiments 856 or
   more nucleotides; and in some embodiments, 865 or more nucleotides. In some
   embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:3 such as those set forth herein may further comprise
 0 coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences. In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID
   NO:3 do not comprise coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences.
           In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:4 may comprise 252 or more amino
   acids; in some embodiments, 266 or more amino acids; in some embodiments, 275 or more
   amino acids; and in some embodiments, 278 or more amino acids.
 5          SEQ ID NO:5 comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes a consensus immunogen
   of HPV 33 E6 and E7 proteins. SEQ ID NO:5 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID
   NO:9 linked to the nucleotide sequence at the 5' end of SEQ ID NO:5. SEQ ID NO:6
   comprises the amino acid sequence for the consensus immunogen of HPV 33 E6 and E7
   proteins. SEQ ID NO:6 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID NO:10 at the N-terminal
 0 end of the consensus immunogen sequence. The IgE leader sequence is SEQ ID NO: 10 and
   can be encoded by SEQ ID NO:9.
           In some embodiments, vaccines include SEQ ID NO:6, or a nucleic acid molecule
   that encodes SEQ ID NO:6.
           In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:5 may comprise 746 or more
25 nucleotides; in some embodiments, 787 or more nucleotides; in some embodiments 812 or
   more nucleotides; and in some embodiments, 820 or more nucleotides. In some
   embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:5 such as those set forth herein may further comprise
   coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences. In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID
   NO:5 do not comprise coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences.
30         In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:6 may comprise 235 or more amino
   acids; in some embodiments, 248 or more amino acids; in some embodiments, 256 or more
   amino acids; and in some embodiments, 259 or more amino acids.
            SEQ ID NO:7 comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes a consensus immunogen
   of HPV 58 E6 and E7 proteins. SEQ ID NO:7 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID
                                                 11

    NO:9 linked to the nucleotide sequence at the 5' end of SEQ ID NO:7. SEQ ID NO:8
    comprises the amino acid sequence for the consensus immunogen of HPV 58 E6 and E7
    proteins. SEQ ID NO:8 includes an IgE leader sequence SEQ ID NO:10 at the N-terminal
    end of the consensus immunogen sequence. The IgE leader sequence is SEQ ID NO: 10 and
 5  can be encoded by SEQ ID NO:9.
            In some embodiments, vaccines include SEQ ID NO:8, or a nucleic acid molecule
    that encodes SEQ ID NO:8.
            In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:7 may comprise 752 or more
    nucleotides; in some embodiments, 794 or more nucleotides; in some embodiments 819 or
 0  more nucleotides; and in some embodiments, 827 or more nucleotides. In some
    embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:7 such as those set forth herein may further comprise
    coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences. In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID
    NO:7 do not comprise coding sequences for the IgE leader sequences.
            In some embodiments, fragments of SEQ ID NO:8 may comprise 235 or more amino
 5  acids; in some embodiments, 249 or more amino acids; in some embodiments, 257 or more
    amino acids; and in some embodiments, 260 or more amino acids.
            According to some embodiments, methods of inducing an immune response in
    individuals against an immunogen comprise administering to the individual the amino acid
    sequence for a consensus immunogen selected from the group consisting of HPV 6 E6 and
 '0 E7, HPV 11 E6 and E7, HPV 33 E6 and E7 , HPV 58 E6 and E7, functional fragments
    thereof, and expressible coding sequences thereof. Some embodiments comprise an isolated
    nucleic acid molecule that encodes the amino acid sequence for a consensus immunogen
    selected from the group consisting of HPV 6 E6 and E7, HPV 11 E6 and E7, HPV 33 E6 and
    E7, HPV 58 E6 and E7, and fragments thereof. Some embodiments comprise a recombinant
25  vaccine that encodes the amino acid sequence for a consensus immunogen selected from the
    group consisting of HPV 6 E6 and E7, HPV 11 E6 and E7, HPV 33 E6 and E7, HPV 58 E6
    and E7, and fragments thereof. Some embodiments comprise a subunit vaccine that
    comprises the amino acid sequence for a consensus immunogen selected from the group
    consisting of HPV 6 E6 and E7, HPV 11 E6 and E7, HPV 33 E6 and E7, HPV 58 E6 and E7,
30  and fragments thereof. Some embodiments comprise a live attenuated vaccine and/or a killed
    vaccine that comprise the amino acid sequence for a consensus immunogen selected from the
    group consisting of HPV 6 E6 and E7, HPV 11 E6 and E7, HPV 33 E6 and E7, and HPV 58
    E6 and E7.
                                                  12

           In one aspect, the vaccines herein are those that elicit an immune response against
   HPV subtypes found predominantly to be associated with forms of head and neck cancer, and
   other forms of otolaryngologic diseases, in particular the vaccines include HPV 6 E6 and E7
   and HPV 11 E6 and E7, and preferably both.
 5         In another aspect, the vaccines herein are those the elicit an immune response against
   HPV subtypes found predominantly to be associated with forms of cervical cancer in patients
   ex-United States and more particularly patients in Asia, in particular the vaccines include
   HPV 33 E6 and E7 and HPV 58 E6 and E7, and preferably both.
           Improved vaccines comprise proteins and genetic constructs that encode proteins with
 0 epitopes that make them particularly effective as immunogens against which anti-HPV
   immune responses can be induced. Accordingly, vaccines can be provided to induce a
   therapeutic or prophylactic immune response. In some embodiments, the means to deliver
   the immunogen is a DNA vaccine, a recombinant vaccine, a protein subunit vaccine, a
   composition comprising the immunogen, an attenuated vaccine or a killed vaccine. In some
 5 embodiments, the vaccine comprises a combination selected from the groups consisting of:
   one or more DNA vaccines, one or more recombinant vaccines, one or more protein subunit
   vaccines, one or more compositions comprising the immunogen, one or more attenuated
   vaccines and one or more killed vaccines.
           Aspects of the invention provide methods of delivering the coding sequences of the
 O protein on nucleic acid molecule such as plasmid, as part of recombinant vaccines and as part
   of attenuated vaccines, as isolated proteins or proteins part of a vector.
           According to some aspects of the present invention, compositions and methods are
   provided which prophylactically and/or therapeutically immunize an individual
           DNA vaccines are described in US. Patent Nos. 5,593,972, 5,739,118, 5,817,637,
25 5,830,876, 5,962,428, 5,981,505, 5,580,859, 5,703,055, 5,676,594, and the priority
   applications cited therein, which are each incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the
   delivery protocols described in those applications, alternative methods of delivering DNA are
   described in US. Patent Nos. 4,945,050 and 5,036,006, which are both incorporated herein by
   reference.
30         The present invention relates to improved attenuated live vaccines, improved killed
   vaccines and improved vaccines that use recombinant vectors to deliver foreign genes that
   encode antigens and well as subunit and glycoprotein vaccines. Examples of attenuated live
   vaccines, those using recombinant vectors to deliver foreign antigens, subunit vaccines and
   glycoprotein vaccines are described in U.S. Patent Nos.: 4,510,245; 4,797,368; 4,722,848;
                                                   13

    4,790,987; 4,920,209; 5,017,487; 5,077,044; 5,110,587; 5,112,749; 5,174,993; 5,223,424;
    5,225,336; 5,240,703; 5,242,829; 5,294,441; 5,294,548; 5,310,668; 5,387,744; 5,389,368;
    5,424,065; 5,451,499; 5,453,3 64; 5,462,734; 5,470,734; 5,474,935; 5,482,713; 5,591,439;
    5,643,579; 5,650,309; 5,698,202; 5,955,088; 6,034,298; 6,042,836; 6,156,319 and 6,589,529,
 5  which are each incorporated herein by reference.
            When taken up by a cell, the genetic construct(s) may remain present in the cell as a.
    functioning extrachromosomal molecule and/or integrate into the cell's chromosomal DNA.
    DNA may be introduced into cells where it remains as separate genetic material in the form
    of a plasmid or plasmids. Alternatively, linear DNA that can integrate into the chromosome
 0  may be introduced into the cell. When introducing DNA into the cell, reagents that promote
    DNA integration into chromosomes may be added. DNA sequences that are useful to
    promote integration may also be included in the DNA molecule. Alternatively, RNA may be
    administered to the cell. It is also contemplated to provide the genetic construct as a linear
    minichromosome including a centromere, telomeres and an origin of replication. Gene
 5  constructs may remain part of the genetic material in attenuated live microorganisms or
    recombinant microbial vectors which live in cells. Gene constructs may be part of genomes
    of recombinant viral vaccines where the genetic material either integrates into the
    chromosome of the cell or remains extrachromosomal. Genetic constructs include regulatory
    elements necessary for gene expression of a nucleic acid molecule. The elements include: a
 '0 promoter, an initiation codon, a stop codon, and a polyadenylation signal. In addition,
    enhancers are often required for gene expression of the sequence that encodes the target
    protein or the immunomodulating protein. It is necessary that these elements be operable
    linked to the sequence that encodes the desired proteins and that the regulatory elements are
    operably in the individual to whom they are administered.
25          Initiation codons and stop codon are generally considered to be part of a nucleotide
    sequence that encodes the desired protein. However, it is necessary that these elements are
    functional in the individual to whom the gene construct is administered. The initiation and
    termination codons must be in frame with the coding sequence.
            Promoters and polyadenylation signals used must be functional within the cells of the
30  individual.
            Examples of promoters useful to practice the present invention, especially in the
    production of a genetic vaccine for humans, include but are not limited to promoters from
    Simian Virus 40 (SV40), Mouse Mammary Tumor Virus (MMTV) promoter, Human
    Immunodeficiency Virus (MV) such as the BIV Long Terminal Repeat (LTR) promoter,
                                                     14

    Moloney virus, ALV, Cytomegalovirus (CMV) such as the CMV immediate early promoter,
    Epstein Barr Virus (EBV), Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV) as well as promoters from human
    genes such as human Actin, human Myosin, human Hemoglobin, human muscle creatine and
    human metalothionein.
 5           Examples of polyadenylation signals useful to practice the present invention,
    especially in the production of a genetic vaccine for humans, include but are not limited to
    SV40 polyadenylation signals and LTR polyadenylation signals. In particular, the SV40
    polyadenylation signal that is in pCEP4 plasmid (Invitrogen, San Diego CA), referred to as
    the SV40 polyadenylation signal, is used.
 0           In addition to the regulatory elements required for DNA expression, other elements
    may also be included in the DNA molecule. Such additional elements include enhancers. The
    enhancer may be selected from the group including but not limited to: human Actin, human
    Myosin, human Hemoglobin, human muscle creatine and viral enhancers such as those from
    CMV, RSV and EBV.
 5           Genetic constructs can be provided with mammalian origin of replication in order to
    maintain the construct extrachromosomally and produce multiple copies of the construct in
    the cell. Plasmids pVAX1, pCEP4 and pREP4 from Invitrogen (San Diego, CA) contain the
    Epstein Barr virus origin of replication and nuclear antigen EBNA- 1 coding region which
    produces high copy episomal replication without integration.
 10          In some preferred embodiments related to immunization applications, nucleic acid
    molecule(s) are delivered which include nucleotide sequences that encode protein of the
    invention, and, additionally, genes for proteins which further enhance the immune response
    against such target proteins. Examples of such genes are those which encode other cytokines
    and lymphokines such as alpha-interferon, gamma-interferon, platelet derived growth factor
25  (PDGF), TNFca, TNFP, GM-CSF, epidermal growth factor (EGF), IL-i, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL
    6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-18, MHC, CD80,CD86 and IL- 15 including IL-15 having the signal
    sequence deleted and optionally including the signal peptide from IgE. Other genes which
    may be useful include those encoding: MCP-i, MIP-lx, MIP-lp, IL-8, RANTES, L-selectin,
    P-selectin, E-selectin, CD34, GlyCAM-I, MadCAM-I, LFA-i, VLA-i, Mac-1, p150.95,
30  PECAM, ICAM-1, ICAM-2, ICAM-3, CD2, LFA-3, M-CSF, G-CSF, IL-4, mutant forms of
    IL-18, CD40, CD40L, vascular growth factor, IL-7, nerve growth factor, vascular endothelial
    growth factor, Fas, TNF receptor, Flt, Apo-i, p55, WSL-i, DR3, TRAMP, Apo-3, AIR,
    LARD, NGRF, DR4, DR5, KILLER, TRAIL-R2, TRICK2, DR6, Caspase ICE, Fos, c-jun,
                                                     15

    Sp-1, Ap-1, Ap-2, p38, p65Rel, MyD88, IRAK, TRAF6, IkB, Inactive NIK, SAP K, SAP-1,
    JNK, interferon response genes, NFkB, Bax, TRAIL, TRAILrec, TRAILrecDRC5, TRAIL
    R3, TRAIL-R4, RANK, RANK LIGAND, Ox4O, Ox4O LIGAND, NKG2D, MICA, MICB,
    NKG2A, NKG2B, NKG2C, NKG2E, NKG2F, TAP 1, TAP2 and functional fragments
 5  thereof
             An additional element may be added which serves as a target for cell destruction if it
    is desirable to eliminate cells receiving the genetic construct for any reason. A herpes
    thymidine kinase (tk) gene in an expressible form can be included in the genetic construct.
    The drug gangcyclovir can be administered to the individual and that drug will cause the
 0  selective killing of any cell producing tk, thus, providing the means for the selective
    destruction of cells with the genetic construct.
             In order to maximize protein production, regulatory sequences may be selected which
    are well suited for gene expression in the cells the construct is administered into. Moreover,
    codons may be selected which are most efficiently transcribed in the cell. One having
 5  ordinary skill in the art can produce DNA constructs that are functional in the cells.
             In some embodiments, gene constructs may be provided in which the coding
    sequences for the proteins described herein are linked to IgE signal peptide. In some
    embodiments, proteins described herein are linked to IgE signal peptide.
             In some embodiments for which protein is used, for example, one having ordinary
 '0 skill in the art can, using well known techniques, produce and isolate proteins of the
    invention using well known techniques. In some embodiments for which protein is used, for
    example, one having ordinary skill in the art can, using well known techniques, inserts DNA
    molecules that encode a protein of the invention into a commercially available expression
    vector for use in well known expression systems. For example, the commercially available
25  plasmid pSE420 (Invitrogen, San Diego, Calif.) may be used for production of protein in E.
    coli. The commercially available plasmid pYES2 (Invitrogen, San Diego, Calif.) may, for
    example, be used for production in S. cerevisiae strains of yeast. The commercially available
    MAXBACTM complete baculovirus expression system (Invitrogen, San Diego, Calif.) may,
    for example, be used for production in insect cells. The commercially available plasmid
30  pcDNA I or pcDNA3 (Invitrogen, San Diego, Calif.) may, for example, be used for
    production in mammalian cells such as Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. One having ordinary
    skill in the art can use these commercial expression vectors and systems or others to produce
    protein by routine techniques and readily available starting materials. (See e.g., Sambrook et
    al., Molecular Cloning a Laboratory Manual, Second Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Press (1989)
                                                     16

    which is incorporated herein by reference.) Thus, the desired proteins can be prepared in both
    prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems, resulting in a spectrum of processed forms of the protein.
             One having ordinary skill in the art may use other commercially available expression
    vectors and systems or produce vectors using well known methods and readily available
 5  starting materials. Expression systems containing the requisite control sequences, such as
    promoters and polyadenylation signals, and preferably enhancers are readily available and
    known in the art for a variety of hosts. See e.g., Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning a
    Laboratory Manual, Second Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Press (1989). Genetic constructs
    include the protein coding sequence operably linked to a promoter that is functional in the
 0  cell line into which the constructs are transfected. Examples of constitutive promoters include
    promoters from cytomegalovirus or SV40. Examples of inducible promoters include mouse
    mammary leukemia virus or metallothionein promoters. Those having ordinary skill in the art
    can readily produce genetic constructs useful for transfecting with cells with DNA that
    encodes protein of the invention from readily available starting materials. The expression
 5  vector including the DNA that encodes the protein is used to transform the compatible host
    which is then cultured and maintained under conditions wherein expression of the foreign
    DNA takes place.
             The protein produced is recovered from the culture, either by lysing the cells or from
    the culture medium as appropriate and known to those in the art. One having ordinary skill in
 '0 the art can, using well known techniques, isolate protein that is produced using such
    expression systems. The methods of purifying protein from natural sources using antibodies
    which specifically bind to a specific protein as described above may be equally applied to
    purifying protein produced by recombinant DNA methodology.
             In addition to producing proteins by recombinant techniques, automated peptide
25  synthesizers may also be employed to produce isolated, essentially pure protein. Such
    techniques are well known to those having ordinary skill in the art and are useful if
    derivatives which have substitutions not provided for in DNA-encoded protein production.
             The nucleic acid molecules may be delivered using any of several well known
30  technologies including DNA injection (also referred to as DNA vaccination), recombinant
    vectors such as recombinant adenovirus, recombinant adenovirus associated virus and
    recombinant vaccinia.
             Routes of administration include, but are not limited to, intramuscular, intransally,
    intraperitoneal, intradermal, subcutaneous, intravenous, intraarterially, intraoccularly and oral
                                                     17

    as well as topically, transdermally, by inhalation or suppository or to mucosal tissue such as
    by lavage to vaginal, rectal, urethral, buccal and sublingual tissue. Preferred routes of
    administration include intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intradermal and subcutaneous injection.
    Genetic constructs may be administered by means including, but not limited to,
 5  electroporation methods and devices, traditional syringes, needleless injection devices, or
    "microprojectile bombardment gone guns".
             Examples of electroporation devices and electroporation methods preferred for
    facilitating delivery of the DNA vaccines, include those described in U.S. Patent No.
    7,245,963 by Draghia-Akli, et al., U.S. Patent Pub. 2005/0052630 submitted by Smith, et al.,
 0  the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Also preferred,
    are electroporation devices and electroporation methods for facilitating delivery of the DNA
    vaccines provided in co-pending and co-owned U.S. Patent Application, Serial No.
    11/874072, filed October 17, 2007, which claims the benefit under 35 USC 119(e) to U.S.
    Provisional Applications Ser. Nos. 60/852,149, filed October 17, 2006, and 60/978,982, filed
 5  October 10, 2007, all of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety.
             The following is an example of an embodiment using electroporation technology, and
    is discussed in more detail in the patent references discussed above: electroporation devices
    can be configured to deliver to a desired tissue of a mammal a pulse of energy producing a
    constant current similar to a preset current input by a user. The electroporation device
 '0 comprises an electroporation component and an electrode assembly or handle assembly. The
    electroporation component can include and incorporate one or more of the various elements
    of the electroporation devices, including: controller, current waveform generator, impedance
    tester, waveform logger, input element, status reporting element, communication port,
    memory component, power source, and power switch. The electroporation component can
25  function as one element of the electroporation devices, and the other elements are separate
    elements (or components) in communication with the electroporation component. In some
    embodiments, the electroporation component can function as more than one element of the
    electroporation devices, which can be in communication with still other elements of the
    electroporation devices separate from the electroporation component. The use of
30  electroporation technology to deliver the improved HPV vaccine is not limited by the
    elements of the electroporation devices existing as parts of one electromechanical or
    mechanical device, as the elements can function as one device or as separate elements in
    communication with one another. The electroporation component is capable of delivering the
    pulse of energy that produces the constant current in the desired tissue, and includes a
                                                     18

    feedback mechanism. The electrode assembly includes an electrode array having a plurality
    of electrodes in a spatial arrangement, wherein the electrode assembly receives the pulse of
    energy from the electroporation component and delivers same to the desired tissue through
    the electrodes. At least one of the plurality of electrodes is neutral during delivery of the
 5  pulse of energy and measures impedance in the desired tissue and communicates the
    impedance to the electroporation component. The feedback mechanism can receive the
    measured impedance and can adjust the pulse of energy delivered by the electroporation
    component to maintain the constant current.
             In some embodiments, the plurality of electrodes can deliver the pulse of energy in a
 0  decentralized pattern. In some embodiments, the plurality of electrodes can deliver the pulse
    of energy in the decentralized pattern through the control of the electrodes under a
    programmed sequence, and the programmed sequence is input by a user to the electroporation
    component. In some embodiments, the programmed sequence comprises a plurality of pulses
    delivered in sequence, wherein each pulse of the plurality of pulses is delivered by at least
 5  two active electrodes with one neutral electrode that measures impedance, and wherein a
    subsequent pulse of the plurality of pulses is delivered by a different one of at least two active
    electrodes with one neutral electrode that measures impedance.
             In some embodiments, the feedback mechanism is performed by either hardware or
    software. Preferably, the feedback mechanism is performed by an analog closed-loop circuit.
 '0 Preferably, this feedback occurs every 50 ps, 20 ps, 10 ps or I ps, but is preferably a real
    time feedback or instantaneous (i.e., substantially instantaneous as determined by available
    techniques for determining response time). In some embodiments, the neutral electrode
    measures the impedance in the desired tissue and communicates the impedance to the
    feedback mechanism, and the feedback mechanism responds to the impedance and adjusts the
25  pulse of energy to maintain the constant current at a value similar to the preset current. In
    some embodiments, the feedback mechanism maintains the constant current continuously and
    instantaneously during the delivery of the pulse of energy.
             In some embodiments, the nucleic acid molecule is delivered to the cells in
    conjunction with administration of a polynucleotide function enhancer or a genetic vaccine
30  facilitator agent. Polynucleotide function enhancers are described in U.S. Serial Number
    5,593,972, 5,962,428 and International Application Serial Number PCT/US94/00899 filed
    January 26, 1994, which are each incorporated herein by reference. Genetic vaccine
    facilitator agents are described in US. Serial Number 021,579 filed April 1, 1994, which is
    incorporated herein by reference. The co-agents that are administered in conjunction with
                                                     19

    nucleic acid molecules may be administered as a mixture with the nucleic acid molecule or
    administered separately simultaneously, before or after administration of nucleic acid
    molecules. In addition, other agents which may function transfecting agents and/or
    replicating agents and/or inflammatory agents and which may be co-administered with a GVF
 5  include growth factors, cytokines and lymphokines such as a-interferon, gamma-interferon,
    GM-CSF, platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), TNF, epidermal growth factor (EGF), IL-I,
    IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12 and IL-15 as well as fibroblast growth factor, surface active
    agents such as immune-stimulating complexes (ISCOMS), Freunds incomplete adjuvant, LPS
    analog including monophosphoryl Lipid A (WL), muramyl peptides, quinone analogs and
 0  vesicles such as squalene and squalene, and hyaluronic acid may also be used administered in
    conjunction with the genetic construct In some embodiments, an immunomodulating protein
    may be used as a GVF. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid molecule is provided in
    association with PLG to enhance delivery/uptake.
            The pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention comprise about 1
 5  nanogram to about 2000 micrograms of DNA. In some preferred embodiments,
    pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention comprise about 5 nanogram
    to about 1000 micrograms of DNA. In some preferred embodiments, the pharmaceutical
    compositions contain about 10 nanograms to about 800 micrograms of DNA. In some
    preferred embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions contain about 0.1 to about 500
 '0 micrograms of DNA. In some preferred embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions
    contain about 1 to about 350 micrograms of DNA. In some preferred embodiments, the
    pharmaceutical compositions contain about 25 to about 250 micrograms of DNA. In some
    preferred embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions contain about 100 to about 200
    microgram DNA.
25          The pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention are formulated
    according to the mode of administration to be used. In cases where pharmaceutical
    compositions are injectable pharmaceutical compositions, they are sterile, pyrogen free and
    particulate free. An isotonic formulation is preferably used. Generally, additives for
    isotonicity can include sodium chloride, dextrose, mannitol, sorbitol and lactose. In some
30  cases, isotonic solutions such as phosphate buffered saline are preferred. Stabilizers include
    gelatin and albumin. In some embodiments, a vasoconstriction agent is added to the
    formulation.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, methods of inducing immune
    responses are provided. The vaccine may be a protein based, live attenuated vaccine, a cell
                                                    20

   vaccine, a recombinant vaccine or a nucleic acid or DNA vaccine. In some embodiments,
   methods of inducing an immune response in individuals against an immunogen, including
   methods of inducing mucosal immune responses, comprise administering to the individual
   one or more of CTACK protein, TECK protein, MEC protein and functional fragments
 5 thereof or expressible coding sequences thereof in combination with an isolated nucleic acid
   molecule that encodes protein of the invention and/or a recombinant vaccine that encodes
   protein of the invention and/or a subunit vaccine that protein of the invention and/or a live
   attenuated vaccine and/or a killed vaccine. The one or more of CTACK protein, TECK
   protein, MEC protein and functional fragments thereof may be administered prior to,
 0 simultaneously with or after administration of the isolated nucleic acid molecule that encodes
   an immunogen; and/or recombinant vaccine that encodes an immunogen and/or subunit
   vaccine that comprises an immunogen and/or live attenuated vaccine and/or killed vaccine.
   In some embodiments, an isolated nucleic acid molecule that encodes one or more proteins of
   selected from the group consisting of: CTACK, TECK, MEC and functional fragments
 5 thereof is administered to the individual.
            The present invention is further illustrated in the following Example. It should be
   understood that this Example, while indicating embodiments of the invention, is given by
   way of illustration only. From the above discussion and this Example, one skilled in the art
   can ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention, and without departing from the
 0 spirit and scope thereof, can make various changes and modifications of the invention to
   adapt it to various usages and conditions. Thus, various modifications of the invention in
   addition to those shown and described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from
   the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the scope of the
   appended claims.
25          Each of the U.S. Patents, U.S. Applications, and references cited throughout this
   disclosure are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.
   EXAMPLE
            The present invention is further defined in the following Examples. It should be
30 understood that these Examples, while indicating preferred embodiments of the invention, are
   given by way of illustration only. From the above discussion and these Examples, one skilled
   in the art can ascertain the essential characteristics of this invention, and without departing
   from the spirit and scope thereof, can make various changes and modifications of the
                                                    21

    invention to adapt it to various usages and conditions. Thus, various modifications of the
    invention in addition to those shown and described herein will be apparent to those skilled in
    the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are also intended to fall within the
    scope of the appended claims.
 5
    Example 1
    HPV6 and HPV11 E6/E7 vaccine design and expression
    Construction of HPV6 and 11 E6/E7 consensus-based fusion immunogens
 0           The HPV type 6 or 11 E6 and E7 gene sequences were collected from GeneBank, and
    the consensus E6 and E7 nucleotide sequences were obtained after performing multiple
    alignment. The consensus sequence of HPV 6 E6 or E7 proteins was generated from 98 or 20
    sequences, respectively, while the consensus sequence of HPV 11 E6 or E7 proteins was
    generated from 76 or 13 sequences, respectively. The multiple alignment procedure applied
 5  in the phylogenetic study included the application of Clustal X (version 2.0). As indicated in
    Fig 1A and B, there were about 0-2% of sequence divergence among the HPV strains
    belonging to the same type in their E6 and E7 proteins. However, the genetic distances could
    go up to 19.3% in the E6 protein and 16.3% in the E7 protein between HPV 6 and 11. Based
    on these results from the phylogenic analyses, we developed two type-specific E6/E7
 '0 consensus DNA vaccines.
             Several modifications were conducted after generating the consensus E6/E7 fusion
    sequence (Fig. IC). A highly efficient leader sequence was fused in frame upstream of the
    start codon to facilitate the expression. The codon and RNA optimization was also performed
    as described previously (J. Yan, et al., Cellular immunity induced by a novel HPV18 DNA
25  vaccine encoding an E6/E7 fusion consensus protein in mice and rhesus macaques, Vaccine.
    26 (2008) 5210-5215; and J. Yan, et al., Induction of antitumor immunity in vivo following
    delivery of a novel HPV-16 DNA vaccine encoding an E6/E7 fusion antigen, Vaccine. 27
    (2009) 431-440). An endoproteolytic cleavage site was introduced between E6 and E7
    protein for proper protein folding and better CTL processing. Both synthetic engineered
30  6E6E7 gene and 11E6E7 genes were 840 bp in length. The sequence verified synthetic genes
    were subcloned into the pVAX expression vector at the BamHI and XhoI sites respectively
    for further study. The consensus amino acid sequences were obtained by translating the
    consensus nucleotide sequences.
                                                    22

            After obtaining HPV 6 and 11 consensus E6 and E7 sequences, condon optimization
    and RNA optimization was performed as previously described (J. Yan, et al., Vaccine. 26
    (2008) 5210-5215; and J. Yan, et al., Induction, Vaccine. 27 (2009) 431-440). The fusion
    genes encoding either HPV type 6 or 11 consensus E6/E7 fusion protein (6E6E7 or 1 1E6E7)
 5  were synthesized and sequence verified. The synthesized 6E6E7 or 1 1E6E7 was digested
    with BamHI and XhoI, cloned into the expression vector pVAX (Invitrogen) under the
    control of the cytomegalovirus immediate-early promoter and these constructs were named as
    p6E6E7 or p11E6E7.
            293-T cells were cultured in 6-well plates and transfected with pVAX, p6E6E7, or
 0  p1 1E6E7 using FuGENE6 Transfection Reagent (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, IN).
    Two days after transfection, the cells were lysed using Modified RIPA Cell Lysis Buffer and
    cell lysate was collected. The Western blot analyses were performed with an anti-HA
    monoclonal antibody (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) and visualized with horseradish
    peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgG (Sigma-Aldrich, St Louis, MO) using an ECLTM
 5  Western blot analysis system (Amersham, Piscataway, NJ).
            Indirect immunofluorescent assays were performed using human rhabdomyosarcoma
    cells (RD cells) to verify expression of p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7. RD cells cultured in chamber
    slides were transfected with pVAX, p6E6E7, or p1 1E6E7 using Turbofectin 8.0 (Origene,
    Rockville, MD). Afterwards, the cells were fixed with PFA and permeabilized with 0.1%
 ,0 Triton-X in PBS. The cells were subjected to 1-2 hour incubations with primary and
    secondary antibodies in addition to washes of PBS supplemented with Glycine and BSA in
    between incubations. The primary and secondary antibodies used were monoclonal mouse
    anti-HA (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) and FITC-conjugated anti-mouse IgG (Abcam,
    Cambridge, MA), respectively. Hoechst staining was also performed to identify cell nuclei
25  and localize the RD cells. After all incubations were completed, the cells were mounted with
    a glass slide fixed with Fluoromount-G (Southern Biotech, Birmingham, AL). The samples
    were viewed and imaged using a confocal microscope (CDB Microscopy Core, University of
    Pennsylvania Cell and Developmental Biology, Philadelphia, PA).
30  Example 2
    Mice and treatment groups vaccinations
            Female C57BL/6 mice between 6 to 8 weeks old were used in this experiment. Mice
    were obtained from the Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME). The mice were housed and
                                                   23

    maintained by the University Laboratory Animal Resources at the University of Pennsylvania
    (Philadelphia, PA) in observance with the policies of the National Institutes of Health and the
    University of Pennsylvania Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). The
    mice used in these experiments were separated into groups of four for immunization. Mice
 5  were immunized with p6E6E7, p1 1E6E7, or both constructs and pVAX group served as
    negative control.
    DNA vaccination and electroporation
             Each mouse received three doses of 20pg of each DNA plasmid at 14-day intervals.
 0  Mice in the group receiving both p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 received 20pg of both plasmids for a
    total of 40pg of DNA per vaccination. The DNA constructs were administered via
    intramuscular injection of the right quadriceps muscle, followed by square-wave pulses
    generated by the CELLECTRATM electroporator (Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Blue Bell, PA).
    The electroporator was configured to deliver two electric pulses at O.2Amps at 52ms/pulse
 5  spaced apart by a 1 second delay. Electroporation procedure was performed as described
    previously [12,13].
    IFN-y ELISpot assay
             Mice in both treatment and control groups were sacrificed 1 week after the third
 '0 immunization. Spleens were harvested from each mouse and transferred to RPMI-1640
    medium with 10% FBS and antibiotics (RIO). Using a stomacher (Seward Laboratory
    Systems, Bohemia, NY), the spleens were pulverized and subsequently transferred through a
    cell strainer and suspended in ACK lysing buffer. After removing erythrocytes, the
    splenocytes were isolated and suspended in RIO medium. High-protein IP 96-well
25  MultiscreenTM plates (Millipore, Bedford, MA) were pre-coated with monoclonal mouse
    IFN-y Capture Antibody (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN) and incubated overnight at 4'C.
    After three washes with 1 X PBS, the plates were blocked with 1% BSA and 5% sucrose in 1
    x PBS for 2 hours at ambient temperature. Isolated splenocytes in RIO medium were counted
    and added in triplicate wells at 2 x 105 cells per well. Two sets of peptides spanning the
30  consensus E6/E7 sequence for HPV6 and HPV1 1 were reconstituted in DMSO (GenScript
    USA, Piscataway, NJ). The peptides contained 15 amino acid sequences, of which 8 residues
    overlapped with each sequential peptide. The peptides for HPV6 and 11 were each divided
    into two pools - one pool for E6 and another for E7 - at concentrations of 2pig/mL in DMSO.
    Wells reserved for positive and negative control received Concavalin A (Sigma-Aldrich, St.
                                                    24

    Louis, MO) and RIO culture medium in lieu of peptides, respectively. Plates were
    subsequently placed in a 5% CO2 atmosphere incubator. After incubation for 24 hours at
    37'C, the wells were washed with 1 x PBS. Biotinylated anti-mouse IFN-7 Detection
    Antibody (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN) was added to each well and then incubated
 5  overnight at 4'C. The plates were subsequently washed and processed per a color
    development protocol provided by R&D Systems using Streptavidin-AP and BCIP/NBT Plus
    (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN). The wells were air-dried overnight and spots inside wells
    were scanned and counted by an ELISpot plate reader system with ImmunoSpot@3 and
    ImmunoSpot@4 software (Cellular Technology Ltd., Shaker Heights, OH). Reported spot
 0  forming cell counts were converted to represent spot-forming units per 1 x 106 splenocytes
    using arithmetic.
    Given their sensitivity and ability to illustrate T-cell activity, IFN-7 ELISpot assays were
    used to determine the number of antigen-specific IFN-gamma secreting cells in response to
    stimulation with either HPV 6 or 11 E6 and E7 peptides.
 5          As shown in Fig. 3A and 3B, the average number of SFU/106 splenocytes for mice
    vaccinated with p6E6E7 was 1442.8, while the average number of SFU/106 for mice
    immunized with p1 1E6E7 was 2845, which were all significantly greater than the negative
    control group. Therefore, both p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 were effective in eliciting robust type
    specific E6 and E7-specific immune response in mice.
 10         Interestingly, the cross-reactive cellular immune responses were also induced by
    vaccination with p6E6E7 or p1 1E6E7. The additive frequency of SFU/106 splenocytes in
    p1 1E6E7 immunized mice against HPV 6 E6/E7 peptides was 552.8 SFU/106 splenocytes,
    and the HPV 11 E6/E7-specific immune responses in p6E6E7 immunized mice was 888.3
    SFU/106 splenocytes. The E6 proteins of HPV 6 or 11 share about 80% identity, while the E7
25  proteins of HPV6 or 11 shared about 84% identity. There may be some shared immune
    epitopes between HPV 6 or 11 E6 and E7 antigens. The cross-reactivity observed from the
    IFN-gamma ELISpot assay indicated that there were shared immune epitopes between HPV6
    and 11 E6 and E7 antigens.
            Splenocytes from mice that received both p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 (combo group) were
30  also subjected to the above ELISpot assays in order to examine whether there was any
    immune interference when these two constructs were vaccinated together (Fig. 3A and B).
    The combo group exhibited an average of 1670 SFU/106 splenocytes (G = 55.7, p < 0.001)
    against HPV6 E6 and E7 peptides. The same group of splenocytes produced 2010 SFU/106
    splenocytes (a=247.8, p    = 0.002) against HPV1 1 E6 and E7 peptides. The data suggest that
                                                      25

    concurrent vaccination with the two constructs can elicit a statistically significant E6 and E7
    specific cellular response against HPV6 and HPV1 1 and that these responses do not interfere
    with each other.
 5  Epitope mapping
            Epitope mapping studies were performed to determine dominant epitopes within
    peptide pools, in order to determine the immune dominant peptides within the E6/E7
    consensus antigens (Fig. 4A and 4B). The studies were performed similarly to the previously
    mentioned IFN-7 ELISpot assay. Instead of pools, individual peptides were used to stimulate
 0  the splenocytes.
            Each peptide used in this single-peptide analysis represented a partially overlapping
    fragment of the E6 and E7 antigens of HPV6 or HPV 11. The mapping data indicated that
    peptide 7 (TAEIYSYAYKQLKVL) SEQ ID NO: 11 was the dominant epitope for the HPV6
    E6 and E7 immunogens (Fig. 4A). TAEIYSYAYKQLKVL SEQ ID NO: 11 contained 8, 9,
 5  10-mer amino acid epitopes that are verified to be an H2-Kb restricted by the HLA-binding
    prediction software made available by NIH BIMAS. To further describe the HPV1 1 E6 and
    E7-specific T-cell immune response (Fig. 4B). Peptide analysis was also performed with
    overlapping fragments of HPV1 1 E6 and E7. Epitope mapping showed that the dominant
    epitopes for HPV 11 E6 and E7 antigens were peptides 7 (TAEIYAYAYKNLKVV) SEQ ID
 '0 NO:12 and 27 (HCYEQLEDSSEDEVD) SEQ ID NO:13. As with peptide 7 in the HPV6
    epitope mapping assay, the BIMAS HLA-binding prediction software confirmed
    TAEIYAYAYKNLKVV SEQ ID NO: 12 to be an H2-Kb restricted epitope. Another HLA
    binding peptide database, the Immune Epitope Database and Analysis Resource provided by
    NIH NIAID, confirmed that HCYEQLEDSSEDEVD SEQ ID NO:13 is an H2-Kb restricted
25  epitope. Three immune subdominant peptides. numbers 6 (FCKNALTTAEIYSYA) SEQ ID
    NO:14, 9 (LFRGGYPYAACACCL) SEQ ID NO:15, and 13 (YAGYATTVEEETKQD) SEQ
    ID NO:16, were identified through this epitope mapping study.
    Intracellular cytokine staining
30          In light of the high immune response portrayed by the IFN-y ELISpot assays,
    intracellular cytokine staining assays were performed to provide a more holistic overview of
    the cellular response induced by p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7. Splenocytes from vaccinated and
    naive mouse groups were isolated and stimulated with peptides spanning the E6 and E7
    regions of HPV6 and HPV1 1 for 4 hours at 37'C in a 5% CO2 environment. Positive and
                                                   26

    negative controls were used in the assay by placing cells in phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate
    (PMA) and RI0 cell media, respectively. After incubation, the cells were first stained with
    ViViD Dye (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) to differentiate between live and dead cells, then all
    cells were stained with the following surface marker antibodies: APC-Cy7 Hamster anti
 5  Mouse CD3e, PerCP-Cy5.5 Rat anti-Mouse CD4, and APC Rat anti-Mouse CD8a (BD
    Biosciences, San Diego, CA). The cells were subsequently fixed using the Cytofix/Cytoperm
    kit (BD Biosciences, San Diego, CA). After fixation per manufacturer protocol, the cells
    were stained with the following intracellular marker antibodies: Alexa Fluor 700 Rat anti
    Mouse IFN-7y, PE-Cy7 Rat anti-Mouse TNF Clone, and PE Rat anti-Mouse IL-2 (BD
 0  Biosciences, San Diego, CA). After staining, the cells were fixed with a solution of PBS
    containing 2% paraformaldehyde. The prepared cells were acquired using an LSR II flow
    cytometer equipped with BD FACSDiva software (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA). Acquired
    data was analyzed using the latest version of FlowJo software (Tree Star, Ashland, OR).
    CD4+ and CD8+ events were isolated using the following sequence of gates: singlet from
 5  FSC-A vs FSC-H, all splenocytes from FSC-A vs SSC-A, live cells from ViViD Dye (Pacific
    Blue) vs SSC-A, CD3+ cells from CD3 (APC-Cy7) vs SSC-A, and CD4+ or CD8+ from
    CD4 (PerCP-Cy5.5: positive - CD4+, negative - CD8+) vs SSC-A. The last two populations
    were gated against Alexa Fluor 700, PE-Cy7, and PE to observe changes in IL-2, IFN-7, and
    TNF-a production, respectively.
 0O          Cells were gated such that intracellular cytokine staining data can differentiate by
    CD4+ and CD8+ cell responses. When stimulated with HPV6 E6 and E7-specific peptides,
    mice vaccinated with p6E6E7 exhibited averages of 0.163% (Y = 0.09), 0.003% (C = 0.07),
    and 0.188% (a = 0.20) of total CD4+ cells producing IFN-y, TNF-U, and IL-2, respectively
    (Fig. 5A). The same group of mice had averages of 3.323% (a        = 1.39), 0.838% (G= 0.32),
25  and 1.172% (a    =  1.81) of total CD8+ cells producing IFN-y, TNF-a, and IL-2, respectively.
    The same intracellular cytokine data was collected using splenocytes from mice vaccinated
    with p1 1E6E7 after incubation with HPV1 1 E6 and E7 antigens (Fig 5B). Of all CD4+ cells
    in the p11E6E7 vaccinated mice, an average of 0.051% (a3      = 0.04) produced IFN-7, 0.068%
    (a  = 0.09) produced TNF-ax, and 0.026% (G = 0.037) produced IL-2. Further, an average of
30  4.52% (a   =  2.53), 2.08% (a = 1.56), and 0.21% (a   = 0.22) of all CD8+ cells in p11E6E7
    vaccinated mice produced IFN-7, TNF-c, and IL-2, respectively. With the exception of a few
    panels, the percentage of cytokine producing cells in treatment versus their respective naive
    groups was statistically significant at a confidence level of 89% or higher. Observation of the
    magnitude of cytokine production of CD4+ cells versus CD8+ T-cells, one can conclude that
                                                     27

    the immune responses elicited by p6E6E7 and p11 E6E7 is heavily skewed towards driving
    CD8+ lymphocytes, which are associated in all models with their cell clearance.
    Statistical Analysis
 5           Student's t tests were performed to analyze statistical significance of all quantitative
    data produced in this study. Unless otherwise indicated, p-values were calculated to
    determine statistical significance at various confidence levels.
    This study has shown compelling evidence that DNA vaccines may be able to attain a level of
 0  immunogenicity found in experiments using other popular and traditional vaccine platforms.
    High levels of cellular responses measured in other similar E6 and E7-specific HPV DNA
    vaccine studies were associated with data suggestive of prophylactic and therapeutic anti
    tumor efficacy. Most HPV-related research and disease challenge models focus on cervical
    cancer. Given that HPV6 and HPV1 1 are not as relevant to cervical cancer as other HPV
 5  serotypes, the therapeutic efficacy of p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 cannot be fully evaluated using
    conventional HPV disease challenge models. It would be insightful to determine the
    protective and therapeutic potential of p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 when appropriate disease
    challenge models become available. Thus, one can only infer the immunogenic efficacy of
    p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 by looking at the high levels of IFN-y and cytokine production
 '0 quantified by the ELISpot assays and intracellular cytokine staining. Nonetheless, such levels
    were found to be significantly robust in magnitude and show promise that the two constructs
    would elicit substantive levels of cellular immune responses. Because HPV-related
    malignancies are generally secondary to concurrent infection of multiple serotypes, there is a
    great need to look further into the feasibility of combining vaccines targeting different
25  serotypes of the virus. Future study looking into T-cell dynamics and vaccine competition is
    warranted to further characterize the effects of concurrent vaccination of the two plasmids.
    Intracellular cytokine staining showed that vaccination with p6E6E7 and p1 1E6E7 was able
    to elicit a significant percentage of IFN-y, TNF-a, and IL-2 producing T-cells. Given its
30  currently known function in the immune system, IFN-y has historically been used as a metric
    of cellular immune responses. Some of these important roles include the ability to modulate
    and stimulate innate and adaptive immunity. Moreover, it is widely accepted that the
    principle producers of IFN-7 are T-cells, making IFN-y production an acceptable mode of
    measuring the cellular immunogenicity of a given vaccine post-exposure to antigens. TNF-a
                                                     28

   is another cytokine that is involved in the regulation of the immune system. Its known ability
   to induce apoptosis and regulate tumor proliferation makes it an important parameter to
   consider when characterizing post-vaccination immune responses. TNF-a production may be
   of further interest given the potential tumor proliferative properties of HPV6 and HPV 11. IL
 5 2 is another signaling molecule that has been observed to play a central role in the
   proliferation and differentiation of T-cells in the immune system. As a consequence, IL-2 is
   often examined in conjunction with other cytokines to gain further perspective on the
   magnitude and quality of a particular immune response. Given the above, the significant
   percentages of CD4+ and CD8+ cells producing IFN-y, TNF-a, and IL-2 after vaccination
 0 with p6E6E7 suggests that the vaccine was successful in inducing a potent immune response.
   With the exception of IL-2 secreting CD4+ cells, the same trend is true for cells isolated from
   mice vaccinated with p1 1E6E7. Moreover, it is noteworthy to observe that CD8+ cells
   heavily drove the immune responses in vaccinated mice - a characteristic that is significant in
   evaluating the anti-tumor efficacy of the two plasmids.
 5
   The invention may be described according to one or more of the following statements:
   Statement 1: A nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding for an HPV
   antigen selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5,
 O SEQ ID NO:7; fragments thereof having 90% homology; and combinations thereof.
   Statement 2: The nucleic acid molecule of Statement 1 comprising SEQ ID NO: 1; SEQ ID
   NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:7, or combinations thereof.
25 Statement 3: The nucleic acid molecule of Statement 1 comprising a fragment having at least
   95 % homology to SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID NO:7.
   Statement 4: The nucleic acid molecule of Statement 1 comprising a fragment having at least
   98% homology to SEQ ID NO:1; SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID NO:7.
30
   Statement 5: The nucleic acid molecule of Statement 1 comprising a fragment having at least
   99% homology to a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of: SEQ ID
   NO:1; SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ ID NO:7.
                                                    29

    Statement 6: A nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence selected from the
    group consisting of: nucleotide sequences that encode SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID
    NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8; nucleotide sequences that encode an amino acid fragment having at
    least 90% homology to SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8;
 5  fragments of nucleotide sequences that encode SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6,
    or SEQ ID NO:8; and fragments of a nucleotide sequence that encode an amino acid
    fragment having at least 90% homology to SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or
    SEQ ID NO:8.
 0  Statement 7: The nucleic acid molecule of Statement 6 comprising a nucleotide sequence that
    encodes SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
    Statement 8: The nucleic acid molecule of any one of Statements 1-7 wherein said molecule
    is a plasmid.
 5
    Statement 9: A pharmaceutical composition comprising a nucleic acid molecule of any one of
    Statements 1-8.
    Statement 10: A method of inducing an immune response in an individual against HPV
 '0 comprising administering to said individual a composition comprising a nucleic acid
    molecule of any one of Statements 1-8.
    Statement 11: The method of Statement 10, further comprising introducing said nucleic acid
    molecule into the individual by electroporation.
25
    Statement 12: A recombinant vaccine comprising a nucleic acid molecule of any one of
    Statements 1-8.
    Statement 13: The recombinant vaccine of Statement 12 wherein said recombinant vaccine is
30  a recombinant vaccinia vaccine.
    Statement 14: A live attenuated vaccine comprising a nucleic acid molecule of any one of
    Statements 1-8.
                                                   30

    Statement 15: A protein comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the group
    consisting of: SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8; and fragments
    of sequences having at least 90% homology to SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6,
    or SEQ ID NO:8.
 5
    Statement 16: The protein of Statement 15 comprising SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID
    NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
    Statement 17: The protein of Statement 15 comprising a fragment having at least 95%
 0  homology to SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
    Statement 18: The protein of Statement 15 comprising a fragment having at least 98%
    homology to SEQ NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
 5  Statement 19: The protein of Statement 15 comprising a fragment having at least 99%
    homology to SEQ ID NO:2; SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
    Statement 20: A method of inducing an immune response in an individual against HPV
    comprising administering to said individual a recombinant vaccine of any one of Statements
 '0 12-13.
    Statement 21: A method of inducing an immune response in an individual against HPV
    comprising administering to said individual a live attenuated vaccine of Statement 14.
25  Statement 22: The method of any one of Statements 10-11, further comprising diagnosing
    the individuals having HPV infection.
    Statement 23: A pharmaceutical composition comprising nucleotide sequences encoding for
    an HPV antigen SEQ ID NO:1 and SEQ ID NO:3; or fragments thereof having 90%
30  homology.
    Statement 24: A method of inducing an immune response in an individual against HPV
    subtypes 6 or 11 comprising administering to said individual the pharmaceutical composition
    of Statement 23.
                                                  31

  Statement 25: A pharmaceutical composition comprising nucleotide sequences encoding for
  an HPV antigen SEQ ID NO:5 and SEQ ID NO:7; or fragments thereof having 90%
  homology.
5
  Statement 26: A method of inducing an immune response in an individual against HPV
  subtypes 33 or 58 comprising administering to said individual the pharmaceutical
  composition of Statement 25.
                                               32

    THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
             1.      A nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding a
    consensus human papillomavirus (HPV) antigen, wherein said nucleotide sequence is
 5  selected from the group consisting of:
            (i)      the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID
    NO:7;
            (ii)     a nucleotide sequence having at least 90% identitity to a fragment of the
    nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID NO:7;
 0          (iii)    combinations of any two or more of the nucleotide sequences in (i) and/or the
    fragments in (ii);
            (iv)     a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having a sequence set forth in
    SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO:8;
            (v)      nucleotide sequences encoding a polypeptide having at least 90% identity to a
 5  fragment of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO:8; and
            (vi)     fragments of nucleotide sequences encoding polypeptide fragments that are at
    least 90% identity to the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6 or SEQ ID NO:8;
    and
            (vii)    combinations of any two or more of the nucleotide sequences in (iv) and/or (v)
 '0 and/or the fragments in (vi).
            2.       The nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, comprising:
            (i) a nucleotide sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, SEQ
    ID NO: 7 or combinations thereof; or
25          (ii) a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence
    set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, SEQ ID NO:8 or combinations thereof.
            3.       The nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, comprising a nucleotide
    sequence having at least 95% identitity to a fragment of the nucleotide sequence set forth in
30  SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID NO:7.
            4.       The nucleic acid molecule according to claim 1, comprising a nucleotide
    sequence having at least 98% or at least 99% identitity to a fragment of the nucleotide
    sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3, SEQ ID NO:5, or SEQ ID NO:7.
                                                    33

             5.     The nucleic acid molecule according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said
    molecule is a plasmid.
 5           6.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising the nucleic acid molecule
    according to any one of claims I to 5.
             7.     The pharmaceutical composition according to claim 6, comprising:
             (i)    a nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 5 or a nucleotide sequence
 0  havign at least 90% identity to a fragment of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:5, and
             (ii)   a nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7 or a nucleotide sequence
    havign at least 90% identity to a fragment of the sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:7.
             8.     A recombinant or live vaccine comprising the nucleic acid molecule according
 5  to any one of claims I to 5.
             9.     The vaccine according to claim 8, wherein said vaccine is a recombinant
    vaccinia vaccine.
 10          10.    A consensus protein comprising an amino acid sequence selected from the
    group consisting of:
             (a)    an amino acid sequence set forth in any one of SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6,
    or SEQ ID NO:8; and
             (b)    an amino acid sequence having at least 90% identity to a fragment of the
25  amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
             11.    The protein according to claim 10, comprising an amino acid sequence set
    forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
30           12.    The protein according to claim 10, comprising an amino acid sequence having
    at least 95% identity to a fragment of the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4,
    SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
                                                   34

            13.    The protein according to claim 10, comprising a fragment of an amino acid
    sequence having at least 98% or at least 99% identity to a fragment of the amino acid
    sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, SEQ ID NO:6, or SEQ ID NO:8.
 5          14.    A method of inducing an immune response in an individual against human
    papillomavirus (HPV) subtype 33, HPV subtype 58 and/or HPV subtype 11, said method
    comprising administering to said individual the nucleic acid molecule according to any one of
    claims 1 to 5 or the pharmaceutical composition according to claim 6 to 7 or the vaccine
    according to claim 8 or 9.
 0
            15.    The method according to claim 14, wherein the method comprises introducing
    the nucleic acid molecule into the individual by electroporation.
            16.    The method according to any one of claims 14 or 15, further comprising
 5  diagnosing the individual as having an HPV infection.
            17.    Use of the nucleic acid molecule according to any one of claims I to 5 or the
    pharmaceutical composition according to claim 6 or 7 or the vaccine according to claim 8 or
    9 in the manufacture of a medicament for inducing an immune response in an individual
 '0 against HPV subtype 33, HPV subtype 58 and/or HPV subtype 11.
            18.    Use of the nucleic acid molecule according to any one of claims I to 5 or the
    pharmaceutical composition according to claim 6 or 7 or the vaccine according to claim 8 or
    9 to induce an immune response in an individual against HPV subtype 33, HPV subtype 58
25  and/or HPV subtype 11.
                                                   35

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                              SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
                  <110>   The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania
              5   <120>   VACCINES FOR HUMAN PAPILLOMA VIRUS AND METHODS FOR USING
                              THE SAME
                  <130>   180929
<removed-apn>
         10       <140>   Serial No. not yet known
                  <141>   2017-11-22
                  <150>   AU 2011378812
                  <151>   2011-10-12
         15
                  <150>   PCT/US2011/055932
                  <151>   2011-10-12
                  <160>   16
         20
                  <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
                  <210>   1
                  <211>   873
         25       <212>   DNA
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
                  <223>   HPV6 E6E7 DNA sequence
         30
                  <400>   1
                  ggtaccggat ccgccaccat ggactggacc tggattctgt tcctggtggc cgctgccaca
                  60
         35       cgggtgcaca gcgaaagcgc caatgccagc accagcgcta caaccatcga ccagctgtgc
                  120
                  aagaccttca acctgagcat gcacaccctg cagatcaact gcgtgttctg caagaacgcc
                  180
                                                        1

<removed-date>
                  ctgaccaccg ccgagatcta cagctacgcc tacaagcagc tgaaggtgct gttcagaggc
                  240
              5   ggctacccct atgccgcctg cgcctgctgc ctggaatttc acggcaagat caaccagtac
                  300
                  cggcacttcg actacgccgg ctacgccacc accgtggaag aggaaacaaa gcaggacatc
<removed-apn>
                  360
         10
                  ctggacgtgc tgatccggtg ctacctgtgc cacaagcccc tgtgcgaggt ggaaaaagtg
                  420
                  aagcacatcc tgaccaaggc ccggttcatc aagctgaact gcacctggaa gggccggtgc
         15       480
                  ctgcactgct ggaccacctg tatggaagat atgctgccca gaggccggaa gcggcggagc
                  540
         20       catggcagac acgtgaccct gaaggacatc gtgctggacc tgcagccccc cgatcctgtg
                  600
                  ggcctgcact gttacgagca gctggtggac agcagcgagg acgaggtgga cgaagtggac
                  660
         25
                  ggccaggaca gccagcccct gaagcagcac ttccagatcg tgacctgctg ctgcggctgc
                  720
                  gacagcaacg tgcggctggt ggtgcagtgc accgagacag acatcagaga ggtccagcag
         30       780
                  ctcctgctgg gcaccctgaa catcgtgtgc cccatctgcg cccccaagac ctacccttac
                  840
         35       gacgtgcccg actacgcctg atgactcgag ctc
                  873
                  <210>   2
                  <211>   280
                                                     2

                  <212>      PRT
<removed-date>
                  <213>      Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
              5   <223>      HPV6 E6E7 protein sequence
                  <400>      2
<removed-apn>
                  Met Asp Trp Thr Trp Ile Leu Phe Leu Val Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Val
         10       1                          5                            10                           15
                  His Ser Glu Ser Ala Asn Ala Ser Thr Ser Ala Thr Thr Ile Asp Gln
                                       20                           25                           30
         15       Leu Cys Lys Thr Phe Asn Leu Ser Met His Thr Leu Gln Ile Asn Cys
                                 35                           40                           45
                  Val Phe Cys Lys Asn Ala Leu Thr Thr Ala Glu Ile Tyr Ser Tyr Ala
                        50                              55                           60
         20
                  Tyr Lys Gln Leu Lys Val Leu Phe Arg Gly Gly Tyr Pro Tyr Ala Ala
                  65                              70                           75                           80
                  Cys Ala Cys Cys Leu Glu Phe His Gly Lys Ile Asn Gln Tyr Arg His
         25                                  85                           90                           95
                  Phe Asp Tyr Ala Gly Tyr Ala Thr Thr Val Glu Glu Glu Thr Lys Gln
                                       100                          105                          110
         30       Asp Ile Leu Asp Val Leu Ile Arg Cys Tyr Leu Cys His Lys Pro Leu
                                 115                          120                          125
                  Cys Glu Val Glu Lys Val Lys His Ile Leu Thr Lys Ala Arg Phe Ile
                        130                             135                          140
         35
                  Lys Leu Asn Cys Thr Trp Lys Gly Arg Cys Leu His Cys Trp Thr Thr
                  145                             150                          155                          160
                  Cys Met Glu Asp Met Leu Pro Arg Gly Arg Lys Arg Arg Ser His Gly
                                                                          3

                                          165                           170                           175
<removed-date>
                  Arg His Val Thr Leu Lys Asp Ile Val Leu Asp Leu Gln Pro Pro Asp
                                    180                           185                           190
              5
                  Pro Val Gly Leu His Cys Tyr Glu Gln Leu Val Asp Ser Ser Glu Asp
                              195                           200                           205
<removed-apn>
                  Glu Val Asp Glu Val Asp Gly Gln Asp Ser Gln Pro Leu Lys Gln His
         10             210                           215                           220
                  Phe Gln Ile Val Thr Cys Cys Cys Gly Cys Asp Ser Asn Val Arg Leu
                  225                           230                           235                           240
         15       Val Val Gln Cys Thr Glu Thr Asp Ile Arg Glu Val Gln Gln Leu Leu
                                          245                           250                           255
                  Leu Gly Thr Leu Asn Ile Val Cys Pro Ile Cys Ala Pro Lys Thr Tyr
                                    260                           265                           270
         20
                  Pro Tyr Asp Val Pro Asp Tyr Ala
                              275                           280
                  <210>   3
         25       <211>   873
                  <212>   DNA
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
         30       <223>   HPV11 E6E7 DNA sequence
                  <400>   3
                  ggtaccggat ccgccaccat ggactggacc tggattctgt tcctggtggc cgctgccaca
                  60
         35
                  agagtgcaca gcgagagcaa ggatgccagc accagcgcca ccagcatcga ccagctgtgc
                  120
                                                                        4

                  aagaccttca acctgagcct gcacaccctg cagatccagt gcgtgttctg ccggaacgcc
<removed-date>
                  180
                  ctgaccaccg ccgagatcta cgcctacgcc tacaagaacc tgaaggtcgt gtggcgggac
              5   240
                  aacttcccct tcgccgcctg cgcctgctgc ctggaactgc agggcaagat caaccagtac
                  300
<removed-apn>
         10       cggcacttca actacgccgc ttacgccccc accgtggaag aggaaacaaa cgaggacatc
                  360
                  ctgaaggtgc tgatccggtg ctacctgtgc cacaagcccc tgtgcgagat cgagaagctg
                  420
         15
                  aagcacatcc tgggcaaggc ccggttcatc aagctgaaca accagtggaa gggccggtgc
                  480
                  ctgcactgct ggaccacctg tatggaagat ctgctgccca gaggccggaa gcggagaagc
         20       540
                  cacggcagac tggtcaccct gaaggacatc gtgctggacc tgcagccccc cgatcctgtg
                  600
         25       ggcctgcact gttacgagca gctggaagat agcagcgagg acgaggtgga caaagtggac
                  660
                  aagcaggacg cccagcccct gacccagcac taccagatcc tgacctgctg ctgcggctgc
                  720
         30
                  gacagcaacg tgcggctggt ggtggaatgc accgacggcg acatccggca gctccaggat
                  780
                  ctgctgctgg gcaccctgaa catcgtgtgc cccatctgcg cccccaagcc ctacccctac
         35       840
                  gacgtgcccg actacgcctg atgactcgag ctc
                  873
                                                     5

                  <210>      4
<removed-date>
                  <211>      280
                  <212>      PRT
                  <213>      Artificial Sequence
              5
                  <220>
                  <223>      HPV11 E6E7 protein sequence
<removed-apn>
                  <400>      4
         10
                  Met Asp Trp Thr Trp Ile Leu Phe Leu Val Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Val
                  1                          5                            10                           15
                  His Ser Glu Ser Lys Asp Ala Ser Thr Ser Ala Thr Ser Ile Asp Gln
         15                            20                           25                           30
                  Leu Cys Lys Thr Phe Asn Leu Ser Leu His Thr Leu Gln Ile Gln Cys
                                 35                           40                           45
         20       Val Phe Cys Arg Asn Ala Leu Thr Thr Ala Glu Ile Tyr Ala Tyr Ala
                        50                              55                           60
                  Tyr Lys Asn Leu Lys Val Val Trp Arg Asp Asn Phe Pro Phe Ala Ala
                  65                              70                           75                           80
         25
                  Cys Ala Cys Cys Leu Glu Leu Gln Gly Lys Ile Asn Gln Tyr Arg His
                                             85                           90                           95
                  Phe Asn Tyr Ala Ala Tyr Ala Pro Thr Val Glu Glu Glu Thr Asn Glu
         30                            100                          105                          110
                  Asp Ile Leu Lys Val Leu Ile Arg Cys Tyr Leu Cys His Lys Pro Leu
                                 115                          120                          125
         35       Cys Glu Ile Glu Lys Leu Lys His Ile Leu Gly Lys Ala Arg Phe Ile
                        130                             135                          140
                  Lys Leu Asn Asn Gln Trp Lys Gly Arg Cys Leu His Cys Trp Thr Thr
                  145                             150                          155                          160
                                                                          6

<removed-date>
                  Cys Met Glu Asp Leu Leu Pro Arg Gly Arg Lys Arg Arg Ser His Gly
                                          165                           170                           175
              5   Arg Leu Val Thr Leu Lys Asp Ile Val Leu Asp Leu Gln Pro Pro Asp
                                    180                           185                           190
                  Pro Val Gly Leu His Cys Tyr Glu Gln Leu Glu Asp Ser Ser Glu Asp
<removed-apn>
                              195                           200                           205
         10
                  Glu Val Asp Lys Val Asp Lys Gln Asp Ala Gln Pro Leu Thr Gln His
                        210                           215                           220
                  Tyr Gln Ile Leu Thr Cys Cys Cys Gly Cys Asp Ser Asn Val Arg Leu
         15       225                           230                           235                           240
                  Val Val Glu Cys Thr Asp Gly Asp Ile Arg Gln Leu Gln Asp Leu Leu
                                          245                           250                           255
         20       Leu Gly Thr Leu Asn Ile Val Cys Pro Ile Cys Ala Pro Lys Pro Tyr
                                    260                           265                           270
                  Pro Tyr Asp Val Pro Asp Tyr Ala
                              275                           280
         25
                  <210>   5
                  <211>   828
                  <212>   DNA
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
         30
                  <220>
                  <223>   HPV33 E6E7 DNA sequence
                  <400>   5
         35       ggtaccgtcg acggatccgc caccatggac tggacctgga ttctgttcct ggtggccgct
                  60
                  gctacccggg tgcacagctt ccaggacacc gaggaaagcg gccggaccct gcacgatctg
                  120
                                                                        7

<removed-date>
                  tgccaggccc tggaaaccac catccacaac atcgagctgc agtgcgtgga atgcaagaag
                  180
              5   cccctgcagc ggagcgaggt gtacgacgcc gacctgaccg tggtgtacag agagggcaac
                  240
                  cccttcggca tctgcaagct gtgcctgcgg ttcctgagca agatcagcga gtaccggcac
<removed-apn>
                  300
         10
                  tacaactaca gcgtgtacgg caacaccctg gaacagaccg tgaagaagcc tctgaacgag
                  360
                  atcctgatcc ggtgcatcat ctgccagcgg cccctgaagc ggcacgtgga cctgaacaag
         15       420
                  cggttccaca atatcagcgg cagatgggcc ggcagatgcg ccgcctgttg gagaagccgg
                  480
         20       cggagagaga cagccctgcg gggcagaaag cggcggagca gaggccacaa gcccaccctg
                  540
                  aaagaatacg tgctggacct gtaccccgag cccaccgacc tgtacggcta cggccagctg
                  600
         25
                  agcgacagca gcgacgagga cgagggcctg gacagacctg atggacaggc ccagcccgcc
                  660
                  accgccgact actacatcgt gacctgctgc cacacctgta acaccaccgt gcggctgtgc
         30       720
                  gtgaacagca ccgccagcga cctgcggaca atccagcagc tcctgatggg caccgtgaac
                  780
         35       atcgtgtgcc ctacctgcgc ccagctgtga ctcgagacgc gtgagctc
                  828
                  <210>   6
                  <211>   261
                                                     8

                  <212>      PRT
<removed-date>
                  <213>      Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
              5   <223>      HPV33 E6E7 protein sequence
                  <400>      6
<removed-apn>
                  Met Asp Trp Thr Trp Ile Leu Phe Leu Val Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Val
         10       1                          5                            10                           15
                  His Ser Phe Gln Asp Thr Glu Glu Ser Gly Arg Thr Leu His Asp Leu
                                       20                           25                           30
         15       Cys Gln Ala Leu Glu Thr Thr Ile His Asn Ile Glu Leu Gln Cys Val
                                 35                           40                           45
                  Glu Cys Lys Lys Pro Leu Gln Arg Ser Glu Val Tyr Asp Ala Asp Leu
                        50                              55                           60
         20
                  Thr Val Val Tyr Arg Glu Gly Asn Pro Phe Gly Ile Cys Lys Leu Cys
                  65                              70                           75                           80
                  Leu Arg Phe Leu Ser Lys Ile Ser Glu Tyr Arg His Tyr Asn Tyr Ser
         25                                  85                           90                           95
                  Val Tyr Gly Asn Thr Leu Glu Gln Thr Val Lys Lys Pro Leu Asn Glu
                                       100                          105                          110
         30       Ile Leu Ile Arg Cys Ile Ile Cys Gln Arg Pro Leu Lys Arg His Val
                                 115                          120                          125
                  Asp Leu Asn Lys Arg Phe His Asn Ile Ser Gly Arg Trp Ala Gly Arg
                        130                             135                          140
         35
                  Cys Ala Ala Cys Trp Arg Ser Arg Arg Arg Glu Thr Ala Leu Arg Gly
                  145                             150                          155                          160
                  Arg Lys Arg Arg Ser Arg Gly His Lys Pro Thr Leu Lys Glu Tyr Val
                                                                          9

                                          165                           170                           175
<removed-date>
                  Leu Asp Leu Tyr Pro Glu Pro Thr Asp Leu Tyr Gly Tyr Gly Gln Leu
                                    180                           185                           190
              5
                  Ser Asp Ser Ser Asp Glu Asp Glu Gly Leu Asp Arg Pro Asp Gly Gln
                              195                           200                           205
<removed-apn>
                  Ala Gln Pro Ala Thr Ala Asp Tyr Tyr Ile Val Thr Cys Cys His Thr
         10             210                           215                           220
                  Cys Asn Thr Thr Val Arg Leu Cys Val Asn Ser Thr Ala Ser Asp Leu
                  225                           230                           235                           240
         15       Arg Thr Ile Gln Gln Leu Leu Met Gly Thr Val Asn Ile Val Cys Pro
                                          245                           250                           255
                  Thr Cys Ala Gln Leu
                                    260
         20
                  <210>   7
                  <211>   835
                  <212>   DNA
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
         25
                  <220>
                  <223>   HPV58 E6E7 DNA sequence
                  <400>   7
         30       ggtaccgttt aaacggatcc gccaccatgg actggacctg gattctgttc ctggtggccg
                  60
                  ctgctacccg ggtgcacagc ttccaggatg ccgaggaaag cggccggacc ctgcacgatc
                  120
         35
                  tgtgccaggc cctggaaacc agcgtgcacg agatcgagct gaagtgcgtg gaatgcaaga
                  180
                                                                    10

                  aaaccctgca gcggagcgag gtgtacgacg ccgacctgcg gatcgtgtac cgggacggca
<removed-date>
                  240
                  accccttcgc cgtgtgcaaa gtgtgcctgc ggctgctgag caagatcagc gagtaccggc
              5   300
                  actacaacta cagcctgtac ggcgacaccc tggaacagac cctgaagaag tgcctgaacg
                  360
<removed-apn>
         10       agatcctgat ccggtgcatc atctgccagc ggcccctgaa gcggcacgtg gacctgaaca
                  420
                  agcggttcca caacatcagc ggccggtgga ccggcagatg cgccgtgtgt tggaggccca
                  480
         15
                  ggcggagaca gacccaggtg cgcggcagaa agcggcggag cagaggcaac aaccccaccc
                  540
                  tgagagagta catcctggac ctgcaccccg agcccaccga cctgtttggc tacggccagc
         20       600
                  tgtgcgacag cagcgacgag gacgagatcg gcctggacgg ccctgatgga caggcccagc
                  660
         25       ccgccaccgc caactactac atcgtgacct gctgctacac ctgtggcacc accgtgcggc
                  720
                  tgtgcatcaa cagcaccacc accgacgtgc gcaccctgca gcagctcctg atgggcacct
                  780
         30
                  gtaccatcgt gtgccccagc tgcgcccagc agtgactcga ggcggccgcg agctc
                  835
                  <210>   8
         35       <211>   262
                  <212>   PRT
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
                                                    11

                  <223>      HPV58 E6E7 protein sequence
<removed-date>
                  <400>      8
              5   Met Asp Trp Thr Trp Ile Leu Phe Leu Val Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Val
                  1                          5                             10                            15
                  His Ser Phe Gln Asp Ala Glu Glu Ser Gly Arg Thr Leu His Asp Leu
<removed-apn>
                                       20                            25                            30
         10
                  Cys Gln Ala Leu Glu Thr Ser Val His Glu Ile Glu Leu Lys Cys Val
                                 35                            40                            45
                  Glu Cys Lys Lys Thr Leu Gln Arg Ser Glu Val Tyr Asp Ala Asp Leu
         15             50                               55                            60
                  Arg Ile Val Tyr Arg Asp Gly Asn Pro Phe Ala Val Cys Lys Val Cys
                  65                               70                            75                            80
         20       Leu Arg Leu Leu Ser Lys Ile Ser Glu Tyr Arg His Tyr Asn Tyr Ser
                                             85                            90                            95
                  Leu Tyr Gly Asp Thr Leu Glu Gln Thr Leu Lys Lys Cys Leu Asn Glu
                                       100                           105                           110
         25
                  Ile Leu Ile Arg Cys Ile Ile Cys Gln Arg Pro Leu Lys Arg His Val
                                 115                           120                           125
                  Asp Leu Asn Lys Arg Phe His Asn Ile Ser Gly Arg Trp Thr Gly Arg
         30             130                              135                           140
                  Cys Ala Val Cys Trp Arg Pro Arg Arg Arg Gln Thr Gln Val Arg Gly
                  145                              150                           155                           160
         35       Arg Lys Arg Arg Ser Arg Gly Asn Asn Pro Thr Leu Arg Glu Tyr Ile
                                             165                           170                           175
                  Leu Asp Leu His Pro Glu Pro Thr Asp Leu Phe Gly Tyr Gly Gln Leu
                                       180                           185                           190
                                                                          12

<removed-date>
                  Cys Asp Ser Ser Asp Glu Asp Glu Ile Gly Leu Asp Gly Pro Asp Gly
                              195                           200                      205
              5   Gln Ala Gln Pro Ala Thr Ala Asn Tyr Tyr Ile Val Thr Cys Cys Tyr
                        210                           215                      220
                  Thr Cys Gly Thr Thr Val Arg Leu Cys Ile Asn Ser Thr Thr Thr Asp
<removed-apn>
                  225                           230                      235                     240
         10
                  Val Arg Thr Leu Gln Gln Leu Leu Met Gly Thr Cys Thr Ile Val Cys
                                          245                      250                     255
                  Pro Ser Cys Ala Gln Gln
         15                         260
                  <210>   9
                  <211>   54
                  <212>   DNA
         20       <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
                  <223>   IgE Leader DNA sequence
         25       <400>   9
                  atggactgga cctggatcct gttcctggtg gccgctgcca cacgggtgca cagc
                  54
                  <210>   10
         30       <211>   18
                  <212>   PRT
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
         35       <223>   IgE leader protein
                  <400>   10
                  Met Asp Trp Thr Trp Ile Leu Phe Leu Val Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Val
                                                                  13

                  1               5                  10                  15
<removed-date>
                  His Ser
              5
                  <210>   11
                  <211>   15
                  <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
         10
                  <220>
                  <223>   HPV6 peptide 7
                  <400>   11
         15
                  Thr Ala Glu Ile Tyr Ser Tyr Ala Tyr Lys Gln Leu Lys Val Leu
                  1               5                  10                  15
                  <210>   12
         20       <211>   15
                  <212>   PRT
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
         25       <223>   HPV11 peptide 7
                  <400>   12
                  Thr Ala Glu Ile Tyr Ala Tyr Ala Tyr Lys Asn Leu Lys Val Val
         30       1               5                  10                  15
                  <210>   13
                  <211>   15
                  <212>   PRT
         35       <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
                  <223>   HPV11 peptide 27
                                                    14

                  <400>   13
<removed-date>
                  His Cys Tyr Glu Gln Leu Glu Asp Ser Ser Glu Asp Glu Val Asp
                  1                5                    10               15
              5
                  <210>   14
                  <211>   15
                  <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
         10
                  <220>
                  <223>   HPV subdominant peptide 6
                  <400>   14
         15
                  Phe Cys Lys Asn Ala Leu Thr Thr Ala Glu Ile Tyr Ser Tyr Ala
                  1                5                    10               15
                  <210>   15
         20       <211>   15
                  <212>   PRT
                  <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
         25       <223>   HPV subdominant peptide 9
                  <400>   15
                  Leu Phe Arg Gly Gly Tyr Pro Tyr Ala Ala Cys Ala Cys Cys Leu
         30       1                5                    10               15
                  <210>   16
                  <211>   15
                  <212>   PRT
         35       <213>   Artificial Sequence
                  <220>
                  <223>   HPV subdominant peptide 13
                                                       15

              <400>   16
<removed-date>
              Tyr Ala Gly Tyr Ala Thr Thr Val Glu Glu Glu Thr Lys Gln Asp
              1               5                  10                  15
<removed-apn>
                                                16

