ABSTRACT OF THE INVENTION
Provided is a method for treating animals, such as livestock, by exposing the animals to
an airborne suspension of finely divided mineral salts.      Treatment is effected upon
inspiration of the mineral salts or skin contact with the mineral salts. The animals are
accommodated in a treatment chamber with a substantially sealed limited confined
volume and has a pressure difference airflow means, a dispensing means for the
mineral salts and dessicant(s) in the walls and on the floor of the treatment chamber.
The treatment chamber is a stationary installation or adapted as a trailer to treat animals
during a journey or to transport the treatment chamber to the animals location, for
example, a zoo or to apiaries.

                                              1
                      TREATMENT OF AIRWAYS IN LIVESTOCK
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention concerns a treatment method for animals and apparatus
for performing the method. In particular the present invention is directed to prophylactic
treatment of livestock for substantially controlling incidence of inflammation in airways.
[0002] The method and apparatus has been developed primarily for use in treatment of
high performance animals such as sports horses, trotting horses, racehorses, and
greyhounds and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application.
However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of
use and may be beneficial to livestock generally and cattle in particular.
BACKGROUND
[0003] A large proportion of the body weight of a racehorse and a racing greyhound is
skeletal muscle. They also have a large lung capacity to match because the
combination permits them to run at speed. To maximise and maintain speed, the
respiratory system needs to work efficiently, and performance depends on the airways
maximising the flow of air to the lungs. Any constriction of the airways can lead to
panting and reduction in performance of the animal.
The extent and frequency of impairment is only evident to trainers who are in constant
contact with the horses and dogs in their care. When skin ailments are active they are
visible as rashes, surface ulcers, wounds, bruises, swelling and the like and topical or
systemic treatment can be planned. When respiratory problems are spoiling the

                                             2
animal's performance or recovery from training the cause is often not so readily
discernable. Heavy panting may indicate blockage of airways with mucus or sputum.
While infections by bacteria may be treatable with antibiotics, these frequently disturb
the animal through side effects, and with increasing concerns over drug resistance less
reliance is placed on antibiotic treatments. If the infection is viral the position is less
treatable because there are relatively few anti-virals.
 [0004] A veterinary inspection is a usual step and the introduction of a diagnostic
camera helps to show to what extent the airways are not performing as they should.
This sort of inspection may be done between training sessions. Once the airways are
shown to be the source of slow speed rather than body pain or systemic infection then
localised treatment can be planned.
Manual treatments of inflammation in airways on individual animals includes closing one
of the horse's nostrils and locating a supply pipe in the other nostril, and directly
atomising a treatment agent into the supply pipe. Apart from the invasive aspect of this
treatment, if delivery of the agent does not coincide with the animal's breathing-in cycle,
the agent may deposit on the nasal mucosa and not extend to areas where treatment is
required.
[0005] Trainers like treatments which are rapid in effect so that time lost in training is
minimised. This is particularly so when a horse is recovering from travel fatigue. This
condition is common and can subtract severely from a training program. This shows as
general debility and may last for weeks.

                                             3
The present invention seeks to provide a treatment for inflammatory airways, which will
overcome or ameliorate at least one or more of the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at
least provide an alternative.
It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0006] The apparatus aspect of the invention provides a chamber for temporary
accommodation of one or more animals to be treated with means to cause an airstream
in the chamber and dispensing means for adding finely divided mineral salts which form
a suspension when dispensed into the airstream.
[0007] The dispensing means may include a comminuter for reducing the crystalline or
amorphous salts to a particle size suitable for air suspension, namely 5-15um.
[0008] The airstream may be created by a fan such as an axial flow fan.
[0009] The chamber may have surfaces which resist deposition of the salt particles.
[0010] The chamber may have a desiccator which can be covered and uncovered in
order to remove excess water vapour from the air.
[0011] The chamber may have floor cleaning apparatus for example a mobile manure
scoop.
In a related aspect of the present invention there is described a treatment chamber
having: a primary substantially sealed confined volume for temporary accommodation of

                                             4
one or more animals to be treated in a limited volume; a pressure difference airflow
means to cause an airstream in the chamber; a dispensing means for adding finely
divided mineral salts which form an airborne suspension when dispensed into the
airstream for treating the one or more animals by inspiration or contact with the skin; a
power supply connectable to the dispensing means; and at least one dessicant or
drying agent for controlling humidity caused by the expiration and perspiration of the
animals.
The dispensing means can include a comminutor which reduces the crystalline or
amorphous mineral salts to form the finely divided mineral salts at a particle size
suitable for airborne suspension.
The finely divided mineral salts can be selected from phosphates, sulphates, chlorides
and fluorides of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, or iron with the particle size in
the range of 5-15um.
Preferably the airstream is created by a fan.
Preferably the treatment chamber has surfaces which are coated with the at least one
dessicant or drying agent in the walls and on the floor of the treatment chamber for
controlling humidity caused by the expiration and perspiration of the animals. Preferably
the chamber ceiling and upper part of the walls are covered with removable panels
allowing a cleaning apparatus to the regenerate the at least one dessicant or drying
agent in the walls or on the floor of the treatment chamber. The dessicant can be a
mixture of vermiculite, perlite and calcium chloride.
Preferably at least part of the chamber floor is impervious in order to retain the
desiccant.

                                               5
The treatment chamber can be mobile or transportable. In one embodiment the
chamber can be adapted as a trailer body or truck body.
The chamber can include a layer of desiccant which can be covered and uncovered in
order to remove excess water vapour from the air.
The treatment chamber can include a controller for controlling the dispensing of the
finely divided mineral salts to a required rate of application.
The treatment chamber can include a controller for controlling the dispensing of the
finely divided mineral salts to a required time of application. Preferably the controller
controls the rate of application at a predetermined dispensing rate of 5, 10, 15, 20 g/m3
of the chamber volume per treatment period. The controller can also control the time of
application of the treatment for a predetermined, optionally repeatable, treatment time of
15, 30 or 45 minutes. The controller can be adapted to dispense salt into the air wet or
dry. The controller can dispense salt into the air in streams or pulses.
In a further embodiment, the treatment chamber can be a substantially sealed treatment
confined chamber for closely receiving one or more animals, wherein the treatment
chamber has an inlet and the controller provides a functional fluid connection through
an inlet in the treatment chamber to provide the airflow stream in a controlled manner
from of the airborne suspension of the mineral salts at a required rate and density by
use of a fan and exhaust and pulsing the air suspension of mineral salts through the
inlet into the treatment chamber at timed intervals over a predetermined treatment
period; the treatment chamber further comprising a humidity controller to control the
amount of water vapor in the treatment chamber by the floor being impervious and
having a strip of about one metre wide adjacent the animals being treated and

                                             6
coverable with a chemical desiccant mixture of vermiculite, perlite and calcium chloride
to a depth of about 20-25 mm, wherein said treatment chamber Is selectively covered
and uncovered to assist in maintaining a predetermined humidity for a treatment period;
wherein the treatment chamber surfaces are coated with the at least one dessicant or
drying agent in the walls and on the floor of the treatment chamber for controlling
humidity caused by the expiration and perspiration of the animals whereby the
dessicant is effective, but spaced from the animals being treated.
The method aspect of the invention provides a method of contacting the cell surfaces of
livestock which are in contact with the atmosphere with finely divided mineral salts in
airborne suspension, including the steps of confining the animal in a chamber and
exposing the animal to an airstream which contains the suspension, whereby the salts
are inspired and optionally repeating the exposure.
[0013] The method further includes dispersing a finely ground mineral salt(s) in an
airstream created in a chamber containing an animal to be treated, and keeping the
animal in the chamber for a period sufficient for the salts to be consumed by inspiration
of the animal or deposited on the animal's skin.
[0014] A mixture of salts are preferable. The dose can vary according to the severity of
the condition 5 g, 10 g, 15 g and 20 g/m<3 >being the preferred range. The frequency
can also vary according to the severity and can be daily or 1-6 sessions per week. The
sessions can last 15-45 minutes.
[0015] Periodically the air in the chamber may be exposed to a desiccator in order to
reduce the humidity caused by the expiration and perspiration of the animals.

                                              7
[0016] The walls, floors and ceiling tend to become coated with the salts particles and
those which contain water of crystallization such as magnesium salts cause moist
surfaces to persist. Some salts are deliquescent, and these produce a water film on the
floor. It is useful to dust the chamber floor with common salt, preferably sea salt and a
desiccating agent such as calcium chloride.
[0017] The salt for airborne suspension may be phosphates, sulphates, chlorides and
fluorides of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and iron.
In a related aspect of the present invention, there is described a method of treating
animals comprising the steps of: confining the animals to be treated in a limited confined
volume; controlling the humidity caused by the expiration and perspiration of the
animals in the confined volume by use of at least one dessicant or drying agent;
providing an airstream by a pressure difference airflow; dispensing finely divided
mineral salts which form an airborne suspension when dispensed into the airstream for
treating the one or more animals by inspiration or contact with the skin; controlling the
dispensing into the airstream with finely divided mineral salts in airborne suspension at
a required treatment amount and time; confining the animal in a chamber; and exposing
the animal to the airstream which contains the suspension thereby contacting the cell
surfaces of the animals to be treated through inspiration or skin contact; and optionally
repeating the exposing step.
The method can further include the steps of: dispersing finely ground mineral salts in an
airstream created in the chamber containing the animal to be treated; and keeping the

                                               8
animal in the chamber for a period sufficient for the salts to be consumed through
inspiration by the animal or deposition on the animals.
In a further related aspect of the invention, there is described a method of contacting the
cell surfaces of livestock which are in contact with the atmosphere with finely divided
mineral salts in airborne suspension including the steps of confining the animal in a
chamber and exposing the animal to an airstream which contains the suspension and
optionally repeating the exposure.
The method can further include: providing an airflow with the airborne suspension of the
finely divided mineral salts for inhalation by the livestock; and at least one dessicant or
drying agent in the chamber for controlling humidity therewithin caused by either
expiration and perspiration of the livestock or water of crystallization from the airborne
suspension of the finely divided mineral salts.
The at least one dessicant or drying agent can cover a substantial portion of surface
area adjacent but not in contact with the livestock. Preferably the at least one dessicant
or drying agent selected from a mixture of vermiculite, perlite and calcium chloride
covers a strip of about 30% of the area of the floor portion to a depth of about 20-25 mm
of the chamber adjacent to but not in contact with the livestock.
The chamber can include ceiling and upper walls covered with replensihable panels
which are coated with the desiccant but which after initial use become coated with a
second layer of the airborne treatment salts. The panels can be removable.
The chamber can further include a controller for receiving, comminuting, and providing
the airflow stream for dispensing of the finely divided mineral salts at a required rate of

                                              9
application in an air suspension, wherein humidity caused by expiration and perspiration
of the livestock and water of crystallization of the finely divided salts within the chamber,
is controlled by the treatment chamber surface(s) coated with the at least one dessicant
or drying agent spaced from the livestock being treated.
Advantageous Effects of Invention
[0018] 1. Respiratory problems clear up and a race horse is able to return to training
sooner.
The treatment can be used as a prophylactic to control inflammation of airways in
livestock which can be caused by exercise, allergies or travel fatigue.
Bleeding and mucus production in the airways diminishes.
Attacks of pharyngitis can be moderated or substantially diminished.
[0019] 2. Travel sickness is dispelled.
[0020] 3. Airborne suspension of finely divided salts can deposit on an animal's skin.
This can assist to alleviate skin complaints.
The treatment chamber can be transportable making access to treatment more readily
available.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0021] The embodiment of the invention is now described with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:

                                             10
[0022] FIG. 1 is a plan of a therapy chamber for three horses with adjoining staff and
record space.
[0023] FIG. 2 is a side view of the chamber in FIG. 1.
[0024] FIG. 3 is the salt dispensing apparatus.
[0025] FIG. 4 is a plan of a chamber for a larger number of horses.
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0026] Referring to FIGS. 1 and 2, the treatment chamber 2 is a room 5 metres x 4.5
metres with a partition wall 4 which divides the staffroom 6 from the animal area 8. Door
10 allows access from the staffroom to the animal area. Door 12 acts as entrance and
exit to the animals. The floor is concrete and a strip one metre wide 14 is covered with
chemical desiccant to a depth of 20-25 mm. This is a mixture of vermiculite, perlite and
calcium chloride.
[0027] The ceiling 16 and upper walls 18 are covered with panels 20 which are coated
with desiccant but which after initial use become coated with a second layer of
treatment salts.
[0028] Gate 22 pivots left and right and fastens to the frame of door 10. Shorter gate 24
divides the animal space into a second and third stalls for accommodating two more
animals. Collar ties 26 hang from the gates to restrain lively animals. A fluorescent light
28 illuminates the chamber.

                                                11
[0029] Partition wall 4 has an aperture 30 through which air is blown by the salt
dispenser 32 mounted on the wall of the staffroom 6. Desk space and record keeping
containers 34 occupy one wall of the staffroom.
[0030] Referring now to FIG. 3, the wall mounted salt dispenser 32 has a storage
compartment 36 beside the axial flow fan 38. Above the fan is a grinder 40 having an
electrically driven screw which is fed by a reservoir 42 of about 1 kg capacity. The screw
reduces any lumps to a fluent crystalline mix which falls into a collector drawer 44
beneath the grinder.
[0031] The contents of the drawer are transferred to a measuring cup (not shown) and
then tipped into a comminuter 46 which has electrically driven cutting blades. A
restrictor causes the crystals to fall by gravity into the blades' path in a steady stream.
The blades propel the powder produced by the comminuter upwardly into the airstream
generated by an axial flow fan 38.
[0032] The fan is of 500 1/min capacity. The airstream blows the powdered salt into the
animal area 8 where it circulates returning through the door 10 which is left ajar.
[0033] In practice, a batch of 60 g is prepared and increments of this powder are
allowed to rise intermittently into the air flow over a period of minutes once the breathing
rate of the horses has fallen to normal. The treatment continues for 15, 30 or 45 minutes
and is repeated daily.
[0034] The electronic timer 50 allows the operator to select the treatment period. An air
conditioner circuit (not shown) is controlled by a thermostat to adjust the chamber
temperature. Humidity is kept low by the removal of desiccant. Buttons 52 select 15, 30

                                             12
or 45 minute exposure. Buttons 54, 56 cause temperature and humidity to be shown on
screen 58.
[0035] Three treatments on three days suffice to dispel travel sickness. A useful optional
adjunct to the treatment is a negative-ion generator 60 on the opposite wall 62.
[0036] Referring now to FIG. 4, for large scale use, such as riding schools and
racehorse training centres, a larger chamber is more suitable. The chamber shown is 7
mx7 m divided by rails 64 into spaces for individual horses.
[0037] The rails are in two rows divided by a central gap 66. At one end of the gap there
is an axial flow fan 48 of 1000 1/min capacity which directs an airstream toward the
opposite wall 58 through gap 66. The air circulates and reaches the space 68 behind
the fan.
[0038] In a non-illustrated variant, the chamber is a trailer-mounted box like a horse box
so that it may be towed by a vehicle to reach the animal, for example a zoo animal. In a
further adaptation the mobile chamber is capable of treating one or more animals in the
course of the journey. The chamber may alternatively form the body of a truck.
[0039] Treatment of camels with conventional medicines may affect the liver and other
organs so salt therapy delivered in a quiet chamber like ours offers no harm and the
ability to treat the whole animal.
[0040] The trailer may also be taken to apiaries so that hives may be stacked inside the
box.

                                            13
[0041] In a further embodiment of FIGS. 1 to 4 there is described a treatment chamber
having a primary confined volume for treating one or more horses in a limited volume.
The confined volume is substantially sealed in an operating condition, and the treatment
chamber provides a means of dispensing salt crystals in an airborne suspension into
the confined volume effective to allow dry contact with skin and inspiration during
respiration cycle. For example, a fan and exhaust are useful as a means to produce a
pressure difference airflow.
[0042] In order to allow effective contact with the skin and dispersment of salt crystals
into the pulmonary system of the horse or horses in the confined volume to be treated,
the treatment chamber further comprises: a confined volume defined by walls, floor and
ceiling structures having a deposit of embedded granular salt, dessicant or drying agent
thereon; a humidity controller for substantially maintaining the humidity of the confined
volume of the treatment chamber between 15 and 40 % relative humidity; a temperature
controller for maintaining the temperature of the confined volume of the treatment
chamber between about 20 to 40 degrees C; a pressure controller for maintaining air
pressure in the confined volume of the treatment chamber between 700 to 1000 Hpa;
an airflow generator for creating an airflow stream at a rate of 500 L/min up to 1000
L/min into the confined volume of the treatment chamber; a dispenser including a
comminuter and timer for delivering a predetermined amount of salt in a predetermined
size at a predetermined timed interval over a treatment period, into the airflow stream to
form an airborne salt suspension; wherein the physical parameters of the confined
volume including temperature,       pressure, airflow, humidity are controlled to allow

                                                14
effective contact of dry salt particles with skin of the horse or horses to be treated, and
allow access to lungs for recovery of horses in the confined volume.
[0043] By controlling the ambient conditions within the confined volume of the treatment
chamber, a horse or horses to be treated can be exposed to sufficiently dry salt
granules and/or pulverised particulates, which improve recovery times and airway
obstructions such as mucus.
[0044] In this embodiment, the treatment chamber provides a confined volume which
allows control of environmental factors therein to deliver salts such as rock salt, sea salt
and other type of salts and mixtures thereof, in an effective form to enhance treatments
for skin aliments and inflammatory airway obstructions caused by allergies and intense
activity. Applicant has found that recovery time of a horse exposed to the treatment
chamber, for example following exercise/training, allows the horse to recover relatively
quickly.
[0045] Without being bound by theory, the ability of the suspended salt to contact skin
and disperse into the lungs from an airborne suspension relies on the ability of the salt
particulate/granule to remain in airborne suspension. Therefore the higher the relative
humidity of the confined volume, the more likely the suspended particles will precipitate
from the airborne suspension.        In a treatment environment where animals such as
horses for example are perspiring heavily and expirating frequently following exercise,
the ambient atmosphere is subjected to high levels of moisture and condensation, which
will adversely affect delivery of salt particulates in an airborne suspension.

                                              15
[0046] The applicant has found that it is not unusual for the confines of the treatment
chamber to absorb and adsorb liquid in amounts exceeding 20 litres per animal during
expiration and perspiration. The walls, floor and ceiling are therefore replaced from time
to time and replenished with fresh salt embedded surface to assist control of relative
humidity within the confines of the treatment chamber.
[0047] It is to be understood that the word "comprising" as used throughout the
specification is to be interpreted in its inclusive form, ie. use of the word "comprising"
does not exclude the addition of other elements.
[0048] It is to be understood that various modifications of and/or additions to the
invention can be made without departing from the basic nature of the invention. These
modifications and/or additions are therefore considered to fall within the scope of the
invention.

                                               16
I claim:
        A method of treating animals comprising the steps of:
                confining the animals to be treated in a limited confined volume;
                controlling the humidity caused by the expiration and perspiration of the
        animals in the confined volume by use of at least one dessicant or drying agent;
                providing an airstream by a pressure difference airflow;
                dispensing finely divided mineral salts which form an airborne suspension
        when dispensed into the airstream for treating the one or more animals by
         inspiration or contact with the skin;
                controlling the dispensing into the airstream with finely divided mineral
        salts in airborne suspension at a required treatment amount and time;
        confining the animal in a chamber; and
                exposing the animal to the airstream which contains the suspension
        thereby contacting the cell surfaces of the animals to be treated through
         inspiration or skin contact; and
                optionally repeating the exposing step.
2.      The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the steps of:
                dispersing finely ground mineral salts in an airstream created in the
        chamber containing the animal to be treated; and
                keeping the animal in the chamber for a period sufficient for the salts to be
        consumed through inspiration by the animal or deposition on the animals.

                                          17
3.  The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein 5, 10, 15, 20 g/m3 of the chamber
    volume are dispensed per treatment period.
4.  The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the treatment period may last 15-45
    minutes.
5.  The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein treatment is daily.
6.  The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the air in the chamber is exposed to a
    desiccation agent to reduce its humidity.
7.  The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the chamber floor is spread with a
    particulate drying agent.
8.  The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the drying agent is calcium chloride.
9.  The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the mineral salts are phosphates,
    sulphates, chlorides and fluorides of sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium
    and iron.
10. A treatment chamber having:
           a    primary   substantially  sealed   confined    volume  for  temporary
    accommodation of one or more animals to be treated in a limited volume;
           a pressure difference airflow means to cause an airstream in the chamber;
           a dispensing means for adding finely divided mineral salts which form an
    airborne suspension when dispensed into the airstream for treating the one or
    more animals by inspiration or contact with the skin; and
           at least one dessicant or drying agent for controlling humidity caused by
    the expiration and perspiration of the animals.

                                           18
11. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 10, wherein the dispensing means
    includes a comminutor which reduces the crystalline or amorphous mineral salts
    to form the finely divided mineral salts at a particle size suitable for airborne
    suspension.
12. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 11, wherein the finely divided mineral
    salts are phosphates, sulphates, chlorides and fluorides of sodium, potassium,
    calcium, magnesium, or iron with the particle size in the range of 5-15CD.
13. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 12, wherein the airstream is created
    by a fan.
14. The treatment chamber as claimed in claims 10, wherein the chamber has
    surfaces which are coated with the at least one dessicant or drying agent in the
    walls and on the floor of the treatment chamber for controlling humidity caused
    by (a) the expiration and perspiration of the animals, and (b) water of
    crystalisation such as Mg salts.
15. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 10, wherein the chamber ceiling and
    upper part of the walls are covered with removable panels allowing a cleaning
    apparatus to the regenerate the at least one dessicant or drying agent in the
    walls or on the floor of the treatment chamber.
16. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 15, wherein at least part of the
    chamber floor is impervious in order to retain the desiccant.
17. The treatment chamber as claimed in claims 10 when adapted as a trailer body
    or truck body.

                                           19
18. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 15, wherein the dessicant is a
    mixture of vermiculite, perlite and calcium chloride.
19. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 11, wherein the chamber has a layer
    of desiccant which can be covered and uncovered in order to remove excess
    water vapour from the air.
20. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 11, wherein the chamber further
    includes a controller for controlling the dispensing of the finely divided mineral
    salts to a required rate of application.
21. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 11, wherein the controller controls
    the rate of application at a predetermined dispensing rate of 5, 10, 15, 20 g/m3 of
    the chamber volume per treatment period.
22. The treatment chamber as claimed in claim 11, wherein the chamber includes a
    controller for controlling the dispensing of the finely divided mineral salts to a
    required time of application.
23. The chamber as claimed in claim 11 wherein the controller controls the time of
    application of the treatment for a predetermined, optionally repeatable, treatment
    time of 15, 30 or 45 minutes.
24. The treatment      chamber as claimed in claim 20 for treating animals to
    substantially improve performance and recovery, wherein the treatment chamber
    is a substantially sealed treatment confined chamber for closely receiving one or
    more animals, wherein the treatment chamber has an inlet and the controller
    provides a functional fluid connection through an inlet in the treatment chamber
    to provide the airflow stream in a controlled manner from of the airborne

                                             20
        suspension of the mineral salts at a required rate and density by use of a fan and
        exhaust and pulsing the air suspension of mineral salts through the inlet into the
        treatment chamber at timed intervals over a predetermined treatment period;
        the treatment chamber further comprising a humidity controller to control the
        amount of water vapor in the treatment chamber by the floor being impervious
        and having a strip of about 1 metre wide adjacent the animals being treated and
        coverable with a chemical desiccant mixture of vermiculite, perlite and calcium
        chloride to a depth of about 20-25 mm, wherein said treatment chamber Is
        selectively covered and uncovered to assist in maintaining a predetermined
        humidity for a treatment period; wherein the treatment chamber surfaces are
        coated with the at least one dessicant or drying agent in the walls and on the
        floor of the treatment chamber for controlling humidity caused by the expiration
        and perspiration of the animals whereby the dessicant is effective, but spaced
        from the animals being treated.
25. A method of contacting the cell surfaces of livestock which are in contact with the
atmosphere with finely divided mineral salts in airborne suspension including the steps
of confining the animal in a chamber and exposing the animal to an airstream which
contains the suspension and optionally repeating the exposure.
26. The method of claim 25 further including:
        providing an airflow with the airborne suspension of the finely divided mineral
salts for inhalation by the livestock; and

                                             21
         at least one dessicant or drying agent in the chamber for controlling humidity
therewithin caused by either expiration and perspiration of the livestock or water of
crystallization from the airborne suspension of the finely divided mineral salts.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the at least one dessicant or drying agent covers a
substantial portion of surface area adjacent but not in contact with the livestock
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the at least one dessicant or drying agent selected
from a mixture of vermiculite, perlite and calcium chloride covers a strip of about 30% of
the area of the floor portion to a depth of about 20-25 mm of the chamber adjacent to
but not in contact with the livestock.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the chamber includes ceiling and upper walls
covered with replenishable panels which are coated with the desiccant but which after
initial use become coated with a second layer of the airborne treatment salts.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the chamber includes a controller for receiving,
comminuting, and providing the airflow stream for dispensing of the finely divided
mineral salts at a required rate of application in an air suspension, wherein humidity
caused by expiration and perspiration of the livestock and water of crystallization of the
finely divided salts within the chamber is controlled by the treatment chamber surface(s)
coated with the at least one dessicant or drying agent spaced from the livestock being
treated.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
