                            ABSTRACT OF INVENTION
Disclosed herein are embodiments of a massage roller, and methods of making and
using such a massage roller, whereby the massage roller includes a massage roller
body comprising a generally circular cross section, opposing first and second end
portions, a convex medial portion, a first concave lateral portion axially extending
between the first end portion and the convex medial portion, and a second concave
lateral portion axially extending between the second end portion and the convex
medial portion; wherein said massage roller body is asymmetric about a massage roller
body vertical centerline.

                                          MASSAGE ROLLER
             This is a divisional application divided out of Australian Application No <removed-apn>,
   itself divided out of International        Patent  Cooperation Treaty Patent Application No.
   PCT/US2015/046357, filed 10 August 2016, which is a continuation of United States Non
 5 Provisional Patent Application No. No. 15/231,455, filed August 8, 2016, which is a
   continuation-in-part of United States Patent Application No. 29/556,042, filed February 26,
   2016, and claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application No. 62/203,033,
   filed August 10, 2015, each hereby incorporated by reference herein.
   I.        DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
 0           Broadly, the invention relates to a massage roller, and methods of making and using
   such a massage roller, whereby the massage roller includes a massage roller body comprising a
   generally circular cross section, opposing first and second end portions, a convex medial portion,
   a first concave lateral portion axially extending between the first end portion and the convex
   medial portion, and a second concave lateral portion axially extending between the second end
 5 portion and the convex medial portion; wherein said massage roller body is asymmetric about a
   massage roller body vertical centerline.
             More specifically, the present invention provides a massage roller comprising: a
   massage roller body comprising: a generally circular cross section; opposing first and second end
   portions; a convex medial portion; a first concave lateral portion axially extending between said
 0 first end portion and said convex medial portion; and a second concave lateral portion axially
   extending between said second end portion and said convex medial portion; wherein said convex
   medial portion has a convex medial portion maximum diameter which is lesser than first and
   second end portion maximum diameters of corresponding said first and second end portions.
             Naturally, further aspects of the invention are disclosed throughout other areas of the
25 specification, drawings, and claims.
   II.       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             Figure 1 is an illustration of a method of using a particular embodiment of the massage
   roller to massage a massageable portion of a foot.
                                                     1

           Figure 2 is a perspective view of a particular embodiment of the massage roller.
           Figure 3 is a perspective view of a particular embodiment of the massage roller.
           Figure 4 is a front view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller shown in
  Figure 2 and Figure 3.
5          Figure 5 is a rear view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller shown in
  Figure 2 and Figure 3.
           Figure 6 is a top view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller shown in
  Figure 2 and Figure 3.
                                                   1A

            Figure 7 is a bottom view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller shown in
    Figure 2 and Figure 3.
            Figure 8 is a first end view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller shown in
   Figure 2 and Figure 3.
 5          Figure 9 is a second end view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller shown
    in Figure 2 and Figure 3.
           Figure 10 is a cross-sectional view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller
   shown in Figure 7, whereby the massage roller is sectioned along a massage roller body horizontal
   axis.
 0         Figure 11 is an enlarged view of a substantially linear recess of the particular embodiment
   of the massage roller shown in Figure 10.
           Figure 12 is an enlarged view of a substantially circular recess of the particular
   embodiment of the massage roller shown in Figure 10.
           Figure 13 is a cross-sectional view of the particular embodiment of the massage roller
 5 shown in Figure 6, whereby the massage roller is sectioned perpendicularly to a massage roller
   body horizontal axis.
           Figure 14 is a perspective view of a particular embodiment of the massage roller formed
   from first and second pieces.
   1II.    MODE(S) FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
20         Now referring primarily to Figure 1, which illustrates a method of using a particular
   embodiment of a massage roller (1) to massage a massageable portion (2) of a body (3), whereby
   the massage roller (1) includes a massage roller body (4) comprising a generally circular cross
   section, opposing first and second end portions (5)(6), a convex medial portion (7), a first concave
   lateral portion (8) axially extending between the first end portion (5) and the convex medial
25 portion (7), and a second concave lateral portion (9) axially extending between the second end
   portion (6) and the convex medial portion (7), whereby the massage roller body (4) is asymmetric
   about a massage roller body vertical centerline (10) (as shown in the example of Figure 5). The
   method includes engaging the massageable portion (2) of the body (3) with an external surface
                                                      2

    (11) of the massage roller body (4) and rolling the massage roller (1) to massage the massageable
    portion (2) of the body (3).
            For the purposes of the present invention, the term "generally circular" means a closed
    shape defined by a line, whereby every point on the line is about the same distance from the
 5  center of the shape. As to particular embodiments, every point can be exactly the same distance
    from the center of the shape, thereby forming a perfectly round circular periphery. As to other
    particular embodiments, the closed shape can resemble a polygon, such as a pentagon, a hexagon,
    a heptagon, an octagon, and so forth and so on, which can be used in various permutations of the
    massage roller (1).
 0          For purposes of the present invention, the term "convex" means outwardly extending or
    curving.
            For purposes of the present invention, the term "concave" means inwardly extending or
    curving.
            For the purposes of the present invention, the term "medial" means toward the middle.
 5          For the purposes of the present invention, the term "lateral" means toward the side(s) or
    away from the middle.
            For the purposes of the present invention, the term "vertical" means positioned up and
    down rather than from side to side, whereby "vertical" is not intended to be limiting, particularly
    as to the position, orientation, or use of the invention, but instead, is intended to provide a
 ,0 directional reference for the depiction of the massage roller (1) shown in the Figures to aid the
    reader's understanding of the present invention.
            For the purposes of the present invention, the term "horizontal" means positioned from
    side to side rather than up and down, whereby "horizontal" is not intended to be limiting,
    particularly as to the position, orientation, or use of the invention, but instead, is intended to
25  provide a directional reference for the depiction of the massage roller (1) shown in the Figures to
    aid the reader's understanding of the present invention.
            Again referring primarily to Figure 1, as but one illustrative example, the massage roller
    (1) can be used to massage a massageable portion (2) of a foot (12), whereby the method can
    include engaging the massageable portion (2) of the foot (12) with the external surface (11) of
30  the massage roller (1) and rolling the massage roller (1) to massage the massageable portion (2)
                                                     3

   of the foot (11). As to particular embodiments, the massageable portion (2) of the foot (12) can
   engage with the external surface (11) of the massage roller (1) to dispose a foot longitudinal axis
   (13) in angled relation to a massage roller body horizontal axis (14) (such as generally orthogonal
   relation), whereby massaging can be achieved by rolling the massage roller (1) with the
 5 massageable portion (2) of the foot (12) along the foot longitudinal axis (13) to rotate the massage
   roller (1) about a rotation axis (15) coincident with a massage roller body horizontal centerline
   (16).
            Although the above-illustrated example includes using the massage roller (1) to massage
   a massageable portion (2) of a foot (12), the massage roller (1) is not limited to use for massaging
 0 only a massageable portion (2) of a foot (12), as the massage roller (1) can be used to massage
   any massageable portion (2) of a body (3), depending upon the application.
           Now referring primarily to Figure 2 and Figure 3, the massage roller (1) includes a
   massage roller body (4) comprising a generally circular cross section when sectioned
   perpendicularly to the massage roller body horizontal axis (14) (as shown in the example of
 5 Figure 13).
            As to particular embodiments, the massage roller body (4) can be substantially solid.
           As to other particular embodiments, the massage roller body (4) can include a body wall
   (17) which defines a substantially hollow interior cavity (18) fillable with a gas (such as air), a
   liquid, or combinations thereof, depending upon the application (as shown in the example of
 0 Figure 10). As to these embodiments, the substantially hollow interior cavity (18) can further
   include one or more supports (19) disposed therein, whereby the supports (19) can be configured
   to support the massage roller body (4) having the generally circular cross section, thereby
   maintaining the shape of the massage roller body (4).
           As but one illustrative example, a particular embodiment of the massage roller (1) can
25 include a body wall (17) defining a substantially hollow interior cavity (18) having a plurality of
   supports (19) disposed therein and filled with only gas. Consequently, the substantially hollow
   interior cavity (18) of this particular embodiment is void of liquid.
           The massage roller body (4) can be formed from any of a numerous and wide variety of
   materials sufficient to permit the massage roller (1) to, upon use, massage a massageable portion
30 (2) of a body (3). As to particular embodiments, the material, whether natural or synthetic, can
   be substantially rigid and may include, as non-limiting examples: metal, ceramic, plastic, wood,
                                                    4

    or the like, or combinations thereof. As to other particular embodiments, the material, whether
    natural or synthetic, can be a resiliently elastic material which to an extent deforms upon
    engagement with the massageable portion (2) of the body (3), whereby these materials can
    include, as non-limiting examples: plasticized resin, rubber, silicone rubber, fluoropolymer,
 5  polyurethane, or the like, or combinations thereof.
            Now referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 9, the massage roller body (4) further
    includes opposing first and second end portions (5)(6) configured to engage with a support
    surface (20), whereby each of the first and second end portions (5)(6) can have a generally
    circular cross section, allowing the massage roller (1) to roll, or rotate about the rotation axis (15)
 0 coincident with the massage roller body horizontal centerline (16), along the support surface (20).
   As to particular embodiments, the first and second end portions (5)(6) can include one or more
   grippable elements (not shown) which facilitate gripping the support surface (20) to preclude
   disengagement of the massage roller (1) from the support surface (20) when in use.
            Now referring primarily to Figure 4 through Figure 7, each of the first and second end
 5 portions (5)(6) can be convexly arcuate along corresponding end portion lengths (21) (as shown
   in the example of Figure 4).
            Now referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 7, the massage roller body (4) further
   includes a convex medial portion (7) disposed between the first and second end portions (5)(6).
   Akin to the first and second end portions (5)(6), the convex medial portion (7) can be convexly
 0 arcuate along a convex medial portion length (22) (as shown in the example of Figure 4).
            Again referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 7, the convex medial portion (7) can
   have a convex medial portion maximum diameter (23) which is lesser than first and second end
   portion maximum diameters (24)(25) of the corresponding first and second end portions (5)(6)
   (as shown in the example of Figure 5). As such, upon use of the massage roller (1), the convex
25 medial portion (7) does not engage with the support surface (20), as only the first and second end
   portions (5)(6) engage with the support surface (20).
            Again referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 7, the convex medial portion (7)
   provides an arcuate working surface (26), which can engage with corresponding curvature of a
   massageable portion (2) of the body (3). In relation to a planar working surface, the arcuate
30 working surface (26) can engage the corresponding curvature of the massageable portion (2) of
   the body (3) with greater uniformity, thereby providing a greater massage to the massageable
   portion (2) of the body (3). As but one illustrative example, the convex medial portion (7) can
                                                     5

    provide a first arcuate working surface (27) configured as a substantially spherical working
    surface (as shown in the example of Figure 7), which may be useful for massaging a central
    longitudinal region of the sole of the foot (12), such as the central portion of the plantar fascia.
             Again referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 7, the massage roller body (4) further
  5 includes a first concave lateral portion (8) axially extending between the first end portion (5) and
    the convex medial portion (7). In contrast to the first and second end portions (5)(6) and the
    convex medial portion (7), the first concave lateral portion (8) can be concavely arcuate along a
    first concave lateral portion length (28) (as shown in the example of Figure 4).
             As to particular embodiments, the first concave lateral portion (8) can be asymmetric
 0  about a first concave lateral portion vertical centerline (29) (as shown in the example of Figure
    6).
             Now referring primarily to Figure 5, the first concave lateral portion (8) has a first concave
    lateral portion minimum diameter (30) which is lesser than the convex medial portion maximum
    diameter (23) and the first and second end portion maximum diameters (24)(25). As such, upon
 5  use of the massage roller (1), the first concave lateral portion (8) does not engage with the support
    surface (20), as only the first and second end portions (5)(6) engage with the support surface (20).
             Now referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 7, the first concave lateral portion (8)
    provides an arcuate working surface (26), which can engage with corresponding curvature of a
    massageable portion (2) of the body (3). In relation to a planar working surface, the arcuate
 ,0 working surface (26) can engage the corresponding curvature of the massageable portion (2) of
    the body (3) with greater uniformity, thereby providing a greater massage to the massageable
    portion (2) of the body (3). As but one illustrative example, the first concave lateral portion (8)
    can provide a second arcuate working surface (31) (as shown in the example of Figure 7), which
    may be useful for massaging an inner longitudinal region of the sole of the foot (12), such as the
25  medial portion of the plantar fascia or the medial longitudinal arch.
             Again referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 7, the massage roller body (4) further
    includes a second concave lateral portion (9) axially extending between the second end portion
    (6) and the convex medial portion (7). In contrast to the first and second end portions (5)(6) and
    the convex medial portion (7) and akin to the first concave lateral portion (8), the second concave
30  lateral portion (9) can be concavely arcuate along a second concave lateral portion length (32)
    (as shown in the example of Figure 4).
                                                       6

             As to particular embodiments, the second concave lateral portion (9) can be asymmetric
     about a second concave lateral portion vertical centerline (33) (as shown in the example of Figure
     6).
             Now referring primarily to Figure 5, the second concave lateral portion (9) has a second
  5 concave lateral portion minimum diameter (34) which is lesser than the convex medial portion
    maximum diameter (23) and the first and second end portion maximum diameters (24)(25). As
    such, upon use of the massage roller (1), the second concave lateral portion (9) does not engage
    with the support surface (20), as only the first and second end portions (5)(6) engage with the
    support surface (20).
  0          Now referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 7, the second concave lateral portion
    (9) provides an arcuate working surface (26), which can engage with corresponding curvature of
    a massageable portion (2) of the body (3). In relation to a planar working surface, the arcuate
    working surface (26) can engage the corresponding curvature of the massageable portion (2) of
    the body (3) with greater uniformity, thereby providing a greater massage to the massageable
 5  portion (2) of the body (3). As but one illustrative example, the second concave lateral portion
    (9) can provide a third arcuate working surface (35), which may be useful for massaging an outer
    longitudinal region of the sole of the foot (12), such as the lateral portion of the plantar fascia or
    the lateral longitudinal arch.
            Now referring primarily to Figure 4, as to particular embodiments, the massage roller (1)
 ,0 can have the first concave lateral portion minimum diameter (30) configured to be greater than
    the second concave lateral portion minimum diameter (34). This particular configuration may be
    preferable for a massage roller (1) intended to be useful for simultaneously massaging a plurality
    of massageable portions (2) of a foot (3), whereby a medial plantar portion of the foot (12)
    downwardly extends a lesser distance from a transverse plane of the foot (12) in relation to a
25  lateral plantar portion of the foot (12), which downwardly extends a greater distance from the
    traverse plane of the foot (12). Accordingly, when the massage roller (1) engages with a support
    surface (20), the first concave lateral portion (8), having a greater diameter, can abuttingly engage
    with the medial plantar portion, which downwardly extends a lesser distance from the transverse
    plane of the foot (12), while the second concave lateral portion (9), having a lesser diameter,
30  abuttingly engages with the lateral plantar portion, which downwards extends a greater distance
    from the transverse plane of the foot (12), facilitating simultaneous massaging of both the medial
    and lateral plantar portions of the foot (12). Additionally, the convex medial portion (7) can
                                                        7

    abuttingly engage with a central longitudinal region of the sole of the foot (12) for further
    simultaneous massaging.
            Again referring primarily to Figure 4, as to particular embodiments, the massage roller
    (1) can have the first concave lateral portion length (28) configured to be lesser than the second
 5  concave lateral portion length (32). This particular configuration may be preferable for a massage
   roller (1) intended to be useful for simultaneously massaging a plurality of massageable portions
    (2) of a foot (12), whereby a medial plantar portion of the foot (12) has a lesser width (along a
   foot latitudinal axis in perpendicular relation to the foot longitudinal axis (13)) in relation to a
   lateral plantar portion of the foot (12), which has a greater width (along the foot latitudinal axis).
 0 Accordingly, when the massage roller (1) engages with a support surface (20), the first concave
   lateral portion (8), having a lesser length, can abutting engage with the medial plantar portion,
   which has a lesser width, while the second concave lateral portion (9), having a greater length,
   abuttingly engages with the lateral plantar portion, which has a greater width, facilitating
   simultaneous massaging of both the medial and lateral plantar portions of the foot (12).
 5 Additionally, the convex medial portion (7) can abuttingly engage with a central longitudinal
   region of the sole of the foot (12) for further simultaneous massaging.
            Accordingly, the massage roller (1) provides at least three arcuate working surfaces
   (27)(31)(35) configured to simultaneously massage at least three massageable portions (2) of a
   foot (12).
 0          Now referring primarily to Figure 2 through Figure 12, the convex medial portion (7), the
   first concave lateral portion (8), the second concave lateral portion (9), or combinations thereof,
   can, but need not necessarily, include one or more recesses (36) disposed within the
   corresponding external surface (11), whereby the recesses (36) can facilitate massaging of the
   massageable portion (2) of the body (3).          As but one illustrative example, a plurality of
25 substantially circular recesses (37) can be disposed within the external surface (11) of the convex
   medial portion (7) in a desired spaced apart relation and a plurality of substantially linear recesses
   (38) can be disposed within the external surfaces (11) of each of the first and second concave
   lateral portions (8)(9) to facilitate massaging of corresponding massageable portions (2) of the
   body (3) (as shown in the examples of Figure 10 through Figure 12).
30          As to other particular embodiments, the convex medial portion (7), the first concave
   lateral portion (8), the second concave lateral portion (9), or combinations thereof, can, but need
   not necessarily, include one or more protrusions (not shown) outwardly extending from the
                                                     8

    corresponding external surface (11), whereby the protrusions can facilitate massaging of
    corresponding massageable portions (2) of the body (3).
             As to yet other particular embodiments, the convex medial portion (7), the first concave
    lateral portion (8), the second concave lateral portion (9), or combinations thereof, can, but need
 5  not necessarily, include a combination of one or more recesses (36) and one or more protrusions
    (not shown), as described above.
            Now regarding production, a method of making the massage roller (1) includes providing
    a massage roller body (4) comprising a generally circular cross section, opposing first and second
    end portions (5)(6), a convex medial portion (7), a first concave lateral portion (8) axially
 0 extending between the first end portion (5) and the convex medial portion (7), and a second
   concave lateral portion (9) axially extending between the second end portion (6) and the convex
   medial portion (7), whereby the massage roller body (4) is asymmetric about a massage roller
   body vertical centerline (10) (as shown in the example of Figure 5).
            The method of making the massage roller (1) can further include providing additional
 5 components of the massage roller (1) as described above.
            The massage roller (1) or elements of the massage roller (1) can be made by any of a
   numerous and wide variety of processes depending upon the application, such as press molding,
   injection molding, fabrication, machining, printing, additive printing, or the like, or combinations
   thereof, as a one-piece construct or provided as a plurality of pieces for assembly into an
 0 embodiment of the massage roller (1).
            Now referring primarily to Figure 14, which illustrates a particular embodiment of the
   massage roller (1) formed from first and second pieces (39)(40), whereby each piece (39)(40)
   comprises one of two longitudinal halves of the massage roller (1), the first and second pieces
   (39)(40) matably engagable for assembly into an embodiment of the massage roller (1).
25          As can be easily understood from the foregoing, the basic concepts of the present
   invention may be embodied in a variety of ways. The invention involves numerous and varied
   embodiments of a massage roller and methods for making and using such massage rollers,
   including the best mode.
            As such, the particular embodiments or elements of the invention disclosed by the
30 description or shown in the figures or tables accompanying this application are not intended to
                                                     9

    be limiting, but rather exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments generically
    encompassed by the invention or equivalents encompassed with respect to any particular element
    thereof. In addition, the specific description of a single embodiment or element of the invention
    may not explicitly describe all embodiments or elements possible; many alternatives are
 5  implicitly disclosed by the description and figures.
             It should be understood that each element of an apparatus or each step of a method may
    be described by an apparatus term or method term. Such terms can be substituted where desired
    to make explicit the implicitly broad coverage to which this invention is entitled. As but one
    example, it should be understood that all steps of a method may be disclosed as an action, a means
 0  for taking that action, or as an element which causes that action. Similarly, each element of an
    apparatus may be disclosed as the physical element or the action which that physical element
    facilitates. As but one example, the disclosure of a "roller" should be understood to encompass
   disclosure of the act of "rolling" -- whether explicitly discussed or not -- and, conversely, were
   there effectively disclosure of the act of "rolling", such a disclosure should be understood to
 5 encompass disclosure of a "roller" and even a "means for rolling". Such alternative terms for
   each element or step are to be understood to be explicitly included in the description.
             In addition, as to each term used it should be understood that unless its utilization in this
   application is inconsistent with such interpretation, common dictionary definitions should be
   understood to be included in the description for each term as contained in the Random House
 0 Webster's Unabridged Dictionary, second edition, each definition hereby incorporated by
   reference.
             All numeric values herein are assumed to be modified by the term "about", whether or
   not explicitly indicated. For the purposes of the present invention, ranges may be expressed as
   from "about" one particular value to "about" another particular value. When such a range is
25 expressed, another embodiment includes from the one particular value to the other particular
   value. The recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all the numeric values subsumed
   within that range. A numerical range of one to five includes for example the numeric values 1,
   1.5, 2, 2.75, 3, 3.80, 4, 5, and so forth. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each of
   the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint, and independently of the other
30 endloint. When a value is expressed as an approximation by use of the antecedent "about," it
   will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment.              The term "about"
   generally refers to a range of numeric values that one of skill in the art would consider equivalent
   to the recited numeric value or having the same function or result. Similarly, the antecedent
                                                       10

    "substantially" means largely, but not wholly, the same form, manner or degree and the particular
    element will have a range of configurations as a person of ordinary skill in the art would consider
    as having the same function or result.         When a particular element is expressed as an
    approximation by use of the antecedent "substantially," it will be understood that the particular
 5  element forms another embodiment.
            Moreover, for the purposes of the present invention, the term "a" or "an" entity refers to
    one or more of that entity unless otherwise limited. As such, the terms "a" or "an", "one or more"
    and "at least one" can be used interchangeably herein.
            Additionally, all directional references (e.g., proximal, distal, upper, lower, upward,
 0 downward, left, right, lateral, front, rear, back, top, bottom, above, below, vertical, horizontal,
   clockwise, and counterclockwise) are only used for identification purposes to aid the reader's
   understanding of the present invention, and do not create limitations, particularly as to the
   position, orientation, or use of the invention.
            Thus, the applicant(s) should be understood to claim at least: i) each of the massage rollers
 5 herein disclosed and described, ii) the related methods disclosed and described, iii) similar,
   equivalent, and even implicit variations of each of these devices and methods, iv) those alternative
   embodiments which accomplish each of the functions shown, disclosed, or described, v) those
   alternative designs and methods which accomplish each of the functions shown as are implicit to
   accomplish that which is disclosed and described, vi) each feature, component, and step shown
 0 as separate and independent inventions, vii) the applications enhanced by the various systems or
   components disclosed, viii) the resulting products produced by such systems or components, ix)
   methods and apparatuses substantially as described hereinbefore and with reference to any of the
   accompanying examples, x) the various combinations and permutations of each of the previous
   elements disclosed.
25          The background section of this patent application, if any, provides a statement of the field
   of endeavor to which the invention pertains.        This section may also incorporate or contain
   paraphrasing of certain United States patents, patent applications, publications, or subject matter
   of the claimed invention useful in relating information, problems, or concerns about the state of
   technology to which the invention is drawn toward. It is not intended that any United States
30 patent, patent application, publication, statement or other information cited or incorporated herein
   be interpreted, construed or deemed to be admitted as prior art with respect to the invention.
                                                    11

             The claims set forth in this specification, if any, are hereby incorporated by reference as
   part of this description of the invention, and the applicant expressly reserves the right to use all
   of or a portion of such incorporated content of such claims as additional description to support
   any of or all of the claims or any element or component thereof, and the applicant further
 5 expressly reserves the right to move any portion of or all of the incorporated content of such
   claims or any element or component thereof from the description into the claims or vice-versa as
   necessary to define the matter for which protection is sought by this application or by any
   subsequent application or continuation, division, or continuation-in-part application thereof, or to
   obtain any benefit of, reduction in fees pursuant to, or to comply with the patent laws, rules, or
 0 regulations of any country or treaty, and such content incorporated by reference shall survive
   during the entire pendency of this application including any subsequent continuation, division, or
   continuation-in-part application thereof or any reissue or extension thereon.
             Additionally, the claims set forth in this specification, if any, are further intended to
   describe the metes and bounds of a limited number of the preferred embodiments of the
 5 invention and are not to be construed as the broadest embodiment of the invention or a complete
   listing of embodiments of the invention that may be claimed. The applicant does not waive any
   right to develop further claims based upon the description set forth above as a part of any
   continuation, division, or continuation-in-part, or similar application.
             Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion
 0 that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this
   prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant, and/or combined
   with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
             As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise the term 'comprise' and
   variations of the term, such as 'comprising', 'comprises' and 'comprised', are not intended to
25 exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                                                      12

                                             CLAIMS
1.      A massage roller comprising:
        a massage roller body comprising:
                a generally circular cross section;
                opposing first and second end portions;
                a convex medial portion;
                a first concave lateral portion axially extending between said first end portion
        and said convex medial portion; and
                a second concave lateral portion axially extending between said second end
        portion and said convex medial portion;
                wherein said convex medial portion has a convex medial portion maximum
        diameter which is lesser than first and second end portion maximum diameters of
        corresponding said first and second end portions.
2.      The massage roller of claim 1, wherein said first concave lateral portion has a first
concave lateral portion minimum diameter which is lesser than said convex medial portion
maximum diameter and said first and second end portion maximum diameters.
3.      The massage roller of claim 2, wherein said second concave lateral portion has a
second concave lateral portion minimum diameter which is lesser than said convex medial
portion maximum diameter and said first and second end portion maximum diameters.
4.      The massage roller of any preceding claim, wherein said convex medial portion
provides a first arcuate working surface configured as a substantially spherical working
surface.
5.      The massage roller of any preceding claim, wherein said massage roller body is
asymmetric about a massage roller body vertical centreline.
                                                 13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
