                                     Abstract
A load support system and/or anchor system is enabled that can be quickly
and efficiently assembled onto a projection.     The system includes: a barrel
having a cap side and a wedge side and defining a longitudinal through hole
extending from the cap side to the wedge side, wherein a diameter of the
longitudinal through hole is tapered from a larger diameter at the wedge side
to a smaller diameter at the cap side; a plurality of wedge elements each
having a concave surface, a base and a tip, wherein the wedge elements are
positioned inside of the longitudinal through hole of the barrel; and a hanger
secured to the barrel.

                     zu
                              P&     WN          MN
       -0-     Or         3S,
                                                                                                      WM
                                                                              N Mm.
                                                      OWN                                                                                                             ..
                             -M&Mlffill
     M          -No                            ROWN
                                                                                                       PAR
                                                        kw
                                                                                                ......
                                                                                       ...... ......
                                                                                                                                     ..    --.
                                                                                                                                                     NO
                                                                                                                                       A
                                                                                                                           ta
                                                                                       OW
                                                                                           !                            RN                        ..    .
                                                                                                                                                   . ......
                                                                                                                                               -g
                                                                 MN                 00
                                                   771
                                                                                                                                                            M:
                                                                                                                                       d
                                                   V.
                                                                  N
                                                                                                                       A                                                                 ..............
                                                                   ---                                               ARM
        . ..
                                                                                                                                         WS
                                                                                                                  zg
         VA                                                                                                                                                                      -W
                                                                                                                               mom:3
   N .                                                                                                                                                   S
                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                        -Aw
                                                                                                                                                                                    .. . ... .....  .
                                                                                                                                                                             E
                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                           M,
                                                                                                                                                                                       Q
                                                        MA
                                                                                                                             MON
                                                                                                                                                                   -- ----
                                                                                                                                                                         -----
                   M    5              -0  Rr
                 ON                                                                                                                             RM-Y         4         Z§j
                                                                                                                                                                                    Wr
                                                      M
                                           50
                                                    P                                                          --                               0=
                         NOW                                         :lr_
                RRE               rz                                 V                                                                             M
PH                               OMER       AW-R                 WKW                                                                                                 :%
                                                                                M                                                                           - 5-
                                                                R        mom=                                     R,         _0
                                                                                                                                                      -----
                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                        M,
                                                              M                                             g.
                               107
                           -I:e-:     9S  -1RIWORM
                                  mm   4
                                                                                                         M,
                          OW       -                                                                                 SAM
                      ka
                                                                                                                                          W
            n-                        immw    ar                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                       75

                                      TITLE
                           LOAD SUPPORT SYSTEM
                     BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
       Load support systems for securing heavy duty hangers to supporting
surfaces of walls, ceilings, rock or concrete in various construction, excavation
and mining environments often employ a threaded bolt, bearing plate and nut
arrangement to connect to a cable, bolt or rod extending outward from the
supporting surface.     Such bolt systems are generally used as hangers to
support loads in tension extending away from the supporting surface.
       However, the prior art bolt systems have significant disadvantages.
For example, prior art bolt systems generally need to be sized for a specific
diameter of bolt or rod.      Further, the processes required for assembling,
securing and removing prior art bolt systems can be tedious and time
consuming.    Further, the nuts of threaded bolt systems of the prior art can
tend to loosen over time, and mechanisms for preventing loosening of the
nuts, such as cable ties or lock washers, add further to the complexity,
expense and installation time associated with the prior art bolt systems.
       There is therefore a need for an improved load support system.
                        SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
       According to one aspect, the invention is a load support system,
comprising:
       a barrel having a cap side and a wedge side and defining a longitudinal
through hole extending from the cap side to the wedge side, wherein a
diameter of the longitudinal through hole is tapered from a larger diameter at
the wedge side to a smaller diameter at the cap side;
                                         1

        a plurality of wedge elements each having a concave surface, a base
and a tip, wherein the wedge elements are positioned inside of the
longitudinal through hole of the barrel; and
        a hanger secured to the barrel.
        Preferably, the concave surface of each wedge element comprises a
plurality of grooves.
        Preferably, the plurality of grooves match a thread size of a bolt or
threaded rod that is received in the barrel, whereby in use the plurality of
grooves assist the load support system to grip the bolt or threaded rod and
prevent longitudinal movement of the load support system along the bolt or
threaded rod.
        Preferably, the plurality of wedge elements comprises three wedge
elements.
        Preferably, the tip of each wedge element extends outward from the
cap side of the barrel.
        Preferably each wedge element includes a retaining groove for
receiving an O-ring or clip for securing the wedge element inside of the barrel.
        Preferably, the load support system further comprises a cap element
having a cap hole, wherein the tip of each wedge element is received in the
cap hole.
        Preferably, there is an interference fit of the plurality of wedge elements
inside the cap hole.
        Optionally, the plurality of wedge elements are retained inside of the
barrel.
        Preferably, a secured projecting element such as a cable, rod or bolt
extends into the longitudinal through hole and is gripped by the concave
surface of each of the plurality of wedge elements.
                                          2

       Preferably, the hanger is secured to a groove in the barrel.
       Preferably, the groove in the barrel is an annular groove that extends
around a perimeter of the barrel.
       Optionally, the hanger is secured to transverse holes in the barrel.
       Preferably, the hanger is U shaped.
       Preferably, the load support system is made of steel.
                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       To assist in understanding the invention and to enable a person skilled
in the art to put the invention into practical effect, preferred embodiments of
the invention are described below by way of example only with reference to
the accompanying drawings, in which:
       FIG. 1 is a partially exploded side view of a load support system,
according to an embodiment of the present invention;
       FIG. 2 is an exploded view of just the barrel, cap element and wedge
elements of the load support system of FIG. 1;
       FIG. 3A, 3B and 3C illustrate various perspective views of wedge
elements of the load support system of FIG. 1;
       FIG. 4 is a side perspective view of a load support system, according to
an alternative embodiment of the present invention;
       FIG. 5 is an end view of the load support system of FIG. 4, shown held
in a person's hand.
       FIG. 6 is an assembled perspective view of another alternative
embodiment of a load support system according to the present invention;
       FIG. 7 is a side view of the load support system of FIG. 6; and
                                         3

        FIG. 8 is a further side view of the load support system of FIG. 6.
           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
        The present invention relates to a load support system. Elements of
the invention are illustrated in concise outline form in the drawings, showing
only those specific details that are necessary to understanding the
embodiments of the present invention, but so as not to clutter the disclosure
with excessive detail that will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art in
light of the present description.
        In this patent specification, adjectives such as first and second, left and
right, top and bottom, upper and lower, rear, front and side, etc., are used
solely to define one element or method step from another element or method
step without necessarily requiring a specific relative position or sequence that
is described by the adjectives. Words such as "comprises" or "includes" are
not used to define an exclusive set of elements or method steps.           Rather,
such words merely define a minimum set of elements or method steps
included in a particular embodiment of the present invention.
        According to one aspect, the present invention is defined as a load
support system. The system comprises a barrel having a cap side and a
wedge side and defining a longitudinal through hole extending from the cap
side to the wedge side, wherein a diameter of the longitudinal through hole is
tapered from a larger diameter at the wedge side to a smaller diameter at the
cap side. A plurality of wedge elements each having a concave surface, a
base and a tip, wherein the wedge elements are positioned inside of the
longitudinal through hole of the barrel. A hanger is then secured to the barrel
to support a tensile load.
        Advantages of some embodiments of the present invention include a
very robust load support and/or anchor system that can be quickly and
efficiently assembled onto a projection such as a bolt, rod or cable, and which
                                          4

system also can be quickly and efficiently removed from or repositioned on
the projection.
        FIG. 1 is a partially exploded side view of a load support system 100,
according to an embodiment of the present invention.           The system 100
includes a barrel 105 having a cap side 110 and a wedge side 115 and
defining a longitudinal through hole 120 extending from the cap side 110 to
the wedge side 115. A plurality of wedge elements 125 each having a base
130 and a tip 135 are positioned inside of the longitudinal through hole 120 of
the barrel 105.
        A cap element 140 includes a cap hole 145, wherein the tip 135 of
each wedge element 125 is received in the cap hole 145. A hanger 150 is
secured to sides of the barrel 105.
        In use, a secured projecting element such as a threaded rod 155, cable
or bolt extends into the longitudinal through hole 120 and is gripped by the
wedge elements 125. The hanger 150 is then securely fastened to whatever
object (not shown) the secured projecting element is attached to, such as a
wall, ceiling, rock or slab of concrete.
        Fixing the load support system 100 to the threaded rod 155 can be
performed simply and easily by first sliding the cap element 140 over the rod
155. The barrel 105 with the wedge elements 125 positioned concentrically in
the longitudinal through hole 120 is then slid over the rod 155 to a desired
position. Pulling the barrel 105 toward the base 130 of the wedge elements
125 causes the wedge elements 125 to grip the rod 155.          Finally, the cap
element 140 is slid over the tips 135 of the wedge elements 125 in an
interference fit to lock the system 100 together and prevent unintended
loosening of the system 100 from the rod 155.
        Further, the load support system 100 can be easily and quickly
removed from the rod 155 by prying the cap element 140 away from the barrel
105 and then sliding the barrel toward the tips 135 of the wedge elements
125.
                                         5

        Thus, in various environments such as construction, excavation or
mining environments, the load support system 100 can be quickly, efficiently
and reliably used to support a tensile load. For example, hooks or cables can
be quickly and easily connected to a distal end of the hanger 150.
        FIG. 2 is an exploded view of just the barrel 105, cap element 140 and
wedge elements 125 of the load support system 100. As shown, there are
three wedge elements 125, although alternative embodiments can include a
greater or lesser number of wedge elements.           Each wedge element 125
includes a concave surface 205 that is used to grip the projecting element
such as the threaded rod 155.
        As shown, a diameter of the longitudinal through hole 120 is tapered
from a larger diameter at the wedge side 125 (facing out of the page in FIG. 2)
to a smaller diameter at the cap side 110 (facing into the page in FIG. 2);
        FIGs. 3A, 3B and 3C illustrate various perspective views of the wedge
elements 125.      As shown, each wedge element 125 includes a retaining
groove 305 for receiving an O-ring or clip (not shown) for securing the wedge
element 125 inside of the barrel 105.
        According to alternative embodiments of the present invention, the
concave surfaces 205 of the wedge elements 125 include a plurality of
grooves (not shown). The plurality of grooves match a thread size of a bolt or
threaded rod 155 that is received in the barrel 105, whereby in use the
plurality of grooves receive the threads of the threaded rod 155 to assist the
load support system 100 to grip the bolt or threaded rod 155 and prevent
longitudinal movement of the load support system 100 along the bolt or
threaded rod 155.     As will be understood by those having ordinary skill in the
art, the plurality of grooves can be machined, cast or moulded into the
concave surfaces 205 of the wedge elements 125.
        FIG. 4 is a side perspective view of a load support system 400,
according to an alternative embodiment of the present invention. In the
system 400, wedge elements are retained entirely within the interior of a
barrel 405. Further, an annular groove 410 is positioned around the perimeter
                                         6

of the barrel 405. A hanger 410 includes a U section 415 and a hook section
420. The U section 415 is secured in the annular groove 410. A side of the
barrel 405 also includes two transverse blind holes 420, spaced 180 degrees
apart, which can be used to secure an alternative type of hanger (not shown).
          In use, the hook section 420 can be used as an anchor point or
secured to a hook, cable, rope or fastener to support a tensile load.
        FIG. 5 is an end view of the load support system 400, shown held in a
person's hand 500. Tips 505 of wedge elements are shown in a centre of a
longitudinal through hole 510.
        FIG.s 6, 7 and 8 illustrate yet another embodiment of the present
invention, including a heavy duty lug/ring hanger having two distal ends that
are pivotably connected to each side of a barrel.
        Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various embodiments of the
present invention can be made of various materials, or a combination of
various materials, including steel, metal alloys or high strength plastics or
composites.
        The above description of various embodiments of the present invention
is provided for purposes of description to one of ordinary skill in the related
art. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to a single
disclosed embodiment. Numerous alternatives and variations to the present
invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art of the above teaching.
Accordingly, while some alternative embodiments have been discussed
specifically, other embodiments will be apparent or relatively easily developed
by those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly, this patent specification is
intended to embrace all alternatives, modifications and variations of the
present invention that have been discussed herein, and other embodiments
that fall within the spirit and scope of the above described invention.
                                           7

                                          Claims
1.     A load support system, comprising:
       a barrel having a cap side and a wedge side and defining a longitudinal
through hole extending from the cap side to the wedge side, wherein a
diameter of the longitudinal through hole is tapered from a larger diameter at
the wedge side to a smaller diameter at the cap side;
       a plurality of wedge elements each having a concave surface, a base
and a tip, wherein the wedge elements are positioned inside of the
longitudinal through hole of the barrel; and
       a hanger secured to the barrel.
2.     The load support system of claim 1, wherein the concave surface of
each wedge element comprises a plurality of grooves.
3.     The load support system of claim 2, wherein the plurality of grooves
match a thread size of a bolt or threaded rod that is received in the barrel,
whereby in use the plurality of grooves assist the load support system to grip
the bolt or threaded rod and prevent longitudinal movement of the load
support system along the bolt or threaded rod.
4.     The load support system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wedge
elements comprises three wedge elements.
5.     The load support system of claim 1, wherein the tip of each wedge
element extends outward from the cap side of the barrel.
6.     The load support system of claim 1, wherein each wedge element
includes a retaining groove for receiving an O-ring or clip for securing the
wedge element inside of the barrel.
7.     The load support system of claim 1, wherein the load support system
further comprises a cap element having a cap hole, wherein the tip of each
wedge element is received in the cap hole.
                                         8

8.     The load support system of claim 7, wherein there is an interference fit
of the plurality of wedge elements inside the cap hole.
9.     The load support system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wedge
elements are retained inside of the barrel.
10.    The load support system of claim 1, wherein a secured projecting
element extends into the longitudinal through hole and is gripped by the
concave surface of each of the plurality of wedge elements.
11.    The load support system of claim 1, wherein the hanger is secured to a
groove in the barrel.
12.    The load support system of claim 11, wherein the groove in the barrel
is an annular groove that extends around a perimeter of the barrel.
13.    The load support system of claim 1, wherein the hanger is secured to
transverse holes in the barrel.
14.    The load support system of claim 1, wherein the hanger is U shaped.
15.    The load support system of claim 1, wherein the load support system is
made of steel.
                                        9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
