ABSTRACT
Compositions and methods, including novel homogeneous microparticulate suspensions,
are described for treating acute wounds, chronic wounds and/or a wound or epithelial tissue
surface that contains bacterial biofilm, including unexpected synergy between bismuth-thiol
(BT) compounds and certain antibiotics, to provide topical formulations including antiseptic
formulations, for management and promotion of wound healing and in particular infected
wounds. Previously unpredicted antibacterial properties and anti-biofilm properties of
disclosed BT compounds and BT compound-plus-antibiotic combinations are also described,
including preferential efficacies of certain such compositions for treating gram-positive
bacterial infections, and distinct preferential efficacies of certain such compositions for
treating gram-negative bacterial infections.

   C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\KZIA 7143531-.docx-12 06/2018
        BISMUTH-THIOLS AS ANTISEPTICS FOR EPITHELIAL TISSUES, ACUTE AND
             CHRONIC WOUNDS, BACTERIAL BIOFILMS AND OTHER INDICATIONS
   This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of
 5 Australian Patent Application No. 2013202847, which is a further divisional of Application
   No. 2010210620, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
                  This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119(e) of U.S. Provisional Patent
10 ApplicationNo. 61/149,593 filed February 3, 2009, which is incorporated herein by reference
   in its entirety.
   BACKGROUND
15 Technical field
                  The presently disclosed invention embodiments relate to compositions and methods for
   the treatment of microbial infections. In particular, the present embodiments relate to
   improved treatments for managing bacterial infections in epithelial tissues, including in
   wounds such as chronic wounds and acute wounds, and including treatment of bacterial
20 biofilms and other conditions.
   Description of the Related Art
                  The complex series of coordinated cellular and molecular interactions that contribute to
   skin wound healing, and/or to healing or maintenance of epithelial tissues generally, may be
25 adversely impacted by a variety of external factors, such as opportunistic and nosocomial
   infections (e.g., clinical regimens that can increase the risk of infection), local or systemic
   administration of antibiotics (which may influence cell growth, migration or other functions
   and can also select for antibiotic-resistant microbes), frequent wound dressing changes, open
   air exposure of wounds to speed healing, the use of temporary artificial structural support
30 matrix or scaffold materials, and/or the possible need for debridement and/or repeat surgery to
   excise infected or necrotic tissue.

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                    Wound healing thus continues to be a formidable challenge for
    clinical practitioners worldwide. The current treatments for recalcitrant wounds
    are impractical and ineffective, often requiring multiple surgeries to close the
    wound. For instance, Regranex@ (becaplermin, Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical,
 5  Inc., available from Ethicon, Inc., recombinant platelet-derived growth factor)
    exemplifies one of the few available treatments for chronic wounds, but is
    expensive to produce and has limited clinical utility.
    Chronic and Acute Wounds and Wound Biofilms
                    Wounds occur when the continuity between cells within a tissue,
10  or between tissues, is disrupted, for instance, by physical, mechanical,
    biological, pathological and/or chemical forces (e.g., burns, dermal infections,
    puncture wounds, gunshot or shrapnel wounds, skin ulcers, radiation
    poisoning, malignancies, gangrene, autoimmune disease, immunodeficiency
    disease, respiratory insult such as by inhalation or infection, gastrointestinal
15  insult such as by deleterious ingestion or infection, circulatory and hematologic
    disorders including clotting defects,) or other traumatic injuries, or the like.
                    While a limited level of bacterial contamination in a wound, or
    "colonization" of the wound, may not necessarily interfere with the processes
    of wound healing, the presence of bacteria in numbers sufficient to overwhelm
20  the host immune defenses can lead to an acute wound or a chronic wound or
    a wound in which a bacterial biofilm is present, such as a wound infection in
    which bacterial growth proceeds to the detriment of the host. Bryant and Nix,
    Acute and Chronic Wounds: Current Management Concepts, 2006 Mosby
    (Elsevier), NY; Baronoski, Wound Care Essentials: Practical Principles (2 nd
25  Ed.), 2007 Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA). For example,
    acute wounds such as may result from injury, trauma, surgical intervention, or
    other causes, typically lack underlying health deficits and heal rapidly, but may
    on occasion fail to do so due to the presence of an infection; rapidly forming
    bacterial biofilms have been described in acute wounds (e.g.,
30  WO/2007/061942). Additional factors that may contribute to the development
                                               2

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    of chronic wounds include losses in mobility (e.g., that result in continued
    pressure being applied to a wound site), deficits of sensation or mental ability,
    inaccessibility of the wound site (e.g., in the respiratory or gastrointestinal
    tracts) and circulatory deficits. Infection at a chronic wound site may be
 5  detected by the clinical signs of skin redness, edema, pus formation and/or
    unpleasant odor, or other relevant, clinically accepted criteria.
                    Acute wounds that cannot heal properly may thus be present,
    and chronic wounds thus may develop, in higher organisms (including but not
    limited to humans and other mammals) when the host's immune system has
10  been overwhelmed by bacterial infection of a wound site (e.g., an acute
    wound), creating permissive conditions for bacteria to invade and further
    destroy tissue. In general, chronic wounds are wounds that do not heal within
    three months, and instead of becoming smaller they tend to grow larger as the
    bacterial infiltration progresses. Chronic wounds may become very painful and
15  stressful for the patient when nearby nerves become damaged (neuropathy)
    as the wound progresses. These wounds affect four million Americans each
    year and cost about $9 billion in treatment expenses. Afflicted individuals are
    mostly over the age of 60.
                    Chronic wounds may in some cases originate as acute wounds
20  and thus may include, for example, gunshot or shrapnel wounds, burns,
    punctures, venous ulcers, pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers, radiation poisoning,
    malignancies, dermal infections, gangrene, surgical wounds, diabetic foot
    ulcers, decubitis ulcers, venous leg ulcers, infected and/or biofilm-containing
    nonhealing surgical wounds, pyoderma gangrenosum, traumatic wounds,
25  acute arterial insufficiency, necrotizing fasciitis, osteomyelitis (bone infection),
    and radiation injuries, such as osteoradionecrosis and soft tissue
    radionecrosis, or other types of wounds. Venous ulcers, for example, occur
    mostly in the legs, as a result of poor circulation (e.g., ischemia),
    malfunctioning valves of veins, or repeated physical trauma (e.g., repetitive
30  injury). Pressure ulcers may be present when local pressure that is exerted at
    or around a wound site is greater than blood pressure, for instance, such that
                                               3

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    poor circulation, paralysis, and/or bed sores may contribute to, or exacerbate,
    the chronic wound. Diabetic ulcers may occur in individuals with diabetes
    mellitus, for example, persons in whom uncontrolled high blood sugar can
    contribute to a loss of feeling in the extremities, leading to repetitive injuries
 5  and/or neglect on the part of the individual to attend to injuries. Factors that
    can complicate or otherwise influence clinical onset and outcome of chronic
    wounds include the subject's immunological status (e.g., immune suppression,
    pathologically (e.g., HIV-AIDS), radiotherapeutically or pharmacologically
    compromised immune system; age; stress); skin aging (including
10  photochemical aging), and development and progression of biofilms within the
    wound. In the case of epithelial tissues in the respiratory and/or
    gastrointestinal tracts, inaccessibility, occlusion, difficulty in generating
    epithelial surface-clearing fluid forces or development of localized
    microenvironments conducive to microbial survival can engender clinical
15  complications.
                   Wound-related injuries may be accompanied by lost or
    compromised organ function, shock, bleeding and/or thrombosis, cell death
    (e.g., necrosis and/or apoptosis), stress and/or microbial infection. Any or all
    of these events, and especially infection, can delay or prevent the effective
20  tissue repair processes that are involved in wound healing. Hence, it can be
    important as early as possible in an individual who has sustained a wound to
    remove nonviable tissue from a wound site, a process referred to as
    debridement, and also to remove any foreign matter from the wound site, also
    referred to as wound cleansing.
25                 Severe wounds, acute wounds, chronic wounds, burns, and
    ulcers can benefit from cellular wound dressings. Several artificial skin
    products are available for nonhealing wounds or burns such as: Apligraft@
    (Norvartis), Demagraft@, Biobrane@, Transcyte@ (Advance Tissue Science),
    Integra@ Dermal Regeneration Template@ (from Integra Life Sciences
30  Technology), and OrCel@. These products, however, are not designed to
    address the problem of bacterial tissue infiltration and wound spreading.
                                               4

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                    Unfortunately, systemic antibiotics are not effective for the
    treatment of chronic wounds, and are generally not used unless an acute
    infection is also present. Current approaches to the treatment of chronic
    wounds include application of topical antibiotics, but such remedies may
 5  promote the advent of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains and/or may be
    ineffective against bacterial biofilms. It therefore may become especially
    important to use antiseptics when drug resistant bacteria (e.g., methicillin
    resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA) are detected in the wound. There
    are many antiseptics widely in use, but bacterial populations or subpopulations
10  that are established in some chronic wounds may not respond to these agents,
    or to any other currently available treatments, thus requiring surgical
    amputation or resection to prevent further spread of the infection within the
    host, i.e., the undesirable loss of an infected limb or other tissue. Additionally,
    a number of antiseptics may be toxic to host cells at the concentrations that
15  may be needed to be effective against an established bacterial infection at a
    chronic wound site, and hence such antiseptics are unsuitable. This problem
    may be particularly acute in the case of efforts to clear infections from internal
    epithelial surfaces, such as respiratory (e.g., airway, nasopharyngeal and
    laryngeal paths, tracheal, pulmonary, bronchi, bronchioles, alveoli, etc.) or
20  gastrointestinal (e.g., buccal, esophageal, gastric, intestinal, rectal, anal, etc.)
    tracts, or other epithelial surfaces.
                    Particularly problematic are infections composed of bacterial
    biofilms, a relatively recently recognized organization of bacteria by which free,
    single-celled ("planktonic") bacteria assemble by intercellular adhesion into
25  organized, multi-cellular communities (biofilms) having markedly different
    patterns of behavior, gene expression, and susceptibility to environmental
    agents including antibiotics. Biofilms may deploy biological defense
    mechanisms not found in planktonic bacteria, which mechanisms can protect
    the biofilm community against antibiotics and host immune responses.
30  Established biofilms can arrest the wound-healing process.
                                              5

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                    Research into chronic, non-healing wounds has demonstrated
    that microbial biofilms are readily detectable in a majority of cases, and the
    U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) reports that up to 70% of infections in
    the western world are associated with biofilms. It has been reported that
 5  biofilms are more common in chronic wounds than acute wounds (James et
    al., 2008 Wound Rep. and Regen. 16:37-44). Common microbiologic wound
    contaminants include S. aureus, including MRSA (Methicillin Resistant
    Staphylococcus aureus), Enterococci, E. coli, P. aeruginosa, Streptococci, and
    Acinetobacter baumannii. Some of these organisms exhibit an ability to
10  survive on non-nutritive clinical surfaces for months. S. aureus, has been
    shown to be viable for four weeks on dry glass, and for between three and six
    months on dried blood and cotton fibers (Domenico et al., 1999 Infect. Immun.
    67:664-669). Both E. coli and P. aeruginosa have been shown to survive even
    longer than S. aureus on dried blood and cotton fibers (ibid).
15                  Microbial biofilms are associated with substantially increased
    resistance to both disinfectants and antibiotics. Biofilm morphology results
    when bacteria and/or fungi attach to surfaces. This attachment triggers an
    altered transcription of genes, resulting in the secretion of a remarkably
    resilient and difficult to penetrate polysaccharide matrix, protecting the
20  microbes. Biofilms are very resistant to the mammalian immune system, in
    addition to their very substantial resistance to antibiotics. Biofilms are very
    difficult to eradicate once they become established, so preventing biofilm
    formation is a very important clinical priority. Recent research has shown that
    open wounds can quickly become contaminated by biofilms. These microbial
25  biofilms are thought to delay wound healing, and are very likely related to the
    establishment of serious wound infections.
                    The current guidelines for the care for military wounds, for
    example, specify vigorous and complete irrigation and debridement
    (Blankenship CL, Guidelines for care of open combat casualty wounds, Fleet
30  Operations and Support. U.S. Bureau of Medicine and Surgery). While this
    early intervention is important, it is not adequate to prevent the development of
                                               6

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    infection. Additional therapeutic steps need to be taken following debridement
    to promote healing, reduce the microbial bio-burden, and thereby reduce the
    chances of establishing wound infections and wound biofilms.
                    Because of the complex nature of military traumatic wounds, the
 5  potential for infection is great, particularly considering the introduction of
    foreign objects and other environmental contaminating agents. Both military
    and clinical environments (including people within both of these environments)
    act as important sources of potentially pathogenic microbes, particularly to
    those suffering from open and/or complex wounds. Acute and chronic
10  wounds, including surgical and military wounds, have already compromised
    the body's primary defense and barrier against infection; the skin. Wounds
    thus expose the interior of the body (a moist and nutritive environment) to
    opportunistic and pathogenic infections. Many of these infections, particularly
    persistent wound infections, are likely related to biofilm formation, as has been
15  shown to be the case with chronic wounds (James et al., 2008). Infection of
    wounds in hospitals constitutes one of the most common causes of
    nosocomial infection, and wounds acquired in military and natural disaster
    environments are particularly susceptible to microbial contamination. Military
    wounds are predisposed to infection because they are typically associated with
20  tissue damage, tend to be extensive and deep, may introduce foreign bodies
    and interfere with local blood supply, may be associated with fractures and
    burns, and may lead to shock and compromised immune defenses.
    Skin Architecture and Wound Healing
                    Maintenance of intact, functioning skin and other epithelial
25  tissues (e.g., generally avascular epithelial surfaces that form barriers between
    an organism and its external environment, such as those found in skin and
    also found in the linings of respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts, glandular
    tissues, etc.) is significant to the health and survival of humans and other
    animals. The skin is the largest body organ in humans and other higher
30  vertebrates (e.g., mammals), protecting against environmental insults through
                                               7

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    its barrier function, mechanical strength and imperviousness to water. As a
    significant environmental interface, skin provides a protective body covering
    that permits maintenance of physiological equilibria.
                    Skin architecture is well known. Briefly, epidermis, the skin outer
 5  layer, is covered by the stratum corneum, a protective layer of dead epidermal
    skin cells (e.g., keratinocytes) and extracellular connective tissue proteins.
    The epidermis undergoes a continual process of being sloughed off as it is
    replaced by new material pushed up from the underlying epidermal granular
    cell, spinous cell, and basal cell layers, where continuous cell division and
10  protein synthesis produce new skin cells and skin proteins (e.g., keratin,
    collagen). The dermis lies underneath the epidermis, and is a site for the
    elaboration by dermal fibroblasts of connective tissue proteins (e.g., collagen,
    elastin, etc.) that assemble into extracellular matrix and fibrous structures that
    confer flexibility, strength and elasticity to the skin. Also present in the dermis
15  are nerves, blood vessels, smooth muscle cells, hair follicles and sebaceous
    glands.
                    As the body's first line of defense, the skin is a major target for
    clinical insults such as physical, mechanical, chemical and biological (e.g.,
    xenobiotic, autoimmune) attack that can alter its structure and function. The
20  skin is also regarded as an important component of immunological defense of
    the organism. In the skin can be found migrating as well as resident white
    blood cells (e.g., lymphocytes, macrophages, mast cells) and epidermal
    dendritic (Langerhans) cells having potent antigen-presenting activity, which
    contribute to immunological protection. Pigmented melanocytes in the basal
25  layer absorb potentially harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Disruption of the
    skin presents undesirable risks to a subject, including those associated with
    opportunistic infections, incomplete or inappropriate tissue remodeling,
    scarring, impaired mobility, pain and/or other complications. Like the skin,
    other epithelial surfaces (e.g., respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and
30  glandular linings) have defined structural attributes when healthy such that
    infection or other disruptions may present serious health risks.
                                                8

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                    Damaged or broken skin may result, for example, from wounds
    such as cuts, scrapes, abrasions, punctures, burns (including chemical burns),
    infections, temperature extremes, incisions (e.g., surgical incisions), trauma
    and other injuries. Efficient skin repair via wound healing is therefore clearly
 5  desirable in these and similar contexts.
                    Although skin naturally exhibits remarkable ability for self-repair
    following many types of damage, there remain a number of contexts in which
    skin healing does not occur rapidly enough and/or in which inappropriate
    cellular tissue repair mechanisms result in incompletely remodeled skin that as
10  a consequence can lack the integrity, barrier properties, mechanical strength,
    elasticity, flexibility, or other desirable properties of undamaged skin. Skin
    wound healing thus presents such associated challenges, for example, in the
    context of chronic wounds.
                    Wound healing occurs in three dynamic and overlapping phases,
15  beginning with the formation of a fibrin clot. The clot provides a temporary
    shield and a reservoir of growth factors that attracts cells into the wound. It
    also serves as a provisional extracellular matrix (ECM) that the cells invade
    during repair. Intermingled with clot formation is the inflammatory phase,
    which is characterized by the infiltration of phagocytes and neutrophils into the
20  wound, which clear the wound of debris and bacteria, while releasing growth
    factors that amplify the early healing response. The process of restoring the
    denuded area is initiated in the proliferation phase of healing and is driven by
    chemokines, cytokines, and proteases that have been secreted from the
    immune cells and are concentrated within the clot. Keratinocytes are
25  stimulated to proliferate and migrate, which forms the new layer of epithelium
    that covers the wound while wound angiogenesis delivers oxygen, nutrients,
    and inflammatory cells to the wounded area. The remodeling phase is the final
    phase of wound repair and it is carried out by the myofibroblasts, which
    facilitate connective tissue contraction, increase wound strength, and deposit
30  the ECM that forms the scar (Martin, P. Wound Healing-Aiming for Perfect
    Skin Regeneration. Science 1997;4:75-80).
                                                 9

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    Bismuth Thiol- (BT) based Antiseptics
                   A number of natural products (e.g., antibiotics) and synthetic
    chemicals having antimicrobial, and in particular antibacterial, properties are
    known in the art and have been at least partially characterized by chemical
 5  structures and by antimicrobial effects, such as ability to kill microbes ("cidal"
    effects such as bacteriocidal properties), ability to halt or impair microbial
    growth ("static" effects such as bacteriostatic properties), or ability to interfere
    with microbial functions such as colonizing or infecting a site, bacterial
    secretion of exopolysaccharides and/or conversion from planktonic to biofilm
10  populations or expansion of biofilm formation. Antibiotics, disinfectants,
    antiseptics and the like (including bismuth-thiol or BT compounds) are
    discussed, for example, in U.S. 6,582,719, including factors that influence the
    selection and use of such compositions, including, e.g., bacteriocidal or
    bacteriostatic potencies, effective concentrations, and risks of toxicity to host
15  tissues.
                   Bismuth, a group V metal, is an element that (like silver)
    possesses antimicrobial properties. Bismuth by itself may not be
    therapeutically useful and may exhibit certain inappropriate properties, and so
    may instead be typically administered by means of delivery with a complexing
20  agent, carrier, and/or other vehicle, the most common example of which is
    Pepto Bismol@, in which bismuth is combined (chelated) with subsalicylate.
    Previous research has determined that the combination of certain thiol- (-SH,
    sulfhydryl) containing compounds such as ethane dithiol with bismuth, to
    provide an exemplary bismuth thiol (BT) compound, improves the antimicrobial
25  potency of bismuth, compared to other bismuth preparations currently
    available. There are many thiol compounds that may be used to produce BTs
    (disclosed, for example, in Domenico et al., 2001 Antimicrob. Agent.
    Chemotherap. 45(5):1417-1421, Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agent.
    Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703, and in U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S.
30  6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248; see also, e.g., U.S. 6,582,719) and several of
    these preparations are able to inhibit biofilm formation.
                                             10

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                    BT compounds have proven activity against MRSA (methicillin
    resistant S. aureus), MRSE (methicillin resistant S. epidermidis),
    Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycobacterium avium, drug-resistant P.
    aeruginosa, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E. coli, Klebsiella
 5  pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella pneumophila,
    Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium,
    Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholerae, and Shigella Flexneri
    (Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41:1697-1703). There
    is also evidence of activity against cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex virus type
10  1 (HSV-1) and HSV-2, and yeasts and fungi, such as Candida albicans. BT
    roles have also been demonstrated in reducing bacterial pathogenicity,
    inhibiting or killing a broad spectrum of antibiotic-resistant microbes (gram
    positive and gram-negative), preventing biofilm formation, preventing septic
    shock, treating sepsis, and increasing bacterial susceptibility to antibiotics to
15  which they previously exhibited resistance (see, e.g., Domenico et al., 2001
    Agents Chemother. 45:1417-1421; Domenico et al., 2000 Infect. Med. 17:123
    127; Domenico et al., 2003 Res. Adv. In Antimicrob. Agents & Chemother.
    3:79-85; Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41(8):1697
    1703; Domenico et al., 1999 Infect. Immun. 67:664-669: Huang et al. 1999 J
20  Antimicrob. Chemother. 44:601-605; Veloira et al., 2003 JAntimicrob.
    Chemother. 52:915-919; Wu et al., 2002 Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 26:731
    738).
                    Despite the availability of BT compounds for well over a decade,
    effective selection of appropriate BT compounds for particular infectious
25  disease indications has remained an elusive goal, where behavior of a
    particular BT against a particular microorganism cannot be predicted, where
    synergistic activity of a particular BT and a particular antibiotic against a
    particular microorganism cannot be predicted, where BT effects in vitro may
    not always predict BT effects in vivo, and where BT effects against planktonic
30  (single-cell) microbial populations may not be predictive of BT effects against
    microbial communities, such as bacteria organized into a biofilm. Additionally,
                                               11

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    limitations in solubility, tissue permeability, bioavailability, biodistribution and
    the like may in the cases of some BT compounds hinder the ability to deliver
    clinical benefit safely and effectively. The presently disclosed invention
    embodiments address these needs and offer other related advantages.
 5  BRIEF SUMMARY
                   As disclosed herein for the first time, and without wishing to be
    bound by theory, according to certain embodiments described herein bismuth
    thiol (BT) compounds may be used as antiseptic agents for use in the
    treatment of acute wounds, chronic wounds, and/or wounds that contain
10  bacterial biofilms, and thus may decrease the number of people adversely
    affected by such wounds (e.g., persistent chronic wounds) while also
    decreasing the cost incurred during treatment of such wounds. Also, in certain
    embodiments there are contemplated topical formulations for treating acute
    wounds, chronic wounds, and/or wounds or other epithelial tissue surfaces that
15  contain bacterial biofilms or bacteria related to biofilm formation (e.g., bacteria
    that are capable of forming or otherwise promoting biofilms), which
    formulations comprise one or more BT compound and one or more antibiotic
    compound, as described herein, where according to non-limiting theory,
    appropriately selected combinations of BT compound(s) and antibiotic(s)
20  based on the present disclosure provide heretofore unpredicted synergy in the
    antibacterial (including anti-biofilm) effects of such formulations, for
    therapeutically effective treatment of acute wounds, chronic wounds, and/or
    wounds that contain bacterial biofilms. Also provided herein for the first time
    are unprecedented bismuth-thiol compositions comprising substantially
25  monodisperse microparticulate suspensions, and methods for their synthesis
    and use.
                   According to certain embodiments of the invention described
    herein there is thus provided a bismuth-thiol composition, comprising a
    plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound,
30  substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of
                                              12

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    from about 0.4 ptm to about 5 pim, wherein the BT compound comprises
    bismuth or a bismuth salt and a thiol-containing compound. In another
    embodiment there is provided a bismuth-thiol composition, comprising a
    plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound,
 5  substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of
    from about 0.4 gm to about 5 gm and being formed by a process that
    comprises (a) admixing, under conditions and for a time sufficient to obtain a
    solution that is substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic aqueous
    solution that comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at a concentration of
10  at least 50 mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer, with (ii)
    ethanol in an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that comprises at least
    about 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or 30% ethanol by volume; and (b) adding to
    the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution comprising a thiol-containing
    compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein the thiol-containing compound
15  is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio of from about 1:3 to about
    3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a time sufficient for
    formation of a precipitate which comprises the microparticles comprising the
    BT compound. In certain embodiments the bismuth salt is Bi(N0 3 )3. In certain
    embodiments the acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 5%, 10%, 15%,
20  20%, 22% or 22.5% bismuth by weight. In certain embodiments the acidic
    aqueous solution comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%, 2%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%,
    4%, 4.5% or 5% nitric acid by weight. In certain embodiments the thiol
    containing compound comprises one or more agents selected from 1,2-ethane
    dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione, dithioerythritol, 3,4
25  dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2-hydroxypropane
    thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol, alpha-lipoic acid and
    dithiothreitol.
                    In another embodiment there is provided a method for preparing
    a bismuth-thiol composition that comprises a plurality of microparticles that
30  comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said
    microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to
                                              13

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    about 5 pim, said method comprising the steps of (a) admixing, under
    conditions and for a time sufficient to obtain a solution that is substantially free
    of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic aqueous solution that comprises a bismuth
    salt comprising bismuth at a concentration of at least 50 mM and that lacks a
 5  hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in an amount sufficient
    to obtain an admixture that comprises at least about 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%
    or 30% ethanol by volume; and (b) adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic
    solution comprising a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution,
    wherein the thiol-containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a
10  molar ratio of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under
    conditions and for a time sufficient for formation of a precipitate which
    comprises the microparticles comprising the BT compound. In certain
    embodiments the method further comprises recovering the precipitate to
    remove impurities. In certain embodiments the bismuth salt is Bi(N0 3) 3 . In
15  certain embodiments the acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 5%, 10%,
    15%, 20%, 22% or 22.5% bismuth by weight. In certain embodiments the
    acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%, 2%, 2.5%, 3%,
    3.5%, 4%, 4.5% or 5% nitric acid by weight. In certain embodiments the thiol
    containing compound comprises one or more agents selected from the group
20  consisting of 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione,
    dithioerythritol, 3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2
    hydroxypropane thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol, dithiothreitol and
    alpha-lipoic acid.
                     In another embodiment there is provided a method for protecting
25  an epithelial tissue surface against a bacterial pathogen, comprising contacting
    the epithelial tissue surface with an effective amount of a BT composition
    under conditions and for a time sufficient for one or more of (i) prevention of
    infection of the epithelial tissue surface by the bacterial pathogen, (ii) inhibition
    of cell viability or cell growth of substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial
30  pathogen, (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by the bacterial pathogen, and (iv)
    inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of substantially all biofilm-form
                                                14

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    cells of the bacterial pathogen, wherein the BT composition comprises a
    plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound,
    substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of
    from about 0.4 gm to about 5 gm. In certain embodiments the bacterial
 5  pathogen is selected from Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), MRSA
    (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis , MRSE
    (methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
    Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P.
    aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E.
10  coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella
    pneumophila, Enterococcus faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus
    faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris,
     Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant
    Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
15  Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, vancomycin
    resistant enterococci, and Acinetobacter baumannii. In certain embodiments
    the bacterial pathogen exhibits antibiotic resistance. In certain embodiments
    the bacterial pathogen exhibits resistance to an antibiotic that is selected from
    methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol,
20  doxycycline and tobramycin.
                    In certain embodiments the epithelial tissue surface comprises a
    tissue that is selected from epidermis, dermis, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal
    tract and glandular linings. In certain embodiments the step of contacting is
    performed one or a plurality of times. In certain embodiments at least one step
25  of contacting comprises one of spraying, irrigating, dipping and painting the
    epithelial tissue surface. In certain embodiments at least one step of
    contacting comprises one of inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating. In certain
    embodiments least one step of contacting comprises administering by a route
    that is selected from topically, intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally,
30  intravenously, intraarterially, transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously,
    intramuscularly, transbuccally, intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly,
                                              15

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    intraauricularly, intraventricularly, subcutaneously, intraadiposally,
    intraarticularly and intrathecally. In certain embodiments the BT composition
    comprises one or more BT compounds selected from the group consisting of
    BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE,
 5  Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis
    Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2
    propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol.
                    In certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen exhibits antibiotic
    resistance. In certain other embodiments the above described method further
10  comprises contacting the epithelial tissue surface with a synergizing antibiotic,
    simultaneously or sequentially and in any order with respect to the step of
    contacting the epithelial tissue surface with the BT composition. In certain
    embodiments the synergizing antibiotic comprises an antibiotic that is selected
    from an aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin
15  antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide
    antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin
    antibiotic. In certain embodiments the synergizing antibiotic is an
    aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from amikacin, arbekacin,
    gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin,
20  rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                    In another embodiment of the invention described herein there is
    provided a method for overcoming antibiotic resistance (e.g., for a bacterial
    pathogen that is resistant to at least one anti-bacterial effect of at least one
    antibiotic known to have an anti-bacterial effect against bacteria of the same
25  bacterial species, rendering such a pathogen susceptible to an antibiotic) on
    an epithelial tissue surface where an antibiotic-resistant bacterial pathogen is
    present, comprising contacting the epithelial tissue surface contacting
    simultaneously or sequentially and in any order with an effective amount of (1)
    at least one bismuth-thiol (BT) composition and (2) at least one antibiotic that
30  is capable of acting synergistically with the at least one BT composition, under
    conditions and for a time sufficient for one or more of: (i) prevention of infection
                                              16

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    of the epithelial tissue surface by the bacterial pathogen, (ii) inhibition of cell
    viability or cell growth of substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial
    pathogen, (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by the bacterial pathogen, and (iv)
    inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of substantially all biofilm-form
 5  cells of the bacterial pathogen, wherein the BT composition comprises a
    plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound,
    substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of
    from about 0.4 pm to about 5 ptm; and thereby overcoming antibiotic resistance
    on the epithelial tissue surface. In certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen
10  is selected from Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), MRSA (methicillin
    resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis , MRSE (methicillin-resistant
    S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycobacterium avium,
    Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P. aeruginosa, Escherichia coli,
    enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E. coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae,
15  Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella pneumophila, Enterococcus
    faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae,
    Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio
    cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus (VRE),
    Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis, Bacillus anthracis,
20   Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, vancomycin-resistant enterococci,
    and Acinetobacter baumannii.
                     In certain embodiments the bacterial pathogen exhibits
    resistance to an antibiotic that is selected from methicillin, vancomycin,
    naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, doxycycline, tobramycin,
25  clindamicin and gatifloxacin. In certain embodiments the epithelial tissue
    surface comprises a tissue that is selected from the group consisting of
    epidermis, dermis, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and glandular linings.
    In certain embodiments the step of contacting is performed one or a plurality of
    times. In certain embodiments at least one step of contacting comprises one
30  of spraying, irrigating, dipping and painting the epithelial tissue surface. In
    certain other embodiments at least one step of contacting comprises one of
                                                17

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating. In certain embodiments at least one
    step of contacting comprises administering by a route that is selected from
    topically, intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally, intravenously, intraarterially,
    transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, transbuccally,
 5  intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly, intraauricularly, intraventricularly,
    subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly and intrathecally. In certain
    embodiments the BT composition comprises one or more BT compounds
    selected from BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2
    mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis
10  Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery,
    bismuth-I -mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol. In
    certain embodiments the synergizing antibiotic comprises an antibiotic that is
    selected from clindamicin, gatifloxacin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic, a
    carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic,
15  a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant
    penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin antibiotic. In certain embodiments
    the synergizing antibiotic is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from
    amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin,
    paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
20                  Turning to another embodiment there is provided a method of
    treating an acute wound, a chronic wound or a wound or epithelial tissue
    surface that contains bacterial biofilm in a subject, comprising administering, to
    a wound site or epithelial tissue surface in the subject, a therapeutically
    effective amount of a topical formulation that comprises (a) at least one BT
25  compound, and (b) a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier for
    topical use. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating an
    acute wound, a chronic wound or a wound or epithelial tissue surface that
    contains bacterial biofilm in a subject, comprising administering, to a wound
    site or epithelial tissue surface in the subject, a therapeutically effective
30  amount of a topical formulation that comprises (a) at least one BT compound,
    (b) at least one antibiotic compound that is capable of acting synergistically
                                              18

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    with the BT compound, and (c) a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or
    carrier for topical use.
                    In certain embodiments the BT compound is selected from
    BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE,
 5  Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis
    Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2
    propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol. In certain embodiments the
    BT composition comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a
    bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a
10  volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 gm to about 5 gm. In certain
    embodiments the BT compound is selected from BisEDT and BisBAL. In
    certain embodiments the wound is an acute wound or a chronic wound that
    contains a bacterial infection. In certain embodiments the bacterial infection
    comprises one or more of gram-positive bacteria and gram-negative bacteria.
15  In certain embodiments the bacterial infection comprises at least one bacterial
    population selected from a bacterial biofilm and planktonic bacteria. In certain
    embodiments the antibiotic compound comprises an antibiotic that is selected
    from an aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin
    antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide
20  antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin
    antibiotic. In certain embodiments the antibiotic is an aminoglycoside antibiotic
    that is selected from amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin,
    netilmicin, paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and
    apramycin. In certain embodiments the aminoglycoside antibiotic is amikacin.
25                  Turning to another embodiment there is provided an antiseptic
    composition for treating an acute wound, a chronic wound or a wound or
    epithelial tissue surface that contains bacterial biofilm, comprising (a) at least
    one BT compound; (b) at least one antibiotic compound that is capable of
    acting synergistically with the BT compound; and (c) a pharmaceutically
30  acceptable excipient or carrier for topical use. In certain embodiments the BT
    compound is selected from BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2
                                              19

  WO 20101091124                                                        PCT/US2010/023108
    mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis
    Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery,
    bismuth-1 -mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol. In
    certain embodiments the BT composition comprises a plurality of
 5  microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of
    said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 ptm to
    about 5 pm. In certain embodiments the BT compound is selected from
    BisEDT and BisBAL. In certain embodiments the antibiotic compound
    comprises an antibiotic that is selected from methicillin,_vancomycin, naficilin,
10  gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, doxycycline, tobramycin, clindamicin,
    gatifloxacin and an aminoglycoside antibiotic. In certain embodiments the
    aminoglycoside antibiotic is selected from amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin,
    kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin,
    streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin. In certain embodiments the
15  aminoglycoside antibiotic is amikacin.
                    In certain other embodiments there is provided a method for
    treating an acute wound, a chronic wound or a wound or epithelial tissue
    surface that contains bacterial biofilm, comprising (a) identifying a bacterial
    infection in a wound or epithelial tissue surface in a subject as comprising one
20  of (i) gram positive bacteria, (ii) gram negative bacteria, and (iii) both (i) and
    (ii); (b) administering a topical formulation that comprises one or more bismuth
    thiol (BT) compositions to the wound, wherein (i) if the bacterial infection
    comprises gram positive bacteria, then the formulation comprises
    therapeutically effective amounts of at least one BT compound and at least
25  one antibiotic that is rifamycin, (ii) if the bacterial infection comprises gram
    negative bacteria, then the formulation comprises therapeutically effective
    amounts of at least one BT compound and amikacin, (iii) if the bacterial
    infection comprises both gram positive and gram negative bacteria, then the
    formulation comprises therapeutically effective amounts of one or a plurality of
30  BT compounds, rifamycin and amikacin, and thereby treating the wound or
    epithelial tissue surface. In certain embodiments treating the wound prevents
                                                20

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    neuropathy resulting from chronic wound progression. In certain embodiments
    the bacterial infection comprises one or a plurality of antibiotic-resistant
    bacteria. In certain embodiments the wound is selected from the group
    consisting of a venous ulcer, a pressure ulcer, a diabetic ulcer, a decubitis
 5  ulcer, a gunshot wound, a puncture wound, a shrapnel wound, an ischemic
    wound, a surgical wound, a traumatic wound, acute arterial insufficiency,
    necrotizing fasciitis, osteomyelitis, a wound resulting from radiation poisoning,
    osteoradionecrosis, soft tissue radionecrosis, pyoderma gangrenosum, a
    gangrenous wound, a burn, a dermal infection and a malignancy. In certain
10  embodiments the wound is an acute wound or a chronic wound that comprises
    a bacterial biofilm. In certain embodiments treating the wound comprises at
    least one of: (i) eradicating the bacterial biofilm, (ii) reducing the bacterial
    biofilm, and (iii) impairing growth of the bacterial biofilm. In certain
    embodiments the BT composition comprises a plurality of microparticles that
15  comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said
    microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to
    about 5 pim.
                   These and other aspects of the herein described invention
20  embodiments will be evident upon reference to the following detailed
    description and attached drawings. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent
    application publications, U.S. patent applications, foreign patents, foreign
    patent applications and non-patent publications referred to in this specification
    and/or listed in the Application Data Sheet, including U.S. RE37,793, U.S.
25  6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248, are incorporated herein by
    reference in their entirety, as if each was incorporated individually. Aspects
    and embodiments of the invention can be modified, if necessary, to employ
    concepts of the various patents, applications and publications to provide yet
    further embodiments.
                                              21

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
                   Figure 1 shows surviving numbers (log CFU; colony forming
    units) from Pseudomonas aeruginosa colony biofilms grown for 24 hours on
    10% tryptic soy agar (TSA) at 370C, followed with indicated treatment for 18
 5  hours. Indicated antibiotic treatments are TOB, tobramycin 1oX MIC; AMK,
    amikacin 10OX MIC; IPM, imipenem 1OX MIC; CEF, cefepime 1OX MIC; CIP,
    ciprofloxacin 10OX MIC; Cpd 2B, compound 2B (Bis-BAL, 1:1.5). (MIC;
    minimum inhibitory concentration, e.g., lowest concentration that prevents
    bacterial growth).
10                 Figure 2 shows surviving numbers (log CFU) from
    Staphylococcus aureus colony biofilms grown for 24 hours on 10% tryptic soy
    agar, followed by the indicated treatment. Indicated antibiotic treatments are
    Rifampicin, RIF 10OX MIC; daptomycin, DAP 320X MIC; minocycline, MIN
    10OX MIC; ampicillin, AMC 1oX MIC; vancomycin, VAN 1OX MIC; Cpd 2B,
15  compound 2B (Bis-BAL, 1:1.5), Cpd 8-2, compound 8-2 (Bis-Pyr/BDT
    (1:1/0.5).
                   Figure 3 shows scratch closure over time of keratinocytes
    exposed to biofilms. (*) Significantly different from control (P<0.001).
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
20                 Particular embodiments of the invention disclosed herein are
    based on the surprising discovery that certain bismuth-thiol (BT) compounds
    as provided herein, but not certain other BT compounds, exhibited potent
    antiseptic, antibacterial and/or anti-biofilm activity against particular bacteria
    associated with clinically significant infections in acute and/or chronic wounds
25  and/or wounds that contain bacterial biofilms and/or on epithelial tissue
    surfaces as provided herein.
                   Unexpectedly, not all BT compounds were uniformly effective
    against such bacteria in a predictable fashion, but instead exhibited different
    potencies depending on the target bacterial species. In particular and as
30  described herein, certain BT compounds were found to exhibit higher potency
                                              22

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    against gram-negative bacteria, while certain other BT compounds were found
    to exhibit greater potency against gram-positive bacteria, in a manner that,
    according to non-limiting theory, may for the first time afford clinically relevant
    strategies for the management of bacterial infections, including bacterial
 5  biofilm infections, that are present in acute wounds, chronic wounds, and/or
    other wounds that contain bacterial biofilms and/or on epithelial tissue
    surfaces.
                    Additionally, and as described in greater detail below, certain
    embodiments of the invention described herein relate to surprising advantages
10  that are provided by novel bismuth-thiol (BT) compositions that, as disclosed
    herein, can be made in preparations that comprise a plurality of BT
    microparticles that are substantially monodisperse with respect to particle size
    (e.g., having volumetric mean diameter from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm).
                    As also disclosed herein, with respect to certain embodiments, it
15  has been discovered that antibacterial and anti-biofilm efficacies of certain
    antibiotics, which antibiotics have previously been found to lack therapeutic
    effect against such bacterial infections, may be significantly enhanced (e.g.,
    increased in a statistically significant manner) by treating the infection (e.g., by
    direct application on or in an acute or chronic wound site or other epithelial
20  tissue surface) with one or more of these antibiotics in concert with a selected
    BT compound. In a manner that could not be predicted prior to the present
    disclosure, certain BT compounds can be combined with certain antibiotics to
    provide a synergizing combination with respect to antibacterial and/or anti
    biofilm activity against certain bacterial species or bacterial strains. The
25  unpredicted nature of such combinations, as described in greater detail below,
    is evidenced by the observations that while certain BT/antibiotic combinations
    acted synergistically against certain bacteria, certain other BT/antibiotic
    combinations failed to exhibit synergistic antibacterial and/or anti-biofilm
    activity.
30                  According to these and related embodiments, the antibiotic and
    the BT compound may be administered simultaneously or sequentially and in
                                              23

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    either order, and it is noteworthy that the specific combinations of one or more
    antibiotic and one or more BT compound as disclosed herein for treatment of a
    particular infection such as may be found in an acute or chronic wound (e.g., a
    biofilm formed by gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria) did not exhibit
 5  predictable (e.g., merely additive) activities but instead acted in an
    unexpectedly synergistic fashion, as a function of the selected antibiotic, the
    selected BT compound and the specifically identified target bacteria.
                   For example, by way of illustration and not limitation, disclosed
    herein for the first time in the context of topical applications such as bacterially
10  infected chronic wounds or other epithelial tissue surfaces, and further in the
    context of improved substantially monodisperse microparticulate BT
    formulations, either or both of a particular antibiotic compound and a particular
    BT compound may exert limited antibacterial effects when used alone against
    a particular bacterial strain or species, but the combination of both the
15  antibiotic compound and the BT compound exerts a potent antibacterial effect
    against the same bacterial strain or species, which effect is greater in
    magnitude (with statistical significance) than the simple sum of the effects of
    each compound when used alone, and is therefore believed according to non
    limiting theory to reflect antibiotic-BT synergy. Accordingly, not every BT
20  compound may synergize with every antibiotic, and not every antibiotic may
    synergize with any BT compound, such that antibiotic-BT synergy generally is
    not predictable. Instead, and according to certain embodiments as disclosed
    herein, specific combinations of synergizing antibiotic and BT compounds
    surprisingly confer potent antibacterial effects against particular bacteria,
25  including in particular environments such as chronic wounds in skin or soft
    tissues and/or epithelial tissue surfaces, and further including in certain
    situations antibacterial effects against biofilms formed by the particular
    bacteria.
                   That is, certain BT-synergizing antibiotics are described herein,
30  which includes an antibiotic that is capable of acting synergistically with at
    least one BT composition that comprises at least one BT compound as
                                              24

  WO 20101091124                                                        PCT/US2010/023108
    provided herein, where such synergy manifests as a detectable effect that is
    greater (i.e., in a statistically significant manner relative to an appropriate
    control condition) in magnitude than the effect that can be detected when the
    antibiotic is present but the BT compound is absent, and/or when the BT
 5  compound is present but the antibiotic is absent.
                    Examples of such a detectable effect may in certain
    embodiments include (i) prevention of infection by a bacterial pathogen, (ii)
    inhibition of cell viability or cell growth of substantially all planktonic cells of a
    bacterial pathogen, (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by a bacterial pathogen,
10  and (iv) inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of substantially all biofilm
    form cells of a bacterial pathogen, but the invention is not intended to be so
    limited, such that in other contemplated embodiments antibiotic-BT synergy
    may manifest as one or more detectable effects that may include alteration
    (e.g., a statistically significant increase or decrease) of one or more other
15  clinically significant parameters, for example, the degree of resistance or
    sensitivity of a bacterial pathogen to one or more antibiotics or other drugs or
    chemical agents, the degree of resistance or sensitivity of a bacterial pathogen
    to one or more chemical, physical or mechanical conditions (e.g., pH, ionic
    strength, temperature, pressure), and/or the degree of resistance or sensitivity
20  of a bacterial pathogen to one or more biological agents (e.g., a virus, another
    bacterium, a biologically active polynucleotide, an immunocyte or an
    immunocyte product such as an antibody, cytokine, chemokine, enzyme
    including degradative enzymes, membrane-disrupting protein, a free radical
    such as a reactive oxygen species, or the like).
25                  Persons familiar with the art will appreciate these and a variety of
    other criteria by which the effects of particular agents on the structure, function
    and/or activity of a bacterial population may be determined (e.g., Coico et al.
    (Eds.), Current Protocols in Microbiology, 2008, John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken,
    NJ; Schwalbe et al., Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing Protocols, 2007, CRC
30  Press, Boca Raton, FL), for purposes of ascertaining antibiotic-BT synergy
    which, as provided herein, is present when the effects of the synergizing
                                                25

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    antibiotic-BT combination exceed the mere sum of the effects observed when
    one component of the combination is not present.
                   For example, in certain embodiments synergy may be
    determined by determining an antibacterial effect such as those described
 5  herein using various concentrations of candidate agents (e.g., a BT and an
    antibiotic individually and in combination) to calculate a fractional inhibitory
    concentration index (FICI) and a fractional bactericidal concentration index
    (FBCI), according to Eliopoulos et al. (Eliopoulos and Moellering, (1996)
    Antimicrobial combinations. In Antibiotics in Laboratory Medicine (Lorian, V.,
10  Ed.), pp. 330-96, Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, USA). Synergy may
    be defined as an FICI or FBCI index of 50.5, no interaction at >0.5-4 and
    antagonism at >4. (e.g., Odds, FC (2003) Synergy, antagonism, and what the
    chequerboard puts between them. Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy
    52:1). Synergy may also be defined conventionally as >4-fold decrease in
15  antibiotic concentration, or alternatively, using fractional inhibitory
    concentration (FIC) as described, e.g., by Hollander et al. (1998 Antimicrob.
    Agents Chemother. 42:744).
                   In view of these and related embodiments, there are provided for
    the first time methods for treating acute wounds, chronic wounds, and/or
20  wounds that contain bacterial biofilms, with a therapeutically effective amount
    of a topical formulation that comprises one or more BT compounds and,
    optionally, one or more antibiotic compounds. It will be appreciated that based
    on the present disclosure, certain antibiotics are now contemplated for use in
    the treatment of acute and/or chronic wounds, where such antibiotics had
25  previously been viewed by persons familiar with the art as ineffective against
    infections of the type found in acute or chronic wounds, and/or as unsuitable
    for administration in a topical formulation such as a topical formulation for
    treating an acute or chronic wound.
                   Certain embodiments thus contemplate compositions that
30  comprise one or more BT compounds for use as antiseptics. An antiseptic is a
    substance that kills or prevents the growth of microorganisms, and may be
                                             26

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    typically applied to living tissue, distinguishing the class from disinfectants,
    which are usually applied to inanimate objects (Goodman and Gilman's "The
    Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics ", Seventh Edition, Gilman et al.,
    editors, 1985, Macmillan Publishing Co., (hereafter, Goodman and Gilman")
 5  pp. 959-960). Common examples of antiseptics are ethyl alcohol and tincture
    of iodine. Germicides include antiseptics that kill microbes such as microbial
    pathogens.
                   Certain embodiments described herein may contemplate
    compositions that comprise one or more BT compounds and one or more
10  antibiotic compound. Antibiotics are known in the art and typically comprise a
    drug made from a compound produced by one species of microorganism to kill
    another species of microorganism, or a synthetic product having an identical or
    similar chemical structure and mechanism of action, e.g., a drug that destroys
    microorganisms within or on the body of a living organism, including such drug
15  when applied topically. Among embodiments disclosed herein are those in
    which an antibiotic may belong to one of the following classes:
    aminoglycosides, carbapenems, cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones,
    glycopeptide antibiotics, lincosamides (e.g., clindamycin), penicillinase
    resistant penicillins, and aminopenicillins. Compendia of these and other
20  clinically useful antibiotics are available and known to those familiar with the
    art (e.g., Washington University School of Medicine, The Washington Manual
    of Medical Therapeutics (3 2nd Ed.), 2007 Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins,
    Philadelphia, PA; Hauser, AL, Antibiotic Basics for Clinicians, 2007 Lippincott,
    Williams and Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA).
25                 An exemplary class of antibiotics for use with one or more BT
    compounds in certain herein disclosed embodiments is the aminoglycoside
    class of antibiotics, which are reviewed in Edson RS, Terrell CL. The
    aminoglycosides. Mayo Clin Proc. 1999 May;74(5):519-28. This class of
    antibiotics inhibits bacterial growth by impairing bacterial protein synthesis,
30  through binding and inactivation of bacterial ribosomal subunits. In addition to
                                               27

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    such bacteriostatic properties, aminoglycosides also exhibit bacteriocidal
    effects through disruption of cell walls in gram-negative bacteria.
                    Aminoglycoside antibiotics include gentamicin, amikacin,
    streptomycin, and others, and are generally regarded as useful in the
 5  treatment of gram-negative bacteria, mycobacteria and other microbial
    pathogens, although cases of resistant strains have been reported. The
    aminoglycosides are not absorbed through the digestive tract and so are not
    generally regarded as being amenable to oral formulations. Amikacin, for
    example, although often effective against gentamicin-resistant bacterial
10  strains, is typically administered intravenously or intramuscularly, which can
    cause pain in the patient. Additionally, toxicities associated with
    aminoglycoside antibiotics such as amikacin can lead to kidney damage and/or
    irreversible hearing loss.
                    Despite these properties, certain embodiments disclosed herein
15  contemplate oral administration of a synergizing BT/antibiotic combination
    (e.g., where the antibiotic need not be limited to an aminoglycoside) for
    treatment of an epithelial tissue surface at one or more locations along the
    gastrointestinal tract/ alimentary canal. Also contemplated in certain other
    embodiments may be use of compositions and methods described herein as
20  disinfectants, which refers to preparations that kill, or block the growth of,
    microbes on an external surface of an inanimate object.
                    As also described elsewhere herein, a BT compound may be a
    composition that comprises bismuth or a bismuth salt and a thiol- (e.g., -SH, or
    sulfhydryl) containing compound, including those that are described (including
25  their methods of preparation) in Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agent.
    Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703, Domenico et al., 2001 Antimicob.Agent.
    Chemother. 45(5):1417-1421, and in U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S.
    6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248; see also, e.g., U.S. 6,582,719. Certain
    embodiments are not so limited, however, and may contemplate other BT
30  compounds that comprise bismuth or a bismuth salt and a thiol-containing
    compound. The thiol-containing compound may contain one, two, three, four,
                                             28

  WO 20101091124                                                               PCT/US2010/023108
    five, six or more thiol (e.g., -SH) groups. In preferred embodiments the BT
    compound comprises bismuth in association with the thiol-containing
    compound via ionic bonding and/or as a coordination complex, while in some
    other embodiments bismuth may be associated with the thiol-containing
 5  compound via covalent bonding such as may be found in an organometallic
    compound. Certain contemplated embodiments, however, expressly exclude
    a BT compound that is an organometallic compound such as a compound in
    which bismuth is found in covalent linkage to an organic moiety.
                     Exemplary BT compounds are shown in Table 1:
10                             Table 1: Exemglary BT Comrounds*
    1) CPD 1B-1 Bis-EDT (1:1) BiC 2 H4 S2
    2) CPD 1B-2 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6 S 3
    3) CPD 1 B-3 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6S 3
    4) CPD 1C Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6 S 3
    5) CPD 2A Bis-Bal (1:1) BiC 3 H6 S2 0
    6) CPD 2B Bis-Bal (1:1.5) BiC 4 5 HgO 1 .5 S3
    7) CPD 3A Bis-Pyr (1:1.5) BiC 7 .5 H6 Nj.501. 5 S1.5
    8) CPD 3B Bis-Pyr (1:3) BiC 15 H 12 N 3 0 3 S 3
    9) CPD 4 Bis-Ery (1:1.5) BiC 6 H 12 O 3S 3
    10) CPD 5 Bis-Tol (1:1.5) BiC 10 .5 H9 S3
    11) CPD 6 Bis-BDT (1:1.5) BiC 6 H1 2 S 3
    12) CPD 7 Bis-PDT (1:1.5) BiC 4 5 H9S 3
    13) CPD 8-1 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/1)
    14) CPD 8-2 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/0.5)
    15) CPD 9 Bis-2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:3)
    16) CPD 10 Bis-Pyr/Bal (1 :1/0.5)
    17) CPD 11 Bis-Pyr/EDT (1:110.5)
    18)   CPD   12  Bis-Pyr/Tol (1:1/0.5)
    19)   CPD   13  Bis-Pyr/PDT (1 :1/0.5)
    20)   CPD   14  Bis-Pyr/Ery (1:1/0.5)
    21)   CPD   15  Bis-EDT/2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1)
    *Shown are atomic ratios relative to a single bismuth atom, for comparison, based on the
    stoichiometric ratios of the reactants used and the known propensity of bismuth to form
    trivalent complexes with sulfur containing compounds. Atomic ratios as shown may not be
    accurate molecular formulae for all species in a given preparation. The numbers in
    parenthesis are the ratios of bismuth to one (or more) thiol agents. (e.g. Bi:thioll/thiol2)
    "CPD", compound.
                                                   29

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                    BT compounds for use in certain of the presently disclosed
    embodiments may be prepared according to established procedures (e.g.,
    U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248;
    Domenico et al., 1997 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703,
 5  Domenico et al., 2001 Antimicob.Agent. Chemother. 45(5):1417-1421) and in
    certain other embodiments BT compounds may also be prepared according to
    methodologies described herein. Certain preferred embodiments thus
    contemplate the herein described synthetic methods for preparing BT
    compounds, and in particular for obtaining BT compounds in substantially
10  monodisperse microparticulate form, in which an acidic aqueous bismuth
    solution that contains dissolved bismuth at a concentration of at least 50 mM,
    at least 100 mM, at least 150 mM, at least 200 mM, at least 250 mM, at least
    300 mM, at least 350 mM, at least 400 mM, at least 500 mM, at least 600 mM,
    at least 700 mM, at least 800 mM, at least 900 mM or at least 1 M and that
15  lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer is admixed with ethanol to
    obtain a first ethanolic solution, which is reacted with a second ethanolic
    solution comprising a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution,
    wherein the thiol-containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a
    molar ratio of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under
20  conditions and for a time sufficient for formation of a precipitate which
    comprises the microparticles comprising the BT compound (such as the
    conditions of concentration, solvent strength, temperature, pH, mixing and/or
    pressure, and the like, as described herein and as will be appreciated by the
    skilled person based on the present disclosure).
25                 Accordingly, exemplary BTs include compound 1B-1, Bis-EDT
    (bismuth-1 ,2-ethane dithiol, reactants at 1:1); compound 1B-2, Bis-EDT
    (1:1.5); compound 1 B-3, Bis-EDT (1:1.5); compound 1C, Bis-EDT (soluble Bi
    preparation, 1:1.5); compound 2A, Bis-Bal (bismuth-British anti-Lewisite
    (bismuth-dimercaprol, bismuth-2,3-dimercaptopropanol), 1:1); compound 2B,
30  Bis-Bal (1:1.5); compound 3A Bis-Pyr (bismuth-pyrithione, 1:1.5); compound
    3B Bis-Pyr (1:3); compound 4, Bis-Ery (bismuth-dithioerythritol, 1:1.5);
                                             30

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    compound 5, Bis-Tol (bismuth-3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 1:1.5); compound 6,
    Bis-BDT (bismuth-2,3-butanedithiol, 1:1.5); compound 7, Bis-PDT (bismuth
    1,3-propanedithiol, 1:1.5); compound 8-1 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/1); compound 8-2,
    Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/0.5); compound 9, Bis-2-hydroxy, propane thiol (bismuth-1
 5  mercapto-2-propanol, 1:3); compound 10, Bis-Pyr/Bal (1:1/0.5); compound 11,
    Bis-Pyr/EDT (1:1/0.5); compound 12 Bis-Pyr/Tol (1:1/0.5); compound 13, Bis
    Pyr/PDT (1:1/0.5); compound 14 Bis-Pyr/Ery (1:1/0.5); compound 15, Bis
    EDT/2-hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1) (see, e.g., Table 1).
                   Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that the
10  presently disclosed methods of preparing a BT compound, which in certain
    preferred embodiments may comprise preparing or obtaining an acidic
    aqueous liquid solution that comprises bismuth such as an aqueous nitric acid
    solution comprising bismuth nitrate, may desirably yield compositions
    comprising BT compounds where such compositions have one or more
15  desirable properties, including ease of large-scale production, improved
    product purity, uniformity or consistency (including uniformity in particle size),
    or other properties useful in the preparation and/or administration of the
    present topical formulations.
                   In particular embodiments it has been discovered that BT
20  compositions, prepared according to the methods described herein for the first
    time, exhibit an advantageous degree of homogeneity with respect to their
    occurrence as a substantially monodisperse suspension of microparticles each
    having a volumetric mean diameter (VMD) according to certain presently
    preferred embodiments of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm. Measures of
25  particle size can be referred to as volumetric mean diameter (VMD), mass
    median diameter (MMD), or mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD).
    These measurements may be made, for example, by impaction (MMD and
    MMAD) or by laser (VMD) characterization. For liquid particles, VMD, MMD
    and MMAD may be the same if environmental conditions are maintained, e.g.,
30  standard humidity. However, if humidity is not maintained, MMD and MMAD
    determinations will be smaller than VMD due to dehydration during impactor
                                            31

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    measurements. For the purposes of this description, VMD, MMD and MMAD
    measurements are considered to be under standard conditions such that
    descriptions of VMD, MMD and MMAD will be comparable. Similarly, dry
    powder particle size determinations in MMD, and MMAD are also considered
 5  comparable.
                    As described herein, preferred embodiments relate to a
    substantially monodisperse suspension of BT-containing microparticles.
    Generation of a defined BT particle size with limited geometric standard
    deviation (GSD) may, for instance, optimize BT deposition, accessibility to
10  desired target sites in an acute wound, a chronic wound or a wound or
    epithelial tissue surface, and/or tolerability by a subject to whom the BT
    microparticles are administered. Narrow GSD limits the number of particles
    outside the desired VMD or MMAD size range.
                    In one embodiment, a liquid or aerosol suspension of
15  microparticles containing one or more BT compounds disclosed herein is
    provided having a VMD from about 0.5 microns to about 5 microns. In another
    embodiment, a liquid or aerosol suspension having a VMD or MMAD from
    about 0.7 microns to about 4.0 microns is provided. In another embodiment, a
    liquid or aerosol suspension having aVMD or MMAD from about 1.0 micron to
20  about 3.0 microns is provided. In certain other preferred embodiments there is
    provided a liquid suspension comprising one or a plurality of BT compound
    particles of from about 0.1 to about 5.0 microns VMD, or of from about 0.1,
    about 0.2, about 0.3, about 0.4, about 0.5, about 0.6, about 0.7, about 0.8 or
    about 0.9 microns to about 1.0, about 1.5, about 2.0, about 2.5, about 3.0,
25  about 3.5, about 4.0, about 4.5, about 5.0, about 5.5, about 6.0, about 6.5,
    about 7.0, about 7.5 or about 8.0 microns, the particle comprising a BT
    compound prepared as described herein.
                    Accordingly and in certain preferred embodiments, a BT
    preparation described for the first time herein which is "substantially"
30  monodisperse, for example, a BT composition that comprises a BT compound
    in microparticulate form wherein "substantially" all of the microparticles have a
                                             32

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    volumetric mean diameter (VMD) within a specified range (e.g., from about 0.4
    jtrm to about 5 pm), includes those compositions in which at least 80%, 85%,
    90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, or 94%, more preferably at least 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%,
    99% or more of the particles have a VMD that is within the recited size range.
 5                  These and related properties of BT compositions prepared
    according to the herein described synthetic methods offer unprecedented
    advantages over previously described BTs, including lower cost and ease of
    production, and uniformity within the composition that may permit its
    characterization in a manner that facilitates regulatory compliance according to
10  one or more of pharmaceutical, formulary and cosmeceutical standards.
                    Additionally or alternatively, the herein described substantially
    monodisperse BT microparticles may advantageously be produced without the
    need for micronization, i.e., without the expensive and labor-intensive milling or
    supercritical fluid processing or other equipment and procedures that are
15  typically used to generate microparticles (e.g., Martin et al. 2008 Adv. Drug
    Deliv. Rev. 60(3):339; Moribe et al., 2008 Adv. Drug Deliv. Rev. 60(3):328;
    Cape et al., 2008 Pharm. Res. 25(9):1967; Rasenack et al. 2004 Pharm. Dev.
     Technol. 9(1):1-13). Hence, the present embodiments offer beneficial effects
    of substantially uniform microparticulate preparations, including without
20  limitation enhanced and substantially uniform solubilization properties,
    suitability for desired administration forms such as oral, inhaled or
    dermatological/ skin wound topical forms, increased bioavailability and other
    beneficial properties.
                    The BT compound microparticulate suspension can be
25  administered as aqueous formulations, as suspensions or solutions in aqueous
    as well as organic solvents including halogenated hydrocarbon propellants, as
    dry powders, or in other forms as elaborated below, including preparations that
    contain wetting agents, surfactants, mineral oil or other ingredients or additives
    as may be known to those familiar with formulary, for example, to maintain
30  individual microparticles in suspension. Aqueous formulations may be
    aerosolized by liquid nebulizers employing, for instance, either hydraulic or
                                               33

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    ultrasonic atomization. Propellant-based systems may use suitable
    pressurized dispensers. Dry powders may use dry powder dispersion devices,
    which are capable of dispersing the BT-containing microparticles effectively. A
    desired particle size and distribution may be obtained by choosing an
 5  appropriate device.
                   As also noted above, also provided herein according to certain
    embodiments is a method for preparing a bismuth-thiol (BT) composition that
    comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a BT compound,
    substantially all of such microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter
10  (VMD) of from about 0.1 to about 8 microns, and in certain preferred
    embodiments from about 0.4 microns to about 5 microns.
                   In general terms, the method comprises the steps of (a)
    admixing, under conditions and for a time sufficient to obtain a solution that is
    substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic aqueous solution that
15  comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at a concentration of at least 50
    mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in
    an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that comprises at least about 5%,
    10%, 15%, 20%, 25% or 30%, and preferably about 25% ethanol by volume;
    and (b) adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution comprising a thiol
20  containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein the thiol-containing
    compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar ratio of from about 1:3
    to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions and for a time sufficient
    for formation of a precipitate which comprises the BT compound.
                   In certain preferred embodiments the bismuth salt may be
25  Bi(N0 3)3, but it will be appreciated according to the present disclosure that
    bismuth may also be provided in other forms. In certain embodiments the
    bismuth concentration in the acidic aqueous solution may be at least 100 mM,
    at least 150 mM, at least 200 mM, at least 250 mM, at least 300 mM, at least
    350 mM, at least 400 mM, at least 500 mM, at least 600 mM, at least 700 mM,
30  at least 800 mM, at least 900 mM or at least 1 M. In certain embodiments the
    acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or
                                              34

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    22.5% bismuth by weight. The acidic aqueous solution may in certain
    preferred embodiments comprise at least 5% or more nitric acid by weight, and
    in certain other embodiments the acidic aqueous solution may comprise at
    least 0.5%, at least 1%, at least 1.5%, at least 2%, at least 2.5%, at least 3%,
 5  at least 3.5%, at least 4%, at least 4.5% or at least 5% nitric acid by weight.
                    The thiol-containing compound may be any thiol-containing
    compound as described herein, and in certain embodiments may comprise
    one or more of 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione,
    dithioerythritol, 3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2
10  hydroxypropane thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol and dithiothreitol.
    Other exemplary thiol-containing compounds include alpha-lipoic acid,
    methanethiol (CH 3 SH [m-mercaptan]), ethanethiol (C2 H5 SH [e- mercaptan]), 1
    propanethiol (C 3 H7SH [n-P mercaptan]), 2-Propanethiol (CH 3CH(SH)CH        3 [2C3
    mercaptan]), butanethiol (C 4 H9 SH ([n-butyl mercaptan]), tert-butyl mercaptan
15  (C(CH 3) 3SH [t-butyl mercaptan]), pentanethiols (C 5 HjjSH [pentyl mercaptan]),
    coenzyme A, lipoamide, glutathione, cysteine, cystine, 2-mercaptoethanol,
    dithiothreitol, dithioerythritol, 2-mercaptoindole, transglutaminase and any of
    the following thiol compounds available from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO):
    (11 -mercaptoundecyl)hexa(ethylene glycol), (11
20  mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene glycol), (11 -mercaptoundecyl)tetra(ethylene
    glycol) functionalized gold nanoparticles, 1,1',4',1 "-terphenyl-4-thiol, 1,11
    undecanedithiol, 1,16-hexadecanedithiol, 1,2-ethanedithiol technical grade,
    1,3-propanedithiol, 1,4-benzenedimethanethiol, 1,4-butanedithiol, 1,4
    butanedithiol diacetate, 1,5-pentanedithiol, 1,6-hexanedithiol, 1,8
25  octanedithiol, 1,9-nonanedithiol, adamantanethiol, 1-butanethiol, 1
    decanethiol, 1-dodecanethiol, 1-heptanethiol, 1-heptanethiol purum, 1
    hexadecanethiol, 1-hexanethiol, 1-mercapto-(triethylene glycol), 1-mercapto
    (triethylene glycol) methyl ether functionalized gold nanoparticles, 1-mercapto
    2-propanol, 1-nonanethiol, 1-octadecanethiol, 1-octanethiol, 1-octanethiol,
30  1-pentadecanethiol, 1-pentanethiol, 1-propanethiol, 1-tetradecanethiol, 1
    tetradecanethiol purum, 1-undecanethiol, 11-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)undecane-1-thiol,
                                              35

  WO 20101091124                                                 PCT/US2010/023108
    11-amino-1 -undecanethiol hydrochloride, 11 -bromo-1 -undecanethiol, 11
    mercapto-1-undecanol, 11-mercapto-1-undecanol, 11-mercaptoundecanoic
    acid, 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid, 11-mercaptoundecyl trifluoroacetate, 11
    mercaptoundecyl phosphoric acid, 12-mercaptododecanoic acid, 12
 5  mercaptododecanoic acid, 15-mercaptopentadecanoic acid, 16
    mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 16-mercaptohexadecanoic acid, 1H,1H,2H,2H
    perfluorodecanethiol, 2,2'-(ethylenedioxy)diethanethiol, 2,3-butanedithiol, 2
    butanethiol, 2-ethylhexanethiol, 2-methyl-1 -propanethiol, 2-methyl-2
    propanethiol, 2-phenylethanethiol, 3,3,4,4,5,5,6,6,6-nonafluoro-1-hexanethio
10  purum, 3-(dimethoxymethylsilyl)-1 -propanethiol, 3-chloro-1-propanethiol, 3
    mercapto-1-propanol, 3-mercapto-2-butanol, 3-mercapto-N
    nonylpropionamide, 3-mercaptopropionic acid, 3-mercaptopropyl
    functionalized silica gel, 3-methyl-1-butanethiol, 4,4'
    bis(mercaptomethyl)biphenyl, 4,4'-dimercaptostilbene, 4-(6
15  mercaptohexyloxy)benzyl alcohol, 4-cyano-1-butanethiol, 4-mercapto-1
    butanol, 6-(ferrocenyl)hexanethiol, 6-mercapto-1-hexanol, 6
    mercaptohexanoic acid, 8-mercapto-1-octanol, 8-mercaptooctanoic acid, 9
    mercapto-1-nonanol, biphenyl-4,4'-dithiol, butyl 3-mercaptopropionate,
    copper(I) 1-butanethiolate, cyclohexanethiol, cyclopentanethiol, decanethiol
20  functionalized silver nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized gold
    nanoparticles, dodecanethiol functionalized silver nanoparticles,
    hexa(ethylene glycol)mono-1 1-(acetylthio)undecyl ether, mercaptosuccinic
    acid, methyl 3-mercaptopropionate, nanoTether BPA-HH, NanoThinksM 18,
    NanoThinks   m 8,  NanoThinks TM ACID11, NanoThinksTM ACID16, NanoThinks
25  ALCO1 1, NanoThinks * THIO8, octanethiol functionalized gold nanoparticles,
    PEG dithiol average Mn 8,000, PEG dithiol average mol wt 1,500, PEG dithiol
    average mol wt 3,400, S-(1 I -bromoundecyl)thioacetate, S-(4
    cyanobutyl)thioacetate, thiophenol, triethylene glycol mono-1 1
    mercaptoundecyl ether, trimethylolpropane tris(3-mercaptopropionate), [11
30  (methylcarbonylth io)undecyl]tetra(ethylene glycol), m-carborane-9-thiol, p
    terphenyl-4,4"-dithiol, tert-dodecylmercaptan, tert-nonyl mercaptan.
                                            36

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                   Exemplary reaction conditions, including temperature, pH,
    reaction time, the use of stirring or agitation to dissolve solutes and procedures
    for collecting and washing precipitates, are described herein and employ
    techniques generally known in the art.
 5                 Unlike previously described methodologies for producing BT
    compounds, according to the present methods for preparing BT, BT products
    are provided as microparticulate suspensions having substantially all
    microparticles with VMD from about 0.4 to about 5 microns in certain preferred
    embodiments, and generally from about 0.1 microns to about 8 microns
10  according to certain other embodiments. Further unlike previous approaches,
    according to the instant embodiments bismuth is provided in an acidic aqueous
    solution that comprises a bismuth salt at a concentration of from at least about
    50 mM to about 1 M, and nitric acid in an amount from at least about 0.5% to
    about 5% (w/w), and preferably less than 5% (weight/weight), and that lacks a
15  hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer.
                   In this regard the present methods offer surprising and
    unexpected advantages in view of generally accepted art teachings that
    bismuth is not water soluble at 50 pM (e.g., U.S. RE37793), that bismuth is
    unstable in water (e.g., Kuvshinova et al., 2009 Russ. J Inorg. Chem
20  54(11):1816), and that bismuth is unstable even in nitric acid solutions unless
    a hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer is present. For example, in all of the
    definitive descriptions of BT preparation methodologies (e.g., Domenico et al.,
    1997 Antimicrob. Agents. Chemother. 41:1697; U.S. 6,380,248; U.S.
    RE37793; U.S. 6,248,371), the hydrophilic solubilizing agent propylene glycol
25  is required to dissolve bismuth nitrate, and the bismuth concentration of
    solutions prepared for reaction with thiols is well below 15 mM, thereby limiting
    the available production modalities for BT compounds.
                   By contrast, according to the present disclosure there is no
    requirement for a hydrophilic, polar or organic solubilizer in order dissolve
30  bismuth, yet higher concentrations are surprisingly achieved. Hydrophilic,
    polar or organic solubilizers include propylene glycol (PG) and ethylene glycol
                                             37

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    (EG) and may also include any of a large number of known solubility
    enhancers, including polar solvents such as dioxane and dimethylsulfoxide
    (DMSO), polyols (including, e.g., PG and EG and also including polyethylene
    glycol (PEG), polypropyleneglycol (PPG), pentaerythritol and others),
 5  polyhydric alchohols such as glycerol and mannitol, and other agents. Other
    water-miscible organic of high polarity include dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO),
    dimethylformamide (DMF) and NMP (N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone).
                   Thus, it will be appreciated by those familiar with the art that
    solvents, including those commonly used as hydrophilic, polar or organic
10  solubilizers as provided herein, may be selected, for instance, based on the
    solvent polarity/ polarizability (SPP) scale value using the system of Catalan et
    al. (e.g., 1995 Liebigs Ann. 241; see also Catalan, 2001 In: Handbook of
    Solvents, Wypych (Ed.), Andrew Publ., NY, and references cited therein),
    according to which, for example, water has a SPP value of 0.962, toluene a
15  SPP value of 0.655, and 2-propanol a SPP value of 0.848. Methods for
    determining the SPP value of a solvent based on ultraviolet measurements of
    the 2-N,N-dimethyl-7-nitrofluorene/ 2-fluoro-7-nitrofluorene probe/ homomorph
    pair have been described (Catalan et al., 1995).
                   Solvents with desired SPP values (whether as pure single
20  component solvents or as solvent mixtures of two, three, four or more solvents;
    for solvent miscibility see, e.g., Godfrey 1972 Chem. Technol. 2:359) based on
    the solubility properties of a particular BT composition can be readily identified
    by those having familiarity with the art in view of the instant disclosure,
    although as noted above, according to certain preferred embodiments
25  regarding the herein described synthetic method steps, no hydrophilic, polar or
    organic solubilizer is required in order dissolve bismuth.
                   Solubility parameters may also include the interaction parameter
    C, Hildebrand solubility parameter d, or partial (Hansen) solubility parameters:
    5p, 5h and 5d, describing the solvent's polarity, hydrogen bonding potential
30  and dispersion force interaction potential, respectively. In certain
    embodiments, the highest value for a solubility parameter that describes a
                                              38

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    solvent or co-solvent system in which the bismuth salt comprising bismuth will
    dissolve may provide a limitation for the aqueous solution that comprises the
    bismuth salt, for instance, according to the presently described method for
    preparing a microparticulate BT composition. For example, higher oh values
 5  will have a greater hydrogen bonding ability and would therefore have a
    greater affinity for solvent molecules such as water. A higher value of
    maximum observed 6h for a solvent may therefore be preferred for situations
    where a more hydrophilic environment is desired.
                    By way of non-limiting example, BisEDT having the structure
10  shown below in formula I may be prepared according to the following reaction
    scheme:
                                                                              s
                                 H   EtOH                             S-Bi
     Bi(NO3 )3 +  HS             Hs
                                                 s
                                                                       (I)
15                  Briefly, and as a non-limiting illustrative example, to an excess
    (11.4 L) of 5% aqueous HNO 3 at room temperature may be slowly added
    0.331 L (about 0.575 moles) of an aqueous acidic bismuth solution such as a
    Bi(N0 3 )3 solution (e.g., 43% Bi(NO 3 )3 (w/w), 5% nitric acid (w/w), 52% water
    (w/w), available from Shepherd Chemical Co., Cincinnati, OH) with stirring,
20  followed by slow addition of absolute ethanol (4 L). An ethanolic solution (1.56
    L) of a thiol compound such as 1,2-ethanedithiol [-0.55 M] may be separately
    prepared by adding, to 1.5 L of absolute ethanol, 72.19 mL (0.863 moles) of
    1,2-ethanedithiol using a 60 mL syringe, and then stirring for five minutes. 1,2
    ethanedithiol (CAS 540-63-6) and other thiol compounds are available from,
25  e.g., Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO. The ethanolic solution of the thiol
    compound may then be slowly added to the aqueous Bi(NO 3 )3 / HNO 3 solution
    with stirring overnight to form a reaction solution. The thiol-containing
    compound may be present in the reaction solution, according to certain
                                              39

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    preferred embodiments, at a molar ratio of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative
    to the bismuth. The formed product is allowed to settle as a precipitate
    comprising microparticles as described herein, which is then collected by
    filtration and washed sequentially with ethanol, water and acetone to obtain
 5  BisEDT as a yellow amorphous powdered solid. The crude product may be
    redissolved in absolute ethanol with stirring, then filtered and washed
    sequentially with ethanol several times followed by acetone several times. The
    washed powder may be triturated in 1M NaOH (500mL), filtered and washed
    sequentially with water, ethanol and acetone to afford purified microparticulate
10  BisEDT.
                   According to non-limiting theory, bismuth inhibits the ability of
    bacteria to produce extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) such as bacterial
    exopolysaccharides, and this inhibition leads to impaired biofilm formation.
    Bacteria are believed to employ the glue-like EPS for biofilm cohesion.
15  Depending on the nature of an infection, biofilm formation and elaboration of
    EPS may contribute to bacterial pathogenicity such as interference with wound
    healing. However, bismuth alone is not therapeutically useful as an
    intervention agent, and is instead typically administered as part of a complex
    such as a BT. Bismuth-thiols (BTs) are thus a family of compositions that
20  includes compounds that result from the chelation of bismuth with a thiol
    compound, and that exhibit dramatic improvement in the antimicrobial
    therapeutic efficacy of bismuth. BTs exhibit remarkable anti-infective, anti
    biofilm, and immunomodulatory effects. Bismuth thiols are effective against a
    broad-spectrum of microorganisms, and are typically not affected by antibiotic
25  resistance. BTs prevent biofilm formation at remarkably low (sub-inhibitory)
    concentrations, prevent many pathogenic characteristics of common wound
    pathogens at those same sub-inhibitory levels, can prevent septic shock in
    animal models, and may be synergistic with many antibiotics.
                   As described herein, such synergy in the antibacterial effects of
30  one or more specified BT when combined with one or more specified antibiotic
    compound is not readily predictable based on profiles of separate antibiotic
                                            40

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    and BT effects against a particular bacterial type, but surprisingly may result
    from selection of particular BT-antibiotic combinations in view of the specific
    bacterial population, including identification of whether gram-negative or gram
    positive (or both) bacteria are present. For instance, as disclosed herein,
 5  antibiotics that synergize with certain BTs may include one or more of
    amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin,
    clindamycin (or other lincosamide antibiotics), daptomycin (Cubicin@),
    doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin, linezolid
    (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole,
10  tobramycin and vancomycin. In vitro studies showed, for example, that MRSA,
    which was poorly or not at all susceptible to gentamicin, cefazolin, cefepime,
    suphamethoxazole, imipenim or levofloxacin individually, exhibited marked
    sensitivity to any one of these antibiotics if exposed to the antibiotic in the
    presence of the BT compound BisEDT. Certain embodiments contemplated
15  herein thus expressly contemplate compositions and/or methods in which may
    be included the combination of a BT compound and one or more antibiotics
    selected from amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol,
    ciprofloxacin, clindamycin (or another lincosamide antibiotic), daptomycin
    (Cubicin@),_doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin,
20  linezolid (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin,
    sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin and vancomycin, whilst certain other
    embodiments contemplated herein contemplate compositions and/or methods
    in which may be included the combination of a BT compound and one or more
    antibiotics from which expressly excluded may be one or more antibiotic
25  selected from amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol,
    ciprofloxacin, clindamycin (or other lincosamides), daptomycin (Cubicin@),
    doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin, linezolid
    (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole,
    tobramycin and vancomycin. It is noted in this context that gentamicin and
30  tobramycin belong to the aminoglycoside class of antibiotics. Also expressly
    excluded from certain contemplated embodiments are certain compositions
                                             41

  WO 20101091124                                                        PCT/US2010/023108
    and methods described in Domenico et al., 2001 Agents Chemother. 45:1417
    1421; Domenico et al., 2000 Infect. Med. 17:123-127; Domenico et al., 2003
    Res. Adv. In Antimicrob. Agents & Chemother. 3:79-85; Domenico et al., 1997
    Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703; Domenico et al., 1999 Infect.
 5  Immun. 67:664-669: Huang et al. 1999 JAntimicrob. Chemother. 44:601-605;
    Veloira et al., 2003 J Antimicrob. Chemother. 52:915-919; Wu et al., 2002 Am
    J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 26:731-738; Halwani et al., 2008 Int. J Pharm. 358:278).
                    Accordingly and as described herein, in certain preferred
    embodiments there are provided compositions and methods for promoting
10  healing of an acute wound, a chronic wound, and/or a wound that contains a
    bacterial biofilm in a subject, such as skin tissue repair that comprises dermal
    wound healing. As described herein, persons familiar with the relevant art will
    recognize appropriate clinical contexts and situations in which such skin tissue
    repair may be desired, criteria for which are established in the medical arts,
15  including inter alia, e.g., surgical, military surgical, dermatological, trauma
    medicine, gerontological, cardiovascular, metabolic diseases (e.g., diabetes,
    obesity, etc.), infection and inflammation (including in the epithelial linings of
    the respiratory tract or the gastrointestinal tract, or other epithelial tissue
    surfaces such as in glandular tissues), and other relevant medical specialties
20  and subspecialities. It will therefore be appreciated that, as disclosed herein
    and known in the art, promoting skin tissue repair (or other epithelial tissue
    repair) may comprise stimulating or disinhibiting one or more cellular wound
    repair activities selected from (i) epithelial cell (e.g., keratinocyte) or dermal
    fibroblast migration, (ii) epithelial cell (e.g., keratinocyte) or dermal fibroblast
25  growth, (iii) downregulation of epithelial cell (e.g., keratinocyte) or dermal
    fibroblast collagenase, gelatinase or matrix metalloproteinase activity, (iv)
    dermal fibroblast extracellular matrix protein deposition, and (v) induction or
    potentiation of dermal angiogenesis. Methodologies for identifying and
    characterizing such cellular wound repair activities have been described such
30  that the effects of the herein disclosed wound tissue repair-promoting
    compounds, such as compositions comprising BT agents as described herein,
                                                42

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    on these and related activities can be determined readily and without undue
    experimentation based on the present disclosure. For example, disclosed
    herein are compositions and methods that relate to art accepted models for
    wound repair based on keratinocyte wound closure following a scratch wound.
 5                  Preferred compositions for treating an acute wound, chronic
    wound, and/or wound that contains a bacterial biofilm in a subject, to promote
    skin tissue repair including wound repair, for use according to the
    embodiments described herein, may include in certain embodiments
    compositions that comprise bismuth-thiol (BT) compounds as described
10  herein, and which may in certain distinct but related embodiments also include
    other compounds that are known in the art such as one or more antibiotic
    compounds as described herein. BT compounds and methods for making
    them are disclosed herein and are also disclosed, for example, in Domenico et
    al. (1997 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703; 2001 Antimicrob.
15  Agent. Chemother. 45(5)1417-1421) and in U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371,
    U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248. As also noted above, certain preferred
    BT compounds are those that contain bismuth or a bismuth salt sonically
    bonded to, or in a coordination complex with, a thiol-containing compound,
    such as a composition that comprises bismuth chelated to the thiol-containing
20  compound, and certain other preferred BT compounds are those that contain
    bismuth or a bismuth salt in covalent bond linkage to the thiol-containing
    compound. Also preferred are substantially monodisperse microparticulate BT
    compositions as described herein. Neither from previous efforts to promote
    acute or chronic wound healing including skin tissue repair, nor from previous
25  characterization in other contexts of any compounds described herein for the
    first time as having use in compositions and methods for promoting such
    wound healing, could it be predicted that the present methods of using such
    compounds would have wound healing and tissue repair-promoting effects.
                    According to preferred embodiments there are thus provided
30  methods for treating an acute wound, a chronic wound, and/or a wound or
    epithelial tissue surface that contains a bacterial biofilm in a subject,
                                             43

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    comprising administering to a wound site or epithelial tissue surface in the
    subject, a therapeutically effective amount of a topical formulation that
    comprises at least one BT compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable
    excipient or carrier for topical use. In certain embodiments the method further
 5  comprises administering, simultaneously or sequentially and in either order, at
    least one antibiotic compound. The antibiotic compound may be an
    aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic,
    a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptides antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic,
    a penicill inase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, or an aminopenicillin antibiotic.
10  Clinically useful antibiotics are described in, e.g., Washington University
    School of Medicine, The Washington Manual of Medical Therapeutics (3 2nd
    Ed.), 2007 Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins, Philadelphia, PA; and in Hauser,
    AL, Antibiotic Basics for Clinicians, 2007 Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins,
    Philadelphia, PA.
15                 As described herein, certain embodiments derive from the
    unpredictable discovery that for acute or chronic wounds or other epithelial
    tissue surfaces as provided herein (e.g., skin, respiratory tract linings,
    gastrointestinal tract linings) in which a bacterial infection comprises gram
    positive bacteria, a preferred therapeutically effective topical formulation may
20  comprise a BT compound (e.g., BisEDT, bismuth:1,2-ethanedithiol; BisPyr,
    bismuth:pyrithione; BisEDT/Pyr, bismuth:1,2-ethanedithiol/pyrithione) and
    rifamycin, or a BT compound and daptomycin (Cubicin@, Cubist
    Pharmaceuticals, Lexington, MA), or a BT compound and linezolid (Zyvox@,
    Pfizer, Inc., NY, NY), or a BT compound (e.g., BisEDT, bismuth:1,2
25  ethanedithiol; BisPyr, bismuth:pyrithione; BisEDT/Pyr, bismuth:1,2
    ethanedithiol/pyrithione) and one or more of ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime,
    chloramphenicol, clindamycin (or another lincosamide antibiotic), daptomycin
    (Cubicin@),_doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin,
    linezolid (Zyvox@), nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole,
30  tobramycin and vancomycin. As also described herein, certain embodiments
    derive from the unpredictable discovery that for acute or chronic wounds in
                                               44

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    which a bacterial infection comprises gram negative bacteria, a preferred
    therapeutically effective topical formulation may comprise a BT compound and
    amikacin. Certain related embodiments contemplate treatment of an acute or
    chronic wound comprising gram negative bacteria with a BT compound and
 5  another antibiotic, such as another aminoglycoside antibiotic, which in certain
    embodiments is not gentamicin or tobramycin. Accordingly and in view of
    these embodiments, other related embodiments contemplate identifying one or
    more bacterial populations or subpopulations within a chronic wound site by
    the well known criterion of being gram positive or gram negative, according to
10  methodologies that are familiar to those skilled in the medical microbiology art,
    as a step for selecting appropriate antibiotic compound(s) to include in a
    topical formulation to be administered according to the present methods.
                   The presently described compositions and methods may find use
    in the treatment of acute and chronic wounds and wound biofilms, including,
15  for example, as burn creams, as topicals for the treatment of existing wounds
    including those described herein, for prevention of chronic wounds, for
    treatment of MRSA skin infections, and for other related indications as
    disclosed herein and as will be apparent to the skilled person in view of the
    present disclosure.
20                  Non-limiting examples of bacteria against which the herein
    described compositions and methods may find beneficial use, according to
    certain embodiments as described herein, include Staphylococcus aureus (S.
    aureus), MRSA (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis,
    MRS E (methicill in-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
25  Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P.
    aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E.
    coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella
    pneumophila,, Enterococcus faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus
    faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris,
30   Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant
    Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
                                              45

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, vancomycin
    sensitive and vancomycin-resistant enterococci (e.g., E. faecalis, E. faecium),
    methicillin-sensitive and methicillin-resistant staphylococci (e.g., S. aureus , S.
    epidermidis) and Acinetobacter baumannii, Staphylococcus haemolyticus,
 5  Staphylococcus hominis, Enterococcus faecium, Streptococcus pyogenes,
    Streptococcus agalactiae, Bacillus anthracis, Klebsiella pneumonia, Proteus
    mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Yersinia enterocolytica, Stenotrophomonas
    maltophilia, and E. cloacae.
                    The practice of certain embodiments of the present invention will
10  employ, unless indicated specifically to the contrary, conventional methods of
    microbiology, molecular biology, biochemistry, cell biology, virology and
    immunology techniques that are within the skill of the art, and reference to
    several of which is made below for the purpose of illustration. Such
    techniques are explained fully in the literature. See, e.g., Sambrook, et al.
15  Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (2nd Edition, 1989); Man iatis et al.
    Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (1982); DNA Cloning: A Practical
    Approach, vol. I & II (D. Glover, ed.); Oligonucleotide Synthesis (N. Gait, ed.,
    1984); Nucleic Acid Hybridization (B. Hames & S. Higgins, eds., 1985);
     Transcription and Translation (B. Hames & S. Higgins, eds., 1984); Animal Cell
20  Culture (R. Freshney, ed., 1986); Perbal, A Practical Guide to Molecular
    Cloning (1984).
                    Unless the context requires otherwise, throughout the present
    specification and claims, the word "comprise" and variations thereof, such as,
    "comprises" and "comprising" are to be construed in an open, inclusive sense,
25  that is as "including, but not limited to".
                    Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or
    "an embodiment" or "an aspect" means that a particular feature, structure or
    characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at
    least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the appearances of the
30  phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places
    throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same
                                              46

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or
    characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more
    embodiments.
                   Certain embodiments relate to methods, compositions and kits
 5  for treating an acute or chronic wound or a wound biofilm in a subject, which
    may comprise promoting skin tissue repair in the subject, or for altering one or
    more cellular wound repair activity in a cell or plurality of cells. A cell generally
    indicates a single cell, whereas a plurality of cells indicates more than one cell.
    The cells may comprise a tissue, organ or entire organism. Furthermore, the
10  cell or cells may be located in vivo, in vitro, or ex vivo. Maintaining cell, tissue
    and organ cultures are routine procedures for one of skill in the art, the
    conditions and media for which can be easily ascertained. (See, for example,
    Freshney, Culture of Animal Cells: A Manual of Basic Technique, Wiley-Liss
    5 th Ed. (2005); Davis, Basic Cell Culture, Oxford University Press    2 nd Ed.
15  (2002)).
                   As disclosed herein, certain embodiments relate to methods for
    treating an acute or chronic wound or a wound biofilm in a subject that
    comprises administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a
    composition comprising a BT compound as described herein for use in such
20  method (e.g., as provided in the form of a plurality of substantially
    monodisperse microparticles), and optionally in certain further embodiments
    also comprising an antibiotic compound as described herein for use in such
    method, for example, a BT compound such as BisEDT or BisBAL or other
    compounds presented in Table 1 herein, or any other BT agent such as those
25  described in Domenico et al. (1997 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 41:1697;
    2001 Antimicrob. Agent. Chemother. 45:1421) and/or in U.S. RE37,793, U.S.
    6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921, and U.S. 6,380,248 and/or as prepared according
    to the methods disclosed herein. The step of administering may be performed
    by any means known to the art, for example, topically (including via direct
30  administration to skin or to any epithelial tissue surface, including such
    surfaces as may be present in glandular tissues or in the respiratory and/or
                                             47

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    gastrointestinal tracts), vaginally, intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally,
    intravenously, intraarterially, transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously,
    intramuscularly, transbuccally, intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly,
    subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly or intrathecally.
 5                  In preferred embodiments administering may be performed
    topically, where pharmaceutical excipients or carriers for topical use are
    described herein and known in the art.
                    As noted above, certain invention embodiments described herein
    relate to topical formulations of the described BT compounds (e.g., BisEDT
10  and/or BisBAL), which formulations may in certain further embodiments
    comprise one or more antibiotic compounds as described herein, for instance,
    amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin,
    clindamycin (or another lincosamide antibiotic), daptomycin (Cubicin@),
    doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin, linezolid
15  (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin, sulphamethoxazole,
    tobramycin and vancomycin; or a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin
    antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide
    antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and/or an aminopenicillin
    antibiotic, and/or an aminoglycoside antibiotic such as amikacin, arbekacin,
20  gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin,
    rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin or apramycin, and/or a
    lipopeptide antibiotic such as daptomycin (Cubicin@), or an oxazolidinone
    antibiotic such as linezolid (Zyvox@). These and related formulations may
    comprise the BT compound(s) (and optionally one or more antibiotics) in a
25  pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, excipient or diluent and in a therapeutic
    amount, as disclosed herein, when administered topically to an animal,
    preferably a mammal, and most preferably a human, and in particularly
    preferred embodiments, a human having an acute or chronic wound or a
    wound that contains a bacterial infection which may be biofilm-related (e.g., in
30  which bacteria capable of promoting biofilm formation may be present but a
                                              48

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    biofilm is not yet detectable) or that contains a bacterial infection such as a
    biofilm or other bacterial presence.
                   Topical administration of the BT compounds described herein, or
    their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, in pure form or in an appropriate
 5  pharmaceutical composition, can be carried out via any of the accepted modes
    of topical administration of agents for serving similar utilities. Topical
    application or administration of a composition includes, in preferred
    embodiments, directly contacting the composition (e.g., a topical formulation)
    with skin and/or another epithelial tissue surface (e.g., respiratory tract,
10  gastrointestinal tract and/or glandular epithelial linings) of the subject
    undergoing treatment, which may be at one or more localized or widely
    distributed skin and/or other epithelial tissue surface sites and which may
    generally refer to contacting the topical formulation with an acute or chronic
    wound site that is surrounded by intact stratum corneum or epidermis but need
15  not be so limited; for instance, certain embodiments contemplate as a topical
    application the administration of a topical formulation described herein to
    injured, abraded or damaged skin, or skin of a subject undergoing surgery,
    such that contact of the topical formulation may take place not only with
    stratum corneum or epidermis but also with skin granular cell, spinous cell,
20  and/or basal cell layers, and/or with dermal or underlying tissues, for example,
    as may accompany certain types of wound repair or wound healing or other
    skin tissue remodeling.
                   Such skin tissue repair may therefore comprise, in certain
    preferred embodiments, dermal wound healing, as may be desirable, for
25  example, in preventing or ameliorating an acute chronic wound or a wound
    biofilm or, as another example, in preventing or ameliorating skin wound
    dehiscence, or in improving, accelerating or otherwise enhancing dermal
    wound healing when an acute or chronic wound and/or skin wound dehiscence
    may be present. Certain other embodiments that contemplate topical
30  administration to an epithelial tissue surface present in respiratory tract,
    gastrointestinal tract and/or glandular linings similarly may comprise
                                             49

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    administration of the topical formulation by an appropriate route as will be
    known in the art for delivering a topical preparation as provided herein, to one
    or more epithelial tissue surfaces present in respiratory (e.g., airway,
    nasopharyngeal and laryngeal paths, tracheal, pulmonary, bronchi,
 5  bronchioles, alveoli, etc.) and/or gastrointestinal (e.g., buccal, esophageal,
    gastric, intestinal, rectal, anal, etc.) tracts, and/or other epithelial surfaces.
                   According to certain contemplated embodiments topical
    administration may comprise direct application into an open wound. For
    instance, an open fracture or other open wound may include a break in the
10  skin that may expose additional underlying tissues to the external environment
    in a manner that renders them susceptible to microbial infection. Such a
    situation is not uncommon in certain types of acute traumatic military wounds,
    including, for example, Type Ill (severe) open fractures. In accord with these
    and related embodiments, topical administration may be by direct contact of
15  the herein described BT composition with such damaged skin and/or another
    epithelial surface and/or with other tissues, such as, for instance, connective
    tissues including muscle, ligaments, tendons, bones, circulatory tissues such
    as blood vessels, associated nerve tissues, and any other organs that may be
    exposed in such open wounds. Examples of other tissues that may be
20  exposed, and hence for which such direct contact is contemplated, include
    kidney, bladder, liver, pancreas, and any other tissue or organ that may be so
    detrimentally exposed to opportunistic infection in relation to an open wound.
                   The topical formulations (e.g., pharmaceutical compositions) may
    be prepared by combining the described BT compound (e.g., comprising a
25  compound described in U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S. 6,086,921,
    and/or U.S. 6,380,248 and/or prepared according to the present disclosure
    such as the herein described microparticulate BT suspensions), and in certain
    related embodiments by combining one or more desired antibiotics (e.g., an
    aminoglycoside antibiotic such as amikacin) separately or together with the BT
30  compound, with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or
    excipient for use in a topical formulation preparation, and may be formulated
                                                50

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    into preparations in solid, semi-solid, gel, cream, colloid, suspension or liquid
    or other topically applied forms, such as powders, granules, ointments,
    solutions, washes, gels, pastes, plasters, paints, bioadhesives, microsphere
    suspensions, and aerosol sprays.
 5                  Pharmaceutical compositions of these and related embodiments
    are formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein, and in
    particularly preferred embodiments the herein described BT compound(s)
    alone or in combination with one or more desired antibiotics (e.g., a
    carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic,
10  a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant
    penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin antibiotic, or an aminoglycoside
    antibiotic such as amikacin, or rifamycin) which may be applied simultaneously
    or sequentially and in either order, to be bioavailable upon topical
    administration of the formulation containing the BT compound(s) and/or
15  antibiotic composition(s) to an acute or chronic wound and optionally to
    surrounding skin of a subject, such as a mammal, including a human, and in
    certain preferred embodiments a human patient having an acute or chronic
    wound, or being at increased risk for having, an acute or chronic wound or a
    wound biofilm or wound dehiscence (e.g., an obese and/or diabetic individual).
20  Certain embodiments disclosed herein contemplate topical administration of a
    BT compound and of an antibiotic, including administration that may be
    simultaneous or sequential and in either order, but the invention is not
    intended to be so limited and in other embodiments expressly contemplates a
    distinct route of administration for the BT compound relative to the route of
25  administration of the antibiotic. Thus, the antibiotic may be administered
    orally, intravenously, or by any other route of administration as described
    herein, while the BT compound may be administered by a route that is
    independent of the route used for the antibiotic. As a non-limiting, illustrative
    example, the BT compound may be administered topically as provided herein,
30  while the antibiotic may be simultaneously or sequentially (and in any order)
                                             51

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    administered by a distinct route, such as orally, intravenously, transdermally,
    subcutaneously, intramuscularly and/or by any other route of administration.
                    The topical formulations described herein deliver a
    therapeutically effective amount of the antiseptic or wound-healing agent(s)
 5  (and optionally the antibiotic(s)) to the wound site, for instance, to skin cells
    such as dermal fibroblasts. Preferred formulations may be contacted with a
    desired site such as a topical wound site, a chronic wound, an epithelial tissue
    surface or other intended site of administration by spraying, irrigating, dipping
    and/or painting; such formulations therefore may exhibit ready permeability
10  into the skin, as can be determined according to any of a number of
    established methodologies known to the art for testing the skin permeability of
    a drug composition (see, e.g., Wagner et al., 2002 J. Invest. Dermatol.
    118:540, and references cited therein; Bronaugh et al., 1985 J. Pharm. Sci.
    74:64; Bosman et al., 1998 J. Pharm. Biomed. Anal. 17:493-499; Bosman et
15  al., 1996 J. Pharm Biomed Anal. 1996 14:1015-23; Bonferoni et al., 1999
    Pharm. Dev. Technol. 4:45-53; Frantz, Instrumentation and methodology for in
    vitro skin diffusion cells in methodology for skin absorption. In: Methods for
    Skin Absorption (Kemppainen & Reifenrath, Eds), CRC Press, Florida, 1990,
    pp. 35-59; Tojo, Design and calibration of in vitro permeation apparatus. In:
20  Transdermal Controlled Systemic Medications (Chien YW, Ed), Marcel Dekker,
    New York, 1987, 127-158; Barry, Methods for studying percutaneous
    absorption. In: Dermatological Formulations: Percutaneous absorption, Marcel
    Dekker, New York, 1983, 234-295).
                    Compositions, and formulations comprising such compositions,
25  that will be administered to the skin of a subject or patient may in certain
    embodiments take the form of one or more dosage units, where for example, a
    liquid-filled capsule or ampule may contain a single dosage unit, and a
    container of a topical formulation as described herein in aerosol form may hold
    a plurality of dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms
30  are known, or will be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see The
    Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 20th Edition (Philadelphia College of
                                              52

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    Pharmacy and Science, 2000). The composition or formulation to be
    administered will, in any event, contain a therapeutically effective amount of an
    antiseptic and/or wound healing-promoting compound as provided herein (e.g.,
    a BT compound), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in accordance
 5  with the present teachings.
                   As noted above, the present topical formulations may take any of
    a wide variety of forms, and include, for example, creams, lotions, solutions,
    sprays, gels, ointments, pastes or the like, and/or may be prepared so as to
    contain liposomes, micelles, and/or microspheres. See, e.g., U.S. Patent No.
10  7,205,003. For instance, creams, as is well known in the arts of
    pharmaceutical and cosmeceutical formulation, are viscous liquids or semisolid
    emulsions, either oil-in-water or water-in-oil. Cream bases are water
    washable, and contain an oil phase, an emulsifier, and an aqueous phase.
    The oil phase, also called the "internal" phase, is generally comprised of
15  petrolatum and a fatty alcohol such as cetyl or stearyl alcohol. The aqueous
    phase usually, although not necessarily, exceeds the oil phase in volume, and
    generally contains a humectant. The emulsifier in a cream formulation is
    generally a nonionic, anionic, cationic or amphoteric surfactant.
                    Lotions, which are preferred for delivery of cosmetic agents, are
20  preparations to be applied to the skin surface without friction, and are typically
    liquid or semi-liquid preparations in which solid particles, including the active
    agent, are present in a water or alcohol base. Lotions are usually suspensions
    of solids, and preferably comprise a liquid oily emulsion of the oil-in-water type.
    Lotions are preferred formulations herein for treating large body areas,
25  because of the ease of applying a more fluid composition. It is generally
    preferred that the insoluble matter in a lotion be finely divided. Lotions will
    typically contain suspending agents to produce better dispersions as well as
    compounds useful for localizing and holding the active agent in contact with
    the skin, e.g., methylcellulose, sodium carboxymethyl-cellulose, or the like.
30                 Solutions are homogeneous mixtures prepared by dissolving one
    or more chemical substances (solutes) in a liquid such that the molecules of
                                             53

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    the dissolved substance are dispersed among those of the solvent. The
    solution may contain other pharmaceutically acceptable and/or
    cosmeceutically acceptable chemicals to buffer, stabilize or preserve the
    solute. Common examples of solvents used in preparing solutions are
 5  ethanol, water, propylene glycol or any other pharmaceutically acceptable
    and/or cosmeceutically acceptable vehicles.
                    Gels are semisolid, suspension-type systems. Single-phase gels
    contain organic macromolecules distributed substantially uniformly throughout
    the carrier liquid, which is typically aqueous, but also, preferably, contain an
10  alcohol, and, optionally, an oil. Preferred "organic macromolecules," i.e.,
    gelling agents, may be chemically crosslinked polymers such as crosslinked
    acrylic acid polymers, for instance, the "carbomer" family of polymers, e.g.,
    carboxypolyalkylenes, that may be obtained commercially under the
    Carbopol@ trademark. Also preferred in certain embodiments may be
15  hydrophilic polymers such as polyethylene oxides, polyoxyethylene
    polyoxypropylene copolymers and polyvinylalcohol; cellulosic polymers such
    as hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
    methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate, and methyl
    cellulose; gums such as tragacanth and xanthan gum; sodium alginate; and
20  gelatin. In order to prepare a uniform gel, dispersing agents such as alcohol or
    glycerin can be added, or the gelling agent can be dispersed by trituration,
    mechanical mixing or stirring, or combinations thereof.
                   Ointments, as also well known in the art, are semisolid
    preparations that are typically based on petrolatum or other petroleum
25  derivatives. The specific ointment base to be used, as will be appreciated by
    those skilled in the art, is one that will provide for a number of desirable
    characteristics, e.g., emolliency or the like. As with other carriers or vehicles,
    an ointment base should be inert, stable, nonirritating, and nonsensitizing. As
    explained in Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 19th Ed.
30  (Easton, Pa.: Mack Publishing Co., 1995), at pages 1399-1404, ointment
    bases may be grouped in four classes: oleaginous bases; emulsifiable bases;
                                               54

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    emulsion bases; and water-soluble bases. Oleaginous ointment bases
    include, for example, vegetable oils, fats obtained from animals, and semisolid
    hydrocarbons obtained from petroleum. Emulsifiable ointment bases, also
    known as absorbent ointment bases, contain little or no water and include, for
 5  example, hydroxystearin sulfate, anhydrous lanolin, and hydrophilic
    petrolatum. Emulsion ointment bases are either water-in-oil (W/O) emulsions
    or oil-in-water (0/W) emulsions, and include, for example, cetyl alcohol,
    glyceryl monostearate, lanolin, and stearic acid. Preferred water-soluble
    ointment bases are prepared from polyethylene glycols of varying molecular
10  weight (see, e.g., Remington, Id.).
                   Pastes are semisolid dosage forms in which the active agent is
    suspended in a suitable base. Depending on the nature of the base, pastes
    are divided between fatty pastes or those made from single-phase aqueous
    gels. The base in a fatty paste is generally petrolatum or hydrophilic
15  petrolatum or the like. The pastes made from single-phase aqueous gels
    generally incorporate carboxymethylcellulose or the like as a base.
                   Formulations may also be prepared with liposomes, micelles,
    and microspheres. Liposomes are microscopic vesicles having one
    (unilamellar) or a plurality (multilamellar) of lipid walls comprising a lipid
20  bilayer, and, in the present context, may encapsulate and/or have adsorbed to
    their lipid membranous surfaces one or more components of the topical
    formulations herein described, such as the antiseptic, wound healing/skin
    tissue/ epithelial tissue repair-promoting compounds (e.g., microparticulate BT
    compounds, optionally along with one or more antibiotics) or certain carriers or
25  excipients. Liposomal preparations herein include cationic (positively
    charged), anionic (negatively charged), and neutral preparations. Cationic
    liposomes are readily available. For example, N[1 -2,3-dioleyloxy)propyl]
    N,N,N-triethylammonium (DOTMA) liposomes are available under the
    tradename Lipofectin@ (GIBCO BRL, Grand Island, N.Y.). Similarly, anionic
30  and neutral liposomes are readily available as well, e.g., from Avanti Polar
    Lipids (Birmingham, AL), or can be easily prepared using readily available
                                              55

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    materials. Such materials include phosphatidyl choline, cholesterol,
    phosphatidyl ethanolamine, dioleoylphosphatidyl choline (DOPC),
    dioleoylphosphatidyl glycerol (DOPG), and dioleoylphoshatidyl ethanolamine
    (DOPE), among others. These materials can also be mixed with DOTMA in
 5  appropriate ratios. Methods for making liposomes using these materials are
    well known in the art.
                   Micelles are known in the art as comprised of surfactant
    molecules arranged so that their polar headgroups form an outer spherical
    shell, while the hydrophobic, hydrocarbon chains are oriented towards the
10  center of the sphere, forming a core. Micelles form in an aqueous solution
    containing surfactant at a high enough concentration so that micelles naturally
    result. Surfactants useful for forming micelles include, but are not limited to,
    potassium laurate, sodium octane sulfonate, sodium decane sulfonate, sodium
    dodecane sulfonate, sodium lauryl sulfate, docusate sodium,
15  decyltrimethylammonium bromide, dodecyltrimethylammonium bromide,
    tetradecyltrimethylammonium bromide, tetradecyltrimethyl-ammonium
    chloride, dodecylammonium chloride, polyoxyl-8 dodecyl ether, polyoxyl-12
    dodecyl ether, nonoxynol 10, and nonoxynol 30.
                   Microspheres, similarly, may be incorporated into the presently
20  described topical formulations. Like liposomes and micelles, microspheres
    essentially encapsulate one or more components of the present formulations.
    They are generally, but not necessarily, formed from lipids, preferably charged
    lipids such as phospholipids. Preparation of lipidic microspheres is well known
    in the art.
25                 Various additives, as known to those skilled in the art, may also
    be included in the topical formulations. For example, solvents, including
    relatively small amounts of alcohol, may be used to solubilize certain
    formulation components. It may be desirable, for certain topical formulations
    or in cases of particularly severe skin injury such as a post-surgical acute or
30  chronic wound or post-surgical dermal wound dehiscence, to include in the
    topical formulation an added skin permeation enhancer in the formulation.
                                             56

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    Examples of suitable enhancers include, but are not limited to, ethers such as
    diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (available commercially as Transcutol@) and
    diethylene glycol monomethyl ether; surfactants such as sodium laurate,
    sodium lauryl sulfate, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide, benzalkonium
 5  chloride, Poloxamer@ (231, 182, 184), Tween (20, 40, 60, 80), and lecithin
    (U.S. Pat. No. 4,783,450); alcohols such as ethanol, propanol, octanol, benzyl
    alcohol, and the like; polyethylene glycol and esters thereof such as
    polyethylene glycol monolaurate (PEGML; see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,568,343);
    amides and other nitrogenous compounds such as urea, dimethylacetamide
10  (DMA), dimethylformamide (DMF), 2-pyrrolidone, 1 -methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
    ethanolamine, diethanolamine, and triethanolamine; terpenes; alkanones; and
    organic acids, particularly citric acid and succinic acid. Azone@ and sulfoxides
    such as DMSO and C10MSO may also be used, but are less preferred.
                    Most preferred skin permeation enhancers are those lipophilic
15  co-enhancers typically referred to as "plasticizing" enhancers, i.e., enhancers
    that have a molecular weight in the range of about 150 to 1000 daltons, an
    aqueous solubility of less than about 1 wt %, preferably less than about 0.5 wt
    %, and most preferably less than about 0.2 wt %. The Hildebrand solubility
    parameter of plasticizing enhancers is in the range of about 2.5 to about 10,
20  preferably in the range of about 5 to about 10. Preferred lipophilic enhancers
    are fatty esters, fatty alcohols, and fatty ethers. Examples of specific and most
    preferred fatty acid esters include methyl laurate, ethyl oleate, propylene glycol
    monolaurate, propylene glycerol dilaurate, glycerol monolaurate, glycerol
    monooleate, isopropyl n-decanoate, and octyldodecyl myristate. Fatty
25  alcohols include, for example, stearyl alcohol and oleyl alcohol, while fatty
    ethers include compounds wherein a diol or triol, preferably a C2 -C4 alkane diol
    or triol, are substituted with one or two fatty ether substituents. Additional skin
    permeation enhancers will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art of
    topical drug delivery, and/or are described in the relevant literature. See, e.g.,
30  Percutaneous Penetration Enhancers, eds. Smith et al. (CRC Press, Boca
    Raton, FL, 1995).
                                              57

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                   Various other additives may be included in the topical
    formulations according to certain embodiments of the present invention, in
    addition to those identified above. These include, but are not limited to,
    antioxidants, astringents, perfumes, preservatives, emollients, pigments, dyes,
 5  humectants, propellants, and sunscreen agents, as well as other classes of
    materials whose presence may be cosmetically, medicinally or otherwise
    desirable. Typical examples of optional additives for inclusion in the
    formulations of certain embodiments of the invention are as follows:
    preservatives such as sorbate; solvents such as isopropanol and propylene
10  glycol; astringents such as menthol and ethanol; emollients such as
    polyalkylene methyl glucosides; humectants such as glycerine; emulsifiers
    such as glycerol stearate, PEG-100 stearate, polyglyceryl-3 hydroxylauryl
    ether, and polysorbate 60; sorbitol and other polyhydroxyalcohols such as
    polyethylene glycol; sunscreen agents such as octyl methoxyl cinnamate
15  (available commercially as Parsol MCX) and butyl methoxy benzoylmethane
    (available under the tradename Parsol 1789); antioxidants such as ascorbic
    acid (vitamin C), a-tocopherol (Vitamin E), p-tocopherol , y-tocopherol, 6
    tocopherol, c-tocopherol , Q1-tocopherol, 42-tocopherol, q-tocopherol , and
    retinol (vitamin A); essential oils, ceramides, essential fatty acids, mineral oils,
20  wetting agents and other surfactants such as the PLURONIC@ series of
    hydrophilic polymers available from BASF (Mt. Olive, NJ), vegetable oils (e.g.,
    soy bean oil, palm oil, liquid fraction of shea butter, sunflower oil), animal oils
    (e.g., perhydrosqualene), mineral oils, synthetic oils, silicone oils or waxes
    (e.g., cyclomethicone and dimethicone), fluorinated oils (generally
25  perfluoropolyethers), fatty alcohols (e.g., cetyl alcohol), and waxes (e.g.,
    beeswax, carnauba wax, and paraffin wax); skin-feel modifiers; and thickeners
    and structurants such as swelling clays and cross-linked carboxypolyalkylenes
    that may be obtained commercially under the Carbopol@ trademark.
                   Other additives include beneficial agents such as those materials
30  that condition the skin (particularly, the upper layers of the skin in the stratum
    corneum) and keep it soft by retarding the decrease of its water content and/or
                                              58

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    protect the skin. Such conditioners and moisturizing agents include, by way of
    example, pyrrolidine carboxylic acid and amino acids; organic antimicrobial
    agents such as 2,4,4'-trichloro-2-hydroxy diphenyl ether (triclosan) and
    benzoic acid; anti-inflammatory agents such as acetylsalicylic acid and
 5  glycyrrhetinic acid; anti-seborrhoeic agents such as retinoic acid; vasodilators
    such as nicotinic acid; inhibitors of melanogenesis such as kojic acid; and
    mixtures thereof. Other advantageously included cosmeceutically active
    agents may be present, for example, a-hydroxyacids, a-ketoacids, polymeric
    hydroxyacids, moisturizers, collagen, marine extracts, and antioxidants such
10  as ascorbic acid (vitamin C), a-tocopherol (Vitamin E) or other tocopherols
    such as those described above, and retinol (vitamin A), and/or cosmetically
    acceptable salts, esters, amides, or other derivatives thereof. Additional
    cosmetic agents include those that are capable of improving oxygen supply in
    skin tissue, as described, for example, in WO 94/00098 and WO 94/00109.
15  Sunscreens may also be included.
                   Other embodiments may include a variety of non-carcinogenic,
    non-irritating healing materials that facilitate treatment with the formulations of
    certain embodiments of the invention. Such healing materials may include
    nutrients, minerals, vitamins, electrolytes, enzymes, herbs, plant extracts,
20  honey, glandular or animal extracts, or safe therapeutic agents that may be
    added to the formulation to facilitate dermal healing. The amounts of these
    various additives are those conventionally used in the cosmetics field, and
    range, for example, from about 0.01% to about 20% of the total weight of the
    topical formulation.
25                 The formulations of certain embodiments of the invention may
    also include conventional additives such as opacifiers, fragrance, colorant,
    gelling agents, thickening agents, stabilizers, surfactants, and the like. Other
    agents may also be added, such as antimicrobial agents, to prevent spoilage
    upon storage, i.e., to inhibit growth of microbes such as yeasts and molds.
30  Suitable antimicrobial agents are typically selected from methyl and propyl
    esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid (e.g., methyl and propyl paraben), sodium
                                             59

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    benzoate, sorbic acid, imidurea, and combinations thereof. The formulations
    may also contain irritation-mitigating additives to minimize or eliminate the
    possibility of skin irritation or skin damage resulting from the anti-infective
    acute or chronic wound healing and skin tissue repair-promoting compound to
 5  be administered, or from other components of the composition. Suitable
    irritation-mitigating additives include, for example: a-tocopherol ; monoamine
    oxidase inhibitors, particularly phenyl alcohols such as 2-phenyl-1 -ethanol;
    glycerin; salicylates; ascorbates; ionophores such as monensin; amphiphilic
    amines; ammonium chloride; N-acetylcysteine; capsaicin; and chioroquine.
10  The irritation-mitigating additive, if present, may be incorporated into the
    topical formulation at a concentration effective to mitigate irritation or skin
    damage, typically representing not more than about 20 wt %, more typically
    not more than about 5 wt %, of the formulation.
                    The topical formulations may also contain, in addition to the
15  antiseptic/ wound healing/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting compound
    (e.g., a BT compound, preferably as substantially homogeneous microparticles
    as provided herein, and optionally in combination with one or more synergizing
    antibiotics as described herein), a therapeutically effective amount of one or
    more additional pharmacologically active agents suitable for topical
20  administration. Such agents may include an asymmetrical lamellar aggregate
    consisting of phospholipids and oxygen-loaded fluorocarbon or a fluorocarbon
    compound mixture, which are capable of improving oxygen supply in skin
    tissue, as described, for example, in International Patent Publication Nos. WO
    94/00098 and WO 94/00109.
25                  Suitable pharmacologically active agents that may be
    incorporated into the present topical formulations and thus topically applied,
    may include but are not limited to, the following: agents that improve or
    eradicate pigmented or non-pigmented age spots, keratoses, and wrinkles;
    antimicrobial agents; antibacterial agents; antipruritic and antixerotic agents;
30  antiinflammatory agents; local anesthetics and analgesics; corticosteroids;
    retinoids (e.g., retinoic acid; vitamins; hormones; and antimetabolites. Some
                                              60

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    examples of topical pharmacologically active agents include acyclovir,
    amphotericins, chlorhexidine, clotrimazole, ketoconazole, econazole,
    miconazole, metronidazole, minocycline, nystatin, neomycin, kanamycin,
    phenytoin, para-amino benzoic acid esters, octyl methoxycinnamate, octyl
 5  salicylate, oxybenzone, dioxybenzone, tocopherol, tocopheryl acetate,
    selenium sulfide, zinc pyrithione, diphenhydramine, pramoxine, lidocaine,
    procaine, erythromycin, tetracycline, clindamycin, crotamiton, hydroquinone
    and its monomethyl and benzyl ethers, naproxen, ibuprofen, cromolyn, retinoic
    acid, retinol, retinyl palmitate, retinyl acetate, coal tar, griseofulvin, estradiol,
10  hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone 21-acetate, hydrocortisone 17-valerate,
    hydrocortisone 17-butyrate, progesterone, betamethasone valerate,
    betamethasone dipropionate, triamcinolone acetonide, fluocinonide, clobetasol
    propionate, minoxidil, dipyridamole, diphenylhydantoin, benzoyl peroxide, and
    5-fluorouracil. As also noted above, certain embodiments contemplate
15  inclusion in the formulation of an antibiotic such as a carbapenem antibiotic, a
    cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic,
    a lincosamide antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, an
    aminopenicillin antibiotic, or an aminoglycoside antibiotic such as amikacin.
                    A pharmacologically acceptable carrier may also be incorporated
20  in the topical formulation of certain present embodiments and may be any
    carrier conventionally used in the art. Examples include water, lower alcohols,
    higher alcohols, honey, polyhydric alcohols, monosaccharides, disaccharides,
    polysaccharides, sugar alcohols such as, for example, glycols (2-carbon),
    glycerols (3-carbon), erythritols and threitols (4-carbon), arabitols, xylitols and
25  ribitols (5-carbon), mannitols, sorbitols, dulcitols and iditols (6-carbon),
    isomaltols, maltitols, lactitols and polyglycitols, hydrocarbon oils, fats and oils,
    waxes, fatty acids, silicone oils, nonionic surfactants, ionic surfactants, silicone
    surfactants, and water-based mixtures and emulsion-based mixtures of such
    carriers.
30                  Topical formulation embodiments of the present invention may
    be applied regularly to whatever acute or chronic wound site (e.g., the wound
                                               61

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    itself and surrounding tissue, including surrounding tissue that appears
    unaffected by infection or otherwise normal or healthy) or skin area or other
    epithelial tissue surface (e.g., gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, glandular
    tissue) requires treatment with the frequency and in the amount necessary to
 5  achieve the desired results. The frequency of treatment depends on the
    nature of the skin (or other epithelial tissue) condition (e.g., an acute or chronic
    wound or other skin wound such as may be found in dehiscence that results
    from a surgical incision, or other types of skin wounds), the degree of damage
    or deterioration of the skin (or other tissue), the responsiveness of the user's
10  skin (or other tissue), the strength of the active ingredients (e.g., the herein
    described wound-healing/ antiseptic/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting
    compounds such as a BT compound and optionally one or more additional
    pharmaceutically active ingredients, such as an antibiotic, e.g., amikacin or
    other antibiotic) in the particular embodiment, the effectiveness of the vehicle
15  used to deliver the active ingredients into the appropriate layer of the skin (or
    other epithelial surface-containing tissue), the ease with which the formula is
    removed by physical contact with bandages or other dressings or clothing, or
    its removal by sweat or other intrinsic or extrinsic fluids, and the convenience
    to the subject's or patient's activity level or lifestyle.
20                  Typical concentrations of active substances such as the BT
    compound antiseptic/ anti-biofilm/ wound-healing/ skin tissue repair-promoting
    compositions described herein can range, for example, from about 0.001-30%
    by weight based on the total weight of the composition, to about 0.01-5.0%,
    and more preferably to about 0.1-2.0%. As one representative example,
25  compositions of these embodiments of the present invention may be applied to
    an acute or chronic wound and/or to the skin at a rate equal to from about 1.0
    mg/cm 2 of skin to about 20.0 mg/cm 2 of skin. Representative examples of
    topical formulations include, but are not limited to, aerosols, alcohols,
    anhydrous bases (such as lipsticks and powders), aqeuous solutions, creams,
30  emulsions (including either water-in-oil or oil-in-water emulsions), fats, foams,
    gels, hydro-alcoholic solutions, liposomes, lotions, microemulsions, ointments,
                                              62

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    oils, organic solvents, polyols, polymers, powders, salts, silicone derivatives,
    and waxes. Topical formulations may include, for example, chelating agents,
    conditioning agents, emollients, excipients, humectants, protective agents,
    thickening agents, or UV absorbing agents. One skilled in the art will
 5  appreciate that formulations other than those listed may be used in
    embodiments of the present invention.
                    Chelating agents may be optionally included in topical
    formulations, and may be selected from any agent that is suitable for use in a
    cosmetic composition, and may include any natural or synthetic chemical
10  which has the ability to bind divalent cationic metals such as Ca24, Mn24, or
    Mg2+. Examples of chelating agents include, but are not limited to EDTA,
    disodium EDTA, EGTA, citric acid, and dicarboxylic acids.
                    Conditioning agents may also be optionally included in topical
    formulations. Examples of skin conditioning agents include, but are not limited
15  to, acetyl cysteine, N-acetyl dihydrosphingosine, acrylates/behenyl
    acrylate/dimethicone acrylate copolymer, adenosine, adenosine cyclic
    phosphate, adensosine phosphate, adenosine triphosphate, alanine, albumen,
    algae extract, allantoin and deriviatives, aloe barbadensis extracts, aluminum
    PCA, amyloglucosidase, arbutin, arginine, azulene, bromelain, buttermilk
20  powder, butylene glycol, caffeine, calcium gluconate, capsaicin, carbocysteine,
    carnosine, beta-carotene, casein, catalase, cephalins, ceramides, chamomilla
    recutita (matricaria) flower extract, cholecalciferol, cholesteryl esters, coco
    betaine, coenzyme A, corn starch modified, crystallins, cycloethoxymethicone,
    cysteine DNA, cytochrome C, darutoside, dextran sulfate, dimethicone
25  copolyols, dimethylsilanol hyaluronate, DNA, elastin, elastin amino acids,
    epidermal growth factor, ergocalciferol, ergosterol, ethylhexyl PCA, fibronectin,
    folic acid, gelatin, gliadin, beta-glucan, glucose, glycine, glycogen, glycolipids,
    glycoproteins, glycosaminoglycans, glycosphingolipids, horseradish
    peroxidase, hydrogenated proteins, hydrolyzed proteins, jojoba oil, keratin,
30  keratin amino acids, and kinetin, lactoferrin, lanosterol, lauryl PCA, lecithin,
    linoleic acid, linolenic acid, lipase, lysine, lysozyme, malt extract, maltodextrin,
                                                63

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    melanin, methionine, mineral salts, niacin, niacinamide, oat amino acids,
    oryzanol, palmitoyl hydrolyzed proteins, pancreatin, papain, PEG, pepsin,
    phospholipids, phytosterols, placental enzymes, placental lipids, pyridoxal 5
    phosphate, quercetin, resorcinol acetate, riboflavin, RNA, saccharomyces
 5  lysate extract, silk amino acids, sphingolipids, stearamidopropyl betaine,
    stearyl palmitate, tocopherol, tocopheryl acetate, tocopheryl linoleate,
    ubiquinone, vitis vinifera (grape) seed oil, wheat amino acids, xanthan gum,
    and zinc gluconate. Skin conditioning agents other than those listed above
    may be combined with a disclosed composition or preparation provided
10  thereby, as can be readily appreciated by one skilled in the art.
                    Topical formulations may also optionally include one or more
    emollients, examples of which include, but are not limited to, acetylated lanolin,
    acetylated lanolin alcohol, acrylates/C 10-30 alkyl acrylate crosspolymer,
    acrylates copolymer, alanine, algae extract, aloe barbadensis extract or gel,
15  althea officinalis extract, aluminum starch octenylsuccinate, aluminum
    stearate, apricot (prunus armeniaca) kernel oil, arginine, arginine aspartate,
    arnica montana extract, ascorbic acid, ascorbyl palmitate, aspartic acid,
    avocado (persea gratissima) oil, barium sulfate, barrier sphingolipids, butyl
    alcohol, beeswax, behenyl alcohol, beta-sitosterol, BHT, birch (betula alba)
20  bark extract, borage (borago officinalis) extract, 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3
    diol, butcherbroom (ruscus aculeatus) extract, butylene glycol, calendula
    officinalis extract, calendula officinalis oil, candelilla (euphorbia cerifera) wax,
    canola oil, caprylic/capric triglyceride, cardamon (elettaria cardamomum) oil,
    carnauba (copernicia cerifera) wax, carrageenan (chondrus crispus), carrot
25  (daucus carota sativa) oil, castor (ricinus communis) oil, ceramides, ceresin,
    ceteareth-5, ceteareth-12, ceteareth-20, cetearyl octanoate, ceteth-20, ceteth
    24, cetyl acetate, cetyl octanoate, cetyl palmitate, chamomile (anthemis
    nobilis) oil, cholesterol, cholesterol esters, cholesteryl hydroxystearate, citric
    acid, clary (salvia sclarea) oil, cocoa (theobroma cacao) butter, coco
30  caprylate/caprate, coconut (cocos nucifera) oil, collagen, collagen amino acids,
    corn (zea mays) oil, fatty acids, decyl oleate, dextrin, diazolidinyl urea,
                                               64

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    dimethicone copolyol, dimethiconol, dioctyl adipate, dioctyl succinate,
    dipentaerythrityl hexacaprylate/hexacaprate, DMDM hydantoin, DNA,
    erythritol, ethoxydiglycol, ethyl linoleate, eucalyptus globulus oil, evening
    primrose (oenothera biennis) oil, fatty acids, tructose, gelatin, geranium
 5  maculatum oil, glucosamine, glucose glutamate, glutamic acid, glycereth-26,
    glycerin, glycerol, glyceryl distearate, glyceryl hydroxystearate, glyceryl
    laurate, glyceryl linoleate, glyceryl myristate, glyceryl oleate, glyceryl stearate,
    glyceryl stearate SE, glycine, glycol stearate, glycol stearate SE,
    glycosaminoglycans, grape (vitis vinifera) seed oil, hazel (corylus americana)
10  nut oil, hazel (corylus avellana) nut oil, hexylene glycol, honey, hyaluronic acid,
    hybrid safflower (carthamus tinctorius) oil, hydrogenated castor oil,
    hydrogenated coco-glycerides, hydrogenated coconut oil, hydrogenated
    lanolin, hydrogenated lecithin, hydrogenated palm glyceride, hydrogenated
    palm kernel oil, hydrogenated soybean oil, hydrogenated tallow glyceride,
15  hydrogenated vegetable oil, hydrolyzed collagen, hydrolyzed elastin,
    hydrolyzed glycosaminoglycans, hydrolyzed keratin, hydrolyzed soy protein,
    hydroxylated lanolin, hydroxyproline, imidazolidinyl urea, iodopropynyl
    butylcarbamate, isocetyl stearate, isocetyl stearoyl stearate, isodecyl oleate,
    isopropyl isostearate, isopropyl lanolate, isopropyl myristate, isopropyl
20  palmitate, isopropyl stearate, isostearamide DEA, isostearic acid, isostearyl
    lactate, isostearyl neopentanoate, jasmine (jasminum officinale) oil, jojoba
    (buxus chinensis) oil, kelp, kukui (aleurites moluccana) nut oil, lactamide MEA,
    laneth-16, laneth-10 acetate, lanolin, lanolin acid, lanolin alcohol, lanolin oil,
    lanolin wax, lavender (lavandula angustifolia) oil, lecithin, lemon (citrus medica
25  limonum) oil, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, macadamia ternifolia nut oil,
    magnesium stearate, magnesium sulfate, maltitol, matricaria (chamomilla
    recutita) oil, methyl glucose sesquistearate, methylsilanol PCA,
    microcrystalline wax, mineral oil, mink oil, mortierella oil, myristyl lactate,
    myristyl myristate, myristyl propionate, neopentyl glycol dicaprylate/dicaprate,
30  octyldodecanol, octyldodecyl myristate, octyldodecyl stearoyl stearate, octyl
    hydroxystearate, octyl palmitate, octyl salicylate, octyl stearate, oleic acid, olive
                                              65

  WO 20101091124                                                       PCT/US2010/023108
    (olea europaea) oil, orange (citrus aurantium dulcis) oil, palm (elaeis
    guineensis) oil, palmitic acid, pantethine, panthenol, panthenyl ethyl ether,
    paraffin, PCA, peach (prunus persica) kernel oil, peanut (arachis hypogaea)
    oil, PEG-8 C12 18 ester, PEG-15 cocamine, PEG-150 distearate, PEG-60
 5  glyceryl isostearate, PEG-5 glyceryl stearate, PEG-30 glyceryl stearate, PEG-7
    hydrogenated castor oil, PEG-40 hydrogenated castor oil, PEG-60
    hydrogenated castor oil, PEG-20 methyl glucose sesquistearate, PEG-40
    sorbitan peroleate, PEG-5 soy sterol, PEG-10 soy sterol, PEG-2 stearate,
    PEG-8 stearate, PEG-20 stearate, PEG-32 stearate, PEG-40 stearate, PEG
10  50 stearate, PEG-1 00 stearate, PEG-1 50 stearate, pentadecalactone,
    peppermint (mentha piperita) oil, petrolatum, phospholipids, polyamino sugar
    condensate, polyglyceryl-3 diisostearate, polyquaternium-24, polysorbate 20,
    polysorbate 40, polysorbate 60, polysorbate 80, polysorbate 85, potassium
    myristate, potassium palmitate, potassium sorbate, potassium stearate,
15  propylene glycol, propylene glycol dicaprylate/dicaprate, propylene glycol
    dioctanoate, propylene glycol dipelargonate, propylene glycol laurate,
    propylene glycol stearate, propylene glycol stearate SE, PVP, pyridoxine
    dipalmitate, quaternium-15, quaternium-18 hectorite, quaternium-22, retinol,
    retinyl palmitate, rice (oryza sativa) bran oil, RNA, rosemary (rosmarinus
20  officinalis) oil, rose oil, safflower (carthamus tinctorius) oil, sage (salvia
    officinalis) oil, salicylic acid, sandalwood (santalum album) oil, serine, serum
    protein, sesame (sesamum indicum) oil, shea butter (butyrospermum parkii),
    silk powder, sodium chondroitin sulfate, sodium DNA, sodium hyaluronate,
    sodium lactate, sodium palmitate, sodium PCA, sodium polyglutamate, sodium
25  stearate, soluble collagen, sorbic acid, sorbitan laurate, sorbitan oleate,
    sorbitan palmitate, sorbitan sesquioleate, sorbitan stearate, sorbitol, soybean
    (glycine soja) oil, sphingolipids, squalane, squalene, stearamide MEA-stearate,
    stearic acid, stearoxy dimethicone, stearoxytrimethylsilane, stearyl alcohol,
    stearyl glycyrrhetinate, stearyl heptanoate, stearyl stearate, sunflower
30  (helianthus annuus) seed oil, sweet almond (prunus amygdalus dulcis) oil,
    synthetic beeswax, tocopherol, tocopheryl acetate, tocopheryl linoleate,
                                                66

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    tribehenin, tridecyl neopentanoate, tridecyl stearate, triethanolamine, tristearin,
    urea, vegetable oil, water, waxes, wheat (triticum vulgare) germ oil, and ylang
    ylang (cananga odorata) oil.
                    In some embodiments a topical formulation may contain a
 5  suitable excipient, which typically should have a high affinity for the skin, be
    well tolerated, stable, and yield a consistency that allows for easy utilization.
    Suitable topical excipients and vehicles can be routinely selected for a
    particular use by those skilled in the art, and especially with reference to one of
    many standard texts in the art, such as Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,
10  Vol. 18, Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa. (1990), in particular Chapter 87.
    Optionally one or more humectants are also included in the topical formulation.
    Examples of humectants include, but are not limited to, amino acids,
    chondroitin sulfate, diglycerin, erythritol, fructose, glucose, glycerin, glycerol,
    glycol, 1,2,6-hexanetriol, honey, hyaluronic acid, hydrogenated honey,
15  hydrogenated starch hydrolysate, inositol, lactitol, maltitol, maltose, mannitol,
    natural moisturization factor, PEG-15 butanediol, polyglyceryl sorbitol, salts of
    pyrollidone carboxylic acid, potassium PCA, propylene glycol, sodium
    glucuronate, sodium PCA, sorbitol, sucrose, trehalose, urea, and xylitol.
                    Certain embodiments contemplate topical formulations
20  containing one or more additional skin protective agent. Examples of skin
    protective agents may include, but are not limited to, algae extract, allantoin,
    aluminum hydroxide, aluminum sulfate, betaine, camellia sinensis leaf extract,
    cerebrosides, dimethicone, glucuronolactone, glycerin, kaolin, lanolin, malt
    extract, mineral oil, petrolatum, potassium gluconate, and talc. One skilled in
25  the art will readily appreciate that skin protectants other than those listed
    above may also be combined with a disclosed composition of the present
    invention or preparation provided thereby.
                    Surfactants may also desirably be included in certain topical
    formulations contemplated herein, and can be selected from any natural or
30  synthetic surfactants suitable for use in cosmetic compositions, such as
    cationic, anionic, zwitterionic, or non-ionic surfactants, or mixtures thereof.
                                              67

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    (See Rosen, M., "Surfactants and Interfacial Phenomena," Second Edition,
    John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1988, Chapter 1, pages 4 31). Examples of
    cationic surfactants may include, but are not limited to, DMDAO or other amine
    oxides, long-chain primary amines, diamines and polyamines and their salts,
 5  quaternary ammonium salts, polyoxyethylenated long-chain amines, and
    quaternized polyoxyethylenated long-chain amines. Examples of anionic
    surfactants may include, but are not limited to, SDS; salts of carboxylic acids
    (e.g., soaps); salts of sulfonic acids, salts of sulfuric acid, phosphoric and
    polyphosphoric acid esters; alkylphosphates; monoalkyl phosphate (MAP); and
10  salts of perfluorocarboxylic acids. Examples of zwitterionic surfactants may
    include, but are not limited to, cocoamidopropyl hydroxysultaine (CAPHS) and
    others which are pH-sensitive and require special care in designing the
    appropriate pH of the formula (i.e., alkylaminopropionic acids, imidazoline
    carboxylates, and betaines) or those which are not pH-sensitive (e.g.,
15  sulfobetaines, sultaines). Examples of non-ionic surfactants may include, but
    are not limited to, alkylphenol ethoxylates, alcohol ethoxylates,
    polyoxyethylenated polyoxypropylene glycols, polyoxyethylenated mercaptans,
    long-chain carboxylic acid esters, alkonolamides, tertiary acetylenic glycols,
    polyoxyethylenated silicones, N-alkylpyrrolidones, and alkylpolyglycosidases.
20  Wetting agents, mineral oil or other surfactants such as non-ionic detergents or
    agents such as one or more members of the PLURONICS@ series (BASF, Mt.
    Olive, NJ) may also be included, for example and according to non-limiting
    theory, to discourage aggregation of BT microparticles within the
    microparticulate suspension. Any combination of surfactants is acceptable.
25  Certain embodiments may include at least one anionic and one cationic
    surfactant, or at least one cationic and one zwitterionic surfactant which are
    compatible, i.e., do not form complexes which precipitate appreciably when
    mixed.
                   Examples of thickening agents that may also be present in
30  certain topical formulations include, but are not limited to, acrylamides
    copolymer, agarose, amylopectin, bentonite, calcium alginate, calcium
                                             68

  WO 20101091124                                                  PCT/US2010/023108
    carboxymethyl cellulose, carbomer, carboxymethyl chitin, cellulose gum,
    dextrin, gelatin, hydrogenated tallow, hydroxytheylcellulose,
    hydroxypropylcellulose, hydroxpropyl starch, magnesium alginate,
    methylcellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, pectin, various PEG's, polyacrylic
 5  acid, polymethacrylic acid, polyvinyl alcohol, various PPG's, sodium acrylates
    copolymer, sodium carrageenan, xanthan gum, and yeast beta-glucan.
    Thickening agents other than those listed above may also be used in
    embodiments of this invention.
                   According to certain embodiments contemplated herein, a topical
10  formulation may comprise one or more sunscreening or UV absorbing agents.
    Where ultraviolet light- (UVA and UVB) absorbing properties are desired, such
    agents may include, for example, benzophenone, benzophenone-1,
    benzophenone-2, benzophenone-3, benzophenone-4, benzophenone-5,
    benzophenone-6, benzophenone-7, benzophenone-8, benzophenone-9,
15  benzophenone-1 0, benzophenone-1 1, benzophenone-1 2, benzyl salicylate,
    butyl PABA, cinnamate esters, cinoxate, DEA-methoxycinnamate, diisopropyl
    methyl cinnamate, ethyl dihydroxypropyl PABA, ethyl diisopropylcinnamate,
    ethyl methoxycinnamate, ethyl PABA, ethyl urocanate, glyceryl octanoate
    dimethoxycinnamate, glyceryl PABA, glycol salicylate, homosalate, isoamyl p
20  methoxycinnamate, oxides of titanium, zinc, zirconium, silicon, manganese,
    and cerium, PABA, PABA esters, Parsol 1789, and isopropylbenzyl salicylate,
    and mixtures thereof. One skilled in the art will appreciate that sunscreening
    and UV absorbing or protective agents other than those listed may be used in
    certain embodiments of the present invention.
25                 Topical formulations disclosed herein are typically effective at pH
    values between about 2.5 and about 10.0. Preferably, the pH of the
    composition is at or about the following pH ranges: about pH 5.5 to about pH
    8.5, about pH 5 to about pH 10, about pH 5 to about pH 9, about pH 5 to about
    pH 8, about pH 3 to about pH 10, about pH 3 to about pH 9, about pH 3 to
30  about pH 8, and about pH 3 to about pH 8.5. Most preferably, the pH is about
    pH 7 to about pH 8. One of ordinary skill in the art may add appropriate pH
                                            69

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
    adjusting ingredients to the compositions of the present invention to adjust the
    pH to an acceptable range. "About" a specified pH is understood by those
    familiar with the art to include formulations in which at any given time the
    actual measured pH may be less or more than the specified value by no more
 5  than 0.7, 0.6, 0.5, 0.4., 0.3, 0.2 or 0.1 pH units, where it is recognized that
    formulation composition and storage conditions may result in drifting of pH
    from an original value.
                     A cream, lotion, gel, ointment, paste or the like may be spread on
    the affected surface and gently rubbed in. A solution may be applied in the
10  same way, but more typically will be applied with a dropper, swab, or the like,
    and carefully applied to the affected areas. The application regimen will
    depend on a number of factors that may readily be determined, such as the
    severity of the wound and its responsiveness to initial treatment, but will
    normally involve one or more applications per day on an ongoing basis. One
15  of ordinary skill may readily determine the optimum amount of the formulation
    to be administered, administration methodologies and repetition rates. In
    general, it is contemplated that the formulations of these and related
    embodiments of the invention will be applied in the range of once or twice or
    more weekly up to once, twice, thrice, four times or more daily.
20                   As also discussed above, the topical formulations useful herein
    thus also contain a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, including any suitable
    diluent or excipient, which includes any pharmaceutical agent that does not
    itself harm the subject receiving the composition, and which may be
    administered without undue toxicity. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers
25  include, but are not limited to, liquids, such as water, saline, glycerol and
    ethanol, and the like, and may also include viscosity enhancers (e.g., balsam
    fir resin) or film-formers such as colloidion or nitrocellulose solutions. A
    thorough discussion of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, diluents, and
    other excipients is presented in REMINGTON'S PHARMACEUTICAL
30  SCIENCES (Mack Pub. Co., N.J. current edition).
                                               70

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                    When the topical formulation is in the form of a gel- or liquid-filled
    capsule, for example, a gelatin capsule, it may contain, in addition to materials
    of the above type, a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil. The liquid
    pharmaceutical compositions of certain embodiments of the invention, whether
 5  they be solutions, suspensions or other like form, may include one or more of
    the following: sterile diluents such as water for injection, saline solution,
    preferably physiological saline, Ringer's solution, isotonic sodium chloride,
    fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the
    solvent or suspending medium, polyethylene glycols, glycerin, propylene glycol
10  or other solvents; antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl
    paraben; additional antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite;
    chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA); buffers such
    as acetates, citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity
    such as sodium chloride or dextrose.
15                  For topical administration the carrier may suitably comprise a
    solution, emulsion, ointment or gel base. The base, for example, may
    comprise one or more of the following: petrolatum, lanolin, polyethylene
    glycols, bee wax, mineral oil, diluents such as water and alcohol, and
    emulsifiers and stabilizers. Thickening agents may be present in a
20  pharmaceutical or cosmeceutical composition for topical administration. If
    intended for transdermal administration, the composition may include a
    transdermal patch or iontophoresis device. Topical formulations may contain a
    concentration of the compound of certain embodiments of the invention from
    about 0.1 to about 10% w/v (weight per unit volume). A topical formulation
25  may be provided in the form of a cream, lotion, solution, spray, gel, ointment,
    paste or the like, and/or may contain liposomes, micelles, microspheres and/or
    other microparticle or nanoparticle delivery elements. A topical formulation
    may also be provided in the form of time-release or sustained release particles
    or pellets, for example, slow-release ethylene vinyl acetate polymer (e.g.,
30  Elvax@40, Aldrich, Milwaukee, WI) pellets, that can be directly administered to
    a wound site.
                                              71

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                     The topical formulation may include an agent that binds to the
    skin tissue repair-promoting compound and thereby assists in its delivery to
    skin epithelial cells (e.g., keratinocytes) and/or fibroblasts. Suitable agents
    that may act in this capacity include clathrating agents such as cyclodextrins;
 5  other agents may include a protein or a liposome.
                     The topical formulation of certain embodiments of the invention
    may also be provided in the form of dosage units that can be administered as
    an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a variety of systems ranging
    from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting of pressurized packages.
10  Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a suitable pump
    system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of compounds of
    certain embodiments of the invention may be delivered in single phase,
    bi-phasic, or tri-phasic systems in order to deliver the active ingredient(s).
    Delivery of the aerosol includes the necessary container, activators, valves,
15  subcontainers, and the like, which together may form a kit. One skilled in the
    art, without undue experimentation may determine preferred aerosols for
    delivering topical formulations to the skin or to a wound site.
                     The topical formulations may be prepared by methodology well
    known in the pharmaceutical art. For example, a pharmaceutical composition
20  intended to be administered to a wound site or to the skin as a spray, wash or
    rinse can be prepared by combining a BT antiseptic/ wound-healing/ anti
    biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting compound as described herein with
    sterile, distilled water so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to
    facilitate the formation of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants
25  are compounds that non-covalently interact with the antioxidant active
    compound so as to facilitate dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the
    compound in the aqueous delivery system.
                     The BT antiseptic/ wound-healing/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair
    promoting compounds for use in topical formulations, or their pharmaceutically
30  acceptable salts, are administered in a therapeutically effective amount, which
    will vary depending upon a variety of factors including the nature of the wound
                                              72

  WO 20101091124                                                        PCT/US2010/023108
    site (where relevant), the activity of the specific BT compound employed
    (including the inclusion or absence from the formulation of an antibiotic, such
    as an aminoglycoside antibiotic, e.g., amikacin); the metabolic stability and
    length of action of the compound; the age, body weight, general health, sex,
 5  skin type, immune status and diet of the subject; the mode and time of
    administration; the rate of excretion; the drug combination; the severity of the
    particular skin wound for which skin tissue repair is desired; and the subject
    undergoing therapy. Generally, a therapeutically effective daily dose is (for a
    70 kg mammal) from about 0.001 mg/kg (i.e., 0.07 mg) to about 100 mg/kg
10  (i.e., 7.0 g); preferably a therapeutically effective dose is (for a 70 kg mammal)
    from about 0.01 mg/kg (i.e., 7 mg) to about 50 mg/kg (i.e., 3.5 g); more
    preferably a therapeutically effective dose is (for a 70 kg mammal) from about
    1 mg/kg (i.e., 70 mg) to about 25 mg/kg (i.e., 1.75 g).
                    The ranges of effective doses provided herein are not intended to
15  be limiting and represent preferred dose ranges. However, the most preferred
    dosage will be tailored to the individual subject, as is understood and
    determinable by one skilled in the relevant arts. (see, e.g., Berkow et al., eds.,
    The Merck Manual,       1 6 th edition, Merck and Co., Rahway, N.J., 1992;
    Goodman et al., eds., Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of
20  Therapeutics,    10 th edition, Pergamon Press, Inc., Elmsford, N.Y., (2001);
    Avery's Drug Treatment: Principles and Practice of Clinical Pharmacology and
    Therapeutics, 3rd edition, ADIS Press, Ltd., Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore,
    MD. (1987); Ebadi, Pharmacology, Little, Brown and Co., Boston, (1985);
    Osolci al., eds., Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,       1 8 th  edition, Mack
25  Publishing Co., Easton, PA (1990); Katzung, Basic and Clinical Pharmacology,
    Appleton and Lange, Norwalk, CT (1992)).
                    The total dose required for each treatment can be administered
    by multiple doses or in a single dose over the course of the day, if desired.
    Certain preferred embodiments contemplate a single application of the topical
30  formulation per day. Generally, and in distinct embodiments, treatment may
    be initiated with smaller dosages, which are less than the optimum dose of the
                                                 73

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    compound. Thereafter, the dosage is increased by small increments until the
    optimum effect under the circumstances is reached.
                   The topical formulation can be administered alone or in
    conjunction with other treatments and/or pharmaceuticals directed to the skin
 5  wound, or directed to other associated symptoms or etiologic factors. For
    example, and as also noted above, the topical formulation may further
    comprise retinoic acid. As another example, the topical formulation may
    comprise one or more skin tissue repair-promoting compounds described
    herein, or may comprise two or more such compounds having different cellular
10  wound repair activities.
                   The recipients of the topical formulations described herein can be
    any vertebrate animal, such as mammals. Among mammals, the preferred
    recipients are mammals of the Orders Primate (including humans, apes and
    monkeys), Arteriodactyla (including horses, goats, cows, sheep, pigs),
15  Rodenta (including mice, rats, rabbits, and hamsters), and Carnivora (including
    cats, and dogs). Among birds, the preferred recipients are turkeys, chickens
    and other members of the same order. The most preferred recipients are
    humans, and particularly preferred are humans having one or more acute or
    chronic wounds or wounds that contain biofilms.
20                 For topical applications, it is preferred to administer an effective
    amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a BT compound
    antiseptic/ wound-healing/ anti-biofilm/ skin tissue repair-promoting compound
    according to the herein described embodiments, to a target area, e.g., a skin
    wound such as an acute or chronic wound, and/or an at-risk area (e.g., for
25  wound dehiscence) of the skin, and the like. This amount will generally range
    from about 0.0001 mg to about 1 g of a compound of certain embodiments of
    the invention per application, depending upon the area to be treated, the
    severity of the wound (or of a past or contemplated surgical incision), and the
    nature of the topical vehicle employed. A preferred topical preparation is an
30  ointment or slow-release pellets, wherein about 0.001 to about 50 mg of active
    ingredient is used per cc of ointment base or pellet suspension. The
                                             74

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    pharmaceutical composition can be formulated as transdermal compositions or
    transdermal delivery devices ("patches"). Such compositions include, for
    example, a backing, active compound reservoir, a control membrane, liner and
    contact adhesive. Such transdermal patches may be used to provide
 5  continuous pulsatile, or on demand delivery of the compounds of the present
    invention as desired.
                   The compositions of certain embodiments can be formulated so
    as to provide quick, sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after
    administration to the patient by employing procedures known in the art.
10  Controlled release drug delivery systems include osmotic pump systems and
    dissolutional systems containing polymer-coated reservoirs or drug-polymer
    matrix formulations. Examples of controlled release systems are given in U.S.
    Pat. Nos. 3,845,770 and 4,326,525 and in P. J. Kuzma et al, Regional
    Anesthesia 22 (6): 543-551 (1997), all of which are incorporated herein by
15  reference.
                   The most suitable route will depend on the nature and severity of
    the condition being treated. Those skilled in the art are also familiar with
    determining topical administration methods (sprays, creams, open application,
    occlusive dressing, soaks, washes, etc.), dosage forms, suitable
20  pharmaceutical excipients and other matters relevant to the delivery of the
    compounds to a subject in need thereof.
                   Throughout this specification, unless the context requires
    otherwise, the words "comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be
    understood to imply the inclusion of a stated step or element or group of steps
25  or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or element or group of
    steps or elements. By "consisting of' is meant including, and limited to,
    whatever follows the phrase "consisting of." Thus, the phrase "consisting of"
    indicates that the listed elements are required or mandatory, and that no other
    elements may be present. By "consisting essentially of" is meant including any
30  elements listed after the phrase, and limited to other elements that do not
    interfere with or contribute to the activity or action specified in the disclosure
                                              75

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    for the listed elements. Thus, the phrase "consisting essentially of' indicates
    that the listed elements are required or mandatory, but that no other elements
    are required and may or may not be present depending upon whether or not
    they affect the activity or action of the listed elements.
 5                  In this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
    "a," "an" and "the" include plural references unless the content clearly dictates
    otherwise. As used herein, in particular embodiments, the terms "about" or
    "approximately" when preceding a numerical value indicates the value plus or
    minus a range of 5%, 6%, 7%, 8% or 9%. In other embodiments, the terms
10  "about" or "approximately" when preceding a numerical value indicates the
    value plus or minus a range of 10%, 11%, 12%, 13% or 14%. In yet other
    embodiments, the terms "about" or "approximately" when preceding a
    numerical value indicates the value plus or minus a range of 15%, 16%, 17%,
    18%, 19% or 20%.
15                  The following Examples are presented by way of illustration and
    not limitation.
                                               76

  WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
                                      EXAMPLES
                                      EXAMPLE 1
                             PREPARATION OF    BT COMPOUNDS
                   The following BT compounds were prepared either according to
 5  the methods of Domenico et al. (U.S. RE37,793, U.S. 6,248,371, U.S.
    6,086,921, U.S. 6,380,248) or as microparticles according to the synthetic
    protocol described below for BisEDT. Shown are atomic ratios relative to a
    single bismuth atom, for comparison, based on the stoichiometric ratios of the
    reactants used and the known propensity of bismuth to form trivalent
10  complexes with sulfur containing compounds. The numbers in parenthesis are
    the ratios of bismuth to one (or more) thiol agents (e.g. Bi:thioll/thiol2; see also
    Table 1).
                   1)     CPD 1B-1 Bis-EDT (1:1) BiC 2 H4 S2
                   2)     CPD 1B-2 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6 S3
15                 3)     CPD 1B-3 Bis-EDT (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6 S3
                   4)     CPD 1C Bis-EDT (soluble Bi prep.) (1:1.5) BiC 3 H6 S3
                   5)     CPD 2A Bis-Bal (1:1) BiC 3H6 S 20
                   6)     CPD 2B Bis-Bal (1:1.5) BiC 4.5 H9 O 1.5S3
                   7)     CPD 3A Bis-Pyr (1:1.5) BiC 7.5 H6 N1 .50 1.5 S 1.5
20                 8)     CPD 3B Bis-Pyr (1:3) BiC 1 5 H12N303S 3
                   9)     CPD 4 Bis-Ery (1:1.5) BiC 6 H12 O 3S 3
                   10)    CPD 5 Bis-Tol (1:1.5) BiC 10 .5 H9 S3
                   11)    CPD 6 Bis-BDT (1:1.5) BiC 6 H 12 S3
                   12)    CPD 7 Bis-PDT (1:1.5) BiC 4 .5 H 9S3
25                 13)    CPD 8-1 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/1)
                   14)    CPD 8-2 Bis-Pyr/BDT (1:1/0.5)
                   15)    CPD 9 Bis-2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:3)
                   16)    CPD 10 Bis-Pyr/Bal (1:1/0.5)
                   17)    CPD 11 Bis-Pyr/EDT (1:1/0.5)
                                            77

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                     18)   CPD 12 Bis-Pyr/Tol (1:1/0.5)
                     19)   CPD 13 Bis-Pyr/PDT (1:1/0.5)
                    20)    CPD 14 Bis-Pyr/Ery (1:1/0.5)
                    21)    CPD 15 Bis-EDT/2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1)
 5                   Microparticulate bismuth-1,2-ethanedithiol (Bis-EDT, soluble
    bismuth preparation) was prepared as follows:
                    To an excess (11.4 L) of 5% aqueous HNO 3 at room temperature
    in a 15 L polypropylene carboy was slowly added by dropwise addition 0.331 L
    (-0.575 moles) of an aqueous Bi(N0 3) 3 solution (43% Bi(NO 3 ) 3 (w/w), 5% nitric
10  acid (w/w), 52% water (w/w), Shepherd Chemical Co., Cincinnati, OH, product
    no. 2362; 6 -1.6 g/mL) with stirring, followed by slow addition of absolute
    ethanol (4 L). Some white precipitate formed but was dissolved by continued
    stirring. An ethanolic solution (-1.56 L, -0.55 M) of 1,2-ethanedithiol (CAS
    540-63-6) was separately prepared by adding, to 1.5 L of absolute ethanol,
15  72.19 mL (0.863 moles) of 1,2-ethanedithiol using a 60 mL syringe, and then
    stirring for five minutes. The 1,2-ethanedithiol/ EtOH reagent was then slowly
    added by dropwise addition over the course of five hours to the aqueous
    Bi(NO 3 )3 / HNO 3 solution, with continued stirring overnight. The formed
    product was allowed to settle as a precipitate for approximately 15 minutes,
20  after which the filtrate was removed at 300 mL/min using a peristaltic pump.
    The product was then collected by filtration on fine filter paper in a 15-cm
    diameter Buchner funnel, and washed sequentially with three, 500-mL
    volumes each of ethanol, USP water, and acetone to obtain BisEDT (694.51
    gm/ mole) as a yellow amorphous powdered solid. The product was placed in
25  a 500 mL amber glass bottle and dried over CaCl 2 under high vacuum for 48
    hours. Recovered material (yield -200 g) gave off a thiol-characteristic odor.
    The crude product was redissolved in 750 mL of absolute ethanol, stirred for
    30 min, then filtered and washed sequentially with 3 x 50 mL ethanol, 2 x 50
    mL acetone, and washed again with 500 mL of acetone. The rewashed
30  powder was triturated in I M NaOH (500 mL), filtered and washed with 3 x 220
    mL water, 2 x 50 mL ethanol, and 1 x 400 mL acetone to afford 156.74 gm of
                                             78

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    purified BisEDT. Subsequent batches prepared in essentially the same
    manner resulted in yields of about 78-91%.
                   The product was characterized as having the structure shown
    above in formula I by analysis of data from 1H and    13C nuclear magnetic
 5  resonance (NMR), infrared spectroscopy (IR), ultraviolet spectroscopy (UV),
    mass spectrometry (MS) and elemental analysis. An HPLC method was
    developed to determine chemical purity of BisEDT whereby the sample was
    prepared in DMSO (0.5mg/mL). The Amax was determined by scanning a
    solution of BisEDT in DMSO between 190 and 600nm. Isocratic HPLC elution
10  at 1 mL/min was performed at ambient temperature in a mobile phase of 0.1%
    formic acid in acetonitrile:water (9:1) on a Waters (Millipore Corp., Milford, MA)
    model 2695 chromatograph with UV detector monitoring at 265 nm (vmax), 2 pL
    injection volume, equipped with a YMC Pack PVC Sil NP, 5pm, 250X4.6 mm
    inner diameter analytical column (Waters) and a single peak was detected,
15  reflecting chemical purity of 100 0.1%. Elemental analysis was consistent
    with the structure of formula (1).
                   The dried particulate matter was characterized to assess the
    particle size properties. Briefly, microparticles were resuspended in 2%
    Pluronic@ F-68 (BASF, Mt. Olive, NJ) and the suspension was sonicated for 10
20  minutes in a water bath sonicator at standard setting prior to analysis using a
    Nanosizer/Zetasizer Nano-S particle analyzer (model ZEN 1600 (without zeta
    potential measuring capacity), Malvern Instruments, Worcestershire, UK)
    according to the manufacturer's recommendations. From compiled data of two
    measurements, microparticles exhibited a unimodal distribution with all
25  detectable events between about 0.6 microns and 4 microns in volumetric
    mean diameter (VMD) and having a peak VMD at about 1.3 microns. By
    contrast, when BisEDT was prepared by prior methods (Domenico et al., 1997
    Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 41(8):1697-1703) the majority of particles were
    heterodisperse and of significantly larger size, precluding their characterization
30  on the basis of VMD.
                                             79

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                                          EXAMPLE 2
                   COLONY BIOFILM MODEL OF CHRONIC WOUND INFECTION:
                                 INHIBITION BY BT COMPOUNDS
                   Because bacteria that exist in chronic wounds adopt a biofilm
 5  lifestyle, BTs were tested against biofilms for effects on bacterial cell survival
    using biofilms prepared essentially according to described methods (Anderl et
    al., 2003 Antimicrob Agents Chemother 47:1251-56; Walters et al., 2003
    Antimicrob Agents Chemother 47:317; Wentland et al., 1996 Biotchnol. Prog.
    12:316; Zheng et al., 2002 Antimicrob Agents Chemother 46:900).
10                 Briefly, colony biofilms were grown on 10% tryptic soy agar for 24
    hours, and transferred to Mueller Hinton plates containing treatments. After
    treatment the biofilms were dispersed into peptone water containing 2% w/v
    glutathione (neutralizes the BT), and serially diluted into peptone water before
    being spotted onto plates for counting. Two bacteria isolated from chronic
15  wounds were used separately in the production of colony biofilms for testing.
    These were Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a gram negative bacterial strain, and
    Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), which is gram positive.
                   Bacterial biofilm colonies were grown on top of micro porous
    membranes resting on an agar plate essentially as described (Anderl et al.,
20  2003 Antimicrob Agents Chemother 47:1251-56; Walters et al., 2003
    Antimicrob Agents Chemother 47:317; Wentland et al., 1996 Biotchnol. Prog.
    12:316; Zheng et al., 2002 Antimicrob Agents Chemother 46:900) The colony
    biofilms exhibited many of the familiar features of other biofilm models, e.g.,
    they consisted of cells densely aggregated in a highly hydrated matrix. As also
25  reported by others (Brown et al., J Surg Res 56:562; Millward et al, 1989
    Microbios 58:155; Sutch et al., 1995 J Pharm Pharmacol 47:1094; Thrower et
    al., 1997 J Med Microbiol 46:425) it was observed that bacteria in colony
    biofilms exhibited the same profoundly reduced anti-microbial susceptibility
    that has been quantified in more sophisticated in vitro biofilm reactors. Colony
30  biofilms were readily and reproducibly generated in large numbers. According
    to non-limiting theory, this colony biofilm model shared some of the features of
                                              80

  WO 20101091124                                                  PCT/US2010/023108
    an infected wound: bacteria grew at an air interface with nutrients supplied
    from beneath the biofilm and minimal fluid flow. A variety of nutrients sources
    was used to cultivate colony biofilms, including blood agar, which is believed to
    mimic in vivo nutrient conditions.
 5                  Colony biofilms were prepared by inoculating 5 pl spots of
    planktonic bacterial liquid cultures onto a 25 mm diameter polycarbonate filter
    membrane. The membranes were sterilized prior to inoculation, by exposure
    to ultraviolet light for 10 min per side. The inocula were grown overnight in
    bacterial medium at 370C and diluted in fresh medium to an optical density of
10  0.1 at 600 nm prior to deposition on the membrane. The membranes were
    then placed on the agar plate containing growth medium. The plates were
    then covered and placed, inverted, in an incubator at 370C. Every 24 h, the
    membrane and colony biofilm were transferred, using sterile forceps, to a fresh
    plate. Colony biofilms were typically used for experimentation after 48 hours of
15  growth, at which time there were approximately 109 bacteria per membrane.
    The colony biofilm method was successfully employed to culture a wide variety
    of single species and mixed species biofilms.
                    To measure susceptibility to antimicrobial agents (e.g., BT
    compounds including combinations of BT compounds; antibiotics; and BT
20  compound-antibiotic combinations), colony biofilms were transferred to agar
    plates supplemented with the candidate antimicrobial treatment agent(s).
    Where the duration of exposure to antimicrobial treatment exceeded 24 hours,
    the colony biofilms were moved to fresh treatment plates daily. At the end of
    the treatment period, the colony biofilms were placed in tubes containing 10 ml
25  of buffer and vortexed for 1-2 min to disperse the biofilm. In some cases, it
    was necessary to briefly process the sample with a tissue homogenizer to
    break up cell aggregates. The resulting cell suspensions were then serially
    diluted and plated to enumerate surviving bacteria, which were reported as
    colony forming units (CFU) per unit area. Survival data were analyzed using
30  logio transformation.
                                              81

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                   For each type of bacterial biofilm colony cultures (Pseudomonas
    aeruginosa, PA; methicilin resistant Staphylococcus aureus, MRSA or SA) five
    antibiotics and thirteen BT compounds were tested. Antimicrobial agents
    tested against PA included the BTs referred to herein as BisEDT and
 5  Compounds 2B, 4, 5, 6, 8-2, 9, 10, 11 and 15 (see Table 1), and the antibiotics
    tobramycin, amikacin, imipenim, cefazolin, and ciprofloxacin. Antimicrobial
    agents tested against SA included the BTs referred to herein as BisEDT and
    Compounds 2B, 4, 5, 6, 8-2, 9, 10 and 11 (see Table 1), and the antibiotics
    rifampicin, daptomycin, minocycline, ampicillin, and vancomycin. As described
10  above under "brief descriptions of the drawings", antibiotics were tested at
    concentrations of approximately 10-400 times the minimum inhibitory
    concentrations (MIC) according to established microbiological methodologies.
                   Seven BT compounds exhibited pronounced effects on PA
    bacterial survival at the concentrations tested, and two BT compounds
15  demonstrated pronounced effects on MRSA survival at the concentrations
    tested; representative results showing BT effects on bacterial survival are
    presented in Figure 1 for BisEDT and BT compound 2B (tested against PA)
    and in Figure 2 for BT compounds 2B and 8-2 (tested against SA), in both
    cases, relative to the effects of the indicated antibiotics. As also shown in
20  Figures 1 and 2, inclusion of the indicated BT compounds in combination with
    the indicated antibiotics resulted in a synergistic effect whereby the potency of
    reducing bacterial survival was enhanced relative to the anti-bacterial effects of
    either the antibiotic alone or the BT compound alone. In the PA survival
    assay, compound 15 (Bis-EDT/2hydroxy, propane thiol (1:1/1)) at a
25  concentration of 80 pg/mL exhibited an effect (not shown) that was
    comparable to the effect obtained using the combination of 1600 pg/mL AMK
    plus 80 pg/mL BisEDT (Fig. 1).
                                             82

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                                          EXAMPLE 3
                  DRIP FLOW BIOFILM MODEL OF CHRONIC WOUND INFECTION:
                                 INHIBITION BY BT COMPOUNDS
                    Drip flow biofilms represent an art accepted authentic model for
 5  forming, and testing the effect of candidate anti-bacterial compounds against,
    bacterial biofilms. Drip flow biofilms are produced on coupons (substrates)
    placed in the channels of a drip flow reactor. Many different types of materials
    can be used as the substrate for bacterial biofilm formation, including frosted
    glass microscope slides. Nutritive liquid media enters the drip flow bioreactor
10  cell chamber by dripping into the chamber near the top, and then flows the
    length of a coupon down a 10 degree slope.
                    Biofilms are grown in drip flow bioreactors and exposed to BT
    compounds individually or in combinations and/or to antibiotic compounds
    individually or in combinations with other antibacterial agents, including BT
15  compounds, or to other conventional or candidate treatments for chronic
    wounds. BT compounds are thus characterized for their effects on bacterial
    biofilms in the drip-flow reactor. Biofilms in the drip-flow reactor are prepared
    according to established methodologies (e.g., Stewart et al., 2001 JApp/
    Microbiol. 91:525; Xu et al., 1998 Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 64:4035). This
20  design involves cultivating biofilms on inclined polystyrene coupons in a
    covered chamber. An exemplary culture medium contains 1 g/l glucose, 0.5
    g/l NH4 NO3 , 0.25g/l KCl, 0.25 g/l KH 2 PO 4 , 0.25 g/l MgSO 4-7H 2 0,
    supplemented with 5% v/v adult donor bovine serum (ph 6.8) that mimics
    serum protein-rich, iron limited conditions that are similar to biofilm growth
25  conditions in vivo, such as in chronic wounds. This medium flows drop-wise
    (50ml/h) over four coupons contained in four separate parallel chambers, each
    of which measures 10cm x 1.9cm by 1.9cm deep. The chambered reactor is
    fabricated from polysulfone plastic. Each of the chambers is fitted with an
    individual removable plastic lid that can be tightly sealed. The biofilm reactor
30  is contained in an incubator at 370 C, and bacterial cell culture medium is
    warmed by passing it through an aluminum heat sink kept in the incubator.
                                              83

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    This method reproduces the antibiotic tolerant phenotype observed in certain
    biofilms, mimics the low fluid shear environment and proximity to an air
    interface characteristic of a chronic wound while providing continual
    replenishment of nutrients, and is compatible with a number of analytical
 5  methods for characterizing and monitoring the effects of introduced candidate
    antibacterial regimens. The drip-flow reactor has been successfully employed
    to culture a wide variety of pure and mixed-species biofilms. Biofilms are
    typically grown for two to five days prior to application of antimicrobial agents.
                   To measure the effects of anti-biofilm agents on biofilms grown in
10  drip-flow reactors, the fluid stream passing over the biofilm is amended or
    supplemented with the desired treatment formulation (e.g., one or more BT
    compounds and/or one or more antibiotics, or controls, and/or other candidate
    agents). Flow is continued for the specified treatment period. The treated
    biofilm coupon is then briefly removed from the reactor and the biofilm is
15  scraped into a beaker containing 10 ml of buffer. This sample is briefly
    processed (typically 30s to 1 min) with a tissue homogenizer to disperse
    bacterial aggregates. The suspension is serially diluted and plated to
    enumerate surviving microorganisms according to standard microbiological
    methodologies.
20                                      EXAMPLE4
                WOUND BIOFILM INHIBITION OF KERATINOCYTE SCRATCH REPAIR:
                          BIOFILM SUPPRESSION BY BT COMPOUNDS
                   This Example describes a modification of established in vitro
    keratinocyte scratch models of wound healing, to arrive at a model having
25  relevance to biofilm-associated wound pathology and wound healing, and in
    particular to acute or chronic wounds or wounds containing biofilms as
    described herein. According to the keratinocyte scratch model of the effects of
    chronic wound biofilms, cultivation of mammalian (e.g., human) keratinocytes
    and bacterial biofilm populations proceeds in separate chambers that are in
30  fluid contact with one another, to permit assessment of the effects of
                                             84

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
    conditions that influence the effects, of soluble components elaborated by
    biofilms, on keratinocyte wound healing events.
                    Newborn human foreskin cells are cultured as monolayers in
    treated plastic dishes, in which monolayers a controlled "wound" or scratch is
 5  formed by mechanical means (e.g., through physical disruption of the
    monolayer such as by scraping an essentially linear cell-free zone between
    regions of the monolayer with a suitable implement such as a sterile scalpel,
    razor, cell scraper, forceps or other tool). In vitro keratinocyte monolayer
    model systems are known to undergo cellular structural and functional process
10  in response to the wounding event, in a manner that simulates wound healing
    in vivo. According to the herein disclosed embodiments, the influence of the
    presence of bacterial biofilms on such processes, for instance, on the healing
    time of the scratch, is observed, and in these and related embodiments the
    effects are also assessed of the presence of selected candidate antimicrobial
15  (e.g., antibacterial and antibiofilm) treatments.
                    Wounded keratinocyte monolayers cultured in the presence of
    biofilms are examined according to morphological, biochemical, molecular
    genetic, cell physiologic and other parameters to determine whether
    introduction of BT comopunds alters (e.g., increases or decreases in a
20  statistically significant manner relative to appropriate controls) the damaging
    effects of the biofilms. Wounds are first exposed to each BT compound alone,
    and to contemplated combinations of BT compounds, in order to test the
    toxicity of each BT compound treatment prior to assessing the effects of such
    treatments on biofilm influences toward the model wound healing process.
25                  In a representative embodiment, a three-day biofilm is cultured
    on a membrane (e.g., a TransWell membrane insert or the like) that is
    maintained in a tissue culture well above, and in fluid communication with, a
    keratinocyte monolayer that is scratched to initiate the wound healing process.
    Biofilms cultured out of authentic acute or chronic wounds are contemplated
30  for use in these and related embodiments.
                                              85

  WO 20101091124                                                  PCT/US2010/023108
                   Thus, an in vitro system has been developed for evaluating
    soluble biofilm component effects on migration and proliferation of human
    keratinocytes. The system separates the biofilm and keratinocytes using a
    dialysis membrane. Keratinocytes are cultured from newborn foreskin as
 5  previously described (Fleckman et al., 1997 J Invest. Dermatol. 109:36;
    Piepkorn et al., 1987 J Invest. Dermatol. 88:215-219) and grown as confluent
    monolayers on glass cover slips. The keratinocyte monolayers can then be
    scratched to yield "wounds" with a uniform width, followed by monitoring
    cellular repair processes (e.g., Tao et al., 2007 PLoS ONE 2:e697; Buth et al.
10  2007 Eur. J Cell Biol. 86:747; Phan et al. 2000 Ann. A cad. Med. Singapore
    29:27). The artificial wounds are then placed in the bottom of a sterile double
    sided chamber and the chamber is assembled using aseptic technique. Both
    sides of the chamber are filled with keratinocyte growth medium (EpiLife) with
    or without antibiotics and/or bismuth-thiols. Uninoculated systems are used as
15  controls.
                   The system is inoculated with wound-isolated bacteria and
    incubated in static conditions for two hours to enable bacterial attachment to
    surfaces in the upper chambers. Following the attachment period, liquid
    medium flow is initiated in the upper chamber to remove unattached cells.
20  Flow of medium is then continued at a rate that minimizes the growth of
    planktonic cells within the upper chamber, by washout of unattached cells.
    After incubation periods ranging from 6 to 48 hours, the systems (keratinocyte
    monolayers on coverslips and bacterial biofilm on membrane substrate) are
    disassembled and the cover slips removed and analyzed. In related
25  embodiments, mature biofilms are grown in the upper chamber prior to
    assembling the chamber. In other related embodiments, the separate co
    culturing of biofilms and scratch-wounded keratinocyte monolayers is
    conducted in the absence and presence of one or more BT compounds,
    optionally with the inclusion or exclusion of one or more antibiotics, in order to
30  determine effects of candidate agents such as BT compounds, or of potentially
    synergizing BT compound-plus-antibiotic combinations (e.g., a BT compound
                                             86

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    as provided herein such as a BT that is provided in microparticulate form, and
    one or more of amikacin, ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol,
    ciprofloxacin, clindamycin (or another lincoasamide antibiotic), daptomycin
    (Cubicin@),_doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim, levofloxacin,
 5  linezolid (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin,
    sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin and vancomycin), on keratinocyte repair of the
    scratch wound, e.g., to identify an agent or combination of agents that alters
    (e.g., increases or decreases in a statistically significant manner relative to
    appropriate controls) at least one indicator of scratch wound healing, such as
10  the time elapsing for wound repair to take place or other wound-repair indicia
    (e.g., Tao et al., 2007 PLoS ONE 2:e697; Buth et al. 2007 Eur. J Cel Biol.
    86:747; Phan et al. 2000 Ann. Acad. Med. Singapore 29:27).
                                         EXAMPLE 5
                 WOUND BIOFILM INHIBITION OF KERATINOCYTE SCRATCH REPAIR
15                  Isolated human keratinocytes were cultured on glass coverslips
    and scratch-wounded according to methodologies described above in Example
    4. Wounded cultures were maintained under culture conditions alone or in the
    presence of a co-cultured biofilm on a membrane support in fluid
    communication with the keratinocyte culture. The scratch closure time interval
20  during which keratinocyte cell growth and/or migration reestablishes the
    keratinocyte monolayer over the scratch zone was then determined. Figure 3
    illustrates the effect that the presence in fluid communication (but without
    direct contact) of biofilms had on the healing time of scratched keratinocyte
    monolayers.
25                 Accordingly there are contemplated in certain embodiments a
    method of identifying an agent for treating a chronic wound, comprising
    culturing a scratch-wounded cell (e.g., keratinocyte or fibroblast) monolayer in
    the presence of a bacterial biofilm with and without a candidate anti-biofilm
    agent being present; and assessing an indicator of healing of the scratch
30  wounded cell monolayer in the absence and presence of the candidate anti
                                             87

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
    biofilm agent, wherein an agent (e.g., a BT compound such as a substantially
    monodisperse BT microparticle suspension as described herein, alone or in
    synergizing combination with an antibiotic, such as one or more of amikacin,
    ampicillin, cefazolin, cefepime, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, clindamycin,
 5  daptomycin (Cubicin@),_doxycycline, gatifloxacin, gentamicin, imipenim,
    levofloxacin, linezolid (Zyvox@), minocycline, nafcilin, paromomycin, rifampin,
    sulphamethoxazole, tobramycin and vancomycin) that promotes at least one
    indicator of healing is identified as a suitable agent for treating an acute or
    chronic wound or a wound that contains a biofilm.
10                                       EXAMPLE6
                 SYNERGIZING BISMUTH-THIOL (BT)-ANTIBIOTIC COMBINATIONS
                    This example shows instances of demonstrated synergizing
    effects by combinations of one or more bismuth-thiol compounds and one or
    more antibiotics against a variety of bacterial species and bacterial strains,
15  including several antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
                    Materials & Methods. Susceptibility studies were performed by
    broth dilution in 96-well tissue culture plates (Nalge Nunc International,
    Denmark) in accordance with NCCLS protocols (National Committee for
    Clinical Laboratory Standards. (1997). Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial
20  Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically: Approved Standard M7
    A2 and Informational Supplement M100-S10. NCCLS, Wayne, PA, USA).
                    Briefly, overnight bacterial cultures were used to prepare 0.5
    McFarland standard suspensions, which were further diluted 1:50 (-2 x 106
    cfu/mL) in cation-adjusted Mueller-Hinton broth medium (BBL, Cockeysville,
25  MD, USA). BTs (prepared as described above) and antibiotics were added at
    incremental concentrations, keeping the final volume constant at 0.2 mL.
    Cultures were incubated for 24 h at 37*C and turbidity was assessed by
    absorption at 630 nm using an ELISA plate reader (Biotek Instruments,
    Winooski, VT, USA) according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The
30  Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) was expressed as the lowest drug
                                              88

  WO 20101091124                                                  PCT/US2010/023108
    concentration inhibiting growth for 24 h. Viable bacterial counts (cfu/mL) were
    determined by standard plating on nutrient agar. The Minimal Bactericidal
    Concentrations (MBC) was expressed as the concentration of drug that
    reduced initial viability by 99.9% at 24 h of incubation.
 5                 The checkerboard method was used to assess the activity of
    antimicrobial combinations. The fractional inhibitory concentration index (FICI)
    and the fractional bactericidal concentration index (FBCI) were calculated,
    according to Eliopoulos et al. (Eliopoulos and Moellering, (1996) Antimicrobial
    combinations. In Antibiotics in Laboratory Medicine (Lorian, V., Ed.), pp. 330
10  96, Williams and Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, USA). Synergy was defined as an
    FICI or FBCI index of 50.5, no interaction at >0.5-4 and antagonism at >4
    (Odds, FC (2003) Synergy, antagonism, and what the chequerboard puts
    between them. Journal of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy 52:1). Synergy was
    also defined conventionally as >4-fold decrease in antibiotic concentration.
15                  Results are presented in Tables 2-17.
                                          TABLE 2
                                 S. aureus Nafcilin resistant
                                              NAF/BE
                                NAF MIC         MIC
          Strain                 (pg/ml)      (pg/ml)         A        Synergy
          60187-2                    10.00           0.6        16.7       +
          52446-3                   175.00          40.0         4.4       +
          M1978                     140.00          50.0         2.8
          W54793                    130.00          33.3         3.9
          S24341                    210.00          65.0         3.2
          H7544                      28.33          15.0         1.9
          H72751                    145.00          43.3         3.3
          W71630                    131.67          46.7         2.8
          X22831                    178.33          75.0         2.4
          X23660                    123.33          43.3         2.8
          036466                    191.67          93.3         2.1
            BE = 0.2 pg/ml BisEDT; Bacterial strains were obtained from the
20          Clinical Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital,
            Mineola, NY. Nafcillin was obtained from Sigma (St. Louis, MO).
                                             89

  WO 20101091124                                                 PCT/US2010/023108
                                           TABLE 3
                                S. aureus Nafcilin resistant
                                               GMIBE
                               GM MIC            MIC
          Strain                (pg/ml)        (pg/ml)       A       Synergy
          60187-2                    0.233          0.004      58.3      +
          52446-3                  10.667           1.500       7.1      +
          M1978                    32.500           4.000       8.1      +
          W54793                     0.250          0.080       3.1
          S24341                     0.250          0.058       4.3      +
          H7544                      0.383          0.093       4.1      +
          H72751                     0.200          0.072       2.8
          W71630                   17.667           3.800       4.6      +
          X22831                    -               0.085
          X23660                   22.500           4.000       5.6      +
          036466                     0.267          0.043       6.2      +
            BE = 0.2 pg/ml BisEDT; Bacterial strains were obtained from the
 5          Clinical Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital,
            Mineola, NY. Nafcillin was obtained from Sigma.
                                           TABLE 4
                                          S. aureus
                            Rifampin/Neomycin/Paromomycin
10
                                  MIC         MIC + BE
           ATCC 25923           (pg/mI)         (pg/mi)      A       Synergy
           RIF                       0.033          0.003      13.0  +
           NEO                       0.500          0.200       2.5
           PARO                       1.080         0.188       5.7  +
           MRSA S2446-3
           RIF                       2.500          2.500       1.0
           NEO                     13.400           8.500       1.6
           PARO                   335.000        183.300        1.8
            BE = 0.2 pg/ml BisEDT; Strain S2446-3 was obtained from the
            Clinical Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital,
            Mineola, NY. Antibiotics were obtained from Sigma.
                                              90

  WO 20101091124                                                        PCT/US2010/023108
                                             TABLE 5
                                 S. epidermidis - GM resistant
                             strain ATCC 35984                  strain S2400-1
           BisEDT              MIC             MBC             MIC           MBC
           (pg/ml)        (pg/ml GM) (pg/ml GM)            (pg/ml GM)     (pg/ml GM)
           0                        53.3          384.0           85.3          426.7
           0.005                    20.0            96.0          96.0          512.0
           0.01                     37.3          117.3           64.0          256.0
           0.02                     21.3            26.7          28.0           128.0
           0.04                      2.0            16.0           2.0           128.0
           0.08                      2.0            10.7           2.0            53.3
           0.16 (MIC)                                3.0                          10.0
           0.32                                      2.0                           4.0
             GM = gentamicin; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical
 5           Microbiology    Laboratory       at    Winthrop-University     Hospital,
             Mineola, NY. Gentamicin was obtained from the Pharmacy
             Department at Winthrop; synergy in bold
                                             TABLE 6
                                   S. epidermidis - S2400-1
10                                     Biofilm Prevention
                                 BisEDT (pg/ml)                    A
       Antibiotic         0            0.05            0.1     (0.05 BE)      Synergy
       cefazolin                28           10            1           2.8
       vancomycin              3.2          0.9          0.1           3.6
       gatifloxacin            1.6          0.1          0.1          16.0        ++
       rifampicin            0.03         0.04         0.04            0.7
       nafcillin                48           64            8           0.8
       clindamycin          1195             48           12         24.9       ++++
       gentamicin             555          144            12           3.9    borderline
       minocycline           0.85         0.73         0.08            1.2
             Data in pg/ml; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical
             Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University                 Hospital,
             Mineola, NY. Antibiotics were obtained from the Pharmacy
15           Department at Winthrop.
                                                 91

  WO 20101091124                                                           PCT/US2010/023108
                                             TABLE 7
                                   S. elidermidis - S2400-1
                                                 MIC
                                  BisEDT (pg/mi)                       A
      Antibiotic          0             0.05              0.1      (0.05 BE)     Synergy
      cefazolin                32              8              1          4.00         +
      vancomycin              3.2            2.3            0.3          1.40
      gatifloxacin            1.7            0.8            0.3          2.13
      rifampicin            0.03           0.04           0.04           0.75
      nafcillin              171            192              68          0.89
      clindamycin          2048             768              24          2.67
      gentamicin           2048             320              80          6.40         +
      minocycline           1.13           0.43           0.10           2.63
 5           Data in pg/ml; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical
             Microbiology Laboratory at Winthrop-University Hospital,
             Mineola, NY. Antibiotics were obtained from the Pharmacy
             Department at Winthrop.
                                             TABLE 8
10                                 S. epidermidis - S2400-1
                                                MBC
                                  BisEDT (pg/mi)                     A
          Antibiotic              0.0             0.1           (0.1 BE)       Synergy
          cefazolin                    48              10                4.80 +
          vancomycin                  5.4             1.4                3.86 borderline
          gatifloxacin                2.8             1.4                2.00
          rifampicin                0.03           0.07                  0.43
          nafcillin                  256            128                  2.00
          clindamycin              2048             768                  2.67
          gentamicin               1536             256                  6.00 +
          minocycline               1.20           1.20                  1.00
             Data in pg/ml; Strain S2400-1 was obtained from the Clinical
             Microbiology    Laboratory       at     Winthrop-University      Hospital,
15           Mineola, NY. Antibiotics were obtained from the Pharmacy
             Department at Winthrop.
                                                 92

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                                            TABLE 9
                                         S. epidermidis
                                          ATCC 35984
                                              MIC
 5
                                    BisEDT (pg/ml)
          Antibiotic                0.0              0.05        A       Synergy
          Nafcillin                   16.00            5.00         3.2
          Clindamycin              2048.00         1024.00            2
          Gentamicin                213.33            16.00        13.3      ++
          Minocycline                   0.13           0.04         3.3
          Rifampicin                  0.021           0.014         1.5
            Data in pg/ml; Antibiotics were obtained from the Pharmacy
            Department at Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                           TABLE 10
                       E. coli - Ampicillin/Chloramphenicol resistant
10
                                              MIC
                            MIC AB           AB/BE                             MIC BE
     Strain                 (pg/ml)       (pg/ml AB)        A      Synergy     (pg/ml)
     MC4100/TN9
     (CM)                          220            12.7       17.4 +                  0.6
     MC4100/P9 (AM)                285              49        5.8 +                  0.5
     MC4100 (AM)                 141.7              35        4.0 +                  0.6
            AB = antibiotic; CM = chloramphenicol; AM = ampicillin; BE =
            BisEDT at 0.3 pg/ml; Strains were obtained from the laboratory
            of Dr. MJ Casadaban, Department of Molecular Genetics and
            Cell Biology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL. Antibiotics
15          were obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop
            University Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                               93

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                                           TABLE 11
                               E. coli - Tetracycline-resistant:
                                   Doxycycline + BisEDT
                      DOX MIC        DOX/BE MIC                              BE MIC
    Strain             (pg/ml)       (pg/mi DOX)          A      Synergy     (pg/mi)
    TET M                   16.50               4.50        4.0     +                0.85
    TET D                   20.50               0.03     820.0    ++++               0.85
    TET A                   15.00              10.00        1.5      -               0.40
    TET B                   20.13              10.33        2.0      -               0.60
 5          DOX = doxycycline; BE = BisEDT at 0.3 pg/ml; Strains were
            obtained from the laboratory of        Dr. I Chopra, Department of
            Bacteriology, The University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. Antibiotics
            were obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop
            University Hospital, Mineola, NY.
10                                         TABLE 12
                           P. aeruginosa - Tobramycin-resistant:
                                       BisEDT Synerqv
                          NN           NN+BE                                 BE MIC
    Strain             (pg/ml)      (pg/ml NN)          A        Synergy     (pg/mi)
    Xen5                 0.32            0.19          1.68          -           0.9
    Agr PA E              115             70           1.64          -           0.9
    Agr PA I             200              73           2.74          -            1
    Agr PA K              4.8              3           1.60          -          0.82
    Agr PA O              130            20.5          6.34         +           0.98
            Agr   =aminoglycoside       resistant;  NN   = tobramycin;    PA    =
15          Pseudomonas aeruginosa; BE = BisEDT, 0.3 pg/ml; Strains were
            obtained from the laboratory of        Dr. K. Poole, Department of
            Microbiology and Immunology, Queens University, Ontario, CN.
            Tobramycin was obtained from the Pharmacy Department at
            Winthrop-University Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                               94

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
                                          TABLE 13
                                          B. cepacia
                                  Tobramycin+BE Synerqy
                                              MIC
 5
                        NN            NN+BE                               BE MIC
      Strain         (pg/mi)       (pg/mi NN)        A        Synergy      (pg/mi)
       13945               200               50           4   +                   2.4
      25416                125               10        12.5   ++                  1.2
       H12229                64                8          8   +                   0.8
      AU 0267              128                 2        64    ++++                0.8
      AU 0259             1024             256            4   +                   1.6
       H12255                64                8          8   +                   1.6
      AU 0273              512               32          16   ++                  1.6
       H12253                64              16           4   +                   1.6
       H12147              512                 8        64    ++++                1.6
            NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.4 pg/ml; Strains were
            obtained from the laboratory of Dr. J.J. LiPuma, Department of
            Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, University of Michigan,
            Ann Arbor, MI; also Veloira et al. 2003. Tobramycin was obtained
10          from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University Hospital,
            Mineola, NY.
                                          TABLE 14
                                          B. cepacia
                                  Tobramycin+BE Synerqv
15                                            MBC
                         NN            NN+BE                                 BE MIC
    Strain             (pg/mi)       (pg/mi NN)       A         Synergy      (pg/mi)
     HI 2249                 256                 8        32       ++               3.2
     H12229                   128              32           4      +                6.4
    AU 0267                  256               32           8      +                6.4
    AU 0259                1024             1024            1       -              12.8
     HI 2255                  128              32           4      +               12.8
     HI 2711                 512                 8        64     ++++               6.4
    AU 0284                1024                64          16      ++               0.8
    AU 0273                  512               32          16      ++               1.6
     H12253                   128              64           2       -               3.2
     HI 2147                 512              128           4      +                6.4
            NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.4 pg/ml; Strains were
            obtained from the laboratory of Dr. J.J. LiPuma, Department of
                                               95

  WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
            Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, University of Michigan,
            Ann Arbor, MI; also Veloira et al. 2003. Tobramycin was obtained
            from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University Hospital,
            Mineola, NY.
 5                                         TABLE 15
                                 Tobramycin Resistant Strains
                                              MIC
                         NN             NN+BE                             Lipo-BE-NN
     Strain           (pg/mil)       (pg/ml NN)    A        Synergy       (pg/mi NN)
     M13637                 512               32      16       ++                   0.25
     M13642R                128               64       2        -                   0.25
     PA-48913              1024              256       4        +                   0.25
     PA-48912
     2                         64              8       8        +                   0.25
     PA-10145                    1             4    0.25        -                   0.25
     SA-29213                    2             1       2        -                   0.25
            NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.8 pg/ml; Lipo-BE-NN
10          liposomal BE-NN; Strains were obtained from the laboratory of
            Dr. A. Omri, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
            Laurentian University, Ontario, CN; (M strains are mucoid B.
            cepacia; PA=P. aeruginosa; SA=S. aureus). Tobramycin was
            obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University
15          Hospital, Mineola, NY.
                                           TABLE 16
                                 Tobramycin Resistant Strains
                                              MBC
                                                                           Lipo-BE
                          NN             NN+BE                                 NN
      Strain            (pg/ml)        (pg/ml NN)     A       Synergy     (pg/ml NN)
      M13637                 1024              64        16       ++                   8
      M13642R                  256            128         2        -                 16
      PA-48913              4096              512         8       +                    4
      PA-48912-2                128            32         4       +                 0.5
      PA-10145                     1             8   0.125         -                   4
      SA-29213                     2             1        2        -               0.25
20          NN = Tobramycin; BE = BisEDT, 0.8 pg/ml; Lipo-BE-NN =
            liposomal BE-NN; Strains were obtained from the laboratory of
            Dr. A. Omri, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
                                               96

  WO 20101091124                                              PCT/US2010/023108
            Laurentian University, Ontario, CN; (M strains are mucoid B.
            cepacia; PA=P. aeruginosa; SA=S. aureus). Tobramycin was
            obtained from the Pharmacy Department at Winthrop-University
            Hospital, Mineola, NY.
 5                                        TABLE 17
                                 BisEDT-Pyrithione Synerqy
                                       P.
                                 aeruginosa                  S. aureus
                                    ATCC            E. coli    ATCC
                    NaPYR           27853       ATCC 25922     25923
                    (ug/ml)       (pg/mi BE)     (pg/mi BE) (pg/mi BE)
                        0             0.25           0.1        0.25
                     0.025                           0.1       0.125
                      0.05                          0.025      0.063
                       0.1           0.125         0.0125      0.063
                       0.2           0.125         0.0125      0.031
                       0.4                         0.00625        0
                       0.8           0.125         0.00625
                           1.6
                     (MIC)           0.063         0.00625
                       3.2           0.063             0
                       6.4           0.063
                      12.8              0
                 BE = BisEDT; NaPYR = sodium pyrithione; Chemicals
                were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich; synergy in bold.
10               Indicated bacterial strains were from American Type
                Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA).
                                             97

  WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
                                        EXAMPLE 7
        COMPARATIVE BISMUTH-THIOL     (BT) AND ANTIBIOTIC EFFECTS AGAINST GRAM
         POSITIVE AND GRAM-NEGATIVE BACTERIA INCLUDING ANTIBIOTIC-RESISTANT
                                    BACTERIAL STRAINS
 5                 In this example the in vitro activities of BisEDT and comparator
    agents were assessed against multiple clinical isolates of Gram-positive and
    negative bacteria that are responsible for skin and soft tissue infections.
                   Materials and Methods. Test compounds and test concentration
    ranges were as follows: BisEDT (Domenico et al., 1997; Domenico et al.,
10  Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 45(5):1417-1421. and Example 1), 16-0.015
    pg/mL; linezolid (ChemPacifica Inc., #35710), 64-0.06 pg/mL; Daptomycin
    (Cubist Pharmaceuticals #MCB2007), 32-0.03 pg/mL and 16-0.015 pg/mL;
    vancomycin (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO, # V2002), 64-0.06 pg/mL;
    ceftazidime, (Sigma #C3809), 64-0.06 pg/mL and 32-0.03 pg/mL; imipenem
15  (United States Pharmacopeia, NJ, #1337809) 16-0.015 pg/mL and 8-0.008
    pg/mL; ciprofloxacin (United States Pharmacopeia, # 10C265), 32-0.03 pg/mL
    and 4-0.004 pg/mL; gentamicin (Sigma #G3632) 32-0.03 pg/mL and 16-0.015
    pg/mL. All test articles, except gentamicin, were dissolved in DMSO;
    gentamicin was dissolved in water. Stock solutions were prepared at 40-fold
20  the highest concentration in the test plate. The final concentration of DMSO in
    the test system was 2.5%.
                   Organisms. The test organisms were obtained from clinical
    laboratories as follows: CHP, Clarian Health Partners, Indianapolis, IN; UCLA,
    University of California Los Angeles Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA; GR
25  Micro, London, UK; PHRI TB Center, Public Health Research Institute
    Tuberculosis Center, New York, NY; ATCC, American Type Culture Collection,
    Manassas, VA; Mt Sinai Hosp., Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY; UCSF,
    University of California San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, CA;
    Bronson Hospital, Bronson Methodist Hospital, Kalamazoo, Ml; quality control
30  isolates were from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas,
    VA). Organisms were streaked for isolation on agar medium appropriate to
                                             98

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    each organism. Colonies were picked by swab from the isolation plates and
    put into suspension in appropriate broth containing a cryoprotectant. The
    suspensions were aliquoted into cryogenic vials and maintained at -800C.
    Abbreviations are: BisEDT, bismuth-1,2-ethanedithiol; LZD, linezolid; DAP,
 5  daptomycin; VA, vancomycin; CAZ, ceftazidime; IPM, imipenem; CIP,
    ciprofloxacin; GM, gentamicin; MSSA, methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus
    aureus; CLSI QC, Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute quality control
    strain; MRSA, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; CA-MRSA,
    community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus; MSSE,
10  methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus epidermidis; MRSE, methicillin-resistant
    Staphylococcus epidermidis; VSE, vancomycin-susceptible Enterococcus.
                   The isolates were streaked from the frozen vials onto appropriate
    medium: Trypticase Soy Agar (Becton-Dickinson, Sparks, MD) for most
    organisms or Trypticase Soy Agar plus 5% sheep blood (Cleveland Scientific,
15  Bath, OH) for streptococci. The plates were incubated overnight at 35*C.
    Quality control organisms were included. The medium employed for the MIC
    assay was Mueller Hinton II Broth (MHB 11-Becton Dickinson, # 212322) for
    most of the organisms. MHB II was supplemented with 2% lysed horse blood
    (Cleveland Scientific Lot # H13913) to accommodate the growth of
20  Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus agalactiae. The media were
    prepared at 102.5% normal weight to offset the dilution created by the addition
    of 5 pL drug solution to each well of the microdilution panels. In addition, for
    tests with daptomycin, the medium was supplemented with an additional
    25mg/L Ca2
25                 The MIC assay method followed the procedure described by the
    Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (Clinical and Laboratory Standards
    Institute. Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Tests for Bacteria
     That Grow Aerobically; Approved Standard-Seventh Edition. Clinical and
    Laboratory Standards Institute document M7-A7 [ISBN 1-56238-587-9].
30  Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute, 940 West Valley Road, Suite 1400,
    Wayne, Pennsylvania 19087-1898 USA, 2006) and employed automated liquid
                                            99

  WO 20101091124                                                  PCT/US2010/023108
    handlers to conduct serial dilutions and liquid transfers. Automated liquid
    handlers included the Multidrop 384 (Labsystems, Helsinki, Finland), Biomek
    2000 and Multimek 96 (Beckman Coulter, Fullerton CA). The wells of
    Columns 2-12 of standard 96-well microdilution plates (Falcon 3918) were
 5  filled with 150pL of DMSO or water for gentamicin on the Multidrop 384. The
    drugs (300 pL) were dispensed into Column 1 of the appropriate row in these
    plates. These would become the mother plates from which the test plates
    (daughter plates) were prepared. The Biomek 2000 completed serial transfers
    through Column 11 in the mother plates. The wells of Column 12 contained no
10  drug and were the organism growth control wells in the daughter plates. The
    daughter plates were loaded with 185 pL of the appropriate test media
    (described above) using the Multidrop 384. The daughter plates were
    prepared on the Multimek 96 instrument which transferred 5 pL of drug
    solution from each well of a mother plate to each corresponding well of each
15  daughter plate in a single step.
                   Standardized inoculum of each organism was prepared per CLSI
    methods (ISBN 1-56238-587-9, cited supra). Suspensions were prepared in
    MHB to equal the turbidity of a 0.5 McFarland standard. The suspensions
    were diluted 1:9 in broth appropriate to the organism. The inoculum for each
20  organism was dispensed into sterile reservoirs divided by length (Beckman
    Coulter), and the Biomek 2000 was used to inoculate the plates. Daughter
    plates were placed on the Biomek 2000 work surface reversed so that
    inoculation took place from low to high drug concentration. The Biomek 2000
    delivered 10 pL of standardized inoculum into each well. This yielded a final
25  cell concentration in the daughter plates of approximately 5 x 105 colony
    forming-units/mL. Thus, the wells of the daughter plates ultimately contained
    185 pL of broth, 5 pL of drug solution, and 10 pL of bacterial inoculum. Plates
    were stacked 3 high, covered with a lid on the top plate, placed in plastic bags,
    and incubated at 350C for approximately 18 hours for most of the isolates. The
30  Streptococcus plates were read after 20 hours incubation. The microplates
    were viewed from the bottom using a plate viewer. For each of the test media,
                                           100

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    an uninoculated solubility control plate was observed for evidence of drug
    precipitation. The MIC was read and recorded as the lowest concentration of
    drug that inhibited visible growth of the organism.
                   Results. All marketed drugs were soluble at all of the test
 5  concentrations in both media. BisEDT exhibited a trace precipitate at 32
    pg/mL, but MIC readings were not affected as the inhibitory concentrations for
    all organisms tested were well below that concentration. On each assay day,
    an appropriate quality control strain(s) was included in the MIC assays. The
    MIC values derived for these strains were compared to the published quality
10  control ranges (Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute. Performance
    Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing; Eighteenth Informational
    Supplement. CLSI document M100-S18 [ISBN 1-56238-653-0]. Clinical and
    Laboratory Standards Institute, 940 West Valley Road, Suite 1400, Wayne,
    Pennsylvania 19087-1898 USA, 2008) for each agent, as appropriate.
15                 On each assay day, an appropriate quality control strain(s) was
    included in the MIC assays. The MIC values derived for these strains were
    compared to the published quality control ranges (Clinical and Laboratory
    Standards Institute. Performance Standards for Antimicrobial Susceptibility
     Testing; Eighteenth Informational Supplement. CLSI document M100-S18
20  [ISBN 1-56238-653-0]) for each agent, as appropriate. Of 141 values for
    quality control strains where quality control ranges are published, 140(99.3%)
    were within the specified ranges. The one exception was imipenem versus S.
    aureus 29213 which yielded one value on a single run (5 0.008 pg/mL) that
    was one dilution below the published QC range. All other quality control
25  results on that run were within the specified quality control ranges.
                   BisEDT demonstrated potent activity against both methicillin
    susceptible Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA), methicillin-resistant S. aureus
    (MRSA), and community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA), inhibiting all strains
    tested at 1 pg/mL or less with an MIC90 values of 0.5 pg/mL for all three
30  organism groups. BisEDT exhibited activity greater than that of linezolid and
    vancomycin and equivalent to that of daptomycin. Imipenem was more potent
                                            101

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    than BisEDT against MSSA (MIC90 = 0.03 pg/mL). However, MRSA and
    CAMRSA were resistant to imipenem while BisEDT demonstrated activity
    equivalent to that shown for MSSA. BisEDT was highly-active against
    methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis
 5  (MSSE and MRSE), with MIC90 values of 0.12 and 0.25 pg/mL, respectively.
    BisEDT was more active against MSSE than any of the other agents tested
    except imipenem. BisEDT was the most active agent tested against MRSE.
                   BisEDT demonstrated activity equivalent to that of daptomycin,
    vancomycin, and imipenem against vancomycin-susceptible Enterococcus
10  faecalis (VSEfc) with an MIC90 value of 2pg/mL. Significantly, BisEDT was
    the most active agent tested against vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus
    faecalis (VREfc) with an MIC90 value of 1 pg/mL.
                   BisEDT was very active against vancomycin-susceptible
    Enterococcus faecium (VSEfm) with an MIC90 value of 2 pg/mL; its activity
15  was equivalent to that or similar to that of daptomycin and one-dilution higher
    than that of vancomycin. BisEDT and linezolid were the most active agents
    tested against vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium (VREfm), each
    demonstrating an MIC90 value of 2 pg/mL. The activity of BisEDT against
    Streptococcus pyogenes (MIC90 value of 0.5 pg/mL) was equivalent to that of
20  vancomycin, greater than that of linezolid, and slightly less than that of
    daptomycin and ceftazidime. The compound inhibited all strains tested at 0.5
    pg/mL or less. In these studies, the species that was least sensitive to BisEDT
    was Streptococcus agalactiae where the observed MIC90 value was 16
    pg/mL. BisEDT was less active than all of the agents tested except
25  gentamicin.
                  The activity of BisEDT and comparators against Gram-negative
    bacteria included demonstrated BisEDT potency against Acinetobacter
    baumanii (MIC90 value of 2 pg/mL) making BisEDT the most active compound
    tested. Elevated MICs for a significant number of test isolates for the
30  comparator agents resulted in off-scale MIC90 values for these agents.
    BisEDT was a potent inhibitor of Escherichia coli, inhibiting all strains at 2
                                            102

  WO 20101091124                                                   PCT/US2010/023108
    pg/mL or less (MIC90 = 2 pg/mL). The compound was less active than
    imipenem, but more active than ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin, and gentamicin.
    BisEDT also demonstrated activity against Klebsiella pneumoniae with an
    MIC90 value of 8 pg/mL which was equivalent to that of imipenem. The
 5  relatively high MIC90 values exhibited by imipenem, ceftazidime, ciprofloxacin,
    and gentamicin indicated that this was a highly antibiotic-resistant group of
    organisms. BisEDT was the most active compound tested against
    Pseudomonas aeruginosa with an MIC90 value of 4 pg/mL. There was a high
    level of resistance to the comparator agents for this group of test isolates.
10                  In summary, BisEDT demonstrated broad-spectrum potency
    against multiple clinical isolates representing multiple species, including
    species commonly involved in acute and chronic skin and skin structure
    infections in humans. The activity of BisEDT and key comparator agents was
    evaluated against 723 clinical isolates of Gram-positive and Gram-negative
15  bacteria. The BT compound demonstrated broad spectrum activity, and for a
    number of the test organisms in this study, BisEDT was the most active
    compound tested in terms of anti-bacterial activity. BisEDT was most active
    against MSSA, MRSA, CA-MRSA, MSSE, MRSE, and S. pyogenes, where the
    MIC90 value was 0.5 pg/mL or less. Potent activity was also demonstrated for
20  VSEfc, VREfc,VSEfm, VREfm, A. baumanii, E. coli, and P. aeruginosa where
    the MIC90 value was in the range of I - 4 pg/mL. MIC90 values observed
    were, for K. pneumoniae (MIC90 = 8 pg/mL), and for S. agalactiae (MIC90= 16
    pg/mL).
25                 The various embodiments described above can be combined to
    provide further embodiments. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent application
    publications, U.S. patent applications, foreign patents, foreign patent
    applications and non-patent publications referred to in this specification and/or
    listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference, in
30  their entirety. Aspects of the embodiments can be modified, if necessary to
                                            103

 WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
   employ concepts of the various patents, applications and publications to
   provide yet further embodiments.
                  These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in
   light of the above-detailed description. In general, in the following claims, the
5  terms used should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific
   embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims, but should be
   construed to include all possible embodiments along with the full scope of
   equivalents to which such claims are entitled. Accordingly, the claims are not
   limited by the disclosure.
                                           104

WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                                         CLAIMS
  What is claimed is:
                  1.      A bismuth-thiol composition, comprising:
                 a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
  compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
  diameter of from about 0.4 ptm to about 5 pm, wherein the BT compound
  comprises bismuth or a bismuth salt and a thiol-containing compound.
                 2.       A bismuth-thiol composition, comprising:
                 a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
  compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
  diameter of from about 0.4 pim to about 5 am and being formed by a process
  that comprises:
                  (a)     admixing, under conditions and for a time sufficient to
  obtain a solution that is substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic
  aqueous solution that comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at a
  concentration of at least 50 mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic
  solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that
  comprises about 25% ethanol by volume; and
                  (b)     adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution
  comprising a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein
  the thiol-containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar
  ratio of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions
  and for a time sufficient for formation of a precipitate which comprises the
  microparticles comprising the BT compound.
                 3.       The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the
  bismuth salt is Bi(N0 3) 3 .
                                            105

WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                 4.       The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the
  acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or
  22.5% bismuth by weight.
                 5.       The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the
  acidic aqueous solution comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%, 2%, 2.5%, 3%,
  3.5%, 4%, 4.5% or 5% nitric acid by weight.
                 6.       The bismuth-thiol composition of claim 2 wherein the thiol
  containing compound comprises one or more agents selected from the group
  consisting of 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione,
  dithioerythritol, 3,4-dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2
  hydroxypropane thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol, alpha-lipoic acid
  and dithiothreitol.
                 7.       A method for preparing a bismuth-thiol composition that
  comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
  compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
  diameter of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 Lm, said method comprising the
  steps of:
                  (a)     admixing, under conditions and for a time sufficient to
  obtain a solution that is substantially free of a solid precipitate, (i) an acidic
  aqueous solution that comprises a bismuth salt comprising bismuth at a
  concentration of at least 50 mM and that lacks a hydrophilic, polar or organic
  solubilizer, with (ii) ethanol in an amount sufficient to obtain an admixture that
  comprises about 25% ethanol by volume; and
                  (b)     adding to the admixture of (a) an ethanolic solution
  comprising a thiol-containing compound to obtain a reaction solution, wherein
  the thiol-containing compound is present in the reaction solution at a molar
  ratio of from about 1:3 to about 3:1 relative to the bismuth, under conditions
                                            106

WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
  and for a time sufficient for formation of a precipitate which comprises the
  microparticles comprising the BT compound.
                 8.     The method of claim 5 further comprising recovering the
  precipitate to remove impurities.
                 9.     The method of claim 5 wherein the bismuth salt is
  Bi(N0 3 )3 .
                 10.    The method of claim 5 wherein the acidic aqueous
  solution comprises at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 22% or 22.5% bismuth by
  weight.
                 11.    The method of claim 5 wherein the acidic aqueous
  solution comprises at least 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%, 2%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%, 4%, 4.5% or
  5% nitric acid by weight.
                 12.    The method of claim 5 wherein the thiol-containing
  compound comprises one or more agents selected from the group consisting
  of 1,2-ethane dithiol, 2,3-dimercaptopropanol, pyrithione, dithioerythritol, 3,4
  dimercaptotoluene, 2,3-butanedithiol, 1,3-propanedithiol, 2-hydroxypropane
  thiol, 1-mercapto-2-propanol, dithioerythritol, dithiothreitol and alpha-lipoic
  acid.
                 13.    A method for protecting an epithelial tissue surface
  against a bacterial pathogen, comprising:
                 contacting the epithelial tissue surface with an effective amount
  of a BT composition under conditions and for a time sufficient for one or more
  of:
                        (i)     prevention of infection of the epithelial tissue
  surface by the bacterial pathogen,
                                           107

WO 20101091124                                                         PCT/US2010/023108
                          (ii)  inhibition of cell viability or cell growth of
  substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial pathogen,
                          (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by the bacterial
  pathogen, and
                          (iv)  inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of
  substantially all biofilm-form cells of the bacterial pathogen,
                 wherein the BT composition comprises a plurality of
  microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of
  said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to
  about 5 pm.
                  14.     The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen is
  selected from the group consisting of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus),
  MRSA (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis , MRSE
  (methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
  Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P.
  aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E.
  coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylon, Legionella
  pneumophila, Enterococcus faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus
  faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris,
   Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexneri, vancomycin-resistant
  Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
  Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and
  Acinetobacter baumannii.
                  15.     The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen
  exhibits antibiotic resistance.
                  16.     The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen
  exhibits resistance to an antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
                                            108

WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
  methicillin,_vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol,
  doxycycline and tobramycin.
                  17.   The method of claim 13 in which the epithelial tissue
  surface comprises a tissue that is selected from the group consisting of
  epidermis, dermis, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and glandular linings.
                  18.   The method of claim 13 in which the step of contacting is
  performed one or a plurality of times.
                  19.   The method of claim 18 in which at least one step of
  contacting comprises one of spraying, irrigating, dipping and painting the
  epithelial tissue surface.
                  20.   The method of claim 18 in which at least one step of
  contacting comprises one of inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating.
                  21.   The method of claim 18 in which at least one step of
  contacting comprises administering by a route that is selected from topically,
  intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally, intravenously, intraarterially,
  transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, transbuccally,
  intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly, intraauricularly, intraventricularly,
  subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly and intrathecally.
                  22.   The method of claim 13 wherein the BT composition
  comprises one or more BT compounds selected from the group consisting of
  BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE,
  Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis
  Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2
  propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol.
                                            109

WO 20101091124                                                         PCT/US2010/023108
                  23.    The method of claim 13 wherein the bacterial pathogen
  exhibits antibiotic resistance.
                  24.    The method of any one of claims 13-23 which further
  comprises contacting the epithelial tissue surface with a synergizing antibiotic,
  simultaneously or sequentially and in any order with respect to the step of
  contacting the epithelial tissue surface with the BT composition.
                  25.    The method of claim 24 wherein the synergizing antibiotic
  comprises an antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of an
  aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic,
  a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a glycopeptide antibiotic, a lincosamide antibiotic,
  a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin antibiotic.
                  26.    The method of claim 25 wherein the synergizing antibiotic
  is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
  amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin,
  paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                  27.    A method for overcoming antibiotic resistance on an
  epithelial tissue surface where an antibiotic-resistant bacterial pathogen is
  present, comprising:
                  contacting the epithelial tissue surface contacting simultaneously
  or sequentially and in any order with an effective amount of (1) at least one
  bismuth-thiol (BT) composition and (2) at least one antibiotic that is capable of
  acting synergistically with the at least one BT composition, under conditions
  and for a time sufficient for one or more of:
                         (i)    prevention of infection of the epithelial tissue
  surface by the bacterial pathogen,
                         (ii)   inhibition of cell viability or cell growth of
  substantially all planktonic cells of the bacterial pathogen,
                                            110

WO 20101091124                                                        PCT/US2010/023108
                          (iii) inhibition of biofilm formation by the bacterial
  pathogen, and
                          (iv)  inhibition of biofilm viability or biofilm growth of
  substantially all biofilm-form cells of the bacterial pathogen,
                 wherein the BT composition comprises a plurality of
  microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of
  said microparticles having a volumetric mean diameter of from about 0.4 ptm to
  about 5 ptm; and thereby overcoming antibiotic resistance on the epithelial
  tissue surface.
                 28.      The method of claim 27 wherein the bacterial pathogen is
  selected from the group consisting of Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus),
  MRSA (methicillin-resistant S. aureus), Staphylococcus epidermidis , MRSE
  (methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis), Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
  Mycobacterium avium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, drug-resistant P.
  aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, enterotoxigenic E. coli, enterohemorrhagic E.
  coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Clostridium difficile, Heliobacter pylori, Legionella
  pneumophila, Enterococcus faecalis, methicillin-susceptible Enterococcus
  faecalis, Enterobacter cloacae, Salmonella typhimurium, Proteus vulgaris,
   Yersinia enterocolitica, Vibrio cholera, Shigella flexner, vancomycin-resistant
  Enterococcus (VRE), Burkholderia cepacia complex, Francisella tularensis,
  Bacillus anthracis, Yersinia pestis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and
  Acinetobacter baumannii.
                 29.      The method of claim 27 wherein the bacterial pathogen
  exhibits resistance to an antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
  methicillin, vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol,
  doxycycline, tobramycin, clindamicin and gatifloxacin.
                                            111

WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
                  30.   The method of claim 27 in which the epithelial tissue
  surface comprises a tissue that is selected from the group consisting of
  epidermis, dermis, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract and glandular linings.
                  31.   The method of claim 27 in which the step of contacting is
  performed one or a plurality of times.
                  32.   The method of claim 31 in which at least one step of
  contacting comprises one of spraying, irrigating, dipping and painting the
  epithelial tissue surface.
                  33.   The method of claim 31 in which at least one step of
  contacting comprises one of inhaling, ingesting and orally irrigating.
                  34.   The method of claim 31 in which at least one step of
  contacting comprises administering by a route that is selected from topically,
  intraperitoneally, orally, parenterally, intravenously, intraarterially,
  transdermally, sublingually, subcutaneously, intramuscularly, transbuccally,
  intranasally, via inhalation, intraoccularly, intraauricularly, intraventricularly,
  subcutaneously, intraadiposally, intraarticularly and intrathecally.
                  35.   The method of claim 27 wherein the BT composition
  comprises one or more BT compounds selected from the group consisting of
  BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE,
  Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis
  Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2
  propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1-propanethiol.
                  36.   The method of claim 35 wherein the synergizing antibiotic
  comprises an antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
  clindamicin, gatifloxacin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem
                                            112

WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
  antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a
  penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an aminopenicillin antibiotic.
                 37.    The method of claim 36 wherein the synergizing antibiotic
  is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
  amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin,
  paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                 38.    A method of treating an acute wound, a chronic wound or
  a wound or epithelial tissue surface that contains bacterial biofilm in a subject,
  comprising:
                 administering, to a wound site or epithelial tissue surface in the
  subject, a therapeutically effective amount of a topical formulation that
  comprises (a) at least one BT compound, and (b) a pharmaceutically
  acceptable excipient or carrier for topical use.
                 39.    A method of treating an acute wound, a chronic wound or
  a wound or epithelial tissue surface that contains bacterial biofilm in a subject,
  comprising:
                 administering, to a wound site or epithelial tissue surface in the
  subject, a therapeutically effective amount of a topical formulation that
  comprises (a) at least one BT compound, (b) at least one antibiotic compound
  that is capable of acting synergistically with the BT compound, and (c) a
  pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier for topical use.
                 40.    The method of either claim 38 or claim 39 wherein the BT
  compound is selected from the group consisting of BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis
  dimercaprol, Bis-DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis
  Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis-PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT,
  Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis-Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1 -mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2
  hydroxy-1 -propanethiol.
                                            113

WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                41.    The method of claim 40 wherein the BT composition
  comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
  compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
  diameter of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm.
                42.    The method of claim 40 wherein the BT compound is
  selected from the group consisting of BisEDT and BisBAL.
                43.    The method of either claim 38 or claim 39 wherein the
  wound is an acute wound or a chronic wound that contains a bacterial
  infection.
                44.    The method of claim 43 wherein the bacterial infection
  comprises one or more of gram-positive bacteria and gram-negative bacteria.
                45.    The method of claim 43 wherein the bacterial infection
  comprises at least one bacterial population selected from a bacterial biofilm
  and planktonic bacteria.
                46.    The method of claim 43 wherein the bacterial infection
  comprises a bacterial biofilm.
                47.    The method of claim 39 wherein the antibiotic compound
  comprises an antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of an
  aminoglycoside antibiotic, a carbapenem antibiotic, a cephalosporin antibiotic,
  a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, a penicillinase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, and an
  aminopenicillin antibiotic.
                48.    The method of claim 47 wherein the antibiotic is an
  aminoglycoside antibiotic that is selected from the group consisting of
                                           114

WO 20101091124                                                    PCT/US2010/023108
  amikacin, arbekacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin,
  paromomycin, rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                 49.     The method of claim 47 wherein the aminoglycoside
  antibiotic is amikacin.
                 50.     An antiseptic composition for treating an acute wound, a
  chronic wound or a wound or epithelial tissue surface that contains bacterial
  biofilm, comprising:
                 (a) at least one BT compound; (b) at least one antibiotic
  compound that is capable of acting synergistically with the BT compound; and
  (c) a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier for topical use.
                 51.     The composition of claim 50 wherein the BT compound is
  selected from the group consisting of BisBAL, BisEDT, Bis-dimercaprol, Bis
  DTT, Bis-2-mercaptoethanol, Bis-DTE, Bis-Pyr, Bis-Ery, Bis-Tol, Bis-BDT, Bis
  PDT, Bis-Pyr/Bal, Bis-Pyr/BDT, Bis-Pyr/EDT, Bis-Pyr/PDT, Bis-Pyr/Tol, Bis
  Pyr/Ery, bismuth-1-mercapto-2-propanol, and Bis-EDT/2-hydroxy-1
  propanethiol.
                 52.     The composition of claim 51 wherein the BT composition
  comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth-thiol (BT)
  compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric mean
  diameter of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pm.
                 53.     The composition of claim 50 wherein the BT compound is
  selected from the group consisting of BisEDT and BisBAL.
                 54.     The composition of claim 50 wherein the antibiotic
  compound comprises an antibiotic that is selected from methicillin,
                                          115

WO 20101091124                                                      PCT/US2010/023108
  vancomycin, naficilin, gentamicin, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, doxycycline,
  tobramycin, clindamicin, gatifloxacin and an aminoglycoside antibiotic.
                 55.    The composition of claim 54 wherein the aminoglycoside
  antibiotic is selected from the group consisting of amikacin, arbekacin,
  gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin, netilmicin, paromomycin,
  rhodostreptomycin, streptomycin, tobramycin and apramycin.
                 56.    The composition of claim 54 wherein the aminoglycoside
  antibiotic is amikacin.
                 57.    A method for treating an acute wound, a chronic wound or
  a wound or epithelial tissue surface that contains bacterial biofilm, comprising:
                  (a)    identifying a bacterial infection in a wound or epithelial
  tissue surface in a subject as comprising one of (i) gram positive bacteria, (ii)
  gram negative bacteria, and (iii) both (i) and (ii);
                  (b)   administering a topical formulation that comprises one or
  more bismuth thiol (BT) compositions to the wound, wherein:
                         (i)     if the bacterial infection comprises gram positive
  bacteria, then the formulation comprises therapeutically effective amounts of at
  least one BT compound and at least one antibiotic that is rifamycin,
                         (ii)    if the bacterial infection comprises gram negative
  bacteria, then the formulation comprises therapeutically effective amounts of at
  least one BT compound and amikacin,
                         (iii)   if the bacterial infection comprises both gram
  positive and gram negative bacteria, then the formulation comprises
  therapeutically effective amounts of one or a plurality of BT compounds,
  rifamycin and amikacin,
                 and thereby treating the wound or epithelial tissue surface.
                                             116

WO 20101091124                                                     PCT/US2010/023108
                  58.   The method of claim 57 wherein treating the wound
  prevents neuropathy resulting from chronic wound progression.
                  59.   The method of claim 57 wherein the bacterial infection
  comprises one or a plurality of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
                  60.   The method of claim 57 wherein the wound is selected
  from the group consisting of a venous ulcer, a pressure ulcer, a diabetic ulcer,
  a decubitis ulcer, a gunshot wound, a puncture wound, a shrapnel wound, an
  ischemic wound, a surgical wound, a traumatic wound, acute arterial
  insufficiency, necrotizing fasciitis, osteomyelitis, a wound resulting from
  radiation poisoning, osteoradionecrosis, soft tissue radionecrosis, pyoderma
  gangrenosum, a gangrenous wound, a burn, a dermal infection and a
  malignancy.
                  61.   The method of claim 57 wherein the wound is an acute
  wound or a chronic wound that comprises a bacterial biofilm.
                  62.   The method of claim 57 wherein treating the wound
  comprises at least one of: (i) eradicating the bacterial biofilm, (ii) reducing the
  bacterial biofilm, and (iii) impairing growth of the bacterial biofilm.
                  63.   The method of any one of claims 57-62 wherein the BT
  composition comprises a plurality of microparticles that comprise a bismuth
  thiol (BT) compound, substantially all of said microparticles having a volumetric
  mean diameter of from about 0.4 pm to about 5 pim.
                                            117

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 13 Sep
           15     2016
              Jun 2018

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 13 Sep
           15     2016
              Jun 2018

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 13 Sep
           15     2016
              Jun 2018

