Abstract
        The present invention relates to a computer implemented method for generating a map
for ground navigation comprising a weather forecast. The method comprises receiving, at a
navigation device, a map request indicating a departure location and a destination location. In
response to receiving the map request, the method involves obtaining map data associated with a
route between the departure location and the destination location. The method involves obtaining
a weather forecast indicating a probability of a particular type of precipitation occurring at a
particular rate at a point along the route at an estimated time of arrival (ETA) associated with the
point. Further, the method involves displaying, on a display device of the navigation device, a
map of the route and a visual indicator of the weather forecast.
                                                    1

      METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING NOWCASTS ALONG A
                                   ROUTE ON A MAP
              CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001]      This application claims priority of co-owned and co-invented U.S. Patent
Application No. 13/856,923 filed on April 4, 2013, U.S. Patent Application No.
 13/922,800, filed on June 20, 2013, U.S. Patent Application No. 13/947,33 1, filed on
July 22, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/839,675, filed on June 26, 2013,
U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/835,626, filed on June 16, 2013, and U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/836,713, filed on June 19, 2013, the entire disclosures
of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
                                     BACKGROUND
Field
 [0002]      The subject matter disclosed generally relates to a system for determining
weather forecasts.
Related Prior Art
 [0003]      Conventional weather forecasting systems provide weather predictions
twelve hours to a few days from the present time. If one needs a short term forecast or
a forecast with a fine time scale, the best information available usually is an hourly
forecast for the day.
[0004]       Conventional weather forecasts are average forecasts for the area for which
they are generated. Thus, a forecast may be inaccurate for a precise location within
this area, and even the present weather displayed for an area may differ from the
actual weather for a precise location within this area.
[0005]       Moreover, conventional weather forecasts are displayed at a time scale that
is too coarse to allow a user to know when a weather event takes place in a precise
location and time. Even for hourly conventional weather forecasts, it is impossible for
                                            1

the user to know if the forecasted weather event lasts one hour or one minute and, for the latter,
at what time it takes place exactly within the hour.
[0006] There is a need in the market for a method which allow for estimating the weather along
the route between the departure location and the destination location so that the user may attempt
to take alternative routes to avoid extreme weather conditions.
                                        Summary of Invention
[0007] According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
implemented method for generating a map for ground navigation comprising a weather forecast,
the method comprising:
        receiving, at a navigation device, a map request indicating a departure location and a
                 destination location;
        in response to receiving the map request, obtaining map data associated with a route
                 between the departure location and the destination location;
        obtaining a weather forecast indicating a probability of a particular type of precipitation
                 occurring at a particular rate at a point along the route at an estimated time of
                 arrival (ETA) associated with the point; and
        displaying, on a display device of the navigation device, a map of the route and a visual
                 indicator of the weather forecast.
[0008] Optionally, obtaining the weather forecast comprises:
        sending, to a server, the ETA and location information associated with the point; and
        receiving the weather forecast from the server.
[0009] The method may further comprise:
        detecting a request to update the map; and
        in response to detecting the request to update the map:
                 requesting an updated current location of the navigation device;
                 obtaining an updated weather forecast associated with an updated point along the
                         route based on an updated ETA associated with the updated point, the
                         updated point located between the updated current location and the
                         destination location; and
        displaying, on the display device, a modified map that includes a second visual indicator
                 representing the updated weather forecast.
                                                     2

[00101 Optionally, map data is generated using information stored locally at the navigation
device.
[00111 The method may further comprise:
        forwarding the map request to a remote server; and
        receiving the map data from the remote server.
[0012] Optionally, the weather forecast is generated by:
        obtaining a precipitation forecast comprising a probability that the particular type of
                 precipitation-will occur;
        generating probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of a plurality of precipitation
                 rates; and
        combining the probability that the particular type of precipitation will occur and the
                 probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of the precipitation rates to
                 produce probabilities that the particular type of precipitation will occur at each of
                 the precipitation rates.
 [00131 Optionally, the map further includes a second route between the departure location and
the destination location and a second visual indicator of a second weather forecast associated
with a second point along the second route.
 [0014] The method may further comprise displaying, on the display device, navigation
instructions associated with the route in response to receiving a selection of the route.
 [00151 The method may further comprise automatically selecting the point based on a user
preference.
 [0016] The method may further comprise selecting a major city as the point in response to the
user preference corresponding to a major city option.
 [0017] Optionally, the user preference identifies a distance interval.
 [0018] Optionally, the particular rate corresponds to one of a plurality of defined rates.
 100191 According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a non-transitory
computer readable medium storing instructions, which when executed by a navigation device
with a display, cause the navigation device to:
        receive a map request including a departure location and a destination location;
         in response to receiving said map request, obtain map data associated with a route
                 between the departure location and the destination location;
                                                     3

       obtain a weather forecast indicating a probability of a particular type of precipitation
               occurring at a particular rate at a point along the route at an estimated time of
               arrival (ETA) associated with the point; and
       display, on the display of the navigation device, a map of the route and a visual indicator
               of the weather forecast.
[0020] Optionally, the weather forecast is generated by:
       obtaining a precipitation forecast comprising a probability that the particular type of
               precipitation-will occur;
       generating probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of a plurality of precipitation
               rates; and
       combining the probability that the particular type of precipitation-will occur and the
               probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of the precipitation rates to
               produce probabilities that the particular type of precipitation-will occur at each of
               the precipitation rates.
[00211 According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a ground vehicle
navigation apparatus comprising:
       a display device;
       one or more processors; and
       a memory comprising instructions which when executed by the one or more processors
               cause the ground vehicle navigation apparatus to:
       receive a map request indicating a departure location and a destination location;
       in response to receiving said map request, obtain map data associated with a route
               between the departure location and the destination location;
       obtain a weather forecast indicating a probability of a particular type of precipitation
               occurring at a particular rate at a point along the route at an estimated time of
               arrival (ETA) associated with the point; and
       display, on the display device of the ground vehicle navigation apparatus, a map of the
               route and a visual indicator of the weather forecast.
[00221 Optionally, obtaining the weather forecast comprises:
        sending, to a server, the ETA and location information associated the point; and
       receiving the weather forecast from the server.
                                                   4

 [0022a]       Optionally, when the one or more processors execute the instructions stored in the
memory, the ground vehicle navigation apparatus is further caused to:
               detect a request to update the map;
               in response to detecting the request to update the map:
               request an updated current location of the ground vehicle navigation apparatus;
               obtain an updated weather forecast associated with an updated point along said
                       route based on an updated ETA associated with the updated point, the
                       updated point located between the updated current location and the
                       destination location; and
               display, on the display device, a modified map that includes a second visual
                       indicator representing the updated weather forecast.
[0022b]        Optionally, the map data is generated using information stored locally at the
ground vehicle navigation apparatus.
[0022c]        Optionally, the map request is forwarded to a remote server, and the map data is
obtained from the remote server.
[0022d]        Optionally, the weather forecast is generated by:
               obtaining a precipitation forecast comprising a probability that the particular type
                       of precipitation will occur;
               generating probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of a plurality of
                       precipitation rates; and
              combining the probability that the particular type of precipitation will occur and
                      the probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of the precipitation
                      rates to produce probabilities that the particular type of precipitation will
                      occur at each of the precipitation rates.
                                                 4a

 [00231          Definitions
 [0024]          A nowcaster is a weather forecasting device which prepares very short term
(e.g., I min., 5 mins., 15 mins., 30 mins., etc.) forecasts for a very small region on Earth (5
meters, 10 meters, 50 meters, 100 meters, 500 meters, 1,000 meters, etc.).
 [00251          A weather-related observation may be an image, a video, a free form text
(tweet, message, email, etc.), a weather value of any sort such as temperature, pressure,
visibility, precipitation type and intensity, accumulation, cloud cover, wind, etc.
 [00261          A weather-related event is, for example, at least one of hail, a wind gust,
lightning, a temperature change, etc.
 [00271          A point observation is an observation, as defined herein, made at a particular
position (sometimes also referred to as referred to as a "location") at a given time.
 [00281          The particular position is the position on Earth at which the observation is
made. A precision of 5 meters to 10 meters is appropriate for the embodiments described
herein, but the variation in the position may be greater such as 25 meters, 50 meters, 100
meters, 1000 meters or more (i.e., less precision). The means for obtaining the particular
position include any type of geo-location means or positioning system available at the time of
filing this patent application. The geo-location means or positioning system may be
automated or not. Automated geo-location means or positioning system include global
positioning systems, RF location systems, radiolocation technologies, Internet Protocol (IP)
address, MAC address, WiFi, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), etc. The positioning
systems may also be manual such as providing a street address, street corner, building or
landmark, etc.
[00291           A given time is defined as the hour, minute and second at which the point
observation is made in the time zone corresponding to the particular position. The hour,
minute and second for the given time can also be recorded according to Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC) or Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) such that the given time is
independent of the particular position. The precision of the given time may be more or less
than one second. For example, in some embodiments, a precision
                                                  4b

of 5s, 10s, 30s, 60s or more may be sufficient for the embodiments described herein.
[00301       A user is a person to whom or a machine to which a weather forecast is
forwarded.
[0031]       An observer is an entity providing automated and/or manned observations.
An observer may be a person or an automated machine. An observer may also be a
user as defined herein.
[0032]       A gridded image is an image which comprises latitude and longitude
coordinates. It is therefore a collection of bi-dimensional geo-localized points / pixels.
[0033]       Each pixel in a gridded image corresponds to a position and can either
represent a single weather value, a probability distribution of values or a level of
confidence.
[0034]       Features and advantages of the subject matter hereof will become more
apparent in light of the following detailed description of selected embodiments, as
illustrated in the accompanying figures. As will be realized, the subject matter
disclosed and claimed is capable of modifications in various respects, all without
departing from the scope of the claims. Accordingly, the drawings and the description
are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive and the full scope of
the subject matter is set forth in the claims.
                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0035]       Further features and advantages of the present disclosure will become
apparent from the following detailed description, taken in combination with the
appended drawings, in which:
[0036]       Figure 1 is a block diagram of system for displaying nowcasts along a route
on a map;
[00371       Figure 2 is a block diagram of a suitable nowcaster for implementing the
embodiments;
[0038]       Figures 3a to 3c illustrate examples of maps and directions returned by a
map generating module;
[00391       Figure 4 illustrates an example of a GPS navigating device;
[0040]       Figures 5a & 5b illustrate examples of maps showing a route and a
                                            5

 plurality nowcasts for a plurality of key points along the route;
 [0041]      Figure 6 is an example of a network environment in which the
 embodiments may be practiced;
 [0042]      Figure 7 is an example of another network environment in which the
 embodiments may be practiced;
 [00431      Figure 8 is a flowchart of a computer-implemented method for generating
 maps, according to an embodiment.
 [0044]      Figure 9 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
 operating environment in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced.
 [00451      It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings, like features are
 identified by like reference numerals.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0046]      The embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with
reference to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and which show,
 by way of illustration, specific embodiments by which the embodiments may be
practiced. The embodiments are also described so that the disclosure conveys the
scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. The embodiments may, however, be
 embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the
embodiments set forth herein.
[0047]       Among other things, the present embodiments may be embodied as
methods or devices. Accordingly, the embodiments may take the form of an entirely
hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment, an embodiment combining
software and hardware aspects, etc. Furthermore, although the embodiments are
described with reference to a portable or handheld device, they may also be
implemented on desktops, laptop computers, tablet devices or any computing device
having sufficient computing resources to implement the embodiments.
[0048]       Briefly stated, the present embodiments describe a system and method for
displaying nowcasts along a route on a map. The system receives a map request
including a departure location and a destination location from a user, and obtains map
data including a route between the destination location and the departure location. A
                                           6

nowcaster is used for outputting nowcasts for a number of key points along the route.
The system modifies the map data to include a visual indicator for the nowcast
associated with each key point such that when the modified map data is executed on a
display the nowcasts are displayed along the route between the departure location and
the destination location.
[0049]      Figure 1 is a block diagram of system 300 for displaying nowcasts along a
route on a map. As shown in Figure 1, the system 300 comprises a nowcaster 200 (aka
system for generating nowcasts), a map generating module 310, and an intelligence
module 312 for communicating between the map generating module 310 and the
nowcaster 200 to output a map showing nowcasts for a number of key points along the
route.
[0050]      Nowcaster
[0051]      Figure 2 is a block diagram of a suitable nowcaster 200 such as that
described in co-owned and co-invented US patent application No.13/856923 filed on
April 4, 2013.
[0052]      As shown in Figure 2, the nowcaster 200 receives weather observations
from different sources 201 such as weather observations sources including but not
limited to: point observations 201-2 (e.g. feedback provided by users and automated
stations), weather radars 201-3, satellites 201-4 and other types of weather
observations 201-1, and weather forecast sources such as numerical weather prediction
(NWP) model output 201-5 and weather forecasts and advisories 201-6.
[0053]      In an embodiment, the nowcaster 200 comprises a PType distribution
forecaster 202 and a PRate distribution forecaster 204. The PType forecaster 202
receives the weather observations from the different sources 201 and outputs a
probability distribution of precipitation type over an interval of time, for a given
latitude and longitude (and/or location). In one non-limiting example, it could be:
     1) Snow: 10%
     2) Rain: 30%
     3) Freezing Rain: 60%
     4) Hail: 0%
     5) Ice Pellets: 0%
                                            7

 [0054]      As will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art, there can be
 various other types and numbers of categories than the example provided above.
 10055]      Similarly, the PRate forecaster 204 receives the weather observations for a
 given latitude and longitude from the different sources 201 and outputs a probability
 distribution forecast of a precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that expresses
the uncertainty. For example, the PRate may be output as a probability distribution of
precipitation rates or a range of rates over an interval of time, for a given latitude and
longitude. In one non-limiting example, it could be:
     1) No Precip: 30%
     2) Light: 40%
     3) Moderate: 20%
     4) Heavy: 10%
 [0056]      As will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art, there can be
various other types and numbers of categories than the example provided above.
[0057]       The PRate and PType values output by the PRate forecaster 204 and the
PType forecaster 202 are sent to a forecast combiner 206 to combine these values into
a single value PTypeRate which represents the precipitation outcomes. For example, if
the value of PType is "Snow", and the value of "PRate" is heavy, the combined value
of PTypeRate may be "heavy snow".
[0058]       For a given latitude and longitude, the system outputs forecasted
PTypeRate Distributions for predefined time intervals, either fixed (ex: 1 minute) or
variable (ex: 1 minute, then 5 minutes, then 10 minutes, etc). The system can either
pre-calculate and store forecasted PTypeRate Distributions in a sequence of time
intervals, or calculate it on the fly. A PTypeRate Distribution represents, for each time
interval, the certainty or uncertainty that a PTypeRate will occur.
[0059]       With reference to Figure 2, the forecast combiner 206 receives the final
PRate distribution from the PType forecaster 202 and the final PRate distribution from
the PRate forecaster 204 to combine them into a group of PTypeRate distribution
values each representing the probability of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a
certain rate. An example is provided below.
[0060]       Assuming that the PType distribution is as follows: Snow: 50%, Rain
                                             8

    0%, Freezing rain: 30%, Hail 0%, Ice pellets 20%, and the PRate distribution is as
    follows: None: 0%, light: 10%, moderate:20%, Heavy: 30%, Very heavy 40%, the
    PTypeRate distributions may be as follows:
    [0061]      Table 1: An Example of PTypeRate Distribution Table
   PType          Snow             Rain           Freez. Rain          Hail           Ice Pellets
PRate              50%              0%               30%                0%                20%
None 0%             No              No                No                No                 No
              precipitation    precipitation     precipitation     precipitation     precipitation
  Light         5% light            No              3% light            No           2% light ice
                  snow         precipitation     freezing rain     precipitation         pellets
   10%
Moderate           10%              No           6% moderate            No           4% moderate
                moderate       precipitation     freezing rain     precipitation       ice pellets
   20%
                  snow
 Heavy         15% heavy            No             9% heavy             No           6% heavy ice
                  snow         precipitation     freezing rain     precipitation         pellets
   30%
  Very         20% heavy            No             12% very             No          8% very heavy
  Heavy            snow        precipitation    heavy freezing     precipitation       ice pellets
   40%                                                rain
     [00621     Accordingly, the forecast combiner 206 multiplies the probability of each
     type of precipitation by the probability of each rate of precipitation to obtain a
     probability of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate for example,
     20% chance of heavy snow, or 12% chance of very heavy freezing rain. In an
     embodiment, it is possible to associate probability ranges with textual information for
     displaying the textual information to the user instead of the probabilities in numbers.
     For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be associated with the
     text: "low chance", while probabilities that are between 40% and 70% may be
     associated with the text "high chance", or "very likely" etc. whereby, instead of
     displaying: 60% chance of heavy snow, it is possible to display: "high chance of heavy
      snow".
      [0063]     In another embodiment, it is possible to combine two or more different
      PTypeRates along one or more dimensions (the dimensions including: the rate, type,
                                                9

or probability). For example, results of such combination may include: Likely light to
moderate rain, Likely light to moderate rain or heavy snow; Likely moderate rain or
snow; likely rain or snow; chance of light to moderate rain or heavy snow or light hail;
chance of moderate rain, snow or hail; chance of rain, snow or hail, etc.
[0064]      Accordingly, the nowcaster 200 receives the location for which the
nowcasts are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are
needed and outputs the PtypRate distribution for the given location and for the specific
time.
[0065]      There may be another embodiment of the nowcaster 200. In this
embodiment, the nowcaster comprises a PType selector/receiver and a PRate
distribution forecaster. Similar to the embodiment shown in Figure 2, the PRate
distribution forecaster receives the weather observations for a given latitude and
longitude from the different sources and outputs a probability distribution forecast of
a precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that expresses the uncertainty. For
example, the PRate may be output as a probability distribution of precipitation rates or
a range of rates over an interval of time, for a given latitude and longitude. In one
non-limiting example, it could be:
         1) No Precip.: 30%
        2) Light: 40%
        3) Moderate: 20%
        4) Heavy: 10%
[0066]      As will be apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art, there can be
various other types and numbers of categories than the example provided above.
[0067]      However, the PType selector/receiver does not output a probability
distribution associated with different types of precipitation. Instead, the PType
selector/receiver receives weather observations for a given latitude and longitude from
the different sources to select one precipitation type from a list of different
precipitation types. For example, based on the inputs received from the sources, the
PType selector/receiver selects a single precipitation type that is most likely to occur
in the given latitude and longitude (and/or location) from the following list of
precipitation types:
                                           10

         1)  Snow
         2) Rain
         3)  Freezing Rain
         4)  Hail
         5)  Ice Pellets
         6) Mix (e.g., a+c, a+d, b+c, a+e, c+e, d+e, etc.)
[0068]      From the list of precipitation types such as the one above, only one
precipitation type is selected for a given location. For example, a mix of snow and
freezing rain can be selected as the most likely precipitation type for a given location
at a given time. The precipitation type is not associated with a probability value. In
fact, since only one precipitation type is selected for any given location and time
corresponding to the location, the selected precipitation type will have the effective
probability value of 100%.
[0069]      The list of precipitation types that are available for selection of one type
may include a mix type that represents a mix of two different precipitation types (e.g.,
snow and freezing rain, hail and ice pellets, etc.). A mix type is considered as a
distinct precipitation type available for selection and, as shown above in (f) of the list,
there can be many different mix types representing the mix of different pairs of
various precipitation types.
[0070]      In another embodiment, the precipitation type is not selected by the PType
selector/receiver but instead is received from a source outside the nowcaster. In other
words, the nowcaster 200 may request to a remote source (e.g., a third-party weather
service) identification of the precipitation type that is most likely to occur for a given
location at a given time and receive a response from the source identifying the most
likely precipitation type. In this case, selection of the precipitation type is not
performed by the nowcaster. The nowcaster merely is inputted with the already
selected precipitation type and thereby can save computational power of the nowcaster
that would otherwise have been needed to perform the selection.
[0071]      The selected precipitation type and the PRate values respectively output by
the PType selector/receiver and the PRate distribution forecaster are combined. For
example, if the selected precipitation type is snow, and the PRate values are as
described above, the combined information would indicate:
         1) No Snow: 30%
                                            11

           2) Light Snow: 40%
          3) Moderate Snow: 20%
          4) Heavy Snow: 10%.
  [0072]      As only one precipitation type is concerned, only minimal amount of
  computational power is needed to perform the combining to output the final weather
  forecast data. Since the PType selector/receiver will output one (1) precipitation type
  for a given location and time, if the PRate distribution forecaster outputs a number m
 of probability distribution, the final weather forecast data will comprise only a number
 m (m*1) of weather forecast distribution.
  [0073]      In outputting the final weather forecast data, it is possible to associate
 probability ranges with textual information for displaying the textual information to
 the user instead of the probabilities in numbers, similar to the embodiment shown in
 Figure 2. For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be associated
 with the text: "low chance," while probabilities that are between 40% and 70% may be
 associated with the text "high chance," or "very likely," etc. whereby, instead of
 displaying: "60% chance of heavy snow," it is possible to display: "high chance of
 heavy snow." As will be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art, there can
 be many other variations than the examples provided herein.
 [0074]       Accordingly, the nowcaster receives the location for which the nowcasts
 are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are needed and
 outputs the selected PType and PRate distribution for the given location and for the
 specific time.
 [0075]       The nowcaster according to this another embodiment of the nowcaster may
be advantageous over the embodiment shown in Figure 2 in certain circumstances in
which efficiency is desired. This another embodiment can be implemented using much
less processing power than the embodiment of Figure 2. However, the embodiment of
Figure 2 may be more suitable than this another embodiment described above in
providing more detailed and accurate snapshot of weather forecast data for any given
location and time.
[0076]       Map Generation Module
[0077]       The map generating module 310 may be a web-based module and/or a GPS
                                           12

based module for generating routes and directions.
[00781       An example of such web-based modules may include MapquestTM,
YahooTM Maps, GoogleTM Maps, and so on. In this type of modules the data relating
to the generation or routes and/or maps is stored on a remote server 250 that is
accessible via a telecommunications network 254 such the internet. Using these
modules, the user may request to view the map for a certain location e.g. city, town,
country, street etc. and/or may request directions from a first location A to a second
location B, whereby the module may return a list of directions for the displacement
from A to B as shown in Figure 3a and/or a route drawn on a map as shown in Figure
3b. In an embodiment the map generating module 310 may provide one or more
choices of routes for the user to choose from as exemplified in Figure 3c.
[0079]       In another embodiment, the data may be downloaded and/or pushed from
the server 250 to the computing device on which the embodiments are practiced,
whereby the route and/or map may be displayed without accessing the remote server
250.
[0080]       In an embodiment, the map generating module 310 may also include a GPS
navigation device 330 which determines the current position of the user using a
connection with satellite 332. The GPS unit may be embedded in a portable device
such as an IPhone TM or the like. In another example, the GPS navigation device 330
may be embedded in a handheld GPS navigation device such as the series of devices
manufactured by GarminTM or MagellanTM etc. An example of which is shown in
Figure 4.
 [0081]      Intelligence module
 [0082]      In an embodiment, the intelligence module 312 may be linked to a user
 interface for receiving the user's entries such the identification of the locations A and
B, departure time, and the user preferences regarding the locations for which the
nowcasts are needed.
 [0083]      The intelligence module 312 transfers the identification of the locations A
 and B to the map generating module 310, and in return, it receives a map on which the
route between A and B is drawn as exemplified in Figure 3b.
 [00841      Based on the user's preferences, the intelligence module 312 may
                                            13

identify/receive the key points along the route. For example, the user may choose to
view the nowcasts for major cities along the route, or by increments of for example
30Km, etc. The intelligence module 312 sends the location information associated
with each key point to the nowcaster 200 along with a time or time interval. In
response, the Intelligence module 312 receives the nowcasts from the nowcaster 200
and adds some or all (depending on the resolution and size of the display and the zoom
level) of these nowcasts on the map received from the map generating module 310, as
exemplified in Figure 5a.
[0085]       In one embodiment, the intelligence module 312 may send the location
information of the each key point along with the current time whereby the user may
see the current weather conditions in the different locations along the route.
[0086]       In another embodiment, the intelligence module 312 may estimate a time
of arrival for each key point which represents the estimated time at which the user is
expected to arrive at a given key point. Estimation of the arrival time may depend on
several factors including: the departure time (which unless specified by the user is
taken as the present time), the distance between the departure point and the respective
key point, traffic information received from the map generating module 310 (or
another source), weather information, current speed, and speed limit associated with
each segment of the route between the current position and the respective key point.
[0087]      As discussed above, the map generating module 310 may provide different
choices of routes whereby the user may view the weather conditions along different
key points and select one the routes for navigation.
[0088]       In an embodiment, if the user is viewing the map using a GPS and/or web
enabled computing device, the nowcasts may be updated on the map based on the
advancement of the user on the route and the changes in weather conditions.
[0089]       In an embodiment, the nowcasts may be provided on the map along with
the time/ time interval associated with each nowcast, as exemplified in Figure 5b. In
an embodiment, the time shown on the map is the estimated time of arrival which is
estimated by the intelligence module 312 based on the current location, speed, and
weather and traffic conditions.
[0090]      Figure 6 is an example of a network environment in which the
                                           14

embodiments may be practiced. The nowcaster 200 may be implemented on a server
250 which is accessible by a plurality of client computers 252 over a
telecommunications network 254. The client computers 252 may include but not
limited to: laptops, desktops, portable computing devices, tablets and the like. Using a
client computer 252, each user may enter the directions between two locations and
preferably the time of departure (otherwise the current time is used to replace this).
The information is sent to the remote server 250 over a telecommunications network
254. The server 250 returns a list of directions along with a map including a route
from locations A to B along with nowcasts at certain key points on the route. The
server accesses weather source 201 over a telecommunications network 254 as
discussed in connection with Figure 2. The server 250 may have map data stored
 thereon and may also access map sources 320 provided by a third entity.
 [0091]      Preferably, the client computer 252 is GPS enabled. In which case, the
 computing device may provide updates to the server 250 for updating the nowcasts
 along the route, as discussed above.
 [00921      Figure 7 is an example of another network environment in which the
 embodiments of a method for providing nowcasts may be practiced. In this
 embodiment, the user enters the destination and views the map on a GPS navigation
 device. The GPS navigation device takes the departure location as the current location.
 The current position and the end destination along with a pre-determined route which
 is chosen by a satellite 332 may be sent to the server 250 via the satellite 332. The
 intelligence module 312 implemented in the server 250 may return the nowcasts for
 key points along the route, and send the nowcasts and an identification of the key
 points to the GPS navigation device 330 for adding to the map shown on the display of
  the GPS navigation device 330.
  [0093]     Figure 8 illustrates a computer implemented method 800 for generating
  maps. It comprises receiving a map request 810 including a departure location and a
  destination location. In response to receiving the map request 810, the computer
  implemented method 800 comprises obtaining map data 820 which, when
  implemented on a display device, cause the display device to show a map display 830
  including a route drawn between the departure location and said destination location.
                                            15

It also performs obtaining nowcasts 840 for one or more key points along the route
and modifies the map data 820 (including adding a visual indicator) for the
representation 850 of one of the nowcasts for each key point on the route drawn on the
map. The computer-implemented method 800 eventually outputs modified map data
for display 860 to a user.
[0094]        Hardware and Operating Environment
[0095]        Figure 9 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced. The
following description is associated with Figure 9 and is intended to provide a brief,
general description of suitable computer hardware and a suitable computing
environment in conjunction with which the embodiments may be implemented. Not all
the components are required to practice the embodiments, and variations in the
 arrangement and type of the components may be made without departing from the
 spirit or scope of the embodiments.
 [0096]       Although not required, the embodiments are described in the general
 context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed
 by a computer, such as a personal computer, a hand-held or palm-size computer,
 Smartphone, or an embedded system such as a computer in a consumer device or
 specialized industrial controller. Generally, program modules include routines,
 programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or
 implement particular abstract data types.
  [00971      Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments may
 be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held devices,
 multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics,
  network PCS, minicomputers, mainframe computers, cellular telephones, smart
  phones, display pagers, radio frequency (RF) devices, infrared (IR) devices, Personal
  Digital Assistants (PDAs), laptop computers, wearable computers, tablet computers, a
  device of the IPOD or IPAD family of devices manufactured by Apple Computer,
  integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices, or any other
  computing device capable of performing the methods and systems described herein.
  The embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where
                                             16

tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a
communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules
may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
[0098]      The exemplary hardware and operating environment of Figure 9 includes a
general purpose computing device in the form of a computer 720, including a
processing unit 721, a system memory 722, and a system bus 723 that operatively
couples various system components including the system memory to the processing
unit 721. There may be only one or there may be more than one processing unit 721,
such that the processor of computer 720 comprises a single central-processing unit
(CPU), or a plurality of processing units, commonly referred to as a parallel
processing environment. The computer 720 may be a conventional computer, a
distributed computer, or any other type of computer; the embodiments are not so
limited.
[0099]      The system bus 723 may be any of several types of bus structures including
a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any of a
variety of bus architectures. The system memory may also be referred to as simply the
memory, and includes read only memory (ROM) 724 and random access memory
(RAM) 725. A basic input/output system (BIOS) 726, containing the basic routines
that help to transfer information between elements within the computer 720, such as
during start-up, is stored in ROM 724. In one embodiment of the invention, the
computer 720 further includes a hard disk drive 727 for reading from and writing to a
hard disk, not shown, a magnetic disk drive 728 for reading from or writing to a
removable magnetic disk 729, and an optical disk drive 730 for reading from or
writing to a removable optical disk 731 such as a CD ROM or other optical media. In
alternative embodiments of the invention, the functionality provided by the hard disk
drive 727, magnetic disk 729 and optical disk drive 730 is emulated using volatile or
non-volatile RAM in order to conserve power and reduce the size of the system. In
these alternative embodiments, the RAM may be fixed in the computer system, or it
may be a removable RAM device, such as a Compact Flash memory card.
[00100]     In an embodiment of the invention, the hard disk drive 727, magnetic disk
drive 728, and optical disk drive 730 are connected to the system bus 723 by a hard
                                          17

disk drive interface 732, a magnetic disk drive interface 733, and an optical disk drive
interface 734, respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media
provide nonvolatile storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures,
program modules and other data for the computer 720. It should be appreciated by
those skilled in the art that any type of computer-readable media which can store data
that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards,
digital video disks, Bernoulli cartridges, random access memories (RAMs), read only
memories (ROMs), and the like, may be used in the exemplary operating environment.
[001011     A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic
disk 729, optical disk 731, ROM 724, or RAM 725, including an operating system
735, one or more application programs 736, other program modules 737, and program
data 738. A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer 720
through input devices such as a keyboard 740 and pointing device 742. Other input
devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish,
scanner, touch sensitive pad, or the like. These and other input devices are often
connected to the processing unit 721 through a serial port interface 746 that is coupled
to the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port,
game port, or a universal serial bus (USB). In addition, input to the system may be
provided by a microphone to receive audio input.
[00102]     A monitor 747 or other type of display device is also connected to the
system bus 723 via an interface, such as a video adapter 748. In one embodiment of
the invention, the monitor comprises a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). In addition to
the monitor, computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown),
such as speakers and printers. The monitor may include a touch sensitive surface
which allows the user to interface with the computer by pressing on or touching the
surface.
[00103]     The computer 720 may operate in a networked environment using logical
connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer 749. These
logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of
the computer 720; the embodiment is not limited to a particular type of
communications device. The remote computer 749 may be another computer, a server,
                                            18

a router, a network PC, a client, a peer device or other common network node, and
typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer
720, although only a memory storage device 750 has been illustrated in Figure 6. The
logical connections depicted in Figure 6 include a local-area network (LAN) 751 and a
wide-area network (WAN) 752. Such networking environments are commonplace in
offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the Internet.
[00104]      When used in a LAN-networking environment, the computer 720 is
connected to the local network 751 through a network interface or adapter 753, which
is one type of communications device. When used in a WAN-networking
environment, the computer 720 typically includes a modem 754, a type of
communications device, or any other type of communications device for establishing
communications over the wide area network 752, such as the Internet. The modem
754, which may be internal or external, is connected to the system bus 723 via the
serial port interface 746. In a networked environment, program modules depicted
relative to the personal computer 720, or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote
memory storage device. It is appreciated that the network connections shown are
exemplary and other means of and communications devices for establishing a
communications link between the computers may be used.
[00105]      The hardware and operating environment in conjunction with which
embodiments of the invention may be practiced has been described. The computer in
conjunction with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced may be a
conventional computer a hand-held or palm-size computer, a computer in an
embedded system, a distributed computer, or any other type of computer; the
invention is not so limited. Such a computer typically includes one or more processing
units as its processor, and a computer-readable medium such as a memory. The
computer may also include a communications device such as a network adapter or a
modem, so that it is able to communicatively couple other computers.
[00106]      While preferred embodiments have been described above and illustrated in
the accompanying drawings, it will be evident to those skilled in the art that
modifications may be made without departing from this disclosure. Such
modifications are considered as possible variants comprised in the scope of the
                                          19

disclosure.
[001071         Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an
admission that such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
1001081         Throughout this specification, including the claims, where the context permits,
the term "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising" are to be
interpreted as including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other
integers.
                                               20

Claims
         1. A computer implemented method for generating a map for ground navigation
comprising a weather forecast, the method comprising:
         receiving, at a navigation device, a map request indicating a departure location and a
                 destination location;
         in response to receiving the map request, obtaining map data associated with a route
                 between the departure location and the destination location;
         obtaining a weather forecast indicating a probability of a particular type of precipitation
                 occurring at a particular rate at a point along the route at an estimated time of
                 arrival (ETA) associated with the point; and
         displaying, on a display device of the navigation device, a map of the route and a visual
                 indicator of the weather forecast.
        2. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the weather forecast comprises:
        sending, to a server, the ETA and location information associated with the point; and
        receiving the weather forecast from the server.
        3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        detecting a request to update the map; and
        in response to detecting the request to update the map:
                 requesting an updated current location of the navigation device;
                 obtaining an updated weather forecast associated with an updated point along the
                         route based on an updated ETA associated with the updated point, the
                         updated point located between the updated current location and the
                         destination location; and
                 displaying, on the display device, a modified map that includes a second visual
                         indicator representing the updated weather forecast.
        4. The method of claim 1, wherein map data is generated using information stored locally
at the navigation device.
                                                    21

          5. The method claim 1, further comprising:
          forwarding the map request to a remote server; and
          receiving the map data from the remote server.
          6. The method of claim 1, wherein the weather forecast is generated by:
          obtaining a precipitation forecast comprising a probability that the particular type of
                  precipitation-will occur;
          generating probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of a plurality of precipitation
                  rates; and
          combining the probability that the particular type of precipitation will occur and the
                  probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of the precipitation rates to
                  produce probabilities that the particular type of precipitation will occur at each of
                  the precipitation rates.
          7. The method of claim 1, wherein the map further includes a second route between the
  departure location and the destination location and a second visual indicator of a second weather
  forecast associated with a second point along the second route.
          8. The method of claim 7, further comprising displaying, on the display device,
  navigation instructions associated with the route in response to receiving a selection of the route.
          9. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically selecting the point based on a
  user preference.
D         10. The method of claim 9, further comprising selecting a major city as the point in
  response to the user preference corresponding to a major city option.
          11. The method of claim 9, wherein the user preference identifies a distance interval.
          12. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular rate corresponds to one of a plurality of
  defined rates.
                                                    22

         13. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions, which when
executed by a navigation device with a display, cause the navigation device to:
        receive a map request including a departure location and a destination location;
        in response to receiving said map request, obtain map data associated with a route
                 between the departure location and the destination location;
        obtain a weather forecast indicating a probability of a particular type of precipitation
                 occurring at a particular rate at a point along the route at an estimated time of
                 arrival (ETA) associated with the point; and
        display, on the display of the navigation device, a map of the route and a visual indicator
                 of the weather forecast.
        14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the weather
forecast is generated by:
        obtaining a precipitation forecast comprising a probability that the particular type of
                precipitation-will occur;
        generating probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of a plurality of precipitation
                rates; and
        combining the probability that the particular type of precipitation-will occur and the
                probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of the precipitation rates to
                produce probabilities that the particular type of precipitation-will occur at each of
                the precipitation rates.
        15. A ground vehicle navigation apparatus comprising:
       a display device;
       one or more processors; and
       a memory comprising instructions which when executed by the one or more processors
                cause the ground vehicle navigation apparatus to:
                receive a map request indicating a departure location and a destination location;
                in response to receiving said map request, obtain map data associated with a route
                         between the departure location and the destination location;
                obtain a weather forecast indicating a probability of a particular type of
                                                    23

                        precipitation occurring at a particular rate at a point along the route at an
                         estimated time of arrival (ETA) associated with the point; and
                display, on the display device of the ground vehicle navigation apparatus, a map
                        of the route and a visual indicator of the weather forecast.
         16. The ground vehicle navigation apparatus of claim 15, wherein obtaining the weather
forecast comprises:
        sending, to a server, the ETA and location information associated the point; and
        receiving the weather forecast from the server.
         17. The ground vehicle navigation apparatus of claim 15, wherein when the one or more
processors execute the instructions stored in the memory, the ground vehicle navigation
apparatus is further caused to:
        detect a request to update the map;
        in response to detecting the request to update the map:
        request an updated current location of the ground vehicle navigation apparatus;
        obtain an updated weather forecast associated with an updated point along said route
                based on an updated ETA associated with the updated point, the updated point
                located between the updated current location and the destination location; and
        display, on the display device, a modified map that includes a second visual indicator
                representing the updated weather forecast.
        18. The ground vehicle navigation apparatus of claim 15, wherein the map data is
generated using information stored locally at the ground vehicle navigation apparatus.
        19. The ground vehicle navigation apparatus of claim 15, wherein the map request is
forwarded to a remote server, and the map data is obtained from the remote server.
       20. The ground vehicle navigation apparatus of claim 15, wherein the weather forecast is
generated by:
       obtaining a precipitation forecast comprising a probability that the particular type of
                precipitation will occur;
                                                   24

generating probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of a plurality of precipitation
       rates; and
combining the probability that the particular type of precipitation will occur and the
       probabilities that precipitation will occur at each of the precipitation rates to
       produce probabilities that the particular type of precipitation will occur at each of
       the precipitation rates.
                                          25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
