ABSTRACT
     A swimming pool water sanitizing unit with an ozone generator and a separate ultraviolet
 (UV) reactor chamber within the same housing unit. The ozone generator may include a water
jacket gap between the ozone generator chamber and the outer casing that passes pool water
through the gap for cooling. Either of the ozone generator and the UV reactor chamber may
 include UV intensity sensors to help predict the life of the UV bulb therein. The UV reactor
 chamber may include rotating water paddle blades to stir up the water within the chamber for
 enhanced exposure to the UV light. A diverter valve enables diversion of ozone enriched fluid to
the pool pump in addition to the UV reactor chamber.

 -5
0.0
I-
       0
    LL

      COMBINATION ULTRAVIOLET RAY AND OZONE WATER SANITIZING UNIT
RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001]     This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application
62/517,748, filed June 9, 2017 titled "Combination Ultraviolet Ray and Ozone Water Sanitizing
Unit," the entirety of the disclosure of which is incorporated by this reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
         [0002]     Aspects of this document relate generally to systems for sanitization of
swimming pool water, and more particularly to a combination ultraviolet ray and ozone water
sanitizing unit.
BACKGROUND
         [0003]     Swimming pools and spas (collectively swimming pool(s) or pool(s) herein)
may advantageously employ a water sanitizing unit in line with the swimming pool pump. In
addition to the chemicals conventionally added to the water of a swimming pool, a water
sanitizing unit sanitizes the water in the pool, requiring less Chlorine. Some water sanitizing
units use ultraviolet (UV) radiation to sanitize water passing the UV light and others add ozone
to the water to sanitize it. Conventional water sanitizing units are designed for positioning on
either the pressure side or the suction side of a swimming pool filtering system.
                                                    I

                                             SUMMARY
         [0005]     According to an aspect, a swimming pool water sanitizing unit may comprise
a pool water inlet and a pool water outlet extending from a sanitizing unit housing, a sanitizing
unit control center on or within the sanitizing unit housing, an ozone generator within the
sanitizing unit housing and comprising an outer casing, an ozone generator chamber configured
to receive a first UV light source within the ozone generator chamber and to generate ozone
enriched fluid and output the ozone enriched fluid through an ozone output of the ozone
generator chamber, the ozone generator chamber surrounded by a plurality of heat sink fins
extending from the ozone generator chamber, and a water jacket gap between the ozone
generator chamber and the outer casing, the water jacket gap fluidly coupled to both an ozone
generator water inlet and an ozone generator water outlet, the ozone generator chamber further
comprising a first UV intensity sensor within the ozone generator chamber, the first UV intensity
sensor configured to send first UV intensity data to the sanitizing unit control center to indicate
when the first UV light source drops below a predetermined first UV intensity level as measured
at the first UV intensity sensor, an ultraviolet (UV) reactor chamber within the sanitizing unit
housing and configured to receive and enclose a second UV light source within the UV reactor
chamber, the UV reactor chamber fluidly coupled to both an UV reactor chamber water inlet and
an UV reactor chamber water outlet such that fluid flowing through the UV reactor chamber
from the UV reactor chamber water inlet to the UV reactor chamber water outlet passes by the
second UV light source when the second UV light source is received in the UV reactor chamber,
the UV reactor chamber further comprising a second UV intensity sensor within the UV reactor
chamber, the second UV intensity sensor configured to send second UV intensity data to the
sanitizing unit control center to indicate when the second UV light source drops below a
predetermined second UV intensity level as measured at the second UV intensity sensor, the UV
                                                   2

reactor chamber further comprising a plurality of water paddle blades extending radially about an
axial center of the UV reactor chamber adjacent the UV reactor chamber water inlet and
configured to rotate about the axial center of the UV reactor chamber, an ozone injector within
the sanitizing unit housing and fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator and to
an input to the UV reaction chamber, and a diverter valve fluidly coupled to the ozone output of
the ozone generator and an ozone system output, the diverter valve adjustable to regulate an
amount of the ozone enriched fluid diverted from the ozone generator to a suction side of a
swimming pool pump.
         [0006]     Particular embodiments may comprise one or more of the following features.
A pressure differential sensor electronically coupled with the sanitizing unit control center, the
sanitizing unit control center configured to turn off the sanitizing unit or reduce its power usage
when the pressure differential sensor indicates that the water flow through the sanitizing unit is
below a predetermined magnitude. A wireless transmitter operatively associated with the
sanitizing unit control center, the wireless transmitter configured to transmit a signal to indicate
when the first UV light source or the second UV light source is in need of replacement. A
wireless transceiver operatively associated with the sanitizing unit control center, the wireless
transceiver configured to transmit a signal to indicate when the sanitizing unit is in need of
service or to receive a signal to change settings on the sanitizing unit through wireless
communication with the control center. The pool water inlet may comprise a first inlet arm and a
second inlet arm, and wherein the ozone injector comprises a venturi injector fluidly coupled to
the ozone output of the ozone generator at a fluid input to the venturi injector, the venturi injector
comprising a venturi nozzle coupled between the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm such
that the venturi injector extends between the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm and is
                                                   3

configured to inject ozone enriched fluid from the ozone generator into the venturi injector as
pool water passes between the venturi injector. A chlorine feeder coupled to the pool water inlet.
The UV reactor chamber may further comprise a first cleaning port adjacent the first end of the
UV reactor chamber and separate from the UV reactor chamber water inlet, and a second
cleaning port adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber and separate from the UV
reactor chamber outlet, the first and second cleaning ports each comprising a removable plug
within them. The UV reactor chamber may further comprise an off-gassing valve adjacent the
second end of the UV reactor chamber, the off-gassing valve configured to release gas collected
within the UV reactor chamber adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber.
        [0007]      According to an aspect, a swimming pool water sanitizing unit may comprise
a pool water inlet and a pool water outlet extending from a sanitizing unit housing, an ozone
generator within the sanitizing unit housing and comprising an outer casing, an ozone generator
chamber configured to receive an ozone source within the ozone generator chamber and to
generate ozone enriched fluid and output the ozone enriched fluid through an ozone output of the
ozone generator chamber, an ultraviolet (UV) reactor chamber within the sanitizing unit housing
and configured to receive and enclose an UV light source within the UV reactor chamber, the
UV reactor chamber fluidly coupled to both an UV reactor chamber water inlet and an UV
reactor chamber water outlet such that fluid flowing through the UV reactor chamber from the
UV reactor chamber water inlet to the UV reactor chamber water outlet passes by the UV light
source when the UV light source is received in the UV reactor chamber, the UV reactor chamber
further comprising a plurality of water paddle blades extending radially about an axial center of
the UV reactor chamber adjacent the UV reactor chamber water inlet and configured to rotate
about the axial center of the UV reactor chamber, and an ozone injector within the sanitizing unit
                                                 4

housing and fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator and an input to the UV
reaction chamber.
         [0008]      Particular embodiments may comprise one or more of the following features.
A diverter valve fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator, the ozone injector
and an ozone system output, the diverter valve adjustable to regulate an amount of the ozone
enriched fluid diverted from the ozone generator to a suction side of a swimming pool pump. A
UV intensity sensor within at least one of the UV reactor chamber and the ozone generator
chamber, the UV intensity sensor configured to send UV intensity data to the sanitizing unit
control center to indicate when UV intensity within the at least one of the UV reactor chamber
and the ozone generator chamber drops below a predetermined UV intensity level as measured at
the UV intensity sensor. A pressure differential sensor electronically coupled with the sanitizing
unit control center, the sanitizing unit control center configured to turn off the sanitizing unit or
reduce its power usage when the pressure differential sensor indicates that the water flow
through the sanitizing unit is below a predetermined magnitude. A wireless transmitter
operatively associated with the sanitizing unit control center, the wireless transmitter configured
to transmit a signal to indicate when the ozone generating light source or the UV light source is
in need of replacement. A wireless transmitter operatively associated with the sanitizing unit
control center, the wireless transmitter configured to transmit a signal to indicate when the
sanitizing unit is in need of service. The pool water inlet may comprise a first inlet arm and a
second inlet arm, and wherein the ozone injector comprises a venturi injector fluidly coupled to
the ozone output of the ozone generator at a fluid input to the venturi injector, the venturi injector
comprising a venturi nozzle coupled to the first inlet arm and to the second inlet arm such that
the venturi injector extends between the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm and is configured
                                                   5

to inject ozone enriched fluid from the ozone generator into the venturi injector as pool water
passes between the venturi injector. The UV reactor chamber may further comprise a first
cleaning port adjacent the first end of the UV reactor chamber and separate from the UV reactor
chamber water inlet, and a second cleaning port adjacent the second end of the UV reactor
chamber and separate from the UV reactor chamber outlet, the first and second cleaning ports
each comprising a removable plug within them. The UV reactor chamber may further comprise
an off-gassing valve adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber, the off-gassing valve
configured to release gas collected within the UV reactor chamber adjacent the second end of the
UV reactor chamber.
        [0009]     According to an aspect, a swimming pool water sanitizing unit may comprise
a pool water inlet and a pool water outlet extending from a sanitizing unit housing, an ozone
generator within the sanitizing unit housing, the ozone generator comprising an ozone generator
chamber with an ozone output, an ultraviolet (UV) reactor chamber within the sanitizing unit
housing, the UV reactor chamber comprising a UV reactor chamber water inlet adjacent a first
end of the UV reactor chamber and a UV reactor chamber water outlet adjacent a second end of
the UV reactor chamber, and an ozone injector within the sanitizing unit housing and fluidly
coupled to the ozone output, the pool water input and the UV reactor chamber water input.
        [0010]      Particular embodiments may comprise one or more of the following features.
A diverter valve fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator, the ozone injector
and an ozone system output, the diverter valve adjustable to regulate an amount of the ozone
enriched fluid diverted from the ozone generator to a suction side of a swimming pool pump.
The pool water inlet may comprise a first inlet arm and a second inlet arm, and wherein the
ozone injector comprises a venturi injector fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone
                                                  6

generator at a fluid input to the venturi injector, the venturi injector comprising a venturi nozzle
coupled between the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm such that the venturi injector extends
between the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm and is configured to inject ozone enriched
fluid from the ozone generator into the venturi injector as pool water passes between the venturi
injector. A UV intensity sensor within at least one of the UV reactor chamber and the ozone
generator chamber, the UV intensity sensor configured to send UV intensity data to a sanitizing
unit control center to indicate when UV light intensity drops below a predetermined UV intensity
level as measured at the UV intensity sensor. The UV reactor chamber may further comprise a
plurality of water paddle blades extending radially about an axial center of the UV reactor
chamber adjacent the UV reactor chamber water inlet and configured to rotate about the axial
center of the UV reactor chamber. The UV reactor chamber may further comprise a first
cleaning port adjacent the first end of the UV reactor chamber and separate from the UV reactor
chamber water inlet, and a second cleaning port adjacent the second end of the UV reactor
chamber and separate from the UV reactor chamber outlet, the first and second cleaning ports
each comprising a removable plug within them.
         [0011]      Aspects and applications of the disclosure presented here are described below
in the drawings and detailed description. Unless specifically noted, it is intended that the words
and phrases in the specification and the claims be given their plain, ordinary, and accustomed
meaning to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. The inventors are fully aware that they
can be their own lexicographers if desired. The inventors expressly elect, as their own
lexicographers, to use only the plain and ordinary meaning of terms in the specification and
claims unless they clearly state otherwise and then further, expressly set forth the "special"
definition of that term and explain how it differs from the plain and ordinary meaning. Absent
                                                    7

such clear statements of intent to apply a "special" definition, it is the inventors' intent and desire
that the simple, plain, and ordinary meaning to the terms be applied to the interpretation of the
specification and claims.
         [0012]      The inventors are also aware of the normal precepts of English grammar.
Thus, if a noun, term, or phrase is intended to be further characterized, specified, or narrowed in
some way, such noun, term, or phrase will expressly include additional adjectives, descriptive
terms, or other modifiers in accordance with the normal precepts of English grammar. Absent
the use of such adjectives, descriptive terms, or modifiers, it is the intent that such nouns, terms,
or phrases be given their plain, and ordinary English meaning to those skilled in the applicable
arts as set forth above.
         [0013]      Further, the inventors are fully informed of the standards and application of
the special provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 112,    1 6. Thus, the use of the words "function, "means" or
"step" in the Detailed Description or Description of the Drawings or claims is not intended to
somehow indicate a desire to invoke the special provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 112,         6, to define the
invention. To the contrary, if the provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 112,       6 are sought to be invoked to
define the inventions, the claims will specifically and expressly state the exact phrases "means
for" or "step for", and will also recite the word "function" (i.e., will state "means for performing
the function of [insert function]"), without also reciting in such phrases any structure, material,
or acts in support of the function. Thus, even when the claims recite a "means for performing the
function of. . ." or "step for performing the function of. . . ," if the claims also recite any
structure, material, or acts in support of that means or step, or to perform the recited function, it
is the clear intention of the inventors not to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 112,      6.
Moreover, even if the provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 112,       6, are invoked to define the claimed
                                                    8

aspects, it is intended that these aspects not be limited only to the specific structure, material, or
acts that are described in the preferred embodiments, but in addition, include any and all
structures, material, or acts that perform the claimed function as described in alternative
embodiments or forms in the disclosure, or that are well-known present or later-developed,
equivalent structures, material, or acts for performing the claimed function.
        [0014]       The foregoing and other aspects, features, and advantages will be apparent to
those artisans of ordinary skill in the art from the DETAILED DESCRIPTION and
DRAWINGS, and from the CLAIMS.
                                                    9

                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0015]     Implementations will hereinafter be described in conjunction with the
appended drawings, where like designations denote like elements, and:
        [0016]     FIG. 1A is a side view of a prior art filter and pump system;
        [0017]     FIG. 1B is a top view of the prior art filter and pump system of FIG. 1;
        [0018]     FIG. 2A; is a perspective view of a swimming pool water sanitizing unit
within a housing;
        [0019]     FIG. 2B; is a perspective view of the swimming pool water sanitizing unit of
FIG. 2A with the housing removed;
        [0020]     FIG. 3 is a system view of a swimming pool water sanitizing unit coupled to
the pressure side of the pump;
        [0021]     FIGs. 4A-4E are front, left, rear, right and top side views of the swimming
pool water sanitizing unit of FIG. 2B with the housing removed;
        [0022]     FIG. 5A is a perspective view of an ozone reactor with exposed heat
dissipating fins;
        [0023]     FIG. 5B is a cross-sectional view of FIG. 5A taken along section lines 5B-5B;
        [0024]     FIG. 6A is a perspective view of an ozone reactor with covered heat
dissipating fins;
        [0025]     FIG. 6B is a cross-sectional view of FIG. 6A taken along section lines 6B-6B;
        [0026]     FIG. 6C is a sectional view of FIG. 6A taken at section 6C;
        [0027]     FIG. 7A is a perspective view of an UV reactor chamber;
        [0028]     FIG. 7B is a cross-sectional view of FIG. 7A taken along section lines 7B-7B;
and
                                                 10

        [0029] FIG. 7C is a portion of a cross-sectional view of FIG. 7A taken along section
lines 7C-7C.
                                            11

                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0030]      This disclosure, its aspects and implementations, are not limited to the specific
material types, components, methods, or other examples disclosed herein. Many additional
material types, components, methods, and procedures known in the art are contemplated for use
with particular implementations from this disclosure. Accordingly, for example, although
particular implementations are disclosed, such implementations and implementing components
may comprise any components, models, types, materials, versions, quantities, and/or the like as
is known in the art for such systems and implementing components, consistent with the intended
operation.
        [0031]      The words "exemplary," "example," or various forms thereof are used herein
to mean serving as an example, instance, or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein
as "exemplary" or as an "example" is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or
advantageous over other aspects or designs. Furthermore, examples are provided solely for
purposes of clarity and understanding and are not meant to limit or restrict the disclosed subject
matter or relevant portions of this disclosure in any manner. It is to be appreciated that a myriad
of additional or alternate examples of varying scope could have been presented, but have been
omitted for purposes of brevity.
        [0032]      While this disclosure includes embodiments of many different forms, there is
shown in the figures and will herein be described in detail particular embodiments with the
understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the
principles of the disclosed methods and systems, and is not intended to limit the broad aspect of
the disclosed concepts to the embodiments illustrated.
                                                   12

         [0033]     FIGs. 1A and 1B illustrate a prior art embodiment of a swimming pool water
filtration system 2 comprising a pump 4 and a filter 6. The pump 4 draws water through suction
from the pool and forces the water through the filter 6 back to the pool through pressure. The
plumbing between the pool and the suction portion of the pump is called the suction side of the
pump, and the plumbing between the pool and the pressure portion of the pump is called the
pressure side of the pump. Depending upon the configuration of the pool and equipment, and the
particular preferences of the installer, some installers install sanitation systems to feed ozone
enriched fluids into the suction side of the pump, and some install to feed ozone enriched fluids
after the pump directly into the pool from the pressure side of the pump. Particular embodiments
of the presently disclosed water sanitizing unit allow an installer and user to feed ozone into
either or both of the pressure side and the suction side of the pump, giving the installer the option
of most optimal placement of the ozone enriched fluids for the given swimming pool and
filtering system.
         [0034]     FIG. 2A illustrates a water sanitizing unit 10 with a housing 12. Pool water
inlet 14 and pool water outlet 16 may be connected to the appropriately oriented water flow lines
to pass pool water through the pool water sanitizing unit 10. A drain 18 on the outside of the
housing 12 assists in draining, winterizing and cleaning of an ultraviolet (UV) reactor chamber
20 (FIG. 2B). A connector 19 for an optional diverter line 21 that may extend from the housing
12. FIG. 2B illustrates the water sanitizing unit 10 with the housing 12 removed. Inside the
housing 12, the water sanitizing unit 10 includes an UV reactor chamber 20, an ozone generator
22, an ozone injector 24, and a sanitizing unit control center 26 with a bonding wire extending to
the housing 12 (FIG. 2A), as well as other various electrical wires to provide electrical
communication and power to the UV reactor chamber 20 and the ozone generator 22, and
                                                   13

mounting brackets and fasteners to couple the various components into the housing 12 and to
each other. An optional diverter 17 with a diverter line 21 may be connected to the ozone
connecting hose 62 to allow an installer to divert none, all, or a portion of the ozone enriched
fluid from the ozone generator 22 to the suction side of the pump. The diverter 17 may be
configured as a Y valve that couples to the ozone connecting hose 62 or elsewhere between the
ozone output 38 and the venturi nozzle 24. Each exit branch of the Y valve may have a valve on
it to balance the amount of suction each creates. Some prefer to have more ozone on the suction
side of the pump because there is better mixing of the ozone with the pool water in the pump and
filter, and others prefer to have more ozone in the UV chamber to create hydroxyl radicals. FIG.
3 illustrates a water sanitizing unit 10 coupled to a swimming pool filtration system 2 on the
pressure side with an optional diverter line 21 extending to the suction side of the pump.
         [0035]      In particular embodiments, a pressure differential sensor (generating a voltage
or amperage value as an output) is included within the system, such as in line with the pool water
inlet or pool water outlet, and operatively coupled to the sanitizing unit control center 26 to
convert a pressure differential to a flow rate (in gallons per minute or GPM) with an LCD
readout 100 (FIG. 2A) positioned on a visible surface of the unit for use with a UV only
sanitization unit or a combination UV and ozone water sanitization unit. Being able to use a
pressure differential sensor and a flow switch in combination or by themselves to indicate a
certain flow rate or an on/off set point for the system to allow a unit to be turned off and or
dimmed when the pump is off or the water flow is not high enough to support the added load of
the water sanitation unit on the system, and on when the pump is on and the flow rate is high
enough. If there is not enough water flow through the system, the water sanitation unit can
overheat. Conventional systems do not use a pressure differential sensor for monitoring flow
                                                   14

rate. Most units use a flow switch. The pressure differential sensor could be used either instead
of or in addition to the flow switch to turn the system off and on at desired flow rates. By
tailoring the water sanitation unit operation times to the flow rate, so that it turns off when there
is not enough flow to operate efficiently, energy is also preserved making the unit more cost
effective and efficient.
         [0036]     FIGs. 4A-4E illustrate, respectively, front side, right side, rear side, left side
and top side views of the water sanitizing unit 10 of FIG. 2B according to a particular
embodiment of the disclosure, without the housing 12. The water sanitizing unit 10 receives
water through the pool water inlet 14 and that flows through a first inlet arm 30 to a UV reactor
chamber water inlet 32, through the UV reactor chamber 20 to a UV reactor chamber water
outlet 34, and then to the pool water outlet 16 to ultimately return to the swimming pool. Before
the water enters the UV reactor chamber water inlet 32, it receives ozone enriched fluid from the
ozone generator 22. The ozone generator 22 includes a power input 36 and an ozone output 38.
The ozone output 38 is configured to feed ozone enriched fluid from the ozone generator 22 to
an ozone injector 24, which injects the ozone enriched fluid into the pool water fluid stream. An
openable access port 39 is included at the top of the second inlet arm 28 to provide access to the
inlet arms 28, 30 and the ozone injector 24. The ozone injector 24 of the particular embodiment
illustrated in FIGs. 4A-4D is a venturi injector comprising a venturi nozzle 40 with an input
coupled to the second inlet arm 28 and an output coupled to the first inlet arm 30 such that the
venturi injector extends between the the second inlet arm 28 and the first inlet arm 30 and is
configured to draw ozone enriched fluid from the ozone generator 22 and inject it into the
respective pool water drawn through the pool water inlet as it passes the ozone injector 24
toward the UV reactor chamber 20 through the venturi nozzle 40.
                                                  15

         [0037]     FIGs. 5A and 5B illustrate a particular embodiment of an ozone generator 22.
The ozone generator 22 is configured to receive and enclose an ozone source 50, for example in
the form of a UV light source, through a removable cap 53 at a first end 52 of an ozone generator
chamber 54. The ozone generator chamber 54 has an outer casing 55. Angled fins 58 help to
guide the ozone source 50 to seat within the ozone generator chamber 54. Bracket 60 is used to
mount the ozone generator 22 to the sanitizing unit 10. Ozone enriched fluid passes from the
ozone generator 22 through the ozone output 38 into the ozone connecting hose 62 toward the
ozone injector connector 64. Cooling fins 66 to dissipate heat from a thermally conductive outer
casing 55 may be used in some embodiments. An optional UV intensity sensor 51 may be
included within the ozone generator chamber 54 to identify, in embodiments where a UV bulb is
used, when the intensity of the energy emitted by the UV bulb drops below a pre-determined
threshold so that the owner knows when to replace the bulb. The UV intensity sensor 51 may be
wirelessly or wired-coupled to the control center 26.
         [0038]     An ozone reactor that uses a lamp gets hot. In conventional systems, this can
result in reduced ozone output or cause premature failure of the unit. The heat dissipating fins 66
help, but may not be enough in some installations. FIGs. 6A-6C illustrate an embodiment of an
ozone generator 70 that is the same as the ozone generator 22 of FIGs. 5A and 5B except that it
includes an additional secondary outer casing 72 outside of the thermally conductive outer casing
55. Between the thermally conductive outer casing 55 and the secondary outer casing 72 is a
water jacket gap 74 fluidly coupled to both an ozone water inlet 76 and the ozone water outlet
78. Although illustrated for convenience of reference in FIGs. 6A and 6B with the ozone water
outlet 78 closest to the first end 52 of the ozone generator 70, the ozone water inlet 76 and the
ozone water outlet 78 are interchangeable and the direction of water travel is not important
                                                   16

provided water flows through the water jacket gap 74. In embodiments where additional cooling
for the ozone generator 70 is desirable, the ozone water inlet 76 and the ozone water outlet 78 are
coupled in-line with the pool water inlet 14 and/or the pool water outlet 16, or anywhere
between, so that the pool water flowing through the system can be used to provide additional
cooling to the ozone generator 70. By coupling the ozone water inlet 76 and the ozone water
outlet 78 to receive the pressurized water flow caused by the filtration system pump 4, the water
flows through the ozone generator 70 and dissipates heat from the thermally conductive outer
casing 55. After the water is passed through the ozone generator 70 water jacket gap 74, it can
be mixed back in with the rest of the water flowing through the system and returned to the
swimming pool. FIG. 6C shows a sectional view taken from the middle of FIG. 6A, but with the
ozone source 50 removed, to illustrate the outer casing 72 surrounding the water jacket gap 74,
surrounding the thermally conductive outer casing 55 with the heat dissipating fins 66,
surrounding the ozone generator chamber 54. Although the example in FIGs. 6A-6C illustrates a
water jacket gap 74 in the form of an annular chamber for water around the ozone chamber 54,
any portion around the ozone chamber 54 that is exposed to flowing water will help to cool the
ozone chamber 54 and extend the life of the ozone generator 70 and produce higher
concentrations of ozone enriched fluid.
        [0039]      The embodiments illustrated in FIGs. 4A-4E show use of an ozone generator
22 like that shown in FIGs. 5A-5B without a secondary outer casing 72 and water jacket gap 74
of FIGs. 6A-6B. However, it should be understood that the ozone generator 70 shown in FIGs.
6A-6B can be interchanged into FIGs. 4A-4E by simply coupling the ozone water inlet 76 and
the ozone water outlet 78 to the pressurized water of the system or other pressurized water
source. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand how this substitution is made and will
                                                 17

readily be able to make the substitution from this explanation. Where the ozone generator 22 is
described with reference to the Figures, it should be understood that the discussion applies
equally to the ozone generator 70 of FIGs. 6A-6B and that the addition of the secondary outer
casing 72 and water jacket gap 74 does not limit the applicability of this embodiment in relation
to all embodiments of the water sanitizing units 10 shown and discussed herein.
         [0040]     The water sanitizing unit 10 optionally diverts the ozone enriched fluid flow
from the ozone generator 22 to both the suction side of the pump and to the Venturi injector
(pressure side) to enable application of ozone enriched fluid flow on both the pressure side and
the suction side of the filtration system of a swimming pool at the installer' s optionwith the
same water sanitizing unit 10. The venturi injector 24 introduces the ozone enriched fluid into
the UV reactor chamber 20. By balancing ozone enriched fluid flow between the suction and
pressure sides, ozone enriched fluid flow into the UV reactor chamber 20 can be optimized for
best sanitation effectiveness for the particular swimming pool setup and preferences of the
installer and pool owner.
         [0041]     When ozone enriched fluid is introduced into a UV reactor chamber 20, the
ozone and UV react to create hydroxyl radicals. The combination of UV light and ozone
together is much more effective at sanitizing than the UV or ozone separately. However, too
much ozone in the UV reactor creates too many bubbles (air containing ozone), which diffracts
the UV light too much and degrades the effectiveness of the UV reactor. However, by obtaining
a desired ratio of ozone concentration in the water vs. the volume of the UV reactor, water
sanitation is maximized for the combination.
         [0042]     In particular embodiments, an optional chlorine feeder or chlorine generator
may be added to the sanitation unit in place of the ozone generator 22, or by adapting the
                                                  18

connectors for the ozone generator 22 to feed additional chlorine into the UV reactor chamber
20. The inclusion of additional chlorine in the UV reactor chamber 20 further helps in creating
hydroxyl radicals to sanitize the water passing through the UV reactor chamber 20.
Conventional UV reactors rely on natural induction of chlorine in the UV reactor from the
chlorine existing in the swimming pool water. Embodiments of the present disclosure may
include a chlorine injection port in the unit, such as through access port 39, to introduce chlorine
to the system just before or directly into the ozone injector 24 or the UV reactor chamber 20 to
enhance the creation of hydroxyl radicals and the sanitation of the water flowing through the
unit. Chlorine generators and chlorine feeders are well known in the art for swimming pool
sanitation systems and any of those examples is satisfactory for purposes of use with this
disclosure. The additional chlorine generator may be used with or without an ozone generator 22
in particular embodiments.
         [0043]    The UV reactor chamber 20 of the water sanitizing unit 10, as shown
specifically in FIGs. 7A-7C, includes a UV reactor chamber water inlet 32, a UV reactor
chamber water outlet 34, a UV chamber cap opening 80, and cap 82, a UV light source 86
electrically connected to the sanitizing unit control center 26 by electrical connection wires 84,
an optional UV intensity sensor 88 within the UV reactor chamber 20, and a plurality of water
paddle blades 90 extending radially about an axial center of the UV reactor chamber 20 adjacent
the UV reactor chamber water inlet 32 and configured to rotate about the axial center of the UV
reactor chamber when water enters the UV reactor chamber 20 through the UV reactor chamber
water inlet 32. Alternatively, the paddle blades 90 may be rotated by a motor or other powered
or automated rotation source. The effectiveness of the UV reactor is partially determined by the
length of time the pathogens in the water are exposed to the UV light around the quartz tube 96.
                                                  19

Pathogens traveling closer to the UV source 86 will experience a higher dose rate than those
farther away. The rotating water paddle blades 90 create a vortex of water around the quartz
tube 96 containing the UV light source 86, whether it be a single bulb or a UV lamp array, to
ensure all pathogens travel close to the UV light source 86 for a portion of the time in the reactor
chamber 20. This creates better mixing efficiency of the reactor resulting in more pathogens
being exposed to a higher dose rate.
        [0044]       Conventional UV reactor systems that use both UV and ozone creation for
water sanitation place both the UV lamp and the corona discharge in the same enclosure to create
ozone within the unit. Sometimes, a combination UV and ozone generating bulb is used within
the UV reactor. However, the wavelength of the UV sterilization also reduces ozone making
generation of new ozone within the UV reactor.       This method is less effective than separate
generation.    Embodiments of water sanitation units that include an ozone generator 22 in
addition to a UV reactor chamber 20 provide the ozone generator 22 with a reactor chamber 54
separate from the UV reactor chamber 20, for example, as illustrated and explained previously
herein.  In this way, one lamp 50 is used to produce ozone, and a separate lamp system 86
(sometimes an array) is used to produce UV sterilization.        In this way, ozone and UV are
produced in separate chambers but within the same water sterilization unit.
        [0045]       A conventional UV reactor comprises a UV generating bulb inside a quartz
tube. However, conventional quartz tube reactors get hard water build-up over time, causing a
cloud to build up on the quartz tube making the system less effective by blocking the radiation
from the lamp from irradiating the water. When that happens, the only way to clean the quartz
tube in a conventional system is to take the quartz tube apart from the conventional UV reactor
to clean it, and there is no warning to the owner that the quartz tube has become cloudy, so the
                                                20

pool owner generally is oblivious to the cloudy state of the UV reactor unless they consider
opening the UV reactor to check its state and clean it.
        [0046]       Particular embodiments of a water sterilization unit 10 of the disclosure may
include a winterization port or cleaning port 92 through which the owner can flush a cleaning
solution such as CLR@ into the cleaning port 92 to clean hard water from the quartz tube and
UV bulb in the UV reactor chamber 20. FIGs. 7A-7C, illustrate an example of a UV quartz tube
96 in a UV reactor chamber 20 having a top cleaning port 92 and bottom drain 94 for this
purpose. When not in use, the cleaning port 92 and drain port 94 are plugged, such as with a
threaded plug, or otherwise isolated from external inputs to the system. A hand or foot pump
may be used to pump the cleaning solution into the bottom drain port 94 and have it exit through
the top cleaning port 92. In particular embodiments, a standard garden hose with an adapter
having a bypass for cleaning solution to be added may be used so that when water is flowing
through the hose it draws in cleaning solution to clean the quartz tube 96 without any
disassembly of the unit to isolate the quartz tube.
        [0047]       For conventional UV reactors, as a UV lamp ages, its intensity drops and
causes the UV lamp to become less effective. Thus, for conventional UV reactors, a pool owner
is required to calculate the predicted hours for the effective life of the bulb, hope that the bulb' s
effective life is close to the predicted hours, and then change the bulb at some time before the
lamp' s effectivness drops below an acceptable level. Because looking at the bulb itself cannot
tell you how effective it is in generating UV light, there really is no way to know the best time to
change the bulb unless the bulb burns out.       In particular embodiments of a water sanitation
system 10, a UV intensity sensor 88 is placed within the UV reactor chamber 20 at the inner
                                                  21

surface 98 of the outermost wall to measure the intensity of the UV light being emitted through
the quartz tube 96.
          [0048]    FIG. 7B illustrates a non-limiting example of a quartz tube 96 with a UV light
source 86 and UV intensity sensor 88 on a wall 98 of the UV reactor chamber 20. By measuring
the UV intensity of the UV light being emitted by the quartz tube 96, a system can identify when
the amount of UV generated is below a threshold of desired UV generation to then indicate that
the quartz tube 96 needs to be cleaned or the UV bulb 86 needs to be replaced. By measuring the
UV intensity and its change over time, the system in some embodiments may indicate the time
until the next cleaning or bulb replacement. A digital display 100, in operable communication
with the sanitation unit control center 26, on a visible surface of the unit 10 may indicate how
many hours or % of life is left in the effective life of the UV bulb. A typical UV bulb has
13,000-16,000 hours. In particular embodiments, the system may simply provide a count-down
from the expected life of the bulb, as set by the user, rather than using a UV sensor and
calculating an estimated remaining effective life. In particular embodiments, the water sanitation
unit 10 may be configured with aa Bluetooth, Wi-Fi or wireless transmitter or transceiver,
operatively coupled to or incorporated into the sanitizing unit control center 26, adapted to
transmit a notice to the system owner or service technician, such as through email or through an
app on the owner' s smart phone, to provide not onlybulb life but also other performance and
status data, and, in some embodiments, the ability to activate the water sanitation unit or change
its settings.
          [0049]    FIG. 7A also illustrates an off-gassing valve. When some of the remaining air
bubbles containing ozone don' t fullyreact in the UV reactor to create hydroxyl radicals, the air
bubbles contacting ozone can build up in the chamber which disrupts the effectiveness of the UV
                                                  22

light as discussed above where too many bubbles that contain ozone are in the UV reactor
chamber 20. By providing a gas pressure relief valve 102, such as a float valve in the UV reactor
chamber 20, the excess air containing ozone is allowed to escape through the gas pressure relief
valve 102 and allow the UV light to sanitize more effectively. In addition to allowing the UV to
sanitize more effectively, a gas pressure relief valve cuts down on air bubbles containing ozone
traveling through the system plumbing and causing noise.          In some cases the air bubbles
containing ozone can make it to the pool causing a potential health hazard in an indoor pool
where ozone levels could build up to a unsafe level.        Although it is not required, particular
embodiments include an off-gassing valve 102.
        [0050]      Those of ordinary skill in the swimming pool water sanitation art will readily
understand the relative amounts of chlorine, ozone and UV that are optimal for obtaining the
most effective water sanitation for a given system.        This knowledge and understanding in
combination with the systems, features and embodiments disclosed herein will allow those of
ordinary skill in the art to apply the principles disclosed herein to a wide variety of swimming
pools and water sanitation systems.
        [0051]      It will be understood that implementations are not limited to the specific
components disclosed herein, as virtually any components consistent with the intended operation
of a method and/or system implementation for UV reactors, chlorine generators/feeders, ozone
generators, diverters and water sanitation units may be utilized.       Accordingly, for example,
although particular embodiments and material types may be disclosed, such components may
comprise any shape, size, style, type, model, version, class, grade, measurement, concentration,
material, weight, quantity, and/or the like consistent with the intended operation of a method
and/or system implementation may be used. In places where the description above refers to
                                                 23

particular embodiments of water sanitation units, features and components, it should be readily
apparent that a number of modifications may be made without departing from the spirit thereof
and that these implementations may be applied to other water sanitation units.
        [0052]      This disclosure, its aspects and implementations, are not limited to the specific
components or assembly procedures disclosed herein.             Many additional components and
assembly procedures known in the art consistent with the intended water sanitizing units and
methods    of assembling     a water sanitizing      unit will become      apparent  for use with
implementations of the apparatus and methods in this disclosure. In places where the description
above refers to particular implementations of water sanitizing units, it should be readily apparent
that a number of modifications may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and that
these implementations may be applied to other water sanitizing units. The presently disclosed
implementations are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive,
the scope of the disclosure being indicated by the appended claims rather than the foregoing
description.   All changes that come within the meaning of and range of equivalency of the
description are intended to be embraced therein
        [0053]      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising",
will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
        [0054]      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
                                                  24

information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in
the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
                                                 25

CLAIMS
1.       A swimming pool water sanitizing unit comprising:
a pool water inlet and a pool water outlet extending from a sanitizing unit housing;
a sanitizing unit control center on or within the sanitizing unit housing;
an ozone generator within the sanitizing unit housing and comprising an outer casing, an ozone
    generator chamber configured to receive a first UV light source within the ozone generator
    chamber and to generate ozone enriched fluid and output the ozone enriched fluid through an
    ozone output of the ozone generator chamber, the ozone generator chamber surrounded by a
    plurality of heat sink fins extending from the ozone generator chamber, and a water jacket
    gap between the ozone generator chamber and the outer casing, the water jacket gap fluidly
    coupled to both an ozone generator water inlet and an ozone generator water outlet, the ozone
    generator chamber further comprising a first UV intensity sensor within the ozone generator
    chamber, the first UV intensity sensor configured to send first UV intensity data to the
    sanitizing unit control center to indicate when the first UV light source drops below a
    predetermined first UV intensity level as measured at the first UV intensity sensor;
an ultraviolet (UV) reactor chamber within the sanitizing unit housing and configured to receive
    and enclose a second UV light source within the UV reactor chamber, the UV reactor
    chamber fluidly coupled to both an UV reactor chamber water inlet and an UV reactor
    chamber water outlet such that fluid flowing through the UV reactor chamber from the UV
    reactor chamber water inlet to the UV reactor chamber water outlet passes by the second UV
    light source when the second UV light source is received in the UV reactor chamber, the UV
    reactor chamber further comprising a second UV intensity sensor within the UV reactor
    chamber, the second UV intensity sensor configured to send second UV intensity data to the
    sanitizing unit control center to indicate when the second UV light source drops below a
                                                  26

    predetermined second UV intensity level as measured at the second UV intensity sensor, the
    UV reactor chamber further comprising a plurality of water paddle blades extending radially
    about an axial center of the UV reactor chamber adjacent the UV reactor chamber water inlet
    and configured to rotate about the axial center of the UV reactor chamber;
an ozone injector within the sanitizing unit housing and fluidly coupled to the ozone output of
    the ozone generator and to an input to the UV reaction chamber; and
a diverter valve fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator and an ozone system
    output, the diverter valve adjustable to regulate an amount of the ozone enriched fluid
    diverted from the ozone generator to a suction side of a swimming pool pump.
2. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of Claim 1, further comprising a pressure
    differential sensor electronically coupled with the sanitizing unit control center, the sanitizing
    unit control center configured to turn off the sanitizing unit or reduce its power usage when
    the pressure differential sensor indicates that the water flow through the sanitizing unit is
    below a predetermined magnitude.
3. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of Claim 1 or 2, further comprising a wireless
    transmitter operatively associated with the sanitizing unit control center, the wireless
    transmitter configured to transmit a signal to indicate when the first UV light source or the
    second UV light source is in need of replacement.
                                                 27

4. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of the preceding claims, further
   comprising a wireless transceiver operatively associated with the sanitizing unit control
   center, the wireless transceiver configured to transmit a signal to indicate when the sanitizing
   unit is in need of service or to receive a signal to change settings on the sanitizing unit
   through wireless communication with the control center.
5. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   pool water inlet comprises a first inlet arm and a second inlet arm, and wherein the ozone
   injector comprises a venturi injector fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone
   generator at a fluid input to the venturi injector, the venturi injector comprising a venturi
   nozzle coupled between the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm such that the venturi
   injector extends between the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm and is configured to
   inject ozone enriched fluid from the ozone generator into the venturi injector as pool water
   passes between the venturi injector.
6. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of the preceding claims, further
   comprising a chlorine feeder coupled to the pool water inlet.
7. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the UV
   reactor chamber further comprises a first cleaning port adjacent the first end of the UV
   reactor chamber and separate from the UV reactor chamber water inlet, and a second
   cleaning port adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber and separate from the UV
                                                28

    reactor chamber outlet, the first and second cleaning ports each comprising a removable plug
    within them.
8. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the UV
    reactor chamber further comprises an off-gassing valve adjacent the second end of the UV
    reactor chamber, the off-gassing valve configured to release gas collected within the UV
    reactor chamber adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber.
9.      A swimming pool water sanitizing unit comprising:
a pool water inlet and a pool water outlet extending from a sanitizing unit housing;
an ozone generator within the sanitizing unit housing and comprising an outer casing, an ozone
    generator chamber configured to receive an ozone source within the ozone generator
    chamber and to generate ozone enriched fluid and output the ozone enriched fluid through an
    ozone output of the ozone generator chamber;
an ultraviolet (UV) reactor chamber within the sanitizing unit housing and configured to receive
    and enclose an UV light source within the UV reactor chamber, the UV reactor chamber
    fluidly coupled to both an UV reactor chamber water inlet and an UV reactor chamber water
    outlet such that fluid flowing through the UV reactor chamber from the UV reactor chamber
    water inlet to the UV reactor chamber water outlet passes by the UV light source when the
    UV light source is received in the UV reactor chamber, the UV reactor chamber further
    comprising a plurality of water paddle blades extending radially about an axial center of the
    UV reactor chamber adjacent the UV reactor chamber water inlet and configured to rotate
    about the axial center of the UV reactor chamber; and
                                                 29

an ozone injector within the sanitizing unit housing and fluidly coupled to the ozone output of
    the ozone generator and an input to the UV reaction chamber.
10. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of claim 9, further comprising a diverter valve
    fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator, the ozone injector and an ozone
    system output, the diverter valve adjustable to regulate an amount of the ozone enriched fluid
    diverted from the ozone generator to a suction side of a swimming pool pump.
11. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of claim 9 or 10, further comprising a UV intensity
    sensor within at least one of the UV reactor chamber and the ozone generator chamber, the
    UV intensity sensor configured to send UV intensity data to the sanitizing unit control center
    to indicate when UV intensity within the at least one of the UV reactor chamber and the
    ozone generator chamber drops below a predetermined UV intensity level as measured at the
    UV intensity sensor.
12. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of Claim 9, 10 or 11; further comprising a pressure
    differential sensor electronically coupled with the sanitizing unit control center, the sanitizing
    unit control center configured to turn off the sanitizing unit or reduce its power usage when
    the pressure differential sensor indicates that the water flow through the sanitizing unit is
    below a predetermined magnitude.
13. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of claims 9 to 12, further comprising a
    wireless transmitter operatively associated with the sanitizing unit control center, the wireless
                                                 30

    transmitter configured to transmit a signal to indicate when the ozone generating light source
    or the UV light source is in need of replacement.
14. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of claims 9 to 13, further comprising a
    wireless transmitter operatively associated with the sanitizing unit control center, the wireless
    transmitter configured to transmit a signal to indicate when the sanitizing unit is in need of
    service.
15. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein the pool
    water inlet comprises a first inlet arm and a second inlet arm, and wherein the ozone injector
    comprises a venturi injector fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator at a
    fluid input to the venturi injector, the venturi injector comprising a venturi nozzle coupled to
    the first inlet arm and to the second inlet arm such that the venturi injector extends between
    the first inlet arm and the second inlet arm and is configured to inject ozone enriched fluid
    from the ozone generator into the venturi injector as pool water passes between the venturi
    injector.
16. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of claims 9 to 15, wherein the UV
    reactor chamber further comprises a first cleaning port adjacent the first end of the UV
    reactor chamber and separate from the UV reactor chamber water inlet, and a second
    cleaning port adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber and separate from the UV
    reactor chamber outlet, the first and second cleaning ports each comprising a removable plug
    within them.
                                                   31

17. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of claims 9 to 16, wherein the UV
    reactor chamber further comprises an off-gassing valve adjacent the second end of the UV
    reactor chamber, the off-gassing valve configured to release gas collected within the UV
    reactor chamber adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber.
18.     A swimming pool water sanitizing unit comprising:
a pool water inlet and a pool water outlet extending from a sanitizing unit housing;
an ozone generator within the sanitizing unit housing, the ozone generator comprising an ozone
    generator chamber with an ozone output;
an ultraviolet (UV) reactor chamber within the sanitizing unit housing, the UV reactor chamber
    comprising a UV reactor chamber water inlet adjacent a first end of the UV reactor chamber
    and a UV reactor chamber water outlet adjacent a second end of the UV reactor chamber; and
an ozone injector within the sanitizing unit housing and fluidly coupled to the ozone output, the
    pool water input and the UV reactor chamber water input.
19. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of Claim 18, further comprising a diverter valve
    fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator, the ozone injector and an ozone
    system output, the diverter valve adjustable to regulate an amount of the ozone enriched fluid
    diverted from the ozone generator to a suction side of a swimming pool pump.
20. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of Claim 18 or 19, wherein the pool water inlet
    comprises a first inlet arm and a second inlet arm, and wherein the ozone injector comprises
                                                 32

    a venturi injector fluidly coupled to the ozone output of the ozone generator at a fluid input to
    the venturi injector, the venturi injector comprising a venturi nozzle coupled between the first
    inlet arm and the second inlet arm such that the venturi injector extends between the first
    inlet arm and the second inlet arm and is configured to inject ozone enriched fluid from the
    ozone generator into the venturi injector as pool water passes between the venturi injector.
21. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of Claim 18, 19 or 20 further comprising a UV
    intensity sensor within at least one of the UV reactor chamber and the ozone generator
    chamber, the UV intensity sensor configured to send UV intensity data to a sanitizing unit
    control center to indicate when UV light intensity drops below a predetermined UV intensity
    level as measured at the UV intensity sensor.
22. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of claims 18 to 21, the UV reactor
    chamber further comprising a plurality of water paddle blades extending radially about an
    axial center of the UV reactor chamber adjacent the UV reactor chamber water inlet and
    configured to rotate about the axial center of the UV reactor chamber.
23. The swimming pool water sanitizing unit of any one of claims 18 to 22, the UV reactor
    chamber further comprising a first cleaning port adjacent the first end of the UV reactor
    chamber and separate from the UV reactor chamber water inlet, and a second cleaning port
    adjacent the second end of the UV reactor chamber and separate from the UV reactor
    chamber outlet, the first and second cleaning ports each comprising a removable plug within
    them.
                                                  33

<removed-date>
                             EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - There are10 pages of Drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
