                                         ABSTRACT
        Pre-paid transaction card systems and methods are described. A transaction system
can include a transaction database to store transaction objects that represent characteristics
of a pre-paid transaction card. A deal engine communicatively coupled with the transaction
database can receive an image of a marker-less portion of the transaction card and derive a
set of image descriptors from the marker-less portion. The deal engine can also identify
transaction characteristics associated with the card from the transaction database using the
image descriptors. In addition, the deal engine can construct a deal recommendation based
on the transaction characteristics previously identified. The deal recommendation can be
transmitted to a user, and in some cases, displayed to the user as an augmented reality
image.

WO 2015/153914                                           PCT/US2015/024154
                                    1/9
   100
                                           120
                               iebit Now~
                                 Gift Card
                110   -    486849 51          4
                                                    125
                130a
                                 Figure la
   100
                                                140
               150    [.....
               160 f'         6-bl
                                                     170
                    130b
                                 Figure lb

            AUGMENTED PRE-PAID CARDS, SYSTEMS, AND METHODS
Field of the Invention
[0001] The field of the invention is transaction card systems and methods.
Background
[0002] The following description includes information that may be useful in understanding
the present invention. It is not an admission that any of the information provided herein is
prior art or relevant to the presently claimed invention, or that any publication specifically
or implicitly referenced is prior art.
[0003] Pre-paid transaction cards have become a popular way of gifting money and
engaging in financial transactions.       Pre-paid transaction cards provide many advantages
over other transaction methods. For example, pre-paid transaction cards can have a limited
purchasing value that is disconnected from the user's other accounts. This allows the user
to control the amount of spending and protects the user's other accounts from theft. Pre
paid transaction cards are also very convenient to use since it eliminates the need to
exchange hard currency or write a check. In addition, debit and credit events are performed
digitally, which allows for automatic balance calculations and easy electronic tracking of
purchases.
[0004] One disadvantage of pre-paid transaction cards is that, in the context of gifting, a
pre-paid gift card may not produce the same level of surprise and excitement as a wrapped
gift. Some effort has been directed toward this problem. For example, US Patent
Application No. 2011/0055049 to Harper et al. describes a system that provides an
augmented reality experience in connection with a gift card. The system receives an image
of the gift card, searches for a marker on the gift card, and uses the marker to track the
position of the card. The system can then create an augmented view of the gift card in a
user display, such as by placing a graphical representation of a consumer good or service
next to the gift card image. While advantageous in some aspects, the system in Harper is
limited in application to only those transaction cards that have markers. In addition, the
system in Harper fails to leverage user data such as transactional histories, user
preferences/profiles, and gifting scenarios, to provide targeted deal offers.
                                                 1

[0005] What is needed is a transaction system that manages transactional and user-related
information, generates personalized deal recommendations, and displays the
recommendations to the user in a fun and exciting way.
[0006] Harper and all other publications and extrinsic materials identified herein are
incorporated by reference in their entirety, to the same extent as if each individual
publication or patent application were specifically and individually indicated to be
incorporated by reference. Where a definition or use of a term in an incorporated reference
is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein, the definition of
that term provided herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not
apply.
[0007] Thus, there is still a need for pre-paid transaction card systems and methods.
Summary of The Invention
[0008] The inventive subject matter provides apparatus, systems and methods in which a
transaction system for pre-paid transaction cards includes a transaction database and a deal
engine communicatively coupled with the transaction database. The transaction database
stores a plurality of transaction objects, wherein each object represents a transaction
characteristic(s) of one or more transaction cards. In some instances, the transaction objects
are image descriptors that represent characteristics of a marker-less portion of a transaction
card(s). The transaction objects are stored according to associated image descriptors to
facilitate identifying transaction objects associated with a particular pre-paid card.
[0009] The deal engine is configured to receive an image of at least a marker-less portion
of a pre-paid transaction card and derive a set of image descriptors from the marker-less
portion, which can then be stored on the transaction database. The deal engine is also
configured to identify a plurality of transaction characteristics (i.e., transaction objects in
the transaction database) that correspond with the transaction card using the image
descriptors. The deal engine is further configured to construct a first deal recommendation
based on at least one of the transaction characteristics previously identified, and transmit
the first deal recommendation to a user of the transaction card. In some embodiments, the
recommendation is transmitted to the user as an augmented real-time image signal.
                                                2

[0010] From a methods perspective, the inventive subject matter includes methods of
facilitating redemption of a transaction card. Contemplated methods include the steps of
receiving an image of a marker-less portion of a transaction card and deriving a set of
image descriptors from the marker-less portion. Contemplated methods also include the
steps of identifying a corresponding plurality of transaction characteristics from the
transaction database and associated with the transaction card based on the image
descriptors, constructing a first deal recommendation based on at least one of the
transaction characteristics, and transmitting the first deal recommendation to a user of the
transaction card.
[0011] Various objects, features, aspects and advantages of the inventive subject matter
will become more apparent from the following detailed description of preferred
embodiments, along with the accompanying drawing figures in which like numerals
represent like components.
Brief Description of The Drawings
[0012] Fig. la is a front side view of one embodiment of a pre-paid transaction card that
has a marker-less portion.
[0013] Fig. lb is a back side view of the pre-paid transaction card of Fig. la.
[0014] Fig. 2a is a schematic of a transaction system for pre-paid transaction cards.
[0015] Fig. 2b is a schematic of another embodiment of a transaction system for pre-paid
transaction cards.
[0016] Fig. 2c is a schematic of another embodiment of a transaction system for pre-paid
transaction cards.
[0017] Fig. 3 is a schematic of a method of facilitating redemption of pre-paid transaction
card.
[0018] Fig. 4 is a schematic of another method of facilitating redemption of pre-paid
transaction card.
[0019] Fig. 5 is a schematic of another method of facilitating redemption of pre-paid
transaction card.
                                                3

[0020] Fig. 6a is one embodiment of a user interface for displaying a deal recommendation
associated with a pre-paid transaction card.
[0021] Fig. 6b is another embodiment of a user interface for displaying a deal
recommendation associated with a pre-paid transaction card.
Detailed Description
[0022] Throughout the following discussion, numerous references will be made regarding
servers, services, interfaces, engines, modules, clients, peers, portals, platforms, or other
systems formed from computing devices. It should be appreciated that the use of such
terms is deemed to represent one or more computing devices having at least one processor
(e.g., ASIC, FPGA, DSP, x86, ARM, ColdFire, GPU, multi-core processors, etc.)
configured to execute software instructions stored on a computer readable tangible, non
transitory medium (e.g., hard drive, solid state drive, RAM, flash, ROM, etc.). For
example, a server can include one or more computers operating as a web server, database
server, or other type of computer server in a manner to fulfill described roles,
responsibilities, or functions. One should further appreciate the disclosed computer-based
algorithms, processes, methods, or other types of instruction sets can be embodied as a
computer program product comprising a non-transitory, tangible computer readable media
storing the instructions that cause a processor to execute the disclosed steps. The various
servers, systems, databases, or interfaces can exchange data using standardized protocols or
algorithms, possibly based on HTTP, HTTPS, AES, public-private key exchanges, web
service APIs, known financial transaction protocols, or other electronic information
exchanging methods. Data exchanges can be conducted over a packet-switched network,
the Internet, LAN, WAN, VPN, or other type of packet switched network.
[0023] The following discussion provides many example embodiments of the inventive
subject matter. Although each embodiment represents a single combination of inventive
elements, the inventive subject matter is considered to include all possible combinations of
the disclosed elements. Thus if one embodiment comprises elements A, B, and C, and a
second embodiment comprises elements B and D, then the inventive subject matter is also
considered to include other remaining combinations of A, B, C, or D, even if not explicitly
disclosed.
                                               4

[0024] Figure la shows a front side view of a pre-paid transaction card 100. Card 100 is a
financial instrument that can be used to conduct a financial transaction with vendors and/or
financial institutions. Numerous types of transaction cards are currently known, including
debit cards, credit cards, gift cards, pre-paid cards, electronic tokens, digital cards, and the
like. See, for example, US Patent No. 8,540,151; US Patent Application Nos.
2013/0232004 and 2013/0232017; and European Patent Application No. EP12155850, all
of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[0025] The embodiment of card 100 as shown in Figure 1 includes an account number 110
comprising a numeric string. Account number 110 allows a banking or financial service to
track funds associated with card 100. Card 100 also has a text 120 that can be used to
identify a banking institution, financial service, card sponsor, retailer, product brand, or any
other associated entity or data. In addition, card 100 has a currency amount 125 associated
with the card (e.g., initial card value, upper limit on card value, maximum possible value,
etc.).
[0026] Card 100 also has at least one marker-less portion 130a. As used herein, the term
"marker-less portion" refers to a feature, attribute, or characteristic that has not been pre
designated as a recognizable identifier, symbol, or marker per se. For example, a marker
less portion might include a logo, texture, or other feature while a name, bar code, and
MICR line would be a marker. The marker-less portion could be considered an object
rather than symbol. Marker-less portion 130a can comprise any object, feature, attribute,
and/or characteristic of the card that is not pre-designated as a recognizable identifier
object. For example, the characteristics of marker-less portion 130a have not been pre
stored in a lookup database in an object-specific manner for identification purposes. In the
particular embodiment shown in Figure 1, marker-less portion 130a is an area of the front
side of card 100 that lacks textual or symbolic graphical data (e.g., bar codes). However, in
alternative embodiments, marker-less portion 130a could comprise a portion of card 100
that contains text, numbers, logos, symbols, color schemes, or any other feature that is
visually discernible and describable. The feature could be "visually discernible" by a
human or by a device (e.g., optical camera, UV camera, IR camera, scanning electron
microscopes, transmission electron microscopes, lenses, photoelectric sensors, etc.). The
function of marker-less portion 130a will be described later on in more detail.
                                                 5

[0027] While the deal recommendation engines and processes described herein utilize
marker-less portions of a transaction card to derive image descriptors, those of ordinary
skill in the art will appreciate that deal recommendation engines and processes could
additionally utilize markers (i.e., marker portions), in combination with marker-less
portions, to derive image descriptors.
[0028] Figure 1b shows a back side view of card 100. The back side of card 100 has an
electronically readable (e.g., scan-able) magnetic stripe 140, a signature block 150, text
160, barcode 170 and a marker-less portion 130b. Stripe 140 has data magnetically stored
therein and can be used by a vendor or financial institution with a magnetic reading head to
initiate a financial transaction. Signature block 150 is used by the vendor or financial
institution to verify the card user's identity. Text 160 provides contact information relating
to the banking institution or sponsor associated with card 100. Barcode 170 provides a
secondary means for initiating a transaction or for identifying a card, card user, or card
sponsor.
[0029] Card 100 could take on various forms without departing from the inventive concepts
described herein, so long as card 100 is configured to facilitate a financial transaction in
some way and has a marker-less portion. For example, while card 100 is shown in Figure 1
as a thin, rectangular-shaped card with rounded corners, card 100 could have any other
conceivable shape (e.g., round, square, triangular, diamond, irregular, spherical, pyramid,
frustoconical, etc.) or physical attribute suitable for facilitating a financial transaction. The
particular shape, size, and dimensions of card 100 as shown in Figures la and lb are not
intended to limit the scope of the disclosure unless specifically referenced in the claims.
[0030] Moreover, card 100 could include other features in addition to, or in lieu of, the
features shown in Figures la and 1b, without departing from the inventive concepts
described herein. For example, card 100 could include an image of the user, a fingerprint
of the user, a verification/authentication hologram, a logo, a QR code, and/or a card
verification value (CVV). Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that security
features and other attributes of financial instruments have changed over time and will
continue to change. As such, the particular features of card 100 could vary significantly
without departing from the inventive concepts herein, as long as card 100 has a marker-less
portion and can be used to facilitate a transaction.
                                                 6

[0031] Conventional transaction cards are typically made of plastic, however, card 100
could be made of any material suitable for use as a financial transaction card. Other
materials may include, but are not limited to, composites, wood, metal alloys, ceramics, and
biodegradable fibrous materials.
[0032] In general, current state of the art transaction cards are physical and tangible objects.
However, as the use of ecommerce and mobile devices rises, digital transaction cards may
become more prominent in financial transactions. As such, in some embodiments card 100
could comprise a digitalor virtual transaction card comprising an image of a transaction
card displayed on a smart phone, tablet, or other electronic device having an electronic
display. So long as the digital or virtual card has a marker-less portion that is visually
discernible (e.g., by a human or by a machine), such cards are contemplated and can be
used consistently with the inventive principles described herein.
[0033] Figure 2a shows a schematic of a system 200 for facilitating a financial transaction.
System 200 includes a user device 230 communicatively coupled with a deal engine 210
via connection 250. User device 230 is shown as a smart phone that has an image capture
device 232 (e.g., camera) and a user interface 234. However, user device 230 could be a
laptop, tablet, fablet, desktop computer, or any other electronic device that has a user
interface and is capable of capturing and transmitting an image.
[0034] Using image capture device 232, the user captures an image of transaction card 100
(or at least a portion of card 100 that includes marker-less portion 130), as shown by image
240. Using interface 234, the user then transmits image 240 to deal engine 210 via
connection 250. Connection 250 establishes an electronic communication link between (i)
image capture device 232 and deal engine 210, and (ii) user interface 234 and deal engine
210. Deal engine 210 is communicatively coupled with transaction database 290 via
connection 251. Connections 250 and 251 can comprise a wired connection, wireless
connection, local area network connection, wide area network connection, or any
combination thereof, and may include various communication protocols (e.g., IPX/SPX,
X.25, AX.25, AppleTalk*, TCP/IP, Bluetooth*) and hardware (e.g., links, gateways,
routers, switches, wireless towers, internet service providers, cellular networks, etc.).
[0035] Deal engine 210 comprises a set of electronically executable software instructions
stored on a non-transitory storage medium and organized into different modules (e.g.,
                                                7

modules 212, 214, 16, 218, 220) according to functions and/or desired outcomes. Deal
engine 210 can be stored on transaction database 290 or on some other storage device
(including a storage device within user device 230). Deal engine 210 could also be stored
on multiple storage devices/databases, either in redundancy, in a distributed manner, or
combinations thereof.
[0036] Image interface module 212 is configured to receive image 240 from user device
230 (and image capture device 232) and optionally (i) store image 240 on transaction
database 290 and (ii) prepare image 240 for image description (e.g., crop, trim, resize,
rotate, adjust levels/brightness/contrast/gamma, etc.).
[0037] Once image 240 is received by module 212, image descriptor module 214 is
configured to derive a set of image descriptors from the marker-less portion 130 in image
240 and optionally save the set of image descriptors as a plurality of image descriptor
objects 202 on transaction database 290. Module 214 may utilize various image descriptor
algorithms, processes, and methods. For example, module 214 could employ scale
invariant feature transform (SIFT), features from accelerated segment test (FAST), binary
robust independent elementary feature (BRIEF), oriented fast and rotated BRIEF (ORB),
binary robust invariant scalable keypoints (BRISK), fast retina keypoint (FREAK), speed
up robust feature (SURF), visual simultaneous localization and mapping (vSLAM),
simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), based upon related sequence types
(BURST), or any combinations thereof.
[0038] Transaction characteristic identifier module 216 is configured to identify one or
more of the transaction objects 201 that are stored on transaction database 290, which are
related to image 240 and card 100. Transaction objects 201 are stored according to
associated image descriptor objects 202, possibly according to a k-d tree or spill tree
arranged according to the dimension of interest of the descriptors. By comparing the image
descriptors derived by module 214 with the image descriptor objects 202 associated with
various transaction cards, module 216 can identify one or more of the transaction objects
201 that correspond to image 240 and card 100.
[0039] Recommendation module 218 is configured to construct a first deal
recommendation based on at least one of the transaction characteristics identified by
module 216. Recommendation module 218 is optionally configured to store the first deal
                                               8

recommendation (and subsequent deal recommendations) on transaction database 290 as
recommendation objects 203.
[0040] The first deal recommendation could include a suggested product or service that
may be of interest to the owner or user of card 100. The recommendation could also
include suggestions on where to shop or how to shop (e.g., online, in-store, etc.). The
recommendation could also include how much money to spend within a certain time frame
(e.g., in one day), how much money to spend at a specific store, or how much money to
spend on a certain category of goods/services (e.g., food, home utilities, movies, gambling,
etc.).
[0041] The first deal recommendation could be based on various transaction characteristics
associated with card 100. For example, the transaction characteristics could include data
that is unique to a user, such as the user's profile (e.g., gender, age, interests, occupation,
religion, ethnicity, race, etc.), spending habits, spending history, or pre-defined preferences.
The transaction characteristics could also include data that is unique to the original
purchaser of the transaction card (e.g., parent, giftor, etc.). In addition, the transaction
characteristics could include data that is unique to the card, such as card value, date of
purchase (e.g., near a holiday, end of month, beginning of month, near a payday, etc.),
maximum credit line amount, card sponsor (Visa, Master Card, American Express),
location where card was purchased, how card was purchased/funded (e.g., cash purchase,
credit card purchase, debit card purchase), or any other related data.
[0042] In some embodiments, one or more of image descriptor objects 202 may be bound
to (e.g., associated with) one or more of a time, location, context, a deal, and/or a promotion
to facilitate construction of the first deal recommendation.
[0043] User interface module 220 is configured to transmit the first deal recommendation
to a user of the transaction card. In some embodiments, module 220 communicates the first
deal recommendation to user device 230, which displays the recommendation to the user
via user interface 234. Interface 234 preferably comprises an electronic display that can
provide a visual output. However, non-visual user outputs are also contemplated, including
audio signals, olfactory signals, tactile signals (e.g., vibrations), and even taste sensations,
or any combination thereof.
                                                 9

[0044] When the recommendation is visually communicated to the user, the visual
communication could comprise a still image, a video image, an augment realty image, a
virtual image, a game image, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the visual
representation of the first deal recommendation could comprise an augmented real-time
image signal of card 100. For example, image 240 received from user device 230 could be
a real-time video image of card 100 and user interface module 220 could be configured to
augment that real-time image with a representation of the first deal recommendation, such
as by overlaying the real-time image with a graphical representation, textual representation,
or even another real-time video signal, of a good or service. Module 220 could then
transmit the augmented real-time image to the user via connection 250 and user interface
234. The overlaid object could be associated with image 240 in some manner (e.g.,
proximity, location, orientation, color scheme, functional interaction, etc.) so as to
communicate to the user that the object is a recommendation.
[0045] Engine 210 may further include a tracking module that is configured to track a
usage history of transaction card 100 by storing at least one usage characteristic (e.g.,
purchase, redemption, registration, activation) of transaction card in transaction database
290.
[0046] Figure 2b shows a system 200b, which is similar to system 200a except that deal
engine 210 is stored and executed within user device 230. As a result, system 200b does
not require an external connection (e.g., connection 250) to access and run the modules of
deal engine 210. Instead, image 240 of card 100 is obtained via an image capturing
device/component of user device 230, which is internally transmitted to image interface
module 212.
[0047] In addition, Figure 2b shows that transaction database 290 could also be stored
internally within device 230, thus eliminating the need for an external connection (e.g.,
connection 251) to access database 290. Transaction database 290 could comprise one
storage device or a plurality of storage devices. Objects 201, 202, and 203 can be stored in
redundancy, in a distributed manner, or in any combination thereof.
[0048] Figure 2c shows a system 200c, which is similar to system 200a. However, unlike
system 200a, system 200c includes a plurality of user devices 230c that are in
communication with deal engine 210 (and transaction database 290). In addition, system
                                               10

200c has a marketing engine 285 communicatively coupled with transaction database 290.
Marketing engine 285 has an image descriptor identification module 286 configured to
identify a first subset of the image descriptors identified by module 214. Vendor Interface
module 287 is configured to transmit the first subset of the image descriptors identified by
module 286 to at least one of a plurality of vendors 270 as an advertising platform offer.
The first subset of image descriptors can also be transmitted to a plurality of vendors, and
the subset of image descriptors can be auctioned, bought, and/or sold. In such
embodiments, market engine 285 functions as an advertising platform that allows vendors
to reach groups of consumers that may not have been otherwise reachable. In some
embodiments marketing engine 285 is in direct communication with deal engine 210 via
connection 252.
[0049] The various advantages, features, and functions of the systems described above will
be further illustrated by way of examples.
Example 1
[0050] John is turning twenty-one years old and decides to have a birthday party. John
invites Kim to the party. Kim buys John a $50 pre-paid gift card as a present. Before
giving John the gift card, Kim registers the gift card with a card sponsor (or card affiliate)
through an online registration engine (accessible via a web browser). During registration,
Kim provides various details about the gift card purchase and the intended recipient. For
example, Kim provides John's name, age, city of residence, favorite sports teams, and
favorite foods. Kim also selects "birthday" from a drop-down menu describing the reason
for the gift. In addition, Kim types in a comment box several suggestions for redeeming the
card, as well as a personal message to John.
[0051] Kim also provides the registration engine with a card number associated with the
card, such as by typing in the number or by capturing and transmitting an image of the gift
card. The registration engine uses the card number to store the registration information in a
transaction database as transaction objects. The registration information is stored in an
associated manner with the gift card number (e.g., the registration information is bound to
the card number). The redemption engine also uses the card number to look-up purchase
information about the gift card (e.g., date the gift card was purchased, by whom it was
purchased, how much the gift card is worth, and location/store where the gift card was
                                                11

purchased, etc.) and store the purchase information as transaction objects on the database in
an associated manner with the card number and/or registration information.
[0052] At the party, Kim gives John his gift card. John open's an app on his smart phone
that connects to a deal recommendation engine, and starts recording a real-time video
image of the gift card. The deal recommendation engine determines a first deal
recommendation and displays the recommendation to John in the form of an augmented
real-time video image, as shown in Figure 6a. The augmented real-time video image
includes (i) the real-time video image of the card and (ii) a graphical representation of the
first deal recommendation, in this case an image of a baseball glove. The image of the
baseball glove is a clickable link that takes John to an online ecommerce website that offers
the same glove for sale.
[0053] The deal engine constructed the first deal recommendation by deriving a set of
image descriptors for a marker-less portion of the card and identifying the transaction
objects on the transaction database that are associated with the card (e.g., registration
information, purchase information). Once the transaction objects associated with the card
were identified, the deal recommendation engine constructed deals (e.g., products, services,
redemption options) relevant to those transaction objects. Using relevancy algorithms, the
deal recommendation ranked the plurality of relevant deals and displayed the most relevant
deal recommendation.
[0054] The augmented real-time video image shown in Figure 6a could further display a
value of the card along with Kim's redemption suggestions (or personal messages) that she
provided during registration. The display could also include text instructing John to shake
the phone, provide a voice command, or tap a button, to display a different deal
recommendation (or additional deal recommendations).
[0055] After viewing the deal recommendation, John gives Kim a hug and says thank you
for the gift card.
Example 2
[0056] Julie is the owner of a small business that has twenty employees. Julie has decided
to give each of her employees a $1,000 pre-paid gift card as an end-of-the-year bonus. To
decrease her costs, Julie has decided to purchase the gift cards using an online collaboration
                                                12

system. The system comprises a collaboration engine is communicatively coupled with a
collaboration database. The database stores employer profiles, employee profiles, and
vendor profiles. The purpose of the collaboration engine is to match employers with
vendors that are willing to sponsor a portion of the value of the gift cards in exchange for
an opportunity to advertise their goods and services to the gift card recipients (e.g., the
employees).
[0057] First, Julie accesses the collaboration system via her web browser on her work
desktop computer. Julie then provides employer profile data and employee profile data to
the collaboration engine. Julie could provide the profile data by manually filling out an
electronic or physical form and electronically or physically sending the form to the
collaboration engine. Alternatively, Julie could provide the information simply by
authorizing the collaboration engine to upload information from an employer database.
[0058] Employer profile data may include information such as the size of the employer
(e.g., number of employees, number of offices), state of incorporation, physical locations,
type of business (law firm, car manufacturer, airline and travel industry, etc.), and so forth.
Employee profile data may include yearly salary, duration of time employed by the
employer, residential address, number of dependents, marital status, ethnicity, gender, job
title, and so forth. The collaboration system preferably requires employee approval/consent
before receiving and using employee profile data.
[0059] Once Julie provides employer and employee profile data, the collaboration engine
compares the employer and employee profile data with vendor data to identify an
employer-vendor match (or matches). Vendor profile data could include type of business,
size of business, user reviews/ratings, Better Business Bureau ratings, location, whether
goods are manufactured domestically, a sponsorship dollar amount per gift card, a
maximum number of gift card sponsorships, and so forth.
[0060] In this particular case, the collaboration engine matches Julie with three vendors,
each of which is willing to contribute $100 to each gift card. The first vendor is an
automotive repair service. The second vendor is a vacuum manufacturer. The third vendor
is a home gardening and home maintenance service. The collaboration engine notifies Julie
and the three vendors of the match and waits for confirmation from all parties. After Julie
and the three vendors provide confirmation, the collaboration engine obtains funds from
                                                13

Julie and the three vendors (e.g., $700 per card from Julie and $100 per card from each of
the three vendors) and completes a purchase of the gift cards. In some instances, the gift
cards are sold by the entity hosting the collaboration system. In other instances, the
collaboration system is hosted, managed, and run by a third party that is in collaboration
with one or more gift card wholesalers or retailers.
[0061] Next, the collaboration engine ensures that the gift cards are sent to Julie, either
electronically (e.g., email) or physically (e.g., by mail). Once Julie receives the cards, the
cards can optionally be registered, either by Julie or by each recipient. Registration can
occur in a manner similar to example 1 above. Registration information provided during
registration can be more specific than the employee profile data to allow the vendors to
personalize advertisements to each individual gift card recipient.
[0062] At the end-of-the-year work Christmas party, Julie gives each of her employees the
pre-paid $1,000 gift card. The employees can access information about the gift cards (e.g.,
account balance, transaction events, etc.) by capturing a still or video image of the card and
connecting to a deal recommendation engine via a web browser or software program on a
user device (e.g., smart phone, tablet, laptop, etc.).
[0063] The deal recommendation engine is capable of recognizing a marker-less portion of
the card as discussed above, and can display deal recommendations to the gift card recipient
via the recipient's user device. Figure 6b shows one example of a user display 650, which
includes a real-time video image of card 100 overlaid with deal recommendations 630, 640,
and 650. Deal recommendation 630 is an offer from the first vendor; deal recommendation
640 is an offer from the second vendor; and deal recommendation 650 is an offer from the
third vendor.
[0064] The deal recommendations can be offers to sell a product or service at a price that is
lower than, equal to, or higher than, a price that is normally offered. The deal
recommendations are preferably personalized to each individual recipient, or at least to a
group of recipients. Deal recommendation engine is configured to construct the deal
recommendations using transaction data (e.g., registration information, gift card purchase
information, employer profile data, employee profile data, vendor profile data, etc.)
associated with each card. In some instances, deal recommendation is configured to
operate automatically (without vendor input other then vendor profile data) and outside the
                                                 14

view of the vendors in order to conserve the privacy of employee profile data and other
transaction data. However, in other instances the vendors may have direct control on
managing the construction of deal recommendations. In one aspect, the deal
recommendation engine is configured to provide a list of constructed deal recommendations
to the vendors for approval before displaying the deal recommendations to the gift card
recipient.
[0065] In this manner, Julie can purchase gift cards for her employees at a reduced price
while the three vendors are provided with an advertisement platform in which they can
personalize offerings using consumer-specific data in a private and secure environment. In
addition, the advertisement platform utilizes a fun augmented reality display that may
increase offer conversion rates.
Example 3
[0066] A baseball team owner would like to increase game attendance by offering $100 gift
cards to randomly selected attendees. Attendees can become eligible for the random
selection by (i) electronically submitting a fan profile and (ii) playing a smart phone applet
game. The applet-game preferably has a fan profile form so that both (i) and (ii) can be
performed within a single user environment. During the seventh inning stretch, the game
announcer invites all the attendees to take out your smart phone, open the applet-game, and
meet a specific objective of the game. In some instances the game objective might utilize
an augmented reality display via the smart phone's screen. For example, the game
objective could be to capture (e.g., record video or obtain a still image of) a specific
baseball player on their smart phone camera (e.g., the next batter up, a big hitter player, the
left fielder, the pitcher, etc.) and feed that player a "super power-up" food or drink via the
augmented reality display.
[0067] Once a certain number of attendees have completed the objectives of the game, a
random selection algorithm is used to select one or more of the eligible attendees for the
$100 gift card. The gift cards are sent to the selected attendees electronically via the
augmented reality game applet. The gift card can be displayed on the recipient's smart
phone display, along with a first deal recommendation. To activate the gift card, the
recipient must click the first deal recommendation. The deal recommendation is preferably
constructed using fan profile data (e.g., number of games attended that season, favorite
                                                  15

player, age, gender, other interests, etc.) and other transaction data as previously discussed.
The deal recommendation engine is further configured to derive image descriptors of a
marker-less portion of the digital gift card to identify the transaction objects stored on a
transaction database and associated with the digital gift card. In one aspect, the image
descriptors can be derived internally within the recipient's smart phone. In other instances,
the recipient can display the digital gift card on the smart phone and use another image
capturing device (e.g., another smart phone or a tablet, laptop, desktop, etc.) to capture an
image of the digital gift card.
[0068] The deal recommendation engine could be further configured to present a first deal
recommendation to the gift card recipient by augmenting a real-time video image of the
recipient. For example, when the user records himself or herself, the first deal
recommendation could show the image of the recipient overlaid with a hat or a shirt,
suggesting that the recipient buy a specific type of hat or shirt.
[0069] The examples above are not intended to limit the application of the inventive
principles described herein unless otherwise specified. Those of ordinary skill in the art
will appreciate that numerous variations of the inventive concepts discussed above are
possible.
[0070] Figure 3 shows a method 300 of facilitating redemption of transaction card. The
transaction card can be a gift card, a loyalty card, a health card, a credit card, a pre-paid
debit card, a rebate card, a points card (e.g., game card; XboxLive, etc.) or any other token
having a redeemable value.
[0071] Step 301 of method 300 is to receive an image of a marker-less portion of a
transaction card. In some embodiments, the marker-less portion of the transaction card
comprises one of a logo, a hologram, and a user image.
[0072] Step 302 is to derive a set of image descriptors from the marker-less portion.
Deriving a set of image descriptors from the marker-less portion could include performing
at least one of the following algorithmic methods: scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT),
features from accelerated segment test (FAST), binary robust independent elementary
feature (BRIEF), oriented fast and rotated BRIEF (ORB), binary robust invariant scalable
keypoints (BRISK), fast retina keypoint (FREAK), speed-up robust feature (SURF), visual
                                                 16

simultaneous localization and mapping (vSLAM), simultaneous localization and mapping
(SLAM), and based upon related sequence types (BURST).
[0073] Step 303 is to identify a corresponding plurality of transaction characteristics from
the transaction database and associated with the transaction card based on the image
descriptors. Step 304 is to construct a first deal recommendation based on at least one of
the transaction characteristics. Examples of transaction characteristics include, but are not
limited to, a buyer name, purchase date, purchase time, retail store, purchase location,
beneficiary name, beneficiary gender, beneficiary age, and gift event (e.g., anniversary,
birthday, get-well, condolences, congratulations, Christmas, Hanukah, etc). Step 305 is to
transmit the first deal recommendation to a user of the transaction card. One example of a
deal recommendation would be a promotion associated with a good and/or service.
[0074] In some embodiments, the first deal recommendation is a daily deal corresponding
to a first date (e.g., purchase date of the gift card, date the gift card was received, date the
gift card was registered by the recipient, etc.).
[0075] Figure 4 shows a method 400, which is another method of facilitating redemption
of transaction card. Steps 401, 402, 403, 404, and 405 are similar to steps 301, 302, 303,
304, and 305 of method 300. However, method 400 includes additional steps 406 and 407.
Step 407 is to construct a second deal recommendation based on a characteristic of the
purchase transaction, the second deal recommendation comprising a daily deal
corresponding to a second date. Step 407 is to transmit the second deal recommendation to
a user of the transaction card.
[0076] Figure 5 shows a method 500 of facilitating redemption of a transaction card. Steps
501, 502, 503, 504, are similar to steps --- in method 300. However, step 504 of method
500 further comprises comprise steps 504a and/or 504b. Step 504a includes (i) identifying
a current value of the transaction card, (ii) identifying a plurality of deals that fall within a
predetermined range of the current value of the transaction card, and optionally (iii) ranking
the plurality of deals according to a savings value of each of the deals (where the savings
value is defined by a regular purchase price minus a discount purchase price). In some
embodiments, the predetermined range is from 0 up to no more than the current value. In
other embodiments the predetermined range is from 0 to no more than 20% of the current
value.
                                                  17

[0077] Step 504b includes (i) receiving a deal selection criteria from the user and (ii)
ranking the plurality of deals according to the deal selection criteria. The deal selection
criteria could be of a type of good, a type of service, a price range, and a transaction type
(e.g., in-store vs. online).
[0078] Method 500 also has a step 505a, which is to display an augmented real-time video
signal to the user. The augmented real-time video signal can comprise a visual
representation of the first deal recommendation overlaying a real-time video signal of the
transaction card. The visual representation of the first deal recommendation could further
include a hyperlink to an online retail website that offers for sale a good or service
associated with the first deal recommendation.
[0079] As used herein, and unless the context dictates otherwise, the term "coupled to" is
intended to include both direct coupling (in which two elements that are coupled to each
other contact each other) and indirect coupling (in which at least one additional element is
located between the two elements). Therefore, the terms "coupled to" and "coupled with"
are used synonymously.
[0080] Unless the context dictates the contrary, all ranges set forth herein should be
interpreted as being inclusive of their endpoints, and open-ended ranges should be
interpreted to include commercially practical values. Similarly, all lists of values should be
considered as inclusive of intermediate values unless the context indicates the contrary.
[0081] As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the meaning
of "a," "an," and "the" includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Also, as used in the description herein, the meaning of "in" includes "in" and
"on" unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
[0082] The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand
method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range. Unless
otherwise indicated herein, each individual value with a range is incorporated into the
specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be
performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly
contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language (e.g.,
"such as") provided with respect to certain embodiments herein is intended merely to better
                                                18

illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention
otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any
non-claimed element essential to the practice of the invention.
[0083] Groupings of alternative elements or embodiments of the invention disclosed herein
are not to be construed as limitations. Each group member can be referred to and claimed
individually or in any combination with other members of the group or other elements
found herein. One or more members of a group can be included in, or deleted from, a
group for reasons of convenience and/or patentability. When any such inclusion or deletion
occurs, the specification is herein deemed to contain the group as modified thus fulfilling
the written description of all Markush groups used in the appended claims.
[0084] It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that many more modifications
besides those already described are possible without departing from the inventive concepts
herein. The inventive subject matter, therefore, is not to be restricted except in the spirit of
the appended claims. Moreover, in interpreting both the specification and the claims, all
terms should be interpreted in the broadest possible manner consistent with the context. In
particular, the terms "comprises" and "comprising" should be interpreted as referring to
elements, components, or steps in a non-exclusive manner, indicating that the referenced
elements, components, or steps may be present, or utilized, or combined with other
elements, components, or steps that are not expressly referenced. Where the specification
claims refers to at least one of something selected from the group consisting of A, B, C ....
and N, the text should be interpreted as requiring only one element from the group, not A
plus N, or B plus N, etc.
                                               19

CLAIMS
1. A transaction system for pre-paid cards comprising:
        a transaction database having a plurality of transaction objects stored therein, the
                transaction    objects  each    representing  transaction  characteristics  of a
                transaction card, the transaction objects being stored according to associated
                image descriptors, wherein the transaction card has at least one marker-less
                portion, wherein characteristics of the at least one marker-less portion have not
                been pre-stored in a lookup database in an object-specific manner for
                identification purposes; and
        a  deal    engine    communicatively     coupled with    the transaction   database   and
                communicatively coupled with a user mobile device comprising an image
                capture device, the deal engine configured to:
            receive from the user mobile device an image of at least a marker-less portion of
                     the transaction card, the image having been captured by the image capture
                     device;
            derive a set of image descriptors from the marker-less portion wherein at least one
                     image descriptor of the set of image descriptors comprises a mathematical
                     representation of an image portion, the at least one image descriptor being
                     derived by performing one or more feature extraction algorithms on the
                     image portion;
            identify    a corresponding     plurality of transaction characteristics    from the
                     transaction database and associated with the transaction card based on the
                     image descriptors, by comparing the image descriptors with image
                     descriptor objects saved on the transaction database and associated with
                     various transaction cards;
            construct a first plurality of deal recommendations based on at least the plurality
                     of transaction characteristics, the plurality of deal recommendations
                     corresponding to a plurality of purchases that are available to a user of the
                     transaction card; and
            transmit the first plurality of deal recommendations to the user mobile device;
                     wherein the deal engine is further configured to generate an augmented
                     real-time image signal, wherein the augmented real-time image signal
                                                  21

                    comprises a visual representation of the first deal recommendation
                    overlaying a real-time video signal from the image capturing device,
                    wherein the real-time video signal includes an image of a marker-less
                    portion of the transaction card and wherein the visual representation
                    overlays the real-time video signal proximal to the marker-less portion of
                    the transaction card.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the deal engine is further configured to derive the set of
image descriptors using scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT).
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the image comprises at least one of a still image, a video
image, an augmented real-time image, a virtual image, and a game image.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the deal engine is further configured to transmit the first
deal recommendation to the user via a client device comprising one of a cell phone, smart
phone, tablet, fablet, laptop, and computer.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the deal engine is further configured to construct the first
deal recommendation based on a subset of the plurality of transaction characteristics, the
subset being unique to the user.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the deal engine is further configured to track a usage
history of the transaction card by storing at least one usage characteristic of the transaction
card in the transaction database.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the image descriptors are bound to at least one of time,
location, and context.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the image descriptors are bound to at least one of a deal
and a promotion.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a marketing engine coupled with the transaction
database and configured to:
        identify a first subset of the image descriptors;
                                                22

       transmit the first subset of the image descriptors to a first vendor as an advertising
               platform offer.
10. A method of facilitating redemption of a transaction card, comprising the steps of:
       receiving an image of a marker-less portion of the transaction card, the image having
               been captured by the image capture device;
       deriving a set of image descriptors from the marker-less portion, wherein at least one
               image descriptor of the set of image descriptors comprises a mathematical
               representation of an image portion, the at least one image descriptor being
               derived by performing one or more feature extraction algorithms on the image
               portion;
       identifying a corresponding plurality of transaction objects, each transaction object
               representing transaction characteristics of the transaction card, and being
               stored on a transaction database, the transaction objects being stored according
               to associated image descriptor objects, by comparing the image descriptors
               with image descriptor objects stored on the transaction database and associated
               with various transaction cards;
       constructing a first deal recommendation based on at least one of the transaction
               characteristics; and
       transmitting the first deal recommendation to a user of the transaction card, wherein
               transmitting the first deal recommendation to a user of the transaction card
               comprises displaying an augmented real-time video signal to the user, the
               augmented real-time video signal comprising a visual representation of the
               first deal recommendation overlaying a real-time video signal of the
               transaction card.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of constructing a first deal recommendation
based on at least one of the transaction characteristics comprises:
       identifying a current value of the transaction card; and
       identifying a plurality of deals that fall within a predetermined range of the current
               value of the transaction card.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of constructing a first deal recommendation
based on at least one of the transaction characteristics further comprises ranking the plurality
                                               23

of deals according to a savings value of each of the deals, wherein the savings value is
defined by a regular purchase price minus a discount purchase price.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of constructing a first deal recommendation
based on at least one of the plurality of transaction characteristics further comprises:
        receiving a deal selection criteria from the user; and
        ranking the plurality of deals according to the deal selection criteria.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the deal selection criteria comprises at least one of a
type of good, a type of service, a price range, and a transaction type.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the predetermined range is from 0 up to no more than
the current value.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the predetermined range is from 0 to no more than 20%
of the current value.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the deal recommendation comprises a promotion
associated with at least one of a good and service.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the plurality of transaction characteristics
is one of a buyer name, purchase date, purchase time,            retail store, purchase location,
beneficiary name, beneficiary gender, beneficiary age, and gift event.
19. The method of claim 10, wherein the transaction card comprises at least one of the
following: a gift card, a loyalty card, a health card, a credit card, a pre-paid debit card, a
rebate card, a points card.
20. The method of claim 10, wherein the visual representation of the first deal
recommendation further comprises a hyperlink to an online retail website that offers for sale a
good or service associated with the first deal recommendation.
21. The method of claim 10, wherein the first deal recommendation is a daily deal
corresponding to a first date.
                                                24

22. The method of claim 21, further comprising the steps of:
       constructing a second deal recommendation based on a characteristic of a purchase
               transaction, the second deal recommendation        comprising a daily deal
               corresponding to a second date; and
       transmitting the second deal recommendation to a user of the transaction card.
23. The method of claim 10, wherein the marker-less portion of the transaction card
comprises one of a logo, a hologram, and a user image.
24. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of deriving a set of image descriptors from the
marker-less portion includes the step of performing at least one of the following algorithmic
methods:   scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT), features from accelerated segment test
(FAST), binary robust independent elementary feature (BRIEF), oriented fast and rotated
BRIEF (ORB), binary robust invariant scalable keypoints (BRISK), fast retina keypoint
(FREAK), speed-up robust feature (SURF), visual simultaneous localization and mapping
(vSLAM), simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), and based upon related sequence
types (BURST).
                                              25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
