Abstract
Provided herein are methods for purifying recombinant A Disintegrin-like and Metallopeptidase with
Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif 13 (ADAMTS 13) protein from a sample. The method comprises
enriching for ADAMTS 13 protein by chromatographically contacting the sample with hydroxyapatite
under conditions that allow ADAMTS 13 protein to appear in the eluate or supernatant from the
hydroxylapatite. The methods may further comprise tandem chromatography with a mixed mode f4
cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin that binds ADAMTS 13 protein. Additional optional
steps involve ultrafiltration/diafiltration, anion exchange chromatography, cation exchange
chromatography, and viral inactivation. Also provided herein are methods for inactivating virus
contaminants in protein samples, where the protein is immobilized on a support. Also provided
herein are compositions of ADAMTS 13 prepared according to said methods.

       METHODS OF PURIFYING RECOMBINANT ADAMTS13 AND OTHER
                     PROTEINS AND COMPOSITIONS THEREOF
                 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/230,308,
filed July 31, 2009, and is a divisional of AU 2015252061, which is a divisional of
AU2010277491, which is the national phase of PCT/EP2010/061192 (WO 2011/012726),
each of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                  FIELD OF INVENTION
[0002]      The present invention relates generally to methods of purifying recombinant A
Disintegrin-Like    And    Metallopeptidase   with   ThromboSpondin       Type    1  Motif   13
(ADAMTS 13) and other proteins, and compositions comprising such purified proteins.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]      The metalloproteinase gene family, ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase),
includes members that are membrane-anchored proteases with diverse functions.        ADAMTS
family members are distinguished        from ADAMs by the presence of one or more
thrombospondin 1-like (TSPI) domain(s) at the C-terminus and the absence of the EGF
repeat, transmembrane      domain   and cytoplasmic tail typically       observed   in ADAM
metalloproteinases.
[00041      A Disintegrin-Like and Metallopeptidase with Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif 13
(ADAMTS 13) is a member of the ADAMTS family. ADAMTS 13 has eight thrombospondin
domains    and no hydrophobic transmembrane domain.             Accordingly,    it is secreted.
                                                                      6
                                                            5
ADAMTS13 cleaves von Willebrand Factor at the Tyr 6 0"-Met160           bond and requires both
calcium and zinc ions to function.        ADAMTS13      is also known as "von Willebrand
Factor-Cleaving Protease" and "VWFCP."
[00051      Deficient ADAMTS13 expression has been implicated in the pathogenesis of
some diseases, e.g., thrombotic disorders such as thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura
(TTP) (see, e.g., U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070015703).        In TTP, deficiency and/or
inhibition of ADAMTS13 results in extensive microscopic thomboses that form in small
blood vessels throughout the body (thrombotic microangiopathy).         Red blood cells passing
through the microscopic clots experience shear stress, which causes damage to the red blood
                                              -1-

    WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
 cell membrane, and which in turn leads to intravascular hemolysis and schistocyte formation.
 Thromboses also cause reduced blood flow, which can result in end organ damage.
 Symptoms typically include neurological problems, such as hallucination, bizarre behavior,
 altered mental status, stroke, or headaches; kidney failure; fever; and thrombocytopenia (low
 platelet count), resulting in bruising or purpura; and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia,
 involving anemia and jaundice. Current therapy involves plasmapheresis to reduce
 circulating antibodies against ADAMTSI 3, and/or replenishing blood levels of the enzyme.
 [00061      Therefore, a strong need exists for providing methods of purifying recombinant
ADAMTS13, particularly on a commercial production scale, which may be used as a
therapeutic agent. Purification of ADAMTS 13 has proven difficult and various approaches
have been attempted, including chromatography. A chromatographic material that binds non
ADAMTS 13 protein, allowing the ADAMTS 13 protein to appear in the eluate or supernatant,
would provide a useful approach for purification. A chromatography material that binds
ADAMTS 13 protein, while non-ADAMTS 13 impurities either remain in solution or bind
much more strongly, also presents an attractive approach, and may be used in tandem with
other approaches. The instant disclosure provides such approaches.
 [0007]      Furthennore, virus contaminants have posed additional            challenges in the
purification of ADAMTS13 proteins, as well as other proteins and recombinant proteins.
One conventional approach involved treating a sample to be purified with a solvent-detergent
mixture in solution. Incubation of the sample with the solvent-detergent chemicals led to
deactivation of lipid-coated viruses.      This in-solution treatment, however, inefficiently
required transfer of the sample to at least one other vessel, e.g., to facilitate removal of the
solvent-detergent chemicals after treatment. Further, some proteins including ADAMTS 13
are sensitive to the solvent-detergent chemicals, resulting in aggregate formation. The instant
disclosure provides an approach involving immobilization of the protein during the solvent
detergent treatment to address such problems of virus inactivation.
                                 SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0008]       One aspect of the invention relates to a method for purifying recombinant A
Disintegrin-like and Metallopeptidase with Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif 13 (ADAMTS13)
protein (particularly, human ADAMTS13) from a sample comprising ADAMTS13 protein
and non-ADAMTS13 impurities.            It has surprisingly been found that hydroxyapatite
chromatography can be used under conditions suitable for purifying ADAMTS13 protein
from non-ADA.MTS13 impurities. The method comprises enriching for ADAMTS13 protein
                                              -2-

   WO 2011/012726                                                       PCT/EP2010/061192
by chromatographically contacting the sample with hydroxyapatite under conditions that
allow ADAMTS13 protein to appear in an eluate from the hydroxyapatite.          That is, the
sample is subjected to chromatography with hydroxyapatite under conditions that allow the
ADAMTS 13 protein, preferably a substantial portion of the ADAMTS 13 protein, to not bind
the hydroxyapatite, while impurities are retained.         In some preferred embodiments,
recombinant ADAMTS 13 protein is purified from supernatant collected from culturing CHO
cells comprising recombinant ADAMTS 13 nucleic acid. In some preferred embodiments, the
percent yield in the supernatant or eluate surprisingly is 50% to 100%.    The method may
further comprise tandem chromatography comprising chromatographically contacting the
eluate from the hydroxyapatite with a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction
resin that binds ADAMTS13 protein.         In some preferred embodiments, the percent yield
ADAMTS 13 after enrichment by tandem chromatography is surprisingly at least 60%.
[0009]        In some embodiments, the method further comprises an optional pre-enrichment
preparation step to concentrate ADAMTS13 in the sample and/or bind the ADAMTS13
protein to anion exchange resin.         For example, the method may further comprise
chromatographically contacting the sample with an anion exchange resin and eluting the
ADAMTS13 protein from the anion exchange resin before chromatographic contact with the
hydroxyapatite; and/or concentrating the ADAMTS13 protein in the sample by ultrafiltration
before chromatographic contact with the hydroxyapatite; and/or stabilizing the ADAMTS13
protein by diafiltration exchange into a buffer comprising calcium ions and zinc ions before
chromatographic contact with the hydroxyapatite.       In some preferred embodiments, the
sample is concentrated by 10-fold to 20-fold ultrafiltration, the buffer exchanged by
diafiltration with a molecular cut-off of 30 kDa to a low-conductivity buffer containing
calcium and zinc ions, and the ADAMTS 13 bound and eluted from an anion exchange resin,
such as ANX Sepharose Fast Flow, POROS 50D, or POROS 50PI, prior to tandem
chromatography. The eluate pool from the anion exchange chromatography step is in some
preferred embodiments diluted 1:4 with hydroxyapatite-dilution buffer to reduce conductivity
to 6 mS/cm before tandem chromatography with hydroxyapatite, comprising chromatography
with hydroxyapatite followed by chromatography using the eluate from the hydroxyapatite
with a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin that binds ADAMTS13
protein.    In some preferred embodiments, the eluate from the pre-enrichment step(s) can
surprisingly provide a percent yield of at least 75%.
                                               -3 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
 [00101     In some embodiments, the method further comprises an optional polishing step by
cation exchange chromatography, following chromatographic contact with the hydroxyapatite
or the mixed mode resin. In such embodiments, following contact with the hydroxyapatite or
the cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin, the method may further comprise a step of
preparing the ADAMTS13 protein for cation exchange by reducing buffer conductivity. In
some embodiments, this preparing step is performed by ultrafiltration/diafiltration, by
dialysis, and/or by gel filtration. In some embodiments where ultrafiltration/diafiltration is
used, the cut-off is 10 kDa. In some embodiments, the buffer exchange is carried out by
anion exchange chromatography on ANX Sepharose-FF low sub.                 In some embodiments
where dialysis is used, the dialysis may consist of no more than 2 passes through a single
dialysis module.    In some preferred embodiments, the cation exchange chromatography is
carried out on a Source S column or POROS S column. In some preferred embodiments, the
percent yield ADAMTS 13 after reducing the buffer conductivity is surprisingly at least 90%,
and after polishing by cation exchange chromatography, surprisingly at least 70%.
[0011]      In some embodiments, the method further comprises subjecting the ADAMTS13
protein to an optional virus inactivation step, e.g., to deactivate viruses and/or remove viruses
and viral particles.   In some embodiments, the virus inactivation step comprises adding a
solvent-detergent mixture comprising a non-ionic detergent and an organic solvent to the
ADAMTS 13 protein.         In some preferred embodiments,           the ADAMTS13       protein is
immobilized, e.g., immobilized on a cation exchange resin.            In some embodiments, the
solvent-detergent mixture comprises 1% TRITONX-100, 0.3% Tri-N-butyl phosphate, and
0.3% TWEEN 80; and/or solvent-detergent treatment lasts for 30 minutes at 12'C to 16C.
Alternatively or in addition, the virus inactivation step may comprise filtering the
ADAMTS13 protein with a nanofilter to remove viruses and/or viral particles. In some such
embodiments, nanofiltration is carried out through a 20 N or 35 N filter, before and/or after
solvent-detergent treatment. In some embodiments, the virus inactivation step is performed
after the preparing step, described above, and/or after the tandem chromatography step;
and/or after polishing cation exchange chromatography, described above. In some preferred
embodiments, the percent yield ADAMTS13 after virus inactivation is surprisingly at least
95%.
100121      In some embodiments, the method further comprises eluting the ADAMTS13
protein from the cation exchange resin. In some preferred embodiments, gradient elution is
used, e.g., gradient elution comprising a first buffer having low salt concentration and a
                                               -4-

    WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
 second buffer having higher salt concentration. In some more preferred embodiments, step
 elation is used, even more preferably, the step elution involves elution the ADAMTS13
 protein from the resin with a storage buffer. For example, the storage buffer may have a pH
 of greater than 7.0 and comprise less than 10 mM calcium ions, a buffering compound,
 0.05% non-ionic detergent, and a salt. In some more preferred embodiments, the method
 comprises no subsequent concentration or buffer exchange step, following elution from the
 resin with the storage buffer.
 [0013]       In a particularly preferred embodiment, a method for purifying recombinant
ADAMTS13 protein from a sample comprising ADAMTS13 protein and non-ADAMTS13
impurities is provided, the method comprising chromatographically contacting the sample
with hydroxyapatite under conditions that allow the ADAMTS13 protein to appear in an
eluate or a supernatant from the hydroxyapatite; and then chromatographically contacting
 said eluate with a cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin that binds the ADAMTS13
protein, preferably as tandem chromatography.
 [0014]       In another particularly preferred embodiment, chromatography steps described
above are preceded by chromatographically contacting the sample with an anion exchange
resin and eluting the ADAMTS13             protein from the anion exchange resin; and/or
concentrating the ADAMTS13 protein in the sample by ultrafiltration, and stabilizing the
ADAMTS 13 protein by diafiltration exchange into a buffer comprising calcium ions and zinc
ions before chromatographic contact with the hydroxyapatite.
[0015]       In another particularly preferred      embodiment, following    contact with the
hydroxyapatite or the cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin, the method further
comprises the step of preparing the ADAMTS13 protein for cation exchange by reducing
buffer conductivity, wherein the preparing step is performed by ultrafiltration/diafiltration;
and/or by dialysis consisting of no more than 2 passes through a single dialysis module;
and/or by gel filtration.
[00161       In still another particularly preferred embodiment, the method comprises
obtaining a sample from supernatant collected from culturing CHO cells comprising
recombinant ADAMTS13 nucleic acid; chromatographically contacting the sample with an
anion exchange resin and eluting the ADAMTS13 protein from the anion exchange resin
before   chromatographic      contact  with the    hydroxyapatite; and/or   concentrating  the
ADAMTS 13 protein in the sample by ultrafiltration; and stabilizing the ADAMTS 13 protein
                                               - 5-

   WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
by diafiltration exchange into a buffer comprising calcium ions and zinc ions before
chromatographic       contact  with the hydroxyapatite;     followed   by chromatographically
contacting the sample with hydroxyapatite under conditions that allow the ADAMTS13
protein to appear in an eluate or a supernatant from the hydroxyapatite;              and then
chromatographically contacting the eluate with a cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction
resin that binds the ADAMTS 13 protein; followed by preparing the ADAMTS 13 protein for
cation exchange by reducing buffer conductivity, e.g., by ultrafiltration/diafiltration; and/or
by dialysis consisting of no more than 2 passes through a single dialysis module; and/or by
gel filtration, optionally further comprising one or more virus inactivation steps.     In some
such embodiments, the virus inactivation step comprises adding a solvent-detergent mixture
comprising a non-ionic detergent and an organic solvent to the ADAMTS 13 protein, wherein
the ADAMTS13 protein is immobilized on a cation exchange resin and the solvent-detergent
mixture comprises 1% TRITONX-100, 0.3% Tri-N-butyl phosphate, and 0.3% TWEEN 80.
In still another embodiment, the virus inactivation step uses, as well as or instead of the
solvent-detergent treatment, a nanofilter to remove viruses and/or viral particles.     In some
preferred embodiments, the percent yield ADAMTS13 of the overall procedure outlined
above is surprisingly 22-24% or more, and in even more preferred embodiments, aggregates
surprisingly are reduced by 50%.
 [0017]      In some embodiments where the ADAMTS13 has been immobilized on a cation
exchange resin, the method further comprises eluting the ADAMTS13 protein from the resin
using step elution with a storage buffer having a pH of greater than 7.0 and comprising less
than 10 mM calcium ions, a buffering compound, 0.05% non-ionic detergent, and a salt; or
using gradient elution comprising a first buffer having low salt content and a second buffer
having higher salt content.
[0018]       Another aspect of the invention relates to a composition comprising a recombinant
ADAMTS 13 protein prepared according to any embodiment of the methods described herein.
In some embodiments, the composition is a pharmaceutical composition, e.g., a composition
comprising purified ADAMTS 13 protein and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
100191       Still a further aspect of the invention relates to a method for inactivating virus
contaminants in a protein sample, where the protein may be any protein from a source that
may have viral contaminants. In preferred embodiments, the protein is recombinant protein,
particularly proteins sensitive to aggregation when exposed to organic solvents and
detergents.    In some embodiments, the protein may be ADAMTS13 protein, in particular
                                               -6-

   WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
recombinant ADAMTS13, or a different protein (in particular, a different recombinant
protein).   In some embodiments, the recombinant protein is a blood coagulation factor. In
some embodiments, the protein is, e.g., one or more of Factor VIII, Factor II, Factor VIIa,
Factor IX, thrombin, von Willebrand factor, anti-MIF antibody, or another protein being
purified by chromatography. The viral inactivation may be carried out in conjunction with
protein purification or not. In some embodiments, the method comprises immobilizing the
protein on a support; and treating the immobilized protein with a detergent-solvent mixture
comprising a non-ionic detergent and an organic solvent. In some preferred embodiments,
the support is a chromatographic resin. In even more preferred embodiments, the detergent
solvent mixture comprises 1% Triton X-100, 0.3% Tri-N-butyl phosphate, and 0.3%
Polysorbate 80 (Tween 80).        The solvent-detergent mixture treatment can continue for a
prolonged time, e.g., for 30 minutes to I hour, while the protein remains immobilized on the
chromatographic resin, e.g., on a cation exchange resin; and/or solvent-detergent treatment
may occur at 2T to 100 C This approach to virus inactivation surprisingly can reduce the
formation of protein aggregates during treatment with a detergent-solvent mixture by a
significant amount, e.g., by more than 50%, as compared to treatment with a solvent
detergent mixture while the protein is not immobilized in solution.        In some preferred
embodiments, the procedure is followed by eluting the protein from the support with a buffer,
such as gradient elution where small amounts of aggregates that do form are further removed
in the late eluting fraction.   In some preferred embodiments, the procedure is followed by
eluting the protein with a storage buffer. In some more preferred embodiments, the elation
buffer comprises a concentration of 0.1% Tween 80.             In some even more preferred
embodiments, the method comprises no subsequent concentration or buffer exchange step,
following elation from the resin with the storage buffer. In some preferred embodiments,
aggregates surprisingly are reduced by 50%.
10020]       In yet still another particularly preferred embodiment, a method for inactivating
virus contaminants in a protein sample is provided, the method comprising: immobilizing the
protein on a chromatographic resin; and treating the immobilized protein with a solvent
detergent mixture comprising 1% Triton X-100, 0.3% Tri-N-butyl phosphate, and 0.3%
Polysorbate 80, for 30 minutes to 1 hour. In some such embodiments, the method further
comprises eluting the protein with a storage buffer having a pH of greater than 7.0 and
comprising less than 10 mM calcium ions, a buffering compound, 0.05% non-ionic detergent,
and a salt.
                                                -7-

    WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
 [00211      These and other aspects of the invention are described in more detail below.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0022]      FIG. I depicts a flow diagram of exemplary steps of the method for purifying
recombinant a disintegrin-like and metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type I motif 13
(ADAMTS 13) from a sample comprising ADAMTS 13 and non-ADAMTS 13 impurities, in
accordance with the instant invention. The order of the steps set forth in FIG. 1 may be re
ordered, and/or one or more steps omitted, as disclosed herein and as understood by one of
skill in the art.
[0023J       FIGS. 2A-D depict variations in purification runs on a cation exchange column.
FIG. 2A depicts a procedure involving cation exchange chromatography with step elution,
following virus inactivation; FIG. 2B depicts a procedure involving cation exchange
chromatography with step elution, but without a preceding virus inactivation; FIG. 2C depicts
a procedure involving cation exchange chromatography with gradient elution, followed by
virus inactivation on the chromatographic column; and FIG. 2D depicts a procedure
involving cation exchange chromatography with gradient elution, but without a preceding
virus inactivation.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0024]       One aspect of the invention relates to a method for the purification of recombinant
A    Disintegrin-Like   and Metallopeptidase      with Thrombospondin       Type    1 Motif 13
(ADAMTS1 3) protein from a sample, which may also comprise non-ADAMTS13 impurities.
The protein sample may also include virus contaminants, which may be removed and/or
inactivated by one or more virus inactivation steps.
[0025]       As used herein "A Disintegrin-Like and Metallopeptidase with Thrombospondin
Type 1 Motif 13," "ADAMTS13," "ADAMTS13 protein," "ADAMTS13 polypeptide," and
"recombinant ADAMTS13" are interchangeable (unless otherwise specified) and refer to a
recombinant mammalian ADAMTS13 protein, which also may be a biologically active
derivative or fragment of a full-length ADAMTS13 protein.          The amino acid sequence of
full-length human and marine ADAMTS13 proteins have respective UniProtKBV accession
numbers of Q76LXS and Q769J6. Structural details and sequence information on human
ADAMTS13 can be found in Zheng et al. ((2001) J. Biol. Chem. 276:41059-63).
10026        The term "biologically active derivative or fragment thereof' as used herein
means any polypeptides with a biological function similar, or substantially similar, to that of
                                               -8-

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
 ADAMTS13.       The polypeptide sequences of the biologically active derivatives or fragments
 thereof may comprise deletions, additions, and/or substitution of one or more amino acids
 whose absence, presence, and/or substitution, respectively, do not have any substantial
 negative impact on one or more biological activities of the ADAMTS13 protein.                  For
 example, alternative splicing gives rise to a 130kDa species that is a biologically active
 fragment of the full-length protein.      The biological activity of said polypeptides may be
 measured by well-known methods, for example, methods testing the proteolytic activity of
 ADAMTS13 on von Willebrand Factor (vWF), and/or subsequent reduction and/or delay in
 downstream effects. By "downstream effects" is meant one or more biological, biochemical,
 or physiological manifestations of the action of ADAMTS13                 protein on its native
 substrate(s), whether the effect is a direct cause of ADAMTS13 function, or an indirect cause
thereof, e.g., an effect resulting from a cascade of events following ADAMTS13 activity.
 Assays include, without limitation, methods testing the reduction and/or delay of platelet
 adhesion to the endothelium, the reduction and/or delay of platelet aggregation, the reduction
 and/or delay of the formation of platelet strings, the reduction and/or delay of thrombus
 formation, the reduction and/or delay of thrombus growth, the reduction and/or delay of
vessel occlusion, the proteolytical       cleavage of vWF (e.g., FRETS-VWF73             (Peptides
International, Louisville, KY)), and/or the disintegration of thrombi (see, e.g., U.S. Patent
Nos. 7,270,976, entitled "Methods for measuring ADAMTS13 activity and protein on
platelets and in plasma," col. 6, line 55 to col. 10, line 34, and col. 12, line 1 to col. 18, line
25 and 7,468,258, entitled "Self-quenching homofluorophore compositions for detecting
enzyme activity" col. 11, line 26 to col. 16, line 50; see also U.S. Patent Publication Nos.
20070015703, entitled "ADAMTS 13-containing compositions having thrombolytic activity"
at paragraphs [0036], [0043]-[0045], and [0053],           and  20070065895, entitled "Substrates
specific to von willebrand factor cleaving protease and method of assaying the activity"; and
European Application No. 1990421A1, entitled "Method for Detection of Condition in
Consciousness Disorder Patient and Kit for the Detection", which are incorporated herein by
reference with respect to assays for ADAMTS13                polypeptides and derivatives and/or
fragments thereof).
[00271       Recombinant ADAMTS13,           e.g.,    recombinant human ADAMTS13,         may be
expressed by any method known in the art.               One specific example is disclosed in WO
02/42441, which is incorporated herein by reference with respect to the method of preparing
a recombinant ADAMTS 13 nucleotide sequence (see page 14, line 6 to page 18, line 4). In
                                                  -9-

    WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
 some embodiments, recombinant ADAMTS13                is produced according to the following
 process:      (i) preparing a recombinant ADAMTS13            nucleotide sequence by genetic
 engineering, e.g. via reverse transcription of RNA and/or amplification of DNA; (ii)
 introducing the recombinant ADAMTS13 nucleotide sequence into eukaryotic cells, e.g., by
 transfection, such as via electroporation or microinjection; (iii) cultivating the transformed
 cells, e.g., in a continuous or batch-wise manner; (iv) allowing the expression of recombinant
 ADAMTS13, e.g., constitutively or upon induction; and (v) isolating samples comprising the
 expressed recombinant ADAMTS13, e.g., from the culture medium or by harvesting the
 transformed cells; and (vi) purifying the ADAMTS13 protein from the sample, according to
methods disclosed herein.
 100281        Recombinant ADAMTS13 may be produced by expression in a suitable host
 system, preferably an eukaryotic host system, and more preferably a system characterized in
that it can produce a pharmacologically effective ADAMTS13 molecule.               Examples of
eukaryotic cells include, without limitation, mammalian cells, such as CHO, COS, HEK 293,
BHK, SK-Hep, and HepG2.           In a preferred embodiment, CHO cells are used and the cells
secrete recombinant ADAMTS13 protein into the culture medium.             There is no particular
limitation to the reagents or conditions used for recombinantly expressing ADAMTSI13 and
any system known in the art or commercially available may be employed.
 [00291       "Sample" as used herein refers to any composition comprising ADAMTS13
protein and non-ADAMTS 13 impurities. A skilled artisan will recognize that sample as used
herein may be the result of producing recombinant ADAMTS13 as described above.
Accordingly, the sample may comprise supernatant collected from culturing transfonned
cells, which express recombinant ADAMTS13; buffers comprising ADAMTS13 at one or
more steps of a process of purifying recombinant ADAMTS13 protein from culture medium;
and/or transformed cells harvested from cell culture. Alternatively, the sample may be blood,
plasma, or a fraction of blood or plasma.
[0030]        In some embodiments, ADAMTS13 is purified from a sample comprising 100 L
cell culture supernatant. However, a skilled artisan will recognize that the methods of the
invention may be scaled up as appropriate, e.g., for large scale production. Accordingly, in
some embodiments, the method comprises purifying ADAMTS13 protein on a commercial
production scale, e.g., from an at least about 250 L sample, an at least about 500 L sample, or
an at least about 1,000 L sample.
                                                - 10 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
[0031]      "Non-ADAMTS13 impurities" as used herein generally refers to process-related
impurities. Impurities may include, e.g., host cell impurities (such as contaminating host cell
proteins, also referred to as host cell antigens) and other biomolecular impurities such as
DNA, RNA, and cell debris; media component(s); solvents; detergents; and the like.
Additionally, non-ADAMTS13 impurities also include product-related impurities, e.g.,
derivatives or fragments of ADAMTS13 protein, which are not biologically active, or
aggregates of ADAMTS13         protein.   In the case of blood or plasma, non-ADAMTS13
impurities may include other proteins normally found in blood or plasma, e.g., albumin,
immunoglobulins, etc. As used herein "aggregates" refers to structures comprising more than
one ADAMTS13 polypeptide molecule, or more than one of any other protein molecule,
which corresponds to high molecular weight structures or oligomeric structures, such as
dimmers, trimers, and other multimers of the macromolecule. "Non-ADAMTS 13 impurities"
may also include virus contaminants. "Virus contaminants" refers to any impurities resulting
from and/or derived from a virus, including, e.g., virus particles, virus proteins, viral DNA,
viral RNA, or fragments thereof.
[0032]      The terms "purifying," "purified," "to purify" and the like refer to removing,
isolating, or separating ADAMTS13          from non-ADAMTS13 impurities.         For example,
recombinant ADAMTS13 protein expressed in plant, bacterial, yeast, or mammalian host
cells may be purified by the removal of non-ADAMTS13 impurities comprising, e.g., host
cell proteins. The percent purity may refer to the percent of ADAMTS 13 protein versus host
cell protein (e.g., CHO protein).     "Substantially purified" recombinant ADAMTS13, is at
least about 60% free, preferably at least about 75% free, and more preferably at least about
90% free (or about 95%, about 99%, or about 99.9% free) from non-ADAMTS13 impurities.
In particular, "substantially purified" recombinant ADAMTS13 is at least about 60% free,
preferably at least about 75% free, and more preferably at least about 90% fi-ee (or about
95%, about 99%, or about 99.9% free) from host cell proteins. Host cell proteins can be
detected, for example, by immunochemical methods using polyclonal antisera, as discussed
in more detail below.
[0033]      The removal of contaminants may also result in enrichment of the ADAMTS13
protein. "Enrichment," "enriching," and "to enrich" as used herein refer to an increase in the
percent   of recombinant     ADAMTS13        in the sample.       Accordingly,  enrichment of
ADAMTS13 protein occurs when the percent of ADAMTS13 is increased in a sample after
some manipulation of the sample, e.g., subjecting the sample to one or more chromatographic
                                               - II -

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
 steps. In one embodiment, ADAMTS13 is sufficiently enriched when there is at least about
  10-fold reduction to about 115-fold reduction of non-ADAMTS13 impurities, particularly
 host cell proteins. In one embodiment, ADAMTS13 is sufficiently enriched when there is at
 least about 20-fold (eg., about 30-fold, about 40-fold, about 50-fold, about 60-fold, about 70
 fold, about 80-fold, about 90-fold, about 100-fold, etc.) reduction of non-ADAMTS13
 impurities, and in particular, the reduction occurs with respect to host cell proteins.
 [00341      A skilled artisan will be able to use methods available in the art to determine the
 fold reduction of non-ADAMTS13 impurities, particularly host cell proteins, For example,
 an assay for non-ADAMTS 13 impurities may be utilized. In one embodiment, the sample is
 conditioned supernatant collected from the cultivation of transformed cells expressing
 recombinant ADAMTS13 and the assay to determine fold reduction of non-ADAMTS13
 impurities measures levels of host cell proteins.          In one particular embodiment, the
 transformed cells are transformed CHO cells, and the assay is an enzyme-linked
 immunosorbent serologic assay that measures CHO proteins.              Fold reduction of non
 ADAMTS13       impurities may be calculated, e.g., as the amount of non-ADAMTS13
 impurities in the sample over the amount of non-ADAMTS13 impurities eluted, as the
 impurity level in a load (e.g., in ppm) divided by the impurity level in the eluate (e.g., in
ppm).
 100351      Host cell proteins may be detected, e.g., by immunochemical methods using
polyclonal antisera against protein components of the host cell and/or recombinant vector
 system used to manufacture ADAMTS13.          Generally, antisera may be raised against antigen
derived from. the host cell, wherein the host cell comprises an expression vector that is used
in the manufacturing process but that lacks the gene coding for ADAMTS 13.               Host cell
impurities may be extracted, using the method(s) identical and/or substantially similar to
those described herein.     Purified (or partly purified) host cell antigens obtained using the
method(s) identical and/or substantially similar to those described herein may then be used
for the preparation of antisera against protein components of the host cell and recombinant
vector system used to manufacture ADAMTS13. The host cell proteins can be detected using
the antisera in an immunoassay, for example, in an ELISA or by western blot analysis. Host
cell protein impurities may also be detected by separating the sample to be analyzed by 2D
gel electrophoresis and silver staining and/or colloidal gold staining to detect proteins
present. HPLC may also be used to quantify the levels of host cell impurities; however,
HPLC methods are not as sensitive as the immunoassay or silver staining methods.
                                               - 12-

    WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
 Preferably, host cell impurities are reduced to below detectable levels using, e.g., one or more
 of these analytical methods.
 [0036]      As used herein, the term "about" denotes an approximate range of plus or minus
 10% form a specified value.
 [0037]     Enrichment ofADAMTS13
 [00381      Generally, the invention provides a method of purifying recombinant ADAMTS13
protein (preferably human ADAMTS13 protein) from a sample comprising ADAMTS13
protein and non-ADAMTS 13 impurities, wherein the method comprises chromatographically
contacting the sample with (i) hydroxyapatite or (ii) hydroxyapatite and a mixed mode cation
exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin in tandem, so as to enrich the amount of ADAMTS13
in the sample. "Chromatographically contacting" as used herein refers to contacting a sample
or other mixture to be separated with a chromatographic resin using any mode of
chromatography described herein and/or known in the art. Modes include, without limitation,
batch-mode and column chromatography.            The contacting is effected by exposing and/or
incubating the sample on, in or within the resin, filtering the sample through the resin, or by
any other means. The buffer used for chromatography often is a phosphate buffer.
[0039]      In some embodiments,         the sample is chromatographically       contacted with
hydroxyapatite under conditions that allow the ADAMTS 13 protein to appear in the eluate
from the hydroxyapatite.       By "under conditions" refers to one or more parameters or
variables under which the chromatography is carried out, including, e.g., column height,
packing, buffer (pH, salt concentration, ionic strength, etc), temperature, pressure, and the
like.   That is, the sample is subjected to chromatography with hydroxyapatite under
conditions that allow ADAMTS13             protein, preferably   a substantial  portion of the
ADMATS13        protein in the sample, to not bind to the hydroxyapatide.              If column
chromatography is used, the ADAMTS13 protein, preferably a substantial portion thereof,
will flow through the column, thereby enriching for ADAMTS13 in buffer coming off the
column, as the flow-through fraction or eluate, while non-ADAMTS13 impurities are
retained.   If batch chromatography is used, the supernatant or supernatant fraction will
comprise the ADAMTS13 protein, or a substantial portion thereof.               "Eluate" is used
interchangeably herein with "flow through", "flow through fraction", supernatantt", or
"supernatant fraction." The eluate (or supernatant) can be collected. Such collection occurs,
e.g., by centrifugation, sedimentation, filtration, etc. of the chromatographic resin after the
                                               - 13 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
sample is exposed to the resin and incubation completed.              The eluate (or supernatant)
collected from the hydroxyapatite may be further subjected to one or more steps according to
the invention.
 [0040]      In   some    embodiments,       for     example,   the   method   further   comprises
chromatographically contacting the eluate from the hydroxyapatite with a mixed mode resin,
such as a cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin, which binds the ADAMTS13
protein.      That is, the ADAMTS13            protein sample may be subjected         to tandem
chromatography, first with hydroxyapatite, preferably under conditions where a substantial
portion    of ADAMTS13          protein   does     not   bind  the  hydroxyapatite,  followed   by
chromatography with a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin that binds
the ADAMTS13 protein. Additional details regarding the hydroxyapaptite chromatography
step, and the optional tandem step of mixed mode chromatography, using a cation exchange/
hydrophobic interaction resin, are provided below.
100411           (a) Hydroxyapatite Chromatography
[0042]       The hydroxyapatite chromatography step involves any method of chromatography
with hydroxyapatite, as described herein, as known in the art, or as can be appreciated by one
of skill in the art, especially in light of disclosures herein. Methods of chromatography with
hydroxyapatite are well-known in the art.              Hydroxyapatite has a chemical fonnula of
CaIo(PO4)6 (OH)2 and is a major constituent of bone and tooth mineral, as well as other
biological structures. Hydroxyapatite may be obtained from such natural sources or may be
synthesized by well-known methods. Hydroxyapatite is widely used as a chromatographic
medium or support, particularly for chromatographic separations of proteins. The particle
size generally is not critical and may vary widely. Typical particle sizes range from about 1
pm to about 1,000 pm in diameter, preferably from about 10 pm to about 100 pm in diameter.
The porosity may also vary widely. In preferred embodiments, the average pore diameter
ranges from about 100      A  to about 10,000 A, more preferably from about 500        A  to about
3,000  A,  even more preferably 500    A to  3,000   A.
[0043]       Various hydroxyapatite chromatographic media are available commercially, and
any available fonn of the material can be used in the practice of the methods disclosed herein.
Non-limiting examples of commercially available ceramic hydroxyapatite material that may
be used include MACRO-PREPT , Hydroxyapatite Types I and II (Biorad, Hercules, CA),
                                                 -  14 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
 and HA ULTROGEL* (PALL, Ann Arbor, MI). In one embodiment, the sample is subject to
chromatography with Hydroxyapatite type 11 (Biorad, Hercules, CA).
 [0044]      Surprisingly, it was discovered that upon chromatographically contacting a sample
with hydroxyapatite, a significant or substantial portion of non-ADAMTS13 impurities in the
sample bind hydroxyapatite, while a significant or substantial portion of the ADAMTS13
protein remains in solution. Accordingly, as discussed above, treatment of the sample with
hydroxyapatite may be perfonned in batch-mode or in column chromatography mode
according to well-known methods, and sufficiently enriched ADAMTS 13 protein collected in
the supernatant or in the eluate, respectively.
 [0045]     As used herein, "substantial portion" refers to a recovery yield in the supernatant
or eluate of about 30% to about 100% (e.g., about 40% to about 90%, e.g., about 50% to
about 80%, e.g., about 60% to about 70%) of recombinant ADAMTS13 protein from the
sample compared to that prior to the hydroxyapatite chromatography step.          For example,
recovery yield in the supernatant or eluate of about 50% to about 100% indicates that the
sample was subject to chromatography with hydroxyapatite under conditions that allow a
substantial portion of ADAMTSI 3 protein to flow through.
 [0046]     In preferred embodiments,       the sample to be subjected to hydroxyapatite
chromatography has a low conductivity, e.g., between about 3 mS/cm and about 15 mS/cm at
room temperature, preferably less than about 10 mS/cm at room temperature.               In one
embodiment, the sample has a conductivity of 6 mS/cm at room temperature.            In another
embodiment, the sample has a conductivity of 7 mS/cm at room temperature.             A skilled
artisan will readily appreciate that conductivity of the sample may be adjusted with a salt
solution comprising neutral salts, e.g., sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium sulfate,
sodium phosphate, potassium phosphate, and the like, and can be suitably buffered with about
20 mM phosphate buffer. The sample preferably has a pH between about 6.5 and about 9.0,
and preferably, has a pH between 7 and 8.          The sample may remain in contact with the
hydroxyapatite for any length of time that will allow sufficient binding of non-ADAMTS13
impurities, e.g., for about 5 minutes to about 24 hours.       Enriched ADAMTS13 may be
collected in the supernatant fraction or the flow through fraction, which may include eluate
from subsequent washes, particularly the first wash.
[0047]      In one embodiment, subjecting the sample to chromatography with hydroxyapatite
under conditions that allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS13 protein to remain in the
                                               - 15-

    WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
supernatant or eluate results in enriched ADAMTS13, e.g., about 10-fold reduction to about
 I15-fold reduction of non-ADAMTS 13 impurities, particularly host cell proteins, compared
to the sample prior to chromatography with bydroxyapatite.               In one embodiment,
chromatography with hydroxyapatite reduces host cell proteins in the sample by at least about
20-fold (e.g., about 30-fold, about 40-fold, about 50-fold, about 60-fold, about 70-fold, about
80-fold, about 90-fold, e.g., about 100-fold, etc.).
 [00481     In preferred embodiments,      subjecting the sample to chromatography         with
hydroxyapatite under conditions that allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS13 protein to
remain in the supernatant or eluate results in about 90% to about 99% removal of
non-ADAMTS 13 impurities, particularly host cell proteins. In one embodiment, subjecting
the sample to chromatography with hydroxyapatite results in at least about 90% (e.g., about
91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%, about 97%, about 98%,
about 99%, about 99.5%, etc.) removal of non-ADAMTS 13 impurities, particularly removal
of host cell proteins.    Accordingly, methods disclosed herein comprising enriching for
ADAMTS13 protein by subjecting the sample to chromatography with hydroxyapatite under
conditions that allow a substantial portion of the ADAMTS13 protein to remain in the
supernatant or eluate may also provide a buffer comprising ADAMTS13 protein that is
substantially purified.
[0049]      Exemplary column conditions that allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS13 to
flow through a hydroxyapatite chromatography column are provided in the examples below.
Generally, to allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS13 protein to flow through during
chromatography with hydroxyapatite, the chromatography column preferably will have a bed
height between about 5 cm to about 30 cm, e.g., 20 cm to 30 cm. Additionally, prior to
subjecting the sample to chromatography with hydroxyapatite, e.g., before loading the sample
onto the hydroxyapatite column, the column may first be washed, activated, and/or
equilibrated respectively with well-known wash, activation, and/or equilibration buffers,
particularly those suggested by the manufacturer of the hydroxyapatite. In one embodiment,
the column is activated and equilibrated with the same buffer, e.g., a buffer comprising 20
mM Na/K P0 4 , having a pH of 7.0 and having a conductivity of 5.5. mS/cm at room
temperature.
t0050]      (b) Mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobicinteractionchromatography
                                              - 16-

    WO 2011/012726                                                       PCT/EP2010/061192
 [00511      In one embodiment, ADAMTS13 protein is enriched by tandem chromatography
with the hydroxyapatite followed by a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction
resin that binds ADAMTS 13 protein. It has been surprisingly discovered that ADAMTS 13
binds the mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin while non-ADAMTS13
impurities either remain in solution or bind much more strongly to the mixed mode cation
exchange/hydrophobic      interaction resin,    Accordingly, treatment of the sample with
hydroxyapatite followed by treatment with a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic
interaction resin may be performed in successive batch-mode or in successive column
chromatography mode according to well-known methods and sufficiently enriched
ADAMTS 13 protein may be collected in the final supernatant fraction or final eluate pool
after subjecting the sample to tandem batch-mode chromatography or tandem column
chromatography, respectively.       Accordingly, as described herein, ADAMTS13 protein is
enriched by subjecting the sample to chromatography with hydroxyapatite under conditions
that allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS 13 protein to remain in the supernatant or to flow
through a column comprising hydroxyapatite as the eluate.              After treatment with
hydroxyapatite, the collected supernatant or eluate comprising enriched ADAMTS13
optionally is subjected to batch-mode or column chromatography with a mixed mode cation
exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin. In one embodiment, the supernatant or eluate from
the hydroxyapatite step is fed into a chromatography column comprising the mixed mode
cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin. Batch-mode or column chromatography with
a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin can be carried out by any
method described herein, known in the art, or as can be appreciated by one of skill in the art,
especially    in  light   of   disclosures   herein.    A   preferred  mixed   mode     cation
exchange/hydrophobic      interaction resin, suitable for use after chromatography with
hydroxyapatite, is sepharose-based matrix comprising a hydrophilic linker. The hydrophilic
linker may comprise a functional ligand, e.g., via a thio-ether group. The hydrophilic ligand
may be negatively-charged and may further comprise a hydrophobic group, e.g., a
hydrocarbon.     A hydrophilic ligand further comprising a hydrophobic group can create a
mixed mode ligand, that is, a ligand with multimodal functionality, suitable for perfonning
mixed mode chromatography, as described herein. In some embodiments, the ionic capacity
of the mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin may be between about 0.07
mM/mL to about 0.09 mM/mL and have a pH stability between about 2 to about 14.
Generally, ADAMTS13 will bind the mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction
resin via ionic, hydrogen, and/or hydrophobic bonds.
                                              - 17-

    WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
100521       Examples of commercially available mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic
interaction resins that may be used in accordance with the methods described herein include,
without limitation, CAPTOTM MMC medium (GE Healthcare) and SampliQ SAX (Agilent
Technologies, Santa Clara, CA).          In a preferred embodiment, the mixed mode cation
exchange/hydrophobic       interaction resin is CAPTOTM MMC.            CAPTO"'     MMC is a
multimodal weak cation exchanger based on rigid, highly cross-linked, beaded agarose with a
mean particle size of about 75 ptm. It comprises ligands with multimodal functionality that
bind proteins at high salt concentrations. It has a typical flow velocity of about 600 cm/h for
an about I m diameter column, with about 10 cm to about 20 cm bed height at about 204C,
using process buffers with the about same viscosity as water at less than about 3 bar (about
0.3 MPa).
[00531      During chromatography         with a mixed mode      cation exchange/hydrophobic
interaction resin, ADAMTS13 binds to the mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic
interaction resin and is further isolated from non-ADAMTS13 impurities (e.g.,          host-cell
proteins present in the sample pre-enrichment). Where the mixed mode chromatography step
is performed on a column, the cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin absorbs
ADAMTS 13 protein, while contaminating non-ADAMTS 13 impurities are removed from the
process stream and separated from the ADAMTS 13 protein in the sample by flowing through
the chromatography column.
[0054]      The mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic             interaction resin to which
ADAMTS13 is adsorbed is then washed, e.g., to remove loosely-bound contaminants or
impurities and/or to adjust buffer conductivity in preparation for elution of ADAMTS 13 from
the resin. That is, after the sample is chromatographically contacted with hydroxyapatite, and
the collected supernatant or eluate comprising ADAMTS13 is chromatographically contacted
with mixed mode cation/hydrophobic interaction resin and adsorbed thereto, the mixed mode
cation/hydrophobic interaction resin is washed with wash buffer. Generally, the wash buffer
will comprise a buffering ion phosphate and a neutral salt and will have a high pH such that
binding of ADAMTS13 to the mixed mode cation/hydrophobic interaction resin is weakened
as relevant parameters of the buffer are increased, e.g., with increasing salt concentration
and/or pH of the buffer.          In one embodiment, the ADAMTS13-bound mixed mode
cation/hydrophobic interaction resin is first washed with an equilibration buffer, e.g., an
equilibration buffer comprising about 20 mM phosphate and about 25 mM NaCl and having a
pH of about 7.0 at room temperature. Subsequent washes may be performed with a wash
                                               -18 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
buffer, comprising, e.g., about 20 mM phosphate, about 80 mM NaCi and having a pH of
about 8.0 at room temperature.       The ADAMTS13-bound mixed mode cation/hydrophobic
interaction resin may be subject to a final wash with a buffer comprising, e.g., 50 mM Na/K
P0  4 and 160 mM NaCl, and having a pH of 8.0, and a conductivity of 16.5 mS/cm at room
temperature.
 [0055]     After hydroxyapatite chromatography, followed by mixed mode chromatography
with a cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin that binds ADAMTS13 protein, and
optional washing, recombinant ADAMTS13              protein is eluted from the mixed mode
chromatography resin with an elution buffer.        Generally, the elution buffer will comprise
about 5 mM to about 100 mM buffering ions, e.g., 20 mM to 50 mM buffering ions.
Exemplary buffers include, but are not limited to, phosphate, tris, HEPES, imidazole,
histidine, MES, citrate, Gly-Gly, tris/acetate, and the like. The elution buffer also generally
comprises monovalent or divalent cations, such as, but not limited to, sodium, potassium, or
calcium ions, preferably at high concentrations in salt form (e.g., with Cl, PO 4, S04, or OAc
anions, and the like.). In a preferred embodiment, the elution buffer comprises sodium ions
at high concentration, e.g., at greater than about 700 mM Na      The elution buffer may have a
pH ranging from about 7 to about 11.       In one embodiment, the elution buffer comprises 50
mM Na/K PO 4 , 1,000 mM NaCl and has a pH of 8.0 and a conductivity of 93 mS/cm at room
temperature.
[0056]      Exemplary conditions that allow         enriched   ADAMTS13      obtained   from  a
hydroxyapatite column to bind to a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction
resin in a column and to be isolated from non-ADAMTS13 impurities are provided in the
examples below. Generally, the bed height of the mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic
chromatography column may be about 1 cm to about 100 cm, or even higher depending on
the sample volume. Further, the ratio of the hydroxyapatite chromatography column volume
to the column volume of the mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction
chromatography column may be about 10:1, depending, e.g., on amounts of non-ADAMTS13
impurities in the sample compared to the amount of ADAMTS 13.
[0057]      Additionally, a skilled artisan will recognize that, for embodiments comprising
tandem    chromatography      with hydroxyapatite    and a mixed mode         cation  exchange/
hydrophobic interaction resin, the resins and buffers used for washing, activation, and/or
equilibrating will in certain embodiments be selected to be compatible with both columns. In
one embodiment, the columns are activated separately. In another embodiment, the columns
                                              -19-

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
 are equilibrated, loaded, and washed once in tandem, followed by one or more second or
 subsequent wash(es) and elution(s) applied only to the mixed mode cation exchange/
 hydrophobic interaction resin.       In one embodiment, the buffers for activating and
 equilibrating the mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction chromatography
 column are the same as those used to activate and equilibrate the hydroxyapatite column. In
 one embodiment, the buffer for activating and equilibrating the mixed mode cation
 exchange/hydrophobic interaction chromatography column is a buffer comprising 20 mM
Na/K PO 4 and having a pH of 7.0 and a conductivity of 5.5. mS/cm at room temperature.
 [0058]       In preferred embodiments, the sample is subjected to tandem chromatography
 with hydroxyapatite and mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resins under
 conditions that allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS13 protein to flow through the
hydroxyapatite resin, followed by being bound and then eluted from the mixed mode cation
 exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin.        In more preferred embodiments, this tandem
chromatography results in sufficiently enriched ADAMTS13.                 In some embodiments,
 subjecting a sample, e.g., conditioned supernatant collected from the cultivation of
transformed host cells expressing recombinant ADAMTS13, which may be pre-enriched, to
the tandem chromatography described herein yields about 40% to about 80% ADAMTS13
(e.g., between about 45% to about 75%, e.g., between about 50% to about 70%, e.g., about
55% to about 65%) and/or about 40% to about 90% activity (e.g., between about 45% to
about 85%, e.g., between about 50% to about 80%, e.g., about 55% to about 75%).
 [0059]      In some embodiments, the tandem chromatography removes about 90% to about
99% host cell impurities. In one embodiment, tandem chromatography as described herein
increases the purity of ADAMTS13 by at least about 600 fold, e.g., by at least about 650
fold, e.g., by at least about 700-fold, e.g., by at least about 800-fold, e.g., by at least about
900-fold, e.g., by at least about 1,000-fold, e.g., by at least about 1,100-fold, e.g., by at least
about 1,200-fold, e.g., by at least about 1,300-fold, e.g., by at least about 1,400-fold, or by at
least about 1,500-fold compared to the purity of ADAMTS13 prior to subjecting the sample
to tandem chromatography.
[0060]       In some embodiments, subjecting a sample, e.g., conditioned supernatant collected
from the cultivation of transformed host cells expressing recombinant ADAMTS13, which
may be pre-enriched, preferably by UF/DF and/or                anion exchange, to the tandem
chromatography described herein results in a sample with about 600 to about 1,500 ppm non
ADAMTS13 impurities (e.g., host cell antigens). For example, the tandem chromatography
                                              - 20  -

    WO 2011/012726                                                            PCT/EP2010/061192
may result in a sample with about 750 to about 1250 ppm non-ADAMTS13 impurities,
preferably a sample with less than about 1,000 ppm non-ADAMTS13 impurities.
100611       In some embodiments, the tandem chromatography results in an about 1,000-fold
reduction to an about 3,000-fold reduction of non-ADAMTS 13 impurities (in particular, host
cell antigens) compared to the sample prior to the tandem chromatography.                  In some
embodiments,       subjecting    conditioned   supernatant collected    f-om    the cultivation   of
transformed host cells expressing recombinant ADAMTS13, which may be pre-enriched, to
the tandem chromatography described herein reduces non-ADAMTS13 impurities (e.g., host
cell antigens) by at least about 1,000-fold, e.g., by at least about 1,300-fold, e.g., by at least
about 1,500-fold, e.g., by at least about 2,000-fold, e.g., by at least about 2,500-fold, e.g., by
at least about 3,000-fold, etc.
 [0062]       Accordingly, in preferred embodiments, the elution buffer from the mixed mode
cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin, which comprises recombinant ADAMTS13,
provides a composition comprising ADAMTS 13 protein that is substantially purified.
 [0063]       Pre-enrichmentPreparationof the Sample
 [0064]       In some embodiments, the method disclosed herein further comprises preparing
the sample comprising ADAMTS 13 for enrichment by chromatography with hydroxyapatite
 or   tandem        chromatography       with    hydroxyapatite    and     mixed     mode     cation
 exchange/hydrophobic        interaction  resin.     In this  optional pre-enrichment     step, the
ADAMTS13           in    the   sample     may    be    either  or   both    (a)   concentrated    by
ultrafiltration/diafiltration (UF/DF); and/or (b) chromatographically contacted with an ion
 exchange resin, to which ADAMTS 13 binds and from which it subsequently is eluted.
 [00651           (a)      Pre-enrichmentultrafiltration/diafiltration(UF/DF)
 [00661       In an optional pre-enrichment step, ADAMTS 13 in a sample is concentrated by
 pre-enrichment ultrafiltration, and the buffer of the sample exchanged by diafiltration. The
 pre-enrichment ultrafiltration/diafiltration step typically is performed prior to enrichment of
 ADAMTS13        by chromatography with hydroxyapatite or tandem chromatography with
 hydroxyapatite followed by a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin as
 described above. The pre-enrichment ultrafiltration/diafiltration step typically is performed
 prior to any pre-enrichment          anion exchange chromatography        (if performed).      This
 pre-enrichment ultrafiltration/diafiltration (UF/DF) step may be effective in removing small
 molecular weight components, e.g., small-molecular weight components of the cell culture
                                                  - 21 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                       PCT/EP2010/061192
media. Such components may bind to a subsequent chromatography column and decrease the
 capacity of the column for ADAMTS13.       Accordingly, pre-enrichment UF/DF can optimize
loading for later chromatography steps.        In one embodiment, small-molecular weight
components below about 30 kDa are removed, or at least a substantial portion thereof In
some embodiments, small-molecular components removed (or substantially removed) are
components of below about 60 kDa, below about 55 kDa, below about 50 kDa, below about
45 kDa, below about 40 kDa, below about 35 kDa, below about 30 kDa, below about 25 kDa,
below about 20 kDa, etc.
 [0067]     The pre-enrichment ultrafiltration/diafiltration step    also is used in certain
embodiments to exchange ADAMTS13 into an appropriate buffer solution for subsequent
processing and/or to further concentrate the sample. In one embodiment, the appropriate
buffer solution is a low conductivity buffer appropriate for pre-enrichment anion exchange
chromatography, if such anion exchange chromatography is to be performed. For example,
the low conductivity buffer will have a conductivity of less than about 10 mS/cm, e.g., about
7 mS/cm to about 8 mS/cm, e.g., 7 mS/cm at room temperature, and may have a pH equal to
or greater than about 7.0.
 [00681     In another embodiment, the appropriate buffer solution is an enrichment buffer
appropriate for enrichment by chromatography with hydroxyapatite, which may be followed
with chromatography on a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin. For
example, the enrichment buffer may comprise 20 mM Na/K PO 4 and have a pH of about 7 at
room temperature. In another embodiment, the appropriate buffer solution also comprises
calcium and/or zinc ions, either or both of which stabilize ADAMTS13 protein.          In one
embodiment, the appropriate buffer solution comprises calcium ions at a concentration of less
than about 10 mM, e.g., 2 mM. In another embodiment, the appropriate buffer solution is
supplemented with zinc ions at a concentration of less than about 50 pM, e.g., 5 pM.
[00691      In some embodiments, the appropriate buffer solution comprises a buffering agent
that has buffering capacity in solutions with a pH equal to or greater than about 7.0. In one
embodiment, the buffering agent is selected from the group consisting of phosphate, tris,
HEPES, imidazole, histidine, MES, citrate, Gly-Gly, Tris/acetate, etc.
[00701      The sample obtained after this pre-enrichment UF/DF step may be used in
subsequent purification steps, e.g., the sample may be a UF/DF concentrated pool comprising
host cell proteins to be removed by chromatography with hydroxyapatite, or hydroxyapatite
                                             -22-

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
chromatography        followed by mixed mode          chromatography    on a cation       exchange/
hydrophobic interaction resin.        In some embodiments, the sample following the pre
enrichment UF/DF step has been concentrated by about 10 fold to about 20 fold, e.g., by
about 15 fold, compared to the sample before the pre-enrichment UF/DF step.
10071]            (b)      Pre-enrichmentAnion Exchange Chromatography
[0072]        Another optional pre-enrichment step comprises pre-enrichment chromatography,
which may be performed prior to enrichment of ADAMTS13 by chromatography with
hydroxyapatite or tandem chromatography with hydroxyapatite followed by a mixed mode
cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin. A skilled artisan will recognize that the pre
enrichment      chromatography      may  be   performed    after the    optional   pre-enrichment
ultrafiltration/diafiltration step. Alternatively, the pre-enrichment chromatography may be
performed by itself, i.e., without the optional pre-enrichment ultrafiltration/diafiltration step.
[0073]        In some embodiments, the pre-enrichment chromatography step comprises
chromatographically contacting the sample comprising ADAMTS13 with an anion exchange
resin and eluting the ADAMTS13 protein from the anion exchange resin.                  That is, the
ADAMTS13 is bound to an anion exchange resin and subsequently eluted therefrom.                  As
used herein, the term "anion exchange resin" refers to any resin suitable for anion exchange
chromatography and that has a net positive charge, e.g., due to a positively-charged group (at
neutral pH).       Examples include, but are not limited to, diethylaminoethane (DEAE),
dimethylethanolamine (DMAE), polyethyleneimine (PEI), quaternary aminoethane (QAE),
trimethylaminoethyl (TMAE), quarternary ammonium (Q), and the like, and combinations
thereof.
[0074]        In one embodiment, the anion exchange resin also has one or more of the
following features: large pores, perfusion flow behavior, and convective flow behavior. Non
limiting examples of commercially available anion exchange resins that may be used in the
pre-enrichment step disclosed herein include Q-Sepharose Fast Flow (GE Healthcare,
Piscataway, NJ), ANX-Sepharose Fast Flow low sub (GE Healthcare), DEAE-Sepharose Fast
Flow (GE Healthcare), DEAE-Toyopearl (Tosoh Bioscience LLC, Grove City, OH), QAE
Toyopearl (Tosoh Bioscience LLC), POROS*             Q  (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA),
POROS * 50D (Applied Biosystems), POROS* 50PI (Applied Biosystems), Convective
Interaction Media (CIM*; BIA Separation), Fractogel-DMAE (Capitol Scientific Inc., Austin,
                                               - 23 -

     WO 2011/012726                                                      PCT/EP2010/061192
 TX), Fractogel EMD-TMAE (Capital Scientific Inc., Austin, TX), Matrex Cellufine DEAE
 (Chisso Corp., Rye, NY), and the like,
 [0075]      During pre-enrichment anion exchange chromatography, ADAMTS13 binds to
the anion exchange resin and is isolated from non-ADAMTS13 impurities (e.g., host-cell
components that may be present in the pre-enrichment UF/DF concentrated pool). Generally,
the anion-exchange resin absorbs ADAMTS13 protein, while non-ADAMTS13 impurities
with isoelectric points greater than the operating pH are removed fiom the process stream by
 flowing through the anion exchange column. Non-ADAMTS13 impurities with isoclectric
points below the operating pH bind more strongly, preferably much more strongly, to the
resin, such that they preferably do not co-elute with the ADAMTS 13 protein. The column to
which ADAMTS 13 is adsorbed is then washed prior to elution, e.g., to remove loosely-bound
impurities or contaminants and/or to adjust the conductivity of the buffer in preparation for
 elution. Typically, bound ADAMTS 13 is eluted from the anion exchange resin by increasing
the ionic strength of the buffer. In one embodiment, ADAMTS13 is eluted by step elution.
Generally, the loaded sample and wash buffer have a pH of between about 7 to about 9, e.g.,
 7.7, and a conductivity of less than about 10 mS/cm (e.g., 6.5 mS/cm) at room temperature.
The elution buffer(s) may have a pH of about 6 to about 9 (e.g., 7) and have a conductivity of
greater than about 10 mS/cm (e.g., 16.5 mS/cm) at room temperature.
 10076]     Typically, the eluate from the anion exchange chromatography step yields about
60% to about 120% ADAMTS13 activity (e.g., yields about 70% or about 80% to about
 107% ADAMTS activity) and/or comprises recombinant ADAMTS13 with a purity of about
20% to about 70%, (e.g., a purity of about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, etc). In
one embodiment, anion exchange chromatography reduces non-ADAMTS13 impurities by
about 2-fold to about 5-fold.      In a preferred embodiment, the percent yield after pre
enrichment preparation can be about 75%.
 [00771     The eluted ADAMTS13         may then be enriched by subjecting the sample to
chromatography with hydroxyapatite that allows a substantial portion of ADAMTS1 3 protein
to flow through or subjecting the sample to tandem chromatography with hydroxyapatite
under conditions that allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS13 protein to flow through,
followed by chromatography with a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction
resin that binds ADAMTS 13 protein, as described above.
                                              - 24 -

     WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
 [00781      Virus Inactivation
 [0079]      A skilled artisan will recognize that methods of virus inactivation may be
particularly useful in purifying recombinant ADAMTS13 from samples that comprise or
potentially comprise virus contaminants (impurities resulting from and/or derived from
viruses, including, e.g., virus particles, virus protein, viral DNA, viral RNA, and fragments
thereof). Accordingly, in one embodiment, the method disclosed herein further comprises at
 least one virus inactivation step. The term "virus inactivation" refers to either or both the
 situation wherein viruses are maintained in the solution but are deactivated or inactivated
 (e.g., rendered non-viable, for example, by dissolving the lipid coat of lipid-enveloped
viruses); and to the physical removal of the viruses and/or virus contaminants from the
sample (for example, by size exclusion). Thus, in the context of the disclosure herein, "virus
inactivation" refers to either or both viral deactivation and viral removal.
 [0080]      If performed, virus inactivation may occur once or more than once throughout the
entire purification process. Additionally, it may occur prior or subsequent to subjecting the
sample to chromatography with hydroxyapatite. In some embodiments, virus inactivation
occurs prior and subsequent to the optional step of polishing by cation exchange
chromatography, described in more detail below. However, a skilled artisan will recognize
that virus inactivation may optionally occur, if at all, at any step during the purification
process. Further, a skilled artisan can recognize the appropriate timing for virus inactivation.
 [0081]      Methods of rendering lipid-enveloped viruses non-viable are well-known in the
art. Generally, methods of deactivating (or inactivating) lipid-enveloped viruses in a sample
comprise adding a solvent-detergent mixture to the sample (see, e.g., Edwards, et al. (1987)
"Tri(n-butyl) phosphate/detergent treatment of licensed therapeutic and experimental blood
derivatives" Vox Sang 52: 53-59 (see especially pages 54-55); and U.S. Patent Nos.
4,540,573 (col. 7, line 9 to col. 12, line 42); 4,764,369 (col. 7, line 17 to col. 12, line 47);
4,939,176 (col. 3, line 59 to col. 10, line 14); 5,151,499 (col. 2, line 59 to col. 11, line 38);
6,090,599 (col. 4, line 20 to col. 8, line 67); 6,468,733 (col. 5, line 12 to col. 9, line 36); and
6,881,573 (col. 5, line 63 to col. 14, line 9); each of which is incorporated herein by
reference), The solvent-detergent combination used to deactivate lipid-coated viruses may be
any solvent-detergent combination known in the art and preferably comprises a non-ionic
detergent and an organic solvent. Non-limiting examples include Tri-N-butyl phosphate
(TnBP) and TRITON X-100TM, as well as TWEEN 80'              (CAS 9005-65-6), polyoxyethylene
sorbitan monooleate, sodium cholate, and the like. The concentration of the solvent(s) and/or
                                               - 25 -

     WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
 detergent(s) may be those commonly used in the art, for example, greater than about 0.1%
  TnBP and greater than about 0.1% TRITON X- 1 0 TM.
  [00821      In some embodiments, the conditions under which the solvent-detergent mixture
 inactivates the viruses comprise about 10 to about 100 mg/ml of solvent-detergent, at a pH
 level ranging from about 5 to about 8, and a temperature ranging from about 2 "C to about
 370 C, preferably from about 12 'C to about 250 C, for about 30 minutes to about 24 hours,
 preferably about 30 minutes to about 1 hour. In some embodiments, the mixture is slightly
 shaken or stirred during the treatment.        In one embodiment, the virus inactivation step
 comprises adding a solvent-detergent mixture (e.g., as solvent-detergent mixture comprising
 0.3% TnBP, 1% TRITON X-00TM, and 0.3% TWEEN                    8 0TM) to the sample for at least I
 hour, at 15"C to 25"C. In another embodiment, the sample is treated with a solvent-detergent
 mixture comprising 0.3% TnBP, 1% TRITON X-10OTM, and 0.3% TWEEN                      8 0 TM for 30
 minutes at 12"C to 16'C. Other solvent-detergent combinations and/or suitable conditions
 may be used, as will be apparent to one versed in the art, such as combinations of polysorbate
 or cholate and tri-n-butyl phosphate. Such combinations may require longer treatment times,
 e.g., 2hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, 5 hours, 6 hours, 7 hours, 8 hours, or more.
 [00831      Inactivation can be brought about by any means known in the art. For example,
 inactivation can be stopped by dilution, preferably by dilution with cold dilution buffer. For
 example, in some embodiments, inactivation is stopped by dilution with one volume of cold
 dilution buffer comprising about 20 mM MES, and having a pH of about 6 at room
temperature.
 100841      After deactivating lipid-coated viruses with the solvent-detergent combination, the
solvent-detergent mixture may be removed. For example, the solvent-detergent mixture may
be removed via chromatography or other suitable means.                    In some embodiments,
chromatography with a solvent-detergent removal (SDR) resin is used, such as, e.g.,
HyperDT m resin (Biosepra Inc., MA) (see, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 6,468,733 (col. 5, line 12 to
col. 9, line 36), incorporated herein in its entirety by reference).
100851       Inactivating Virus Contaminantswith Immobilized Protein
[0086]       In some embodiments, virus inactivation comprises viral deactivation with
solvent-detergent while the protein is immobilized. Such a procedure may be used in virus
inactivation of the ADAMTS 13 polypeptide described herein, as well as for other proteins.
Other proteins may include, without limitation, any protein or biologic from a source that
                                                -26-

    WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
may have viral contaminants, including immune system proteins (antibodies, monoclonal
antibodies, fusion proteins, Fe fusions, major histocompatibility antigens, T cell receptor),
enzymes (oxidoreductases, transferases, hydrolases, lyases, isomerases, ligases), structural
proteins, fibrous proteins (such as cytoskeletal proteins, like actin, Arp2/3, coronin,
dystrophin, keratin, myosin, spectrin, Tau protein, tubulin and extracellular matrix proteins,
like collagen, elastin, F-spondin), globular proteins, plasma proteins (serum albumin and
serum amyloid P component), coagulation factors (like complement proteins, Factor VIII,
Factor XIII, fibrin, protein C, protein S, protein Z, protein Z-related protease inhibitor,
thrombin, von Willebrand Factor), C-reactive protein, hemoproteins, cell adhesion proteins
(cadherin, ependymin, integrin, NCAM, selectin), transmembrane transport proteins (CFTR,
glycophorin D, scramblase),       ion channels (acetylcholine receptor potassium channel),
synport/antiport proteins (glucose transporter), honnones and growth factors (epidermal
growth factor insulin, insulin-like growth factor, oxytocin), receptors (transmembrane
receptors, G-protein-coupled     receptor, rhodopsin, intracellular receptors like estrogen
receptor), DNA-binding proteins (histones), transcription regulation proteins (c-myc FOXP2,
FOXP3, MyoD, p53), nutrient storage/transport proteins (ferritin), chaperone proteins,
macromolecular complexes (nucleosome, ribonucleoprotein,          signal recognition particle,
spliceosome), and the like. In preferred embodiments, the protein is recombinant protein,
particularly proteins sensitive to aggregation when exposed to organic solvents and
detergetns. In some embodiments, the protein is ADAMTS13                 protein, in particular
recombinant ADAMTS13, or a different protein (in particular, a different recombinant
protein).  In some embodiments, the recombinant protein is a blood coagulation factor. In
some embodiments, the protein is, e.g.,         or more of F        VIII Factor I, thromin,
Factor VIla, Factor IX, von Willebrand factor, anti-MIF antibodies, and in particular proteins
amenable to chromatographic purification and/or proteins sensitive to treatment with solvent
detergent.    Accordingly, another aspect of the instant invention is directed at virus
inactivation of an immobilized protein.       Preferably, virus inactivation is carried out in
conjunction with a protein purification procedure, such that the procedure involves virus
inactivation of a protein preparation by immobilizing the protein being purified.
[0087]      The conventional solvent-detergent virus inactivation step applied in downstream
processes for purifying various proteins, such as those described above, generally involves
adding the solvent-detergent mixture in solution to the sample being purified, e.g., in a batch
procedure.    In the batch procedure, a sample comprising the protein is treated with the
                                             -27  -

    WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
 solvent-detergent mixture (e.g., a mixture comprising about 1% Triton X-100, about 0.3% tri
 N-butyl phosphate, and about 0.3% Polysorbate 80) in a stirred vessel (e.g., a tank for large
 scale purifications). After dissolution of the solvent-detergent chemicals, the treated sample
 solution can be pumped into a second stirred vessel, where by definition the actual virus
inactivation takes place, as here the protein solution is incubated to allow such deactivation to
take place (e.g., for about 30 minutes to about one hour).
 [0088]      In contrast, some embodiments of the instant invention involve virus inactivation
of a composition comprising a protein, e.g., a protein being purified, where the protein is
immobilized. The process comprises contacting the composition comprising the protein of
interest with a solvent-detergent mixture while the protein is immobilized, rather than the
target protein being in solution. In preferred embodiments, the protein is immobilized on a
chromatographic      resin.   Virus inactivation    where the protein is immobilized on a
chromatographic resin, e.g., on a chromatographic column, is referred to herein as "on
column" virus inactivation. The purification of ADAMTS13 on Poros S, described in the
Examples below, provides one embodiment of this process, where virus inactivation is
carried out on-column.      One of skill in the art will recognize that the protein may be
immobilized onto various supports, by a variety of means. For example, protein may be
bound to any solid or semi-solid support, including a glass slide, beads, matrix, or
membranes. Immobilization may result from any process whereby the protein is fixed to the
support relative to other components of the protein solution. Immobilization may occur due
to one or more types of bonds between the groups on the support and groups on the protein,
such as, e.g., by covalent linkage, hydrogen bonds, electrostatic interactions, van der Wasls
forces, and the like, or combinations thereof.
[0089]       Virus inactivation of immobilized protein on a chromatographic column can
simplify purification. For example, rather than requiring more than one vessel (such as a two
tank system used in large scale purifications), chromatographic purification and virus
inactivation may be carried out in the same vessel, e.g., on the same chromatographic
column.     This simplifies the downstream processes of protein purification, e.g., reducing
time, conserving reagents, and/or increasing efficiency.           In some embodiments, the
chromatographic      column is a cation      exchange resin,      In some embodiments,        the
chromatographic column is an anion exchange resin.
[00901       An additional and surprising benefit of certain embodiments of virus inactivation
of immobilized protein is the reduction in aggregate formation.            Some proteins show
                                              -28  -

    WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
sensitivity towards solvent-detergent mixtures, e.g., forming aggregates when contacted with
the solvent-detergent reagents in solution. Without being limited to a particular theory or
hypothesis, contacting the sensitive protein with the solvent-detergent mixture while it is
immobilized, e.g., while the protein is bound to a chromatographic resin, can prevent the
formation of aggregates based simply on the physical inability of the immobilized protein
molecules to contact each other.        In some embodiments, the inactivation results in the
fonnation of less than about 20% aggregates, less than about 18%, less than about 15%, less
than about 12%, less than about 10%, or less than about 5% aggregates.            And, in certain
embodiments, the level of aggregation is reduced by at least about 10%, about 20%, about
50% or about 100% as compared to the level of aggregation when the protein preparation is
subjected to virus inactivation where the protein is not immobilized.
[0091]       In one preferred embodiment, the protein is loaded onto a chromatographic resin
and the solvent-detergent treatment is used as a wash step, preferably a wash step that
continues for a long enough incubation period to allow inactivation of lipid-enveloped
viruses. For example, the wash step preferably continues for about 30 minutes to about one
hour. The solvent-detergent mixture will comprise non-ionic detergent and organic solvent at
concentrations suitable to effect such virus inactivation, as described above. For example, in
some embodiments, the solvent-detergent mixture comprises 1% Triton X-100, 0.3% tri-N
butyl phosphate, and 0.3% Polysorbate8O.               Additional details for some particular
embodiments are provided below, with respect to ADAMTS 13 purification.
{0092]           Virus inactivation may also comprise viral removal, e.g., by filtration, such as
nanofiltration using a nanofilter. Such viral removal may occur alone, or in combination with
viral deactivation (inactivation), e.g., the viral deactivation step comprising treatment with a
solvent-detergent mixture as described above. When virus inactivation comprises both viral
deactivation and viral removal, viral removal may occur prior to and/or subsequent to the
viral deactivation by solvent-detergent treatment. Generally, viral removal fiom a sample
involves filtering the sample, e.g., passing the sample through a filter having a pore size that
maintains ADAMTS 13 in the sample, while allowing viruses and virus contaminants to flow
through. In one embodiment, the pore size of the filter is between about 15 nm and about 50
nm,. Filtration also can be carried out by nanofiltration using a 20 N or 35 N filter (Planova,
Asahi Kasei). In some embodiments, pre-filters are used to prevent fouling the nanofilter,
e.g., an about 2 tM filter, or a 0.2 R PVDF or PES membrane may be used
[0093]      Polishingby Cation Exchange Chromatography
                                               - 29 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
[00941        In some embodiments, the method further comprises, after chromatography with
hydroxyapatite (or tandem chromatography with hydroxyapatite followed by a mixed mode
cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin), the optional step of polishing the sample
comprising ADAMTS13 by chromatography on a cation exchange resin. In this step, the
conductivity of the buffer comprising ADAMTS13 may be reduced prior to polishing, if
necessary to achieve an appropriate conductivity for the cation exchange chromatography.
100951        (a) Reducing Buffer Conductivity
[00961        After chromatography with hydroxyapatite or tandem chromatography with
hydroxyapatite followed with a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin,
the buffer comprising ADAMTS 13 protein may be prepared for cation exchange by reducing
the conductivity of the buffer, e.g., by removing ionic components (e.g., sodium chloride). In
some embodiments, buffer conductivity is reduced to less than about 5 mS/cm and/or the pH
is reduced to about 6.0.       The conductivity of the buffer may be reduced by any method
known in the art, described herein, or as can be appreciated by one of skill in the art,
especially     in   light   of  the   disclosures    herein. Non-limiting   examples     include
ultrafiltration/diafiltration  (e.g., with crossflow cassettes or hollowfiber modules), gel
filtration, dialysis, etc.
[00971        In one embodiment, the ADAMTS13 protein is prepared for cation exchange by
ultrafiltration/diafiltration with a membrane having an about 10 kDa cut-off, against a cation
exchange equilibration buffer (e.g., a buffer comprising 20 mM MES, pH 6.0 at room
temperature).      In some embodiments, the ultrafiltration/diafiltration membrane is a PES
membrane, having an about 10 kDa to an about 50 kDa cutoff, e.g., an about 20 kDa cutoff,
an about 30 kDa cutoff, an about 40 kDa cut-off, etc. Using such an approach, the buffer pH
may be reduced fi-om about 8.0 to about 6.0; and/or the conductivity of the buffer may be
reduced to below about 2 mS/cm at room temperature.           In some such embodiments, the
buffer for the diafiltration may comprise 20 mM MES and may have a pH of 6.0 at room
temperature and/or a conductivity of 0.6 mS/cm at room temperature. In some embodiments,
the conductivity of the buffer for diafiltration may be identical, or substantially identical, to
the cation exchange equilibration buffer to be used.
[0098]        In one embodiment, preparing the buffer comprising ADAMTS13 for cation
exchange is performed by dialysis, e.g., using dialyzer hardware comprising hemodialysis
modules, such as a hollowfiber hemodialysis module (Aquamax series, PES chemistry of the
                                                 - 30 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
Hollowfibers, Edwards Lifesciences, Unterschleiheim, Germany). Generally, about 2 m 2 of
filter area is used for about 5 L of sample; and the sample buffer and dialysis buffer are run in
reverse flow with respect to each other. In some embodiments, the dialysis consists of no
more than two passes through a single dialysis module. By "single dialysis module" is meant
one unit or structure through which dialysis is performed.        A dialysis module generally
comprises an open-ended bundle of hollow fiber membrane potted in a tubular housing to
create two distinct flow chambers, lumen and extracapillary, each with inlet and outlet port
access.     A semi-permeable hollow fiber membrane separates the two chambers and
selectively permits passage based on size and concentration gradient of solutes while
restricting other solutes from passing between the 2 chambers. By operating the module in a
counter-current flow mode, the solutes passing through the membrane are quickly swept
away and diluted into a large volume of dialysate solution ("sweep"), maintaining the largest
concentration gradient possible. Accordingly, dialysis may be performed in a single pass
sweep through a single dialysis module.
[00991       In some embodiments, a combination of these approaches is used, e.g., UF/DF
with dialysis may be used to effect concentration of the sample and buffer exchange in
preparation for polishing by cation exchange chromatography.        In still other embodiments,
buffer exchange may be carried out by anion exchange chromatography.
[001001          (b) Cation Exchange Chromatography
[00101]      As indicated above, the method disclosed herein may optionally comprise
polishing the sample by chromatography on a cation exchange resin. As used herein, the
term "cation exchange resin" refers to any resin suitable for cation exchange chromatography
and that has a net negative charge, e.g., due to a negatively-charged group (at neutral pH).
Examples include, but are not limited to, a carboxyl group, a carboxymethyl (CM) group, a
sulphoalkyl group (SP, SE), a methylsulfonate (S) group, a sulfated ester of cellulose,
heparin, and the like, and combinations thereof.         This step generally is designed to
concentrate the ADAMTS 13 product, put the product in a pre-formulation buffer, and further
reduce non-ADAMTS13 impurities, including process-related impurities (e.g., host cell
proteins, such as CHO proteins, host cell DNA, such as CHO DNA, reagents of the solvent
detergent mixture, etc), as well as product-related impurities (e.g., aggregates and non
biologically active fragments of ADAMTS 13).
                                              -31 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
 [00102]     In one embodiment, the cation exchange resin also has one or more of the
 following features: large pores, perfusion flow behavior, and convective flow behavior. Non
 limiting examples of commercially available cation exchange resins that may be used in the
 polishing step disclosed herein include POROS* S (Applied Biosystems), Convective
 Interaction Media (CIM*; BIA Separation), Toyopearl Gigacap S (Tosoh Bioscience,
 Montgomeryville, PA), Toyopearl Gigacap CM (Tosoh), Toyopearl SP (Tosoha), Toyopearl
 CM (Tosoh), MacroPrep S (Bio-rad, Hercules, CA), UNOsphereS (Bio-rad, Hercules, CA),
 MacroprepCM ((Bio-rad, Hercules, CA), Fractogel EMD S03 (Merck), Fractogel EMD COO
 (Merck), Fractogel EMD SE Hicap (Merck), Cellufine Sulfate (Chisso), CM and SP Trisacryl
 (Pall), CM and S HyperD (Pall), Mustang S (Pall), S and CM Sepharose CL (GE Healthcare),
 S and CM Sepharose FF (GE Healthcare), S and CM CAPTOTM (GE Healthcare), MonoS
 (GE Healthcare), Source S (GE Healthcare), and the like.
 [001031    Chromatography on a cation exchange resin is a well-known method in the art. In
 some embodiments, the cation exchange column has a maximum load of about 0.2 to about
 0.5 mg ADAMTS13/mL. In a preferred embodiment, the column is loaded with at least 0.3
mg ADAMTS13/mL.            Generally, during chromatography on a cation exchange resin,
ADAMTS13 binds to the cation exchange resin and the buffer and certain impurities are
 allowed to flow through. The column to which ADAMTS 13 is adsorbed then can be washed,
e.g., to remove loosely-bound contaminants or impurities and/or to adjust the buffer in
preparation for elation of ADAMTS13 from the cation exchange resin. ADAMTS13 then
can be eluted in the eluate.
 [001041    In some     embodiments,     the eluate obtained     from the    cation  exchange
chromatography step contains a higher amount of aggregates of ADAMTS13 than desired. In
some embodiments, for example, the eluate comprises more than about 15 % aggregates,
which are believed to be introduced after the concentration and buffer exchange with the
dialyzer step, and/or the cation exchange chromatography step.
[001051     To allow the production of ADAMTS13 with a significantly lower percentage of
aggregates, certain conditions can be used with the cation exchange resin, as detailed further
in Figure 2 with respect to the cation exchange resin Poros S. For example, in some
embodiments, a combination comprising purification by cation exchange chromatography
followed by on-column solvent-detergent virus inactivation is used, for example as described
in more detail above. This combination preferably results in lower amounts of aggregates
appearing with the ADAMTSi3 polypeptide in the eluate. In more preferred embodiments,
                                              - 32 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                       PCT/EP2010/061192
the elution procedure comprises a gradient elution (rather than a step elution), which can
further remove aggregates of ADAMTS13, e.g., in the descending part of the elution peak. In
even more preferred embodiments, the concentration of Tween 80 in the elution buffer is
greater than about 0.05%, for example about 0.06%, about 0.07%, about 0.08%, about 0.09%,
preferably about 0.1%, about 0.11%, about 0.12%, about 0.13%, about 0.14%, or about
0,15%.     The increased concentration is believed to have a further stabilizing effect on
ADAMTS13, further preventing formation of high molecular weight structures during the
elution of ADAMTS13        from the resin.      By "stabilizing the ADAMTS13 protein" or
"stabilizing effect on ADAMTS13" is meant tending to promote the native structure of
ADAMTS13, particularly, in an intact and/or monomeric form, or a substantially intact
and/or monomeric fonn, rather than a fragmented or aggregated form. Stabilizing may also
refer to the tendency of the obtained ADAMTS13 to resist fragmentation, loss of native
structure, and/or aggregation in the face of otherwise destabilizing conditions, such as
varying temperatures, varying pH, ionic strengths, and the like.
  The ADAMTS 13 protein also may be stabilized by a matrix used during harvest, e.g., where
virus inactivation by solvent-detergent treatment is performed on a concentrated harvest.
Furthermore, aggregates that do form can be removed by the later purification steps, such as
capture on an anion exchange chromatography column (such as ANX Sepharose, as
described herein); and/or polishing by chromatography (such as tandem chromatography with
Hydroxyapatite/Capto MMC, as described herein).
 [00106]    Using one or more modifications described above can result in an eluate
comprising lower amounts of aggregates of ADAMTS13 polypeptide.             For example, in
preferred embodiments, the eluate from the cationic exchange column may comprise less
than about 20%, less than about 18%, less than about 15%, less than about 12%, less than
about 10%, or less than about 5% aggregates.
 [0107]     A final step of chromatography on a cation exchange resin comprises eluting the
ADAMTS13 protein with an elution buffer. In some embodiments, bound ADAMTS13 is
eluted from the cation exchange resin by increasing the ionic strength of the buffer. The
buffer comprising ADAMTS13 used to chromatographically contact the cation exchange
resin generally has a conductivity of less than about 10 mS/cm, at room temperature, e.g., less
than 5 mS/cm.     Further, the buffer comprising ADAMTS13 used to chromatographically
contact the cation exchange resin generally has a pH of less than about 7.0, at room
temperature e.g., 6.0.   The elution buffer used to elute the ADAMTS13 protein from the
                                              - 33 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
cation exchange resin can have an ionic strength below such buffers. The resin may also be
washed with a buffer having a pH equal to, or substantially equal to, the pH of the intended
storage buffer.
[01081        In a preferred embodiment, the ADAMTS13 protein is eluted from the cation
exchange resin with a storage buffer. Generally, by storage buffer is meant a buffer having a
pH between about 5 and about 9, at room temperature and comprising calcium, a buffering
compound, and a salt. The pH of the storage buffer may be greater than about 7.0 (e.g., about
7.5) at room temperature. The storage buffer may comprise less than about 10 mM Cat +
(e.g., 2 mM Ca*); the buffering compound may be selected from the group consisting of
phosphate, tris, HEPES, histidine, imidazole, gly-gly, MES, tricine, acetate, and the like; and
the salt may be selected from the group consisting of NaCl, KCI, CaC12 , MgC 2 , and the like.
In a preferred embodiment, the storage buffer has a pH of greater than 7.0 and comprises less
than 10 mM calcium ions, a buffering compound, and a salt.               In a more preferred
embodiment, the storage buffer further comprises a non-ionic detergent, e.g., about 0.01 to
about 0.5% non-ionic detergent, eg. 0.05% non-ionic detergent.        In even more preferred
embodiments, the eluate is subjected to no subsequent concentration nor buffer exchange
steps following elution from the cation exchange resin with the storage buffer.
[0109]        In one particular embodiment, Source S (GE healthcare) is used as the cation
exchange resin of the polishing step, for example, a Source S column with a bed height of
about 20 cm.       In such embodiments, the column may be activated with about 2 column
volumes of about 2 M NaCl and equilibrated with about 6 column volumes of a buffer
comprising about 20 mM MES, about 10 mM NaCl, and about 2mM CaCl 2 , having a pH of
about 6 at room temperature. The buffer comprising ADAMTS 13 may be contacted with the
column at a conductivity below about 5 mS/cm at room temperature, and the column
subsequently washed with the equilibration buffer, and finally the eluate comprising
ADAMTS13 protein collected. After collection, the eluate may be concentrated and buffer
exchanged for storage buffer, e.g., by anion exchange chromatography, diafiltration,
ultrafiltration, dialysis, and the like.
[01101        In another particular embodiment, POROS* S is used as the cation exchange resin
in polishing the sample comprising ADAMTS13 protein. In this embodiment, the buffer
comprising ADAMTS13 used to chromatographically contact the cation exchange resin may
have a conductivity of less than about 5 mS/cm and a pH between about 6.1 and about 6.4.
ADAMTS13 may be eluted using gradient elution, although step elution may preferably
                                             -34.-

   WO 2011/012726                                                              PCT/EP2010/061192
provide a more concentrated product. If gradient elation is performed, two buffers may be
used, e.g., a first buffer that has a low salt content (e.g., little to no salt) and a second buffer
that has a higher salt content (e.g., about 500mM) such that the eluate pool may have a salt
concentration of about 200 mM.           If step elation is performed, the elation buffer may
comprise a storage buffer, e.g., a storage buffer having about 300 mM NaCI, about 2 mM
CaCl 2 , about 20 mM histidine, about 0.05% Tween 80, and may have a pH of about 7.5, at
room temperature.      In some such embodiments, no buffer exchange is necessary after the
POROS* S step, i.e., the ADAMTS 13 fractions obtained from the POROS* S already are in a
buffer and at a concentration suitable for storage.              In still other embodiments, the
ADAMTS13 fractions obtained from the POROS* S column may be subject to further
concentrating and/or buffer exchange steps.
[01111       Generally, purifying recombinant        ADAMTS13          protein according to some
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein yields compositions of pure ADAMTS13
protein.    In one embodiment, purifying recombinant protein according to the disclosed
method yields ADAMTS13 protein that is at least about 90% pure, e.g., at least about 95%
pure, e.g., at least about 98% pure, e.g., or at least about 99% pure. Yields of at least about
20% may be obtained according to some embodiments of the disclosed method.                    In one
embodiment, the method provides yields of at least about 5%, e.g., about 30%, e.g., about
10%, e.g., about 20%, e.g., about 40%, e.g., about 50%, e.g., about 60%, e.g., about 70%,
e.g., about 80%, e.g., about 90%, or e.g., about       9 5%.   In some embodiments, the method
provides ADAMTS13 protein having specific activity ranging from about 500 units/mg
ADAMTS13 to about 1,000 units/mg ADAMTS13.                   In another embodiment, the method
provides ADAMTS 13 protein having a specific activity ranging from about 1,200 units/mg
ADAMTS13 UV 280 protein to about 2,400 units/mg ADAMTS13 UV 280 protein. In
another embodiment, wherein the recombinant ADAMTS13 protein is produced by CHO
cells transformed with recombinant ADAMTS13                nucleic acid, purifying recombinant
ADAMTS13 according to the disclosed method produces a composition that has less than
about 1,000 ppm of host cell impurities. In some embodiments, the method provides at least
about 2 mg/mL ADAMTS 13 protein in a storage buffer.
[01121       Compositions ComprisingRecombinantADAMTS13 Protein
[0113]       The present invention further provides compositions comprising recombinant
ADAMTS13 purified according to a method disclosed herein. The compositions disclosed
herein may be useful for storage of purified recombinant ADAMTS13.             For example, in some
                                                - 35 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
embodiments, the purified ADAMTS 13 protein is stored frozen, e.g., at less than about -60 0 C
The compositions disclosed herein also may be useful for therapeutic administration of the
ADAMTS13 protein, and/or to prepare compositions for therapeutic administration, in
particular, parenteral administration.    For example, in some embodiments, the purified
ADAMTS 13 obtained according to methods described herein is in the for            of a bulk drug
substance, i.e., in a form ready for formulation into compositions for therapeutic
administration.
[0114]      Accordingly,    another aspect      of the invention      relates to pharmaceutical
compositions where the purified recombinant ADAMTS13 protein is mixed with excipient(s)
or other      pharmaceutically   acceptable     carriers.     In   preferred  embodiments,    the
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is pharmaceutically inert.          A pharmaceutically inert
carrier is one that does not react, or does not react substantially, with the active
pharmaceutical, and/or in particular, does not affect, or does not substantially affect, the
desired pharmaceutical properties of the active. The pharmaceutical compositions may be
prepared in any manner known in the art e.g., by conventional mixing, dissolving,
granulating, dragee-making, levigating, emulsifying, encapsulating, entrapping, lyophilizing,
and the like.
[0115}      Depending on the condition being treated, these pharmaceutical compositions may
be formulated and administered systemically or locally. Techniques for formulation and
administration may be found in the latest edition of "Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences"
(Mack Publishing Co, Easton Pa.).        Suitable routes may, for example, include oral or
transmucosal administration; as well as parenteral            delivery, including intramuscular
administration,   subcutaneous administration,        intramedullary administration, intrathecal
administration, intraventricular administration, intravenous administration, intraperitoneal
administration, intranasal administration, and the like.
[0116]      Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use in the present invention include
compositions comprising ADAMTS13 as the active ingredient in an effective amount to
achieve an intended purpose. An "effective amount" of ADAMTS13 as used herein can refer
to that amount that augments, enhances, improves, increases, or produces a biological effect
of native ADAMTS13.         Biological effects of native ADAMTS13 include vWF-cleaving
protease activity, based on the action of ADAMTS13 in cleaving von Willebrand factor, a
large protein involved in blood clotting. An "effective amount" will include an amount of
ADAMTS13 that results in decreased levels of platelet aggregation, e.g., reducing levels in
                                              -  36 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
an individual suffering from a blood clotting disorder to levels more comparable to an
individual not suffering from the blood clotting disorder. Blood clotting disorders include,
but are not limited to, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) also known as
Moschcowitz syndrome, Upshaw-Schulman syndrome (familial form of TTP), and stroke,
An "effective amount" also includes the amount to achieve a prophylactic and/or therapeutic
benefit in treating one or more blood clotting disorders and associated conditions.
Determination of certain effective amounts is well within the capability of those skilled in the
art.
[01171      The present invention provides methods, pharmaceutical compositions, and kits
for treating and/or preventing blood clotting disorders and associated conditions in animal
subjects.   The tenn "animal subject" as used herein includes humans as well as other
mammals.
[0118]      The term "treating and/or preventing" as used herein includes achieving a
therapeutic benefit and/or a prophylactic benefit, respectively.     By therapeutic benefit is
meant the reversal or amelioration of the underlying blood clotting disorder being treated.
For example, in a TTP patient, therapeutic benefit includes eradicating or ameliorating one or
more of the conditions and/or symptoms associated with TTP, such that an improvement is
observed in the patient, notwithstanding the fact that the patient may still be afflicted with the
underlying disorder. For example, treatment can provide a therapeutic benefit not only when
formation of thromboses is reduced or eradicated, but also when an improvement is observed
in the patient with respect to symptoms that accompany TTP, such as reduced headaches,
lowered fever, and/or delayed kidney failure.
[0119]      For prophylactic benefit, a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention
may be administered to a patient at risk of developing a blood clotting disorder, including, for
example, a patient reporting one or more of the symptoms or conditions commonly associated
with blood clotting disorders like TTP, even though a diagnosis may not yet have been made.
{01201      In addition to the active ingredient, pharmaceutical compositions may comprise
suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carriers such as excipients and auxiliaries that facilitate
processing of the active compounds into preparations which can be used pharmaceutically.
[0121]      Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration generally comprise
aqueous solutions of the active ingredient in water-soluble form. In some embodiments,
suspensions of the active may be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable
                                             - 37 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
lipophilic solvents or vehicles include oils such as sesame oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters,
such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides, or liposomes.         Aqueous injection suspensions may
contain substances      that increase the viscosity of the suspension,          such   as sodium
carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol, or dextran. Optionally, the suspension may also contain
suitable stabilizers or agents that increase solubility of the active, e.g., to allow for the
preparation of highly concentrated solutions.
[01221       For injection, the pharmaceutical         compositions   of the invention may be
formulated in aqueous solutions, preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as
Hanks' solution, Ringer's solution, or physiologically buffered saline. For tissue or cellular
administration, penetrants appropriate to the particular barrier to be permeated are used in the
formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art.
101231       Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by combining the active
with a solid excipient, optionally grinding a resulting mixture, and processing the mixture of
granules, after adding suitable auxiliaries, if desired, to obtain tablets or dragee cores.
Suitable excipients include carbohydrate or protein fillers such as sugars, including lactose,
sucrose, mannitol, or sorbitol; starch from corn, wheat, rice, potato, etc; cellulose such as
methyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl-cellulose, or sodium carboxymethylcellulose; gums
including arabic and tragacanth; and proteins such as gelatin and collagen.             If desired,
disintegrating or solubilizing agents may be added, such as the cross-linked polyvinyl
pyrrolidone, agar, alginic acid, or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate. Carriers may also be
used that allow the pharmaceutical compositions to be formulated as tablets, pills, capsules,
liquids, gels, syrups, slurries, solutions, suspensions, dragees, and the like, for oral and/or
nasal ingestion by a patient to be treated.
[01241       Pharmaceutical preparations that can be used orally include push-fit capsules
made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and a coating such as
glycerol or sorbitol.    The push-fit capsules can contain the active mixed with fillers or
binders, such as lactose or starches; lubricants, such as talc or magnesium stearate; and,
optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the active compounds may be dissolved or suspended
in suitable liquids, such as oils, liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycol, with or without
stabilizers.
                                                - 38 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                          PCT/EP2010/061192
 [0125]     Compositions comprising ADAMTS13 or other protein prepared according to a
method described herein may formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, placed
in an appropriate container (or kit), and labeled for treatment of an indicated condition.
 [01261     Examples
 [0127]     The following examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not
intended to limit the scope of the invention.
 [01281     Example 1
 [0129]     FIG. I provides an exemplary method for purifying ADAMTS1.3                   protein,
according to certain embodiments of the invention as disclosed herein.           In the Example
provided, recombinant ADAMTS13 protein is purified from supernatant collected from
culturing CHO cells comprising a recombinant ADAMTS13 nucleotide sequence.                 In this
example, the sample is cell culture supernatant comprising about 2 units/ml (approximately 2
gg/mL) ADAMTS13 protein.
 [01301     As shown in FIG.       , a sample comprising ADAMTS13 and non-ADAMTSi3
impurities may first be subject to an optional pre-enrichment preparation: (a) as shown in step
 101, the sample may be concentrated by ultrafiltration (about 10-fold to about 20-fold) and
the buffer exchanged by diafiltration (molecular weight cut-off of about 30 kDa); and (b) as
shown in step 102, the ADAMTS13 protein can be bond to and elated from an anion
exchange resin, prior to further enrichment.
{0131]      Pre-enrichmentPreparationof the Sample
f01321         (a)      Pre-enrichmentultrafiltrauion/diafiltration(UF/DF)
[0133]      As shown in FIG. 1, step 101, to optimize loading for pre-enrichment anion
exchange chromatography, the cell culture supernatant is concentrated by about 10 fold to
about 20 fold and diafiltrated using a PES membrane (about 30 kDa to about 50 kDa cutoff;
Pall Omega) to a low-conductivity buffer containing calcium and zinc ions, which are
considered to stabilize ADAMTS13.        The buffer for the cell culture supernatant diafiltration
is 20 mM Tris, 0.1% Polysorbate 80, 85 mM NaCl, 2 mM CaC 2 , 5fM ZnCl 2 , with a pH of
7.7 at room temperature.
                                              - 39 -

   WO 2011/012726                                                      PCT/EP2010/061192
[0134]          (b)     Pre-enrichmentAnion Exchange Chromatography
[0135]      As shown in FIG. 1, step 102, pre-enrichment anion exchange chromatography
may be performed using ANX Sepharose Fast Flow low sub from GE Healthcare. This anion
exchange resin may be used according to the following conditions (Tables 1-2).
[01361      Column load: max. 0.5 mg ADAMTTS13 Ag/ml resin; Bed height: 20 cm
                                             Table 1
                                                     Column        Flow rate
                           SB    e                   Volume (CV)   (em/h)
           SColumn          ANX-HS                   2             100
         activation       11                                       I
         Equilibration      ANX-Equi                 6             100
         Load               Concentrated and
                            diafiltrated CCS
         Wash 1             ANX-W1                   2,5           100
                            12.5% ANX
         Wash 2             EluB/87.5%ANXEI          3             100
                            uA
                            12.5% ANX
         Elution            EluB/87.5%ANXE            1            100
         gradient           uA to 100% ANX
                            EluB
         Post elution       ANX-HS                   3             100
[0137]      Alternatively, step elution can be used with 2.8 column volumes of a buffer
comprising 48% ANX-EluB and 52% ANX-EluA, as detailed in Table 2. Other potentially
suitable buffers are indicated also.
                                              - 40 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
                                             Table 2
                 Buffer                             Formulation
                                                    20 mM Tris, 0.1%
                 ANX-Equi                           Polysorbate 80, 50 mM NaCl,
                                                    2 mM CaC12, 5pM ZnCl2,
                                                    pH=7.7 (room temp.)
                                                    20 mM Tris, 0.1%
                 ANX-Wl                             Polysorbate 80, 50 mM NaCl,
                                          _ _   _ _ pH=7. 7 (room temp.)
                 ANX-EluA                           20 mM Na/K PO4, pH1=7.0
                                                    (room temp.)
                 ANX-EluB                           20 mM Na/K P04, 400 mM
                                                    NaCl, pH=7.0 (room temp.)
                 ANX-HS                             2 M NaCi
 101381     Different resins may be used from that indicated in FIG. 1, step 102.            For
example, POROS 50D and POROS 50PI from Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA can be
used. The eluate from the pre-enrichment anion exchange chromatography using this resin
can provide recombinant ADAMTS13 with a purity of about 20% to about 70%, and the
percent yield after this pre-enrichment preparation of the sample can be at least about 75%.
 [01391     Enrichment ofADAAMTSJ3
[0140]      As shown in FIG. 1, steps 103 and 104, respectively, ADAMTSI3 may then be
enriched via polishing steps (a) and (b). The sample comprising ADAMTS 13 is subjected to
tandem chromatography, first with hydroxyapatite on a Hydroyapatite Type 11 column
(Biorad, Hercules, CA), step 103, followed by mixed mode chromatography on a cation
exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin CAPTO" MMC (GE Healthcare), step 104. More
specifically, the eluate pool from the pre-enrichment anion exchange chromatography of step
102 is diluted 1:4 with hydroxyapatite-dilution buffer to reduce the conductivity to about 6
mS/cm. The diluted eluate pool is subjected to tandem. chromatography with hydroxyapatite
under conditions that allow a substantial portion of ADAMTS 13 protein to flow through, step
103, followed by a mixed mode cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin that binds
ADAMTS13 protein, step 104. The conditions for the tandem chromatography are provided
below and in Tables 3-4.
[0141]      Column 1: Resin: Hydroxyapatite Type II (Biorad) (HA); load: max. 2 mg total
protein/mL resin; bed height: 20-30 cm.
                                              -  41 -

   WO 2011/012726                                                  PCT/EP2010/061192
101421      Column 2: Resin: Capto MMC (GE Healthcare); load: 3 - 6 mg ADAMTS13/ml
resin; bed height: 10 cm.
10143]      Ratio Column volume HA:MMC = 10:1.
                                       - 42 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                            PCT/EP2010/061192
                                                 Table 3
                      Buffer                                     column             Flow     rate
 step
                                                                 Volume (CV)        (em/h)
 Activation           MMC-Elution                                3 (MMC)            50 (MMC)
 Equilibration        HA-Equi.                                   4j (HA)            50 (HA)
 Equilibration        HA-Equi.                                   1(HA)              50 (HA)
     Eulbai           HAEu.I(A                                                       0(A
 Load                 Diluted Capture Eluate (1:5 diluted with   20 - 30 L          30 (HA)
 Load       _____     HA-Equi) < 6mS/cm. conductivity            20_-_30_L_         30 (HA)
  equilibration       HA-Equi.                                   0,5 (HA)           30 (HA)
 Wash              1
 (MMC)                MMC-Equi.                                  3 (MMC)            50 (MMC)
Wash               2  MMC-Wash                                   4 (MMC)            50 (MMC)
(MMC)                    _     _ _   _   _   _   _     _   _   _
 Elution              75% MMC elution buffer/
 (MMC)                25% MMC wash buffer                        4 (MMC)50              (MMC
                                                 Table 4
Buffer                               Formulation                 Conductivity
HA-Dilution                          20 mM Na/K P0 4, pH 7.0
                                     (room temp.)
TANDEM-Equi.                         20 mM Na/K P0 4 , 25 mM     About    5.5   mS/cm    (room
                                     NaCl, pH 7.0 (room temp.)   temp.)
MMC-Wasla                            50 mM Na/K P0 4 , 160 mM    About 16.5 mS/cm (room
                                     NaCl, pH 8.0 (room temp.)   temp.)
                                     50 mM Na/K P0 4 , 1000      About 93 mS/cm (room
MMC-Elution                          mM NaCl, pH 8.0 (room       temp.)
                                     temp.)
HA-Elution                           300 mM K P0 4 , pH 7.0      About    33   mS/cm     (room
                                     (room temp.)                temp.)
 [0144]           The percent yield ADAMTS 13 after enrichment by tandem chromatography may
be at least 60%.
 [01451           Virus Inactivation
 [0146]           As shown in FIG. 1, step 105, the sample can be subjected to solvent-detergent
treatment to inactivate contaminating viruses or viral particles; and/or the sample is filtered to
remove such viruses or viral particles. Also as shown in FIG. 1, virus inactivation step 105
can be carried out at various points in the procedure, for example, before the tandem
                                                   - 43  -

     WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
 chromatography steps 103 and 104, or after a step involving concentration and buffer
 exchange, step 106, described below.
 [01471      For virus inactivation by solvent-detergent treatment, the sample is treated with a
 solvent-detergent mixture comprising 1% TRITON X-100, 0.3% Tri-N-butylphosphate, and
 0.3% polysorbate 80, for 30 minutes at about 12"        to about 16"C (specifically to inactivate
 lipid-enveloped viruses). Additional details are provided below in Example 2.
 [0148]      Alternatively,   or in addition, the sample is subjected to          filtration, e.g.,
nanofiltration through a 0.2 ptm particle filter.      For example, the mixture after solvent
 detergent treatment is diluted with 1 volume of a polishing equilibration buffer, described
below, and filtered through a 0.2 pm PVDF or PES membrane. Filtration can be carried out
before and/or after solvent-detergent treatment. Filtration after the treatment may be used to
remove particulate matter that may have formed during the treatment. Filtration also can be
 carried out by nanofiltration using a 20 N filter (Planova, Asahi Kasei), as also shown in FIG.
 1, where the virus inactivation step 105 is carried out before the tandem chromatography
 steps 103 and 105. A further virus inactivation step 105 can be carried out after the sample
has been polished by cation exchange chromatography, as described below.
 [0149]      The percent yield ADAMTS 13 from this virus inactivation may be at least 95%.
 [0150]      Polishing by CationExchange Chromatography
 [01511      Following enrichment, the ADAMTS 13 may be polished by chromatography on a
cation exchange resin, and the conductivity of the buffer comprising ADAMTS 13 may be
reduced prior to polishing, to achieve an appropriate conductivity for the cation exchange
chromatography.       Accordingly, post-enrichment steps may involve (a) reducing buffer
conductivity; followed by (b) cation exchange chromatography.
 [0152]      (a) Reducing Buffer Conductivity
 [0153]      As shown in FIG. 1, step 106, preparation for cation exchange chromatography
may involve concentration and buffer exchange, using UF/DF, with a cut-off of 10 kDa. and
Dialyzer hardware.     In the illustrated embodiment, the Dialyzer hardware used for buffer
exchange involves a hollowfiber hemodialysis module (Aquamax series, PES chemistry of
the Hollowfibers, Edwards Lifesciences, Unterschleiheim, Germany) having 0.3 - 1.9 m 2
filter area.   During operation, the following parameters are monitored on-line: pressure
(before the module, after the module, and trans-membrane pressure), conductivity, and
temperature. The dialyzer cartridge is connected with two pumps, one feeding the sample
                                               - 44 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
(through the hollow fibers) and one feeding the dialysis buffer (surrounding the hollow fibers,
in reverse flow direction). Approximately 2 m 2 of filter area is used for about 5 L of sample;
                                                                                              2
and the fluid flow is fixed in the following way:, 40 ml/min (sample flow or 20 ml/min/n
filter area), 60 ml/min (dialysis buffer flow, reverse flow). Before and after dialysis, the
hollowfiber module is rinsed with dialysis buffer and the post-dialysis rinse added to the
collected product. After dialysis, the sample has about the same volume as before, although
it is slightly concentrated.
[0154]        The percent yield ADAMTS13 after reducing the buffer conductivity in this way
may be about 90%.
f01551        In other embodiments, buffer exchange may be carried out by anion exchange
chromatography on ANX Sepharose-FF low sub, as in step 102.
[01561        Cation Exchange Chromatography
[0157]        As shown in FIG. 1, step 107, after enrichment of ADAMTS13 protein (and the
optional concentration and buffer exchange step 106 and/or the virus inactivation step 105),
the sample may be polished by cation exchange chromatography.           The buffer comprising
ADAMTS13 protein is polished either on a Source S column (GE Healthcare) or a POROS*
S column, such as on POROS* 50 HS column (Applied Biosystems).
10158]        The conditions for polishing on the Source 30S column are provided in Table 5
and buffers for the polishing step are provided in Table 6.
[0159]        Resin: Source 30 S (GE Healthcare);        Column load: max. 0.2 (0.5) ing
ADAMTS 13/ml resin; Bed height: 20 cm.
                                              - 45 -

     WO 2011/012726                                                           PCT/EP2010/061192
                                               Table 5
                              Se1fcolumn                                   Flow rate
            StepVolume
                                                                 (CV)      (m
            Column              2 M NaCl                2                  32
            Equilibration       SOS-Equi.               6                  32
            Load                                                           32
            Wash                SOS-Equi.               3                  32
                                100% SOS-Equi/0%
            Elution             SOS-Elu. to 0%
            (gradient)          SOS-Equi./100%          5                  19
                                SOS-Elu.
            Post elution        SOS-Elu.                3                  32
                                               Table 6
  Buffer                            Formulation                      Comments
  SOS-Equi.                         20 mM MES, pH 6.0 (room          Buffer may contain 10mM
                                    temp.)                           NaCl, 2 mM CaC12
                                    20 mM MES, 500 mM NaCl,
  SOS-Elu.                          2 mM CaC12 , pH 6.0 (room
                                    temp.)
  [01601      The eluate pool from the Source S column is concentrated and diafiltrated against
  storage buffer.
  [0161]      The conditions for polishing on the POROS* S column are provided in Table 7
  and buffers for the polishing step on are provided in Table 8.
  [0162]      Resin: POROS* S (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA); Column load: max. 12
  mg ADAMTS13/ ml resin; Bed height: 20 cm.
                                               Table 7
 Step                      Buffer                  Column Volume               Flowrate
                                                   (CV)                        (cm/h)
FColumn activation         2M NaCl                 5 CV                        50
 Equilibration             Poros                   10 CV                       50
                           Equi.                   (until pH and
                                                   conductivity give flat
                                                   and stable signals)
 Load                      MMC-Eluate              conductivity less that 5    32
                           after solvent-          mS/cm (room temp.)
                           detergent treatment
                           and dilution
                                                - 46 -

      WO 2011/012726                                                       PCT/EP2010/061192
  Re-equilibration         Poros Equi.             5 CV                      32
 Wash ]                    Poros Wash 1            5 CV                      32
 Wash 2                    Poros Wash 2            7 CV                     132
  Elution                  Poros Elu.              5 CV                      19
 Post elution              2M NaCl                 3 CV                      32
                                                  Table 8
Poros Equi.                             20mM MES Acid, 30mM NaCl, 0. 1% Tween 80, pH16.0
                                        (room temp.), about 3.9 mS/cm conductivity at 251C
Poros Wash 1                            20mM L-Histidine, 5mM NaC1, 2mM CaCl 2, 0.05% Tween
                                        80, pH 6.0 (room temp.), about 1.9 mS/cm conductivity at
                                        25 0 C
                                        20mM L-Histidine, 5mM NaCl, 2mM CaCl2, 0.05% Tween
Poros Wash 2                            80, pH 7.5 (room temp.), 1.9 mS/cm conductivity at 25 0 C
Poros Elu.                              20mM L-Histidine, 300mM NaCi, 2mM CaCl 2, 0.05%
                                        Tween 80, pH 7.5 (room temp.), about l8mS/cm
                                        conductivity at 25 0 C
   [0163]      The eluate pool from the POROS* S column is concentrated and diafiltrated
   against storage buffer.
   101641      The percent yield ADAMTS13 after this further polishing step may be at least
   about 70%, and after the buffer exchange, at least about 90%.
   [0165]      As shown in FIG. 1, step 108, a purified ADAMTS13 protein is obtained in
   according to the method described above. The ADAMTS frozen and stored, e.g., at less than
   about - 60C. The yield of the entire process may be about 22% to about 24% or more,
   [0166]      Example 2
   [0167]      FIG. 2 provides a summary of various conditions that can be used with cation
  exchange chromatography step 107 of FIG 1. In particular, comparison of the ADAMTS 13
  product obtained from the various runs indicates that the conditions of FIG. 2C reduce
  contaminating aggregates.
                                               - 47 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
 [01681     As shown in FIG. 2A, variation A is a combination of viral inactivation using
solvent-detergent (S/D) treatment, as discussed in more detail below, followed by a cation
exchange chromatography on Poros S applying a step elution.                            As shown in FIG. 2B,
variation B involves cation exchange chromatography on Poros 50S, with step dilution, but
without being preceded by virus inactivation. Both variations A and B can be perfonned
according a procedure outlined in Table 9.
                                                             Table 9
                   Buffer                                                  Flow
                   volume             Buffer Composition                   rate          Observations
                   (CV)                                                    (cm/h)
Activation         5                  2 M NaCi                              50
Equilibration
Equilibration
                 {66_          _
                                      20 mM MES Acid, 30 mM
                                      NaCl, pH 6.0 (room temp.)
                                                                           50
                                                                           50
Product            aS/D                      treated and diluted                         Column load max. 6
      Prouctabout 12                  SDteedadiled                         32           mg ADAMTS1I3/ml
loading                               product solution                     3m                  D     T    /
                   _____________
                           ___   _     ____
                                   -_______________________                __  ___ ___  resin
Wash 1             10                 20 mM MES acid, 30 mM                32
                                      NaCl, pH 6.0 (room temp.)
                                      20 mM Histidine, 30 mM
Wash 2             8                  NaCl, 2 mM CaC12 , 0.05%             32
                                      Tween 80, pH 7.0 (room
                                      temp.)
                                                                                        Pooling starts after
                                                                                        the UV 280 signal rises
                                      20mM Histidine, 200 mM                            significantly and
                                      N20mM                 Castidel2 005%              pooling ends after the
Step elution     15NaCl,                         2 mM CaC12 , 0.05%0         5UVo                iga
                                      Tween 80, pH 7.5 (room               25           UV 2 80 signal drops
                                      temp.)                                            below 5% of the
                                                                                        UV 28 signal at the
                                                                                        peak maximum
                                                                                        (approximately I CV)
{0169]      In variation A, the conditioned (dialyzed) eluate from step 106 is subjected to a
solvent-detergent virus inactivation step 105. The eluate is first filtered through a filter with
0.2 Lpore size to remove particular matter. Then the filtrate is supplemented with a solvent
detergent mixture to final concentrations of 1%Triton X-100, 0.3% tri-n-butyl phosphate and
0.3% Polysorbate 80 (Tween 80) from stock solutions. The inactivation is performed at
temperatures ranging from about 12'C to about 25 0 C in a time frame of about 30 minutes to
about one hour under slight stirring or shaking. The inactivation is stopped by diluting the
solution with one volume of cold dilution buffer (20 mM MES, pH 6.0, room temp.). To
                                                               -48-

   WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
protect the column, the solvent-detergent treated and diluted solution is filtered again with a
0.2 p filter, for example, to remove particulate matter that may have formed during the virus
inactivation treatment.
[0170]       The solvent-detergent inactivated and diluted product solution is then subjected to
cation   exchange      chromatography    step   107   on Poros  50HS,    using    step  dilution.
Chromatographic details are outlined in Table 9 above.      The resulting cluate pool provides
the ADAMTS13 protein in the form of bulk drug substance, which can be stored frozen at
less than -60 C.
[01711       In variation B, the cation exchange chromatography step 107 is carried out on the
conditioned (dialyzed) eluate from step 106, without the solvent-detergent virus inactivation
step 105. Details for the cation exchange chromatography are as detailed above.
[01721       As shown in FIG. 2C, variation C is a combination involving purification by
cation exchange chromatography on Poros 50HS, using gradient elution, followed by on
column solvent-detergent virus inactivation. This variation surprisingly reduces aggregates
otherwise found with purified ADAMTS13 protein.          Chromatographic details that may be
used with variation C are outlined in Table 10 below.
                                              - 49  -

    WO 2011/012726                                                             PCT/EP2010/061192
                                              Table 10
                    Buffer                                       Flow
                   volume        Buffer composition              rate         Comments
 Activation         5
                       "(CV)   I
                                 2 M NaCl
                                                                 (cm/h)
                                                                 50
 Equilibration      6            20 mM MES acid, 30 mM           50
                                 NaCl, pH 6.0 (room temp,)                   C
 Product            about 6      Dialyzed eluate pool of the                     lmgADAMTSI3/ml
 loading                         Capto MMC purification          32          resin
                                                                             resin
 Wash 1             10           20 mM MES acid, 30 mM           32
                                 NaCl, pH 6.0 (room temp.)
                                 20 mM MES acid, 30 mM
                                 NaCl, 1% Triton X-100,
 Wash 2             1,5          0.3% TNBP, 03% 0.3%             32
                                 Tween 80, pH 6.0 (room
                                 tmep.)
                                 20 mM MES acid, 30 mM
                                 NaCl, 1% Triton X- 100,                      S/D Treatment: I
 Wash 3            2.1           0.3% TNBP, 03% 0.3%             20          hour contact time
                                 Tween 80, pH 6.0 (room                      with S/D chemicals
                                 temp.)
                    10           20 mM MES acid, 30 mM                       Removal of S/D
                                 NaCl, pH 6.0 (room temp.)                   chemicals
                                 20 mM Histidine, 30 mM
 Wash 5                         NaCl, 2 mM CaC12, 0.1%           32          Conditioning column
 (buffer A)                      Tween 80, pH 7.0 (room                      for elution
                                 temp.)
                                                                             Pooling starts after
                                 Gradient fiom 100% buffer                   the UV 280 signal rises
                                 A to 100% buffer B (20 mM                   significantly and
                                Histidine, 300 mM NaCl, 2                    pooling end after the
 Step Elution      10            mM CaCl, 0.1% Tween 80,        32           UV 28 0 signal drops
                                pH 7.5 (room temp.) within                   below 5% of the
                                 10 CV                                       UV 28 0 signal at the
                                                                             peak maximum
                                                                             (about 2 - 3 CV)
[0173]       In variation C, the load material is the eluate pool of the cation exchange polishing
step 104 and preferably has a conductivity below 4.5 mS/cm, achieved by diylasis or buffer
exchange by gel filtration.       Notably, the cation exchange chromatography on Poros S is
adapted    to include    an on-column      solvent-detergent   treatment, which      involves    virus
inactivation of virus immobilized on the chromatographic column, as discussed above. The
on-column virus inactivation comprises a wash for one hour with the solvent-detergent
                                                -50  -

   WO 2011/012726                                                        PCT/EP2010/061192
mixture at 2'C to 10'C.      After the on-column treatment, the wash buffer is changed to
efficiently wash out solvent-detergent chemicals prior to elation.
[0174]      Elution is changed from step elution with 200 mM NaCl to a gradient elation,
which is believed to facilitate separation of monomeric and oligomeric species of
ADAMTS13, particularly in the descending part of the elution peak.            Aggregates are
removed in the late eluting fraction, thereby further removing aggregates otherwise found
with purified ADAMTS13         protein.   As a further adaptation to stabilize monomeric
ADA.MTS13 protein, the concentration of Tween 80 in the elation buffer is increased from
0.05% to 0.10% in the wash and elution buffers. This is believed to further prevent formation
of aggregates during the elation of ADAMTS13 from the Poros S resin. The details of the
chromatographic procedure on Poros S, including virus inactivation by on-column solvent
detergent treatment, are outlined in Table 10 above.
[01751      As shown in FIG. 2D, variation D serves as a control. In variation D, step 107
polishing via cation exchange chromatography is performed on Poros 50 HS again with
gradient elation and increased Tween 80 in the elution buffer, but without on-column virus
inactivation by solvent-detergent treatment. A virus inactivation solvent-detergent treatment
step 105 is perfonned instead on concentrated harvest prior to cation exchange.           The
chromatographic details are provided in Table 11 below.
                                             - 51 -

   WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
                                            Table 11
                  Buffer                                      Flow
                  volume     Buffer composition               rate       Comments
                  (CV)      F                               , (cm/h)
Activation        5          2 M NaCI                         50
Equilibration     6          20 mM MES acid, 30 mM            50
                             NaCl, pH 6.0 (room temp.)
Product                      Dialyze eluate pool of the                  Column load max. 6
loading           about 6    Capto MMC purification           32         mg ADAMTS13/m]
                                                                         resin
                             20 mM MES acid, 30 mM
Wash 1            10         NaCI, pH 6.0 (room temp.)        32
                             20 mM Histidine, 30 mM
Wash 2            10         NaCl, 2 mM CaCI 2, 0.1%          32           conditioning column
(buffer A)                   Tween 80, pH 7.0 (room                      for elution
                             temp.)
                                                                         Pooling starts after
                             Gradient from 100% buffer                   the UV 2 80 signal rises
                             A to 100% buffer B (20 mM                   significantly and
                             Histidine, 300 mM NaCl 2                   pooling ends after the
Step elution      10          mMsCadi,    00    Te     8,     32         UV 280 signal drops
                             niM CaCI 2 , 0.1% Tween 80,                below 5% of the
                             pH 7.5 (room temp.) within                 below 5%        a the
                              10 CV                                      UV280 Signal at the
                                                                        peak maximum
                                                                     c (about 2 - 3 CV)
[0176]      In variation D, the load material is the eluate pool of the cation exchange
polishing step 104 and preferably has a conductivity of below 4.5 mS/cm, achieved by
diylasis or buffer exchange by gel filtration. The cation exchange chromatography step 107
on Poros S again uses gradient elution, instead of step elution, as well as 0.1% Tween 80 in
the wash and elation buffers, as described above.         The details of the chromatographic
procedure on Poros S with gradient elution are outlined in Table 11, above.
[01771      Example 3
[0178J      Experiments at lab scale, using 100 L fermenter scale, were performed with the
on-column solvent-detergent virus inactivation, to determine potential impact of this
procedure on the performance of cation exchange chromatography step 107.           The data are
presented in Table 12.
                                             - 52 -

   WO 2011/012726                                                      PCT/EP2010/061192
                                         Table 12
          Solvent-                         Specifi  CHO HCP
Sample    detergent     Yield Poros S      c                               Aggregates
          procedure                        activity
                                                            ng
                                                            CH
                                           Units/in CHO     H
                        %A13       A13                      HC    %               %       mon
                        Ag         Frets g A13      HC      P/    multimers       dimers ome
                                       UisIAg
                                   Units            Unit
                                                    A13     P1m
                                                            n1g      ult                  r
                                                            A13
          Solvent
          detergent
          treatment
          immediately
          before        99         100     696      0.49    346   9.7             7.0     83.3
          chromatogra
          phy on
          Poros S
          (variation
          A)
          no solvent/
          detergent
2         treatment     133        154     894      0.58    519   1.3             4.6     94.1
          (variation
          B)
          Solvent-      89         95      931      0.60    561   1,0             2.3     96.7
          detergent
          treatment
4         on-column     87         117     905      0.39    354   1.0             3.7     95.3
          (variation
          C)
5         Solvent-     65          93      764      0.21    163   0.8             1.5     97.7
6         detergent    81          108     845      0.38   324    0 .7            1.5     97.8
          treatment at
          the
  7
7concest  concentrate  66          131     741      0.31   231    0.2             1.1     98.7
          (variation
          D)
*Yields above 100% reflects an assay problem with the chromatographic load fl-action on Poros
50S.
A13 Ag: ADAMTS13 antigen
A13 Frets: ADAMTS13 Frets Units
CHO HCP: Chinese hamster ovary host cell proteins
                                           - 53 -

[0179]      As shown in Table 12, performing virus inactivation via solvent-detergent
treatment in solution, prior to cation exchange chromatography on Poros S, can result in the
formation of high amounts of aggregates (Variation A of FIG.2A and Sample 1).              If the
solvent-detergent treatment is omitted and the same procedure carried out, aggregate
formation is significantly reduced (Variation B of FIG. 2B and sample 2).
[0180]      Performing the solvent-detergent treatment on-column, that is, contacting the
ADAMTS13 with the solvent-detergent mixture while it is immobilized on the surface of the
resin, also can prevent the formation of aggregates.        In addition, the small amounts of
aggregates that do form can further be removed by gradient elution in the late eluting fraction
(Variation C of FIG. 2C; samples 3 and 4).
[0181]      For comparison, a standard solvent-detergent treatment in solution is carried out
the purification process, followed by cation exchange chromatography on Poros S without
solvent-detergent treatment neither immediately before nor on-column (Variation D of FIG.
2D, samples 5, 6, and 7). This procedure also can produce ADAMTS13 with a low content
of aggregates.
[0182]      All patents and patent publications referred to herein are hereby incorporated by
reference. Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably
be expected to be ascertained, understood, and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the
art.
[0183]      Certain modifications and improvements will occur to those skilled in the art upon
a reading of the foregoing description. It should be understood that all such modifications
and improvements have been deleted herein for the sake of conciseness and readability but
are properly within the scope of the following claims.
[0184]      As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises", and "comprised", are not
intended to exclude other activities, components, integers, or steps.
                                             - 54 -

     WO 2011/012726                                                         PCT/EP2010/061192
 Claims:
 1.       A method for purifying recombinant a disintegrin-like and metallopeptidase with
thrombospondin type          1 motif 13 (ADAMTS13)       protein from a sample comprising
ADAMTS13          protein      and non-ADAMTS13        impurities,  the    method     comprising
 chromatographically contacting the sample with hydroxyapatite under conditions that allow
 said ADAMTS 13 protein to appear in an eluate or a supernatant from said hydroxyapatite.
2.        The method according to claim 1, further comprising chromatographically contacting
said eluate with a cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin that binds said ADAMTS13
protein.
3.        The method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising chromatographically
contacting said sample with an anion exchange resin and eluting said ADAMTS 13 protein
from said anion exchange resin before chromatographic contact with said hydroxyapatite.
4.       The method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising concentrating said
ADAMTS13 protein in said sample by ultrafiltration; and stabilizing said ADAMTSI3
protein by diafiltration exchange into a buffer comprising calcium ions and zinc ions before
chromatographic contact with said hydroxyapatite.
5.       The method according to claim 2, further comprising, following contact with said
hydroxyapatite or said cation exchange/hydrophobic interaction resin, the step of preparing
said ADAMTS 13 protein for cation exchange by reducing buffer conductivity.
6.       The method according to claim 5, wherein said preparing step is performed by
ultrafiltration/diafiltration.
7.       The method according to claim 5, wherein said preparing step is performed by
dialysis, said dialysis consisting of no more than 2 passes through a single dialysis module.
8.       The method according to claim 5, wherein said preparing step is performed by gel
filtration.
9.       The method according to any one of claims 1, 2, or 5, further comprising subjecting
said ADAMTS 13 protein to at least one virus inactivation step.
                                              - 55 -

      WO 2011/012726                                                       PCT/EP2010/061192
  10.     The method according to 9, wherein said virus inactivation step comprises adding a
 solvent-detergent mixture comprising a non-ionic detergent and an organic solvent to said
 ADAMTS 13 protein.
  11.     The method according to claim 10, wherein said ADAMTS 13 protein is immobilized.
 12.      The method according to claim 11, wherein said ADAMTS13 protein is immobilized
 on a cation exchange resin.
 13.      The method according to claim 10, wherein said solvent-detergent mixture comprises
 1% TRITONX-100, 0.3% Tri-N-butyl phosphate, and 0.3% TWEEN 80.
 14.      The method according to claim 9, wherein said virus inactivation step comprises
 filtering said ADAMTS 13 protein with a nanofilter to remove viruses and/or viral particles.
 15.      The method according to claim 9, wherein said virus inactivation step is performed
 after said preparing step.
 16.      The method according to claim 12, further comprising eluting said ADAMTS13
protein from said resin using gradient elution, said gradient elution using a first buffer having
 low salt content and a second buffer having higher salt content.
 17.      The method according to claim 12, further comprising eluting said ADAMTS13
protein from said resin using step elution.
 18.      The method according to claim 17, wherein said step elution comprises eluting said
ADAMTS 13 protein from said resin with a storage buffer.
 19.      The method according to claim 18, wherein said storage buffer has a pH of greater
than 7.0 and comprises less than 10 mM calcium ions, a buffering compound, 0.05% non
ionic detergent, and a salt.
20.       The method according to claim 18, wherein there is no subsequent concentration or
buffer exchange step.
21.      A composition comprising a recombinant ADAMTS13 protein prepared according to
the method of any one of claims 1, 2, or 5.
                                             - 56 -

    WO 2011/012726                                                      PCT/EP2010/061192
22.     A composition comprising a recombinant ADAMTS13 protein prepared according to
the method of claim 12.
23.     A method for inactivating virus contaminants in a protein sample, said method
comprising:
        immobilizing said protein on a support; and
        treating said immobilized protein with a solvent-detergent mixture comprising a non
ionic detergent and an organic solvent.
24.     The method according to claim 23, wherein said protein is at least one selected from
ADAMTSI13, Advate. Factor VIa, Factor IX, von Willebrand factor, and anti-MIF antibody.
25.     The method according to claim 23, wherein said support is a chromatographic resin.
26.     The method according to claim 23, wherein said solvent-detergent mixture comprises
 1% Triton X-100, 0.3% Tri-N-butyl phosphate, and 0.3% Polysorbate 80.
27.     The method according to claim 23, wherein said solvent-detergent mixture treatment
continues for 30 minutes to 1 hour.
28.     The method according to claim 23, further comprising eluting said protein from said
support with a storage buffer.
29.     The method according to claim 28, wherein said storage buffer has a pH of greater
than 7.0 and comprises less than 10 mM calcium ions, a buffering compound, 0.05% non
ionic detergent, and a salt.
30.     The method according to claim 28, wherein there is no subsequent concentration or
buffer exchange step.
                                            -57-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
