                                           ABSTRACT
   A multi component or multi layered wall structure is provided to attenuate noise
   transmission through the wall structure which is typically used as a dividing wall or
 5 party wall between two adjacent rooms. The wall structure has two internal wall
   components, one of which is typically a steel stud wall and the other a building panel,
   typically, an autoclaved aerated concrete panel arranged to extend from floor to ceiling
   in approximate alignment with each other. A first lining in the form of a board, such as
   one or more sheets of fire rated plasterboard, is attached to the outer surface of the stud
10 wall to form one outer surface covering of the wall structure facing into one room. The
   first lining need not extend from floor to ceiling but may terminate near to the ceiling so
   that the stud wall has a covered part and an uncovered part. A similar second lining of
   plasterboard is attached to the outer surface of the building panel to form the other outer
   surface of the wall structure facing into the other room. Again, the lining may
15 terminate short of the ceiling. Even though the two linings on either side of the wall
   structure may not extend entirely from floor to ceiling, the wall structure is compliant
   with the relevant building codes with respect to sound transmission therethrough. The
   wall structure has optional other components such as one or more gaps or spaces, and
   additional layers of the same or different materials. The advantage of the wall structure
20 is that it is less costly and time consuming to build.
                                                                    5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                     1/5
                                              2
                32
                 \6    28   18              16
                                 2              54
        66                              48
72            -60
             70                        52
      68                  7050
   68    64
                                           10
          26
                                34
                FIGURE-1
                                    12
         26
                                  22
                                           14
         34.        30      40 20
                FIGURE 1

                                                - 1
                                     WALL STRUCTURE AND METHOD
   The present application is a divisional application of AU 2014201979, the relevant
   contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 5
                                           TECHNICAL FIELD
   Disclosed herein are wall structures for buildings, the wall structures for forming a
   noise attenuating structure in which the wall structure comprises more than a single
10 component.
                                          BACKGROUNDART
   With the increased sophistication of modem living, increasingly larger numbers of
15 machines, appliances and other devices are in use, each of which produces a sound in
   the form of noise collectively. Therefore, there are increasing sources of unwelcome
   noise in a home.
   Simultaneously, with the increase in noise pollution, there is an increase in awareness
20 of the harm caused by noise and a greater desire to have a substantially noise-free
   environment. One example of the environment in which unwanted noise occurs is the
   transmission of noise through dividing walls of multi occupant dwellings, such as
   blocks of flats, apartments, units, including high rise apartment blocks and similar.
25 Also, the populations of cities are increasing so that higher density housing is required
   to provide homes for the population. This has resulted in a proliferation of apartments
   and other high-density housing units where the separation between neighbouring
   dwellings is decreased. Thus, there is an increase in the number of residential buildings
   having separate individual apartments separated by internal dividing walls, which
30 places greater demand on the internal walls with respect to the reduction of sound
   transmission through the walls.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               -  2
   In attempts to provide a quieter environment, different materials and construction
   methods have been used to reduce the transmission of noise, particularly through party
   walls or internal dividing walls. The quest for further reduction in noise transmission
   levels has resulted in the use of new or different materials as sound deadening materials
 5 and the use of new methods of construction, including the use of new materials,
   including materials often referred to as exotic high technology materials. However,
   whilst the use of high tech materials has reduced the transmission of noise, they have
   not been widely adopted due to the added expense of using such materials due to their
   increased costs, and the relative difficulty in installing such materials which further
10 adds to the cost of using the materials.
   In the past, it was believed that currently available materials which were used to form
   walls, were required to extend the entire height of the wall from floor to ceiling or from
   slab to slab in high rise buildings in order to produce an acceptable sound barrier and/or
15 to be compliant with building regulations, such as for example, regulations concerning
   the spread of fire through adjacent units in a multi-dwelling building.
   A reference herein to the background or prior art does not constitute an admission that
   the background or prior art forms part of the common general knowledge of a person of
20 ordinary skill in the relevant art.
                                     SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
25 Disclosed herein is a layered wall structure for use as an internal wall of a building to
   resist transmission of noise through the internal wall.
   Also disclosed herein is a multi-component internal dividing wall for separating two
   adjacent rooms at the same level within a building. The wall structure may attenuate the
30 transmission of noise from one room to the other through the dividing wall structure so
   as to be compliant with building regulations concerning the transmission of noise in
   multi-dwelling buildings.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               -  3
   It has been surprisingly discovered that not all parts of the wall need to extend from
   floor to ceiling in order for the wall to provide effective sound attenuation between
   adjacent rooms and/or to be fully compliant with the applicable building regulations. It
 5 has also been surprisingly discovered that effective sound attenuation between adjacent
   rooms and/or internal walls that can be fully compliant with the applicable building
   regulations can be constructed at reduced costs of construction.
   The multi-component wall structure of the present disclosure can find particular
10 application as an internal dividing wall between two adjacent rooms at the one level of
   a multi-storey building that has a number of separate dwellings. The wall structure may
   provide a quieter environment for persons living in the dwellings by acting as a noise
   attenuating barrier between adjacent rooms to lessen the transmission of sound from
   one room to the other room through the wall structure. The wall structure may also be
15 compliant with building regulations concerning the spread or propagation of fire
   through the building.
   The multi-component wall structure of the present disclosure may employ innovative
   ways of using readily available and relatively low-cost materials to reduce the
20 transmission of sound through walls, particularly internal walls or party walls in multi
   occupant dwellings. The wall structure may be less costly and time consuming to install
   and yet provide sufficient sound absorbance and/or attenuation.
   As stated above, the wall structure as disclosed herein may be compliant of the relevant
25 regulations, particularly regarding sound transmission and optionally the spread of fire,
   by achieving minimum sound insulation performance requirements of the Building
   Code of Australia. For example, the wall structure may provide an internal dividing
   wall which is compliant in accordance with the procedures set forth in Australian
   Standards AS 2253 and AS 1276, particularly for achieving the minimum sound
30 insulation performance requirements.
   The wall structure as disclosed herein can be low-cost and may be cheaper to install but
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                                - 4
   may still be compliant with the building regulations with respect to satisfying minimum
   performance requirements. For example, the wall structure may make use of readily
   available and relatively low-cost materials which can be easier and faster to install,
   whilst still being compliant of the relevant building regulations.
 5
   Although the wall structure will be described with particular reference to one or other
   embodiments and methods of making the wall structure, it is to be noted that the scope
   of the present disclosure is not restricted to the described embodiments but rather the
   scope of the present disclosure is more extensive so as to include other forms and
10 arrangements of the various components for forming the multi component wall
   structure, to other forms and arrangements of the wall structure, and to the use of the
   various forms and arrangements of the wall structure in applications other than
   described.
15 Accordingly, disclosed herein is a wall structure which can be employed for a wall of a
   building. The wall structure comprises a first inner wall member for providing support
   for the wall structure. The first inner wall member extends between a first (e.g. floor)
   level and a second (e.g. ceiling) level of the building. The wall structure also comprises
   a second inner wall member extending substantially between the first (e.g. floor) level
20 and the second (e.g. ceiling) level of the building. The wall structure further comprises
   a first outer wall member connected to the first inner wall member for forming a
   covering for the first inner wall member. The first outer wall member extends in
   alignment with the first inner wall member to a first distance in the direction between
   the first (e.g. floor) level and the second (e.g. ceiling) level to form a covered part of the
25 first inner wall member and an uncovered part of the first inner wall member. The wall
   structure additionally comprises a second outer wall member connected to the second
   inner wall member for forming a covering of the second inner wall member. The
   second outer wall member extends in alignment with the second inner wall member to a
   second distance in the direction between the first (e.g. floor) level and the second (e.g.
30 ceiling) level to form a covered part of the second inner wall member and an uncovered
   part of the second inner wall member. The first distance and the second distance are
   both less than the distance between the first (e.g. floor) level and the second (e.g.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  5
   ceiling) level. The wall structure can attenuate sound transmission through the wall
   structure. The wall structure can be compliant with respect to building regulations
   concerning noise transmission within the building.
 5 Also disclosed herein is a wall structure of a building for dividing the one level of the
   building into first and second adjacent rooms with the wall structure located
   intermediate the two adjacent rooms. The wall structure comprises a frame member for
   forming the frame at a first side of the wall structure. The frame member extends
   between a floor member of the first room and a ceiling member of the first room. The
10 wall structure also comprises a building component for forming a second side of the
   wall structure. The building component extends substantially from a floor member of
   the second room of the building to a ceiling member of the second room of the building.
   The building component is capable of being securely fixed in place between the floor
   member and the ceiling member. The wall structure further comprises a first lining
15 member connected to the frame member for forming a first outer covering of the wall of
   the first room. The first lining member faces into the first room and extends to a first
   distance between the floor member and the ceiling member of the first room to form a
   covered part of the frame member and an uncovered part of the frame member. The
   wall structure additionally comprises a second lining member connected to the building
20 component for forming an outer covering of the wall of the second room. The second
   lining member faces into the second room and extends to a second distance between the
   floor member and the ceiling member of the second room to form a covered part of the
   building component and an uncovered part of the building component. The first
   distance and the second distance are both less than the distance between the floor
25 member and ceiling member of the respective rooms in which the first lining member
   and the second lining member are located.
   Also disclosed herein is a method of constructing a wall structure of a building. The
   method comprises locating a first inner wall member at or towards a first side of the
30 wall structure to extend between a first level and a second level of the building. The
   method also comprises locating a second inner wall member at or towards a second side
   of the wall structure to extend substantially between the first level and the second level
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               -  6
   of the building, and securely fixing the second inner wall member in place between the
   first level and the second level. The method further comprises locating a first outer wall
   member in alignment with the first inner wall member and connecting the first outer
   wall member to the first inner wall member so that the first outer wall member extends
 5 to a first distance in the direction between the first level and the second level to form a
   covered part of the first inner wall member and an uncovered part of the first inner wall
   member. The method additionally comprises locating a second outer wall member in
   alignment with the second inner wall member and connecting the second outer wall
   member to the second inner wall member to extend to a second distance in the direction
10 between the first level and the second level to form a covered part of the second inner
   wall member and an uncovered part of the second inner wall member. The method can
   be implemented such that the first distance and the second distance are both less than
   the distance between the first level and the second level, thereby forming a wall
   structure having part of the first inner wall member uncovered and part of the second
15 inner wall member uncovered. The resultant wall structure may attenuate sound
   transmission through the wall structure. The resultant wall structure may be compliant
   with building regulations concerning the transmission of noise through the wall
   structure.
20 Also disclosed herein is a method of constructing a wall structure of a building for
   forming a dividing wall between a first room and a second room in side-by-side
   relationship to each other at the same level of the building. The method comprises
   locating a frame member for forming the frame or support of the wall structure at a first
   side of the wall structure to extend between a floor member and a ceiling member of the
25 first room. The method also comprises locating a building component for forming a
   second side of the wall structure and securing the building component in place using a
   connector so that the building component extends substantially between the floor
   member and the ceiling member of the second room. The method further comprises
   locating a first lining member in alignment with the frame member and connecting the
30 first lining member to the frame member so that the lining member faces into the first
   room and extends to a first distance along the frame member to form a covered part of
   the frame member and an uncovered part of the frame member. The method
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

   additionally comprises locating a second lining member in alignment with the building
   component and connecting the second lining member to the building component so as
   to face into the second room and to extend to a second distance along the building
   component between the floor and the ceiling to form a covered part of the building
 5 component and an uncovered part of the building component. The method can be
   implemented such that the first distance and the second distance are both less than the
   distance between the floor and the ceiling of the first and second rooms.
   Also disclosed herein is a wall structure for a wall of a building. The wall structure
10 comprises a first inner wall member for extending between a floor and a ceiling of the
   building. The wall structure also comprises a first outer wall member for covering the
   first inner wall member. The first outer wall member in use extends substantially from
   the floor to a first distance that is less than the distance between the floor and the
   ceiling. The wall structure further comprises a first bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling,
15 or ceiling cavity to be spaced in use from the ceiling so as to cover a part of an outward
   face of the first outer wall member. The wall structure additionally comprises a second
   inner wall member extending substantially between the floor and the ceiling of the
   building. Yet further, the wall structure comprises a second outer wall member for
   covering the second inner wall member. The second outer wall member in use extends
20 substantially from the floor to a second distance that is less than the distance between
   the floor and the ceiling. Yet further, the wall structure additionally comprises a second
   bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity to be spaced in use from the
   ceiling so as to cover a part of an outward face of the second outer wall member.
25 Because each of the first and second bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling
   cavity respectively covers a part of an outward face of the first and second outer wall
   members, the upper edge of each outer wall member is covered by the bulkhead, ceiling
   box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity (e.g. to enclose each upper edge). This means that
   each upper edge does not have to be cut to size or trimmed. Hence, the wall structure
30 can be constructed in less time and at a lower cost. Further, the wall structure can still
   be compliant with the relevant sections of the Building Code of Australia relating to the
   transmission of sounds through internal walls.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              - 8
   Also disclosed herein is a wall structure for a wall of a building. The wall structure
 5 comprises a first inner wall member for extending between a floor and a ceiling of the
   building. The wall structure also comprises a first outer wall member for covering the
   first inner wall member. The wall structure further comprises a second inner wall
   member extending substantially between the floor and the ceiling of the building. The
   wall structure additionally comprises a second outer wall member for covering the
10 second inner wall member. The second inner wall member can comprise a slab, block,
   sheet or the like of Autoclaved Aerated Concrete (hereafter "AAC"). The AAC can be
   reinforced.
   The AAC slab, block, sheet or the like may comprise HEBEL* AAC slab, block, sheet
15 or the like, which may optionally be reinforced. The AAC slab, block, sheet or the like
   may be contained within a steel framework. The AAC slab, block, sheet or the like may
   be arranged in side-edge-by-side-edge abutting relationship to form the second inner
   wall of the building. The resultant wall structure may generally correspond to the
   height of the room, which can be referred to as the full height of the wall extending
20 from slab to slab.
   The use of AAC for the second inner wall member may result in lower cost in
   constructing walls in comparison to current methods, less wastage in plasterboard
   materials resulting in less on-site waste materials, speed of construction due to modular
25 use of AAC (e.g. Hebel*) AAC slab, block, sheet or the like and plasterboard (e.g.
   Gyprock* panels. The wall structure can be compliant with the relevant sections of the
   Building Code of Australia relating to the transmission of sounds through internal
   walls. The wall structure may also be compliant with building regulations concerning
   the spread or propagation of fire through the building.
30
   The building may be a multi-storied building having a multitude of individual
   dwellings, such as apartments or the like. The building may have multiple levels of
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               - 9
   individual dwellings, in which each level of the building has multiple individual
   dwellings, such as for example, single occupant units (SOU), apartments or the like.
   The building may be a high rise building of multiple floors in which each floor is of a
 5 concrete slab construction such that the floor and ceiling of each level are concrete
   slabs, respectively, or the floors/ceilings are made from individual blocks or the like,
   such as HEBEL@ lightweight flooring panels or blocks made from Autoclaved Aerated
   Concrete (AAC), including reinforced AAC panels, which panels or blocks are
   contained within a steel framework in which the panels or blocks are arranged in side
10 by-side abutting relationship to form the floor/ceiling at each level of the building in
   which the same slab is the ceiling of the relatively lower level unit and the floor of the
   relatively upper level unit. The rooms at each level may be formed between two
   adjacent slabs which may be spaced apart from each other by a distance which is
   referred to as the slab to slab distance. The wall structure may correspond generally to
15 the height of the room which is referred to as the full height of the wall extending from
   slab to slab.
   In one embodiment, the wall structure may include all of the elements, members,
   fittings, fixtures, layers, components and similar that form the internal dividing wall
20 between two adjacent rooms at the one level within the building. In one embodiment,
   the wall structure may include two or more of layers of the same material, component
   or the like.
   In one embodiment, the wall structure may be a layered wall structure having a
25 multitude of different components in which some components are in abutting
   relationship with each other and some components are in spaced apart relationship with
   each other as will be described in detail later.
   In one embodiment, the wall structure may be composed of layers of different
30 materials, in which each layer may be different or there may be two or more layers of
   the same material arranged in various combinations of two or more inner layers and two
   or more outer layers. One of the layers may be an air gap or air space, which may be
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              - 10
   located between the two inner wall members or the inner and outer wall members in
   combination.
   In one embodiment, the first inner wall member may be a structural member, such as a
 5 load bearing member, for example, a frame member. In one embodiment, the frame
   member may be a stud for forming a stud wall. The stud may be a metal stud, such as a
   steel stud having a protective coating, for example, a galvanised steel stud or the like.
   In one form the metal stud may be 64mm wide. However, the stud may be of any
   suitable size, shape or type. There may be a multitude of metal studs located in spaced
10 apart relationship in alignment with each other to form a stud wall extending from one
   side of the room to the other side of the room, such as the opposite side at a location
   where the wall is to be constructed.
   In one embodiment, the stud may be of an open cross-section, and may be in the form
15 of a C-shaped stud, an H-shaped stud or similar in cross-section having one or more
   open faces in the form of channels.
   In one embodiment, the open channels may be arranged in opposite face-to-face
   relationship to one another so that two spaced apart adjacent studs define a cavity wall
20 or similar.
   In one embodiment, the first level of the building may be the level of the floor or floor
   member of one of the stories or levels of the building, e.g. the first level may
   correspond to the position of the slab forming the floor of the room in which the wall
25 structure is to be constructed. In one embodiment, the second level may be the level of
   the ceiling of the room, e.g. the second level may correspond to the level of the slab
   forming the ceiling of the room in which the wall is constructed. The difference
   between the floor level and the ceiling level is the full height of the room.
30 In one embodiment, the stud may extend from the floor slab to the ceiling slab and may
   be firmly secured or fixed to the floor slab at one end either directly or indirectly, such
   as by a suitable fitting, such as for example, a bracket or channel member, and may be
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               -   11
   firmly secured or fixed to the ceiling slab either directly or indirectly, such as by a
   suitable fitting, such as a bracket or channel member at the other end of the stud.
   In one embodiment, the second inner wall member may be a building component for
 5 providing structural support for the wall, such as for example, contributing to the
   integrity of the wall. In one embodiment, the second inner wall member may be a
   building panel, such as a lightweight building panel (e.g. in the form of a slab, block,
   sheet or the like, such as a reinforced lightweight rectangular building panel). The
   lightweight building panel may be an Autoclaved Aerated concrete (AAC) panel, such
10 as made by CSR Building Products Limited and supplied under the CSR Hebel@ trade
   mark as a tongue and groove Power Panel.
   The building panel may be secured in place by suitable fasteners, including sections,
   studs, connectors, brackets, channels or the like.
15
   In one embodiment, there may be a multitude of AAC panels arranged in side-by-side
   relationship extending substantially between the floor slab and the ceiling slab, apart
   from in some embodiments, there being a small gap in the form of a joint, located at the
   floor end and at the ceiling end of the panel. The size of the joint may be from about
20 2mm to about 20mm, e.g. less than about 20mm, such as between about 5mm and
   15mm, e.g. in the range between 10mm and 15mm at both the floor level and the
   ceiling level. Further, it is to be noted that the sizes of the respective joints at either end
   can be the same or different.
25 It is to be noted that when the term "substantially" is used herein to refer to the height
   of a wall member/panel, this is due to the optional presence of a small sized joint along
   the upper and/or lower edges of the wall member/panel when located in situ to form the
   wall structure, which gives rise to a distance that is very slightly less than the true floor
   to ceiling distance.
30
   In one embodiment, the first outer wall member may be a covering member, such as in
   the form of a panel, partition, cladding, facade, sheet, board or the like. More
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  12
   particularly, the covering member may be a lining, internal cladding, internal skin
   member, internal wall covering, internal facade, or the like located on the outer surface
   of the inner wall member, frame member or similar for forming the outer surface of the
   wall structure. The lining may be made from plasterboard, such as fire-rated
 5 plasterboard - e.g. 13mm thick CD plasterboard. However, it is to be noted that any
   thickness of plasterboard or similar material ranging typically from about 5mm to
   10mm thickness may be used as the internal lining. Examples of plasterboard include
   sheets of Gyprock TM or other forms of plasterboard manufactured by CSR Building
   Products Limited or other manufacturers, in thicknesses of 10mm, 13mm or the like. In
10 one embodiment, the lining may be two plasterboard sheets or panels having the same
   thickness located in edge-to-edge relationship one on top of the other against the
   outward facing side or edge of the metal stud wall to extend some distance from, at or
   near to the floor where there is an optional joint, in the direction towards the ceiling
   slab but not all of the way to the ceiling or not to the full height of the room from slab
15 to slab, but rather to terminate short of or below the ceiling slab. Thus, the height of the
   plasterboard lining may be less than the true floor to ceiling distance.
   In one embodiment, the plasterboard lining may extend part way along the height of the
   stud, such as from close to the floor in the direction towards the ceiling but to finish or
20 terminate short of the ceiling, leaving part of the stud uncovered, exposed or the like to
   form both a covered part and an uncovered part of the stud.
   In one embodiment, the room may be provided with a bulkhead, ceiling box, false
   ceiling, ceiling cavity or the like. In one embodiment, the plasterboard lining may
25 extend from close to the floor to above the level of the bulkhead or level of the false
   ceiling of the room. The bulkhead may be boxed in or closed by a suitable end wall to
   form a more or less substantially enclosed cavity.
   In one embodiment, the second outer wall may be made of the same material as the first
30 outer wall member, such as preferably plasterboard, more preferably 13mm thick CD
   plasterboard, except that the plasterboard of the second outer wall member may be
   connected to an outwardly facing AAC building panel on the other side of the wall
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               - 13
   structure. The second distance may be from close to the floor to be less than the level
   of the ceiling slab, but greater than the level to which the bulkhead or false ceiling
   extends along the outer surface of the wall structure. It is to be noted that the first
   distance of the first lining can be the same or different to the second distance of the
 5 second lining. Thus, the second plasterboard lining may extend in alignment with e.g.
   the AAC panel to form a covered part of the panel and an uncovered part of the panel.
   In one embodiment, there may be a space between the stud wall and the building panel
   of AAC, such as an air gap or space. The air gap or space may be from about 2mm to
10 about 100mm or greater, e.g. from greater than about 5mm to about 50mm, or from
   about 10 to 45mm, such as about 35mm or similar depending on the construction of the
   wall structure, the design of the rooms and of the building and the like.
   In one embodiment, a layer of insulation may be located within the stud wall, such as
15 for example, a sheet or batt of insulation, such as glass wool insulation, rockwool
   insulation or the like, contained internally within the width of the stud, and may be
   constrained between the open channels of two adjacent studs.
   In one embodiment, the wall structure may have two or more air gaps in spaced apart
20 relationship to each other. In one embodiment, the wall structure may have two or
   more layers of insulation, which may be spaced apart from each other on different sides
   of the wall structure.
   When constructing the wall structure, an installer may be required to fire-seal the wall
25 in order to satisfy both the fire and acoustic requirements, particularly so that the wall
   structure is compliant with the Building Code of Australia (BCA).
   It is to be noted that embodiments of the wall structure can have any combination of
   individual layers or components and can have any number of the same layers,
30 preferably spaced from one another to form a wall structure having the sound
   attenuating properties required of the wall.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                                    - 14
   Further, it is to be noted that walls made in accordance with the described embodiments
   are compliant in satisfying the fire requirements of the Building Code of Australia
   (BCA) for buildings for human occupation, in addition to achieving the minimum
   sound insulation performance requirements of the BCA.
 5
                                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments of the wall structure will now be described, by way of example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
10
   Figure 1 is a schematic vertical cross-section of one form of a wall structure in which
   the bulkheads are sealed.
   Figure 2 is a schematic vertical cross-section of the form of the wall structure of Figure
15 1 in which one bulkhead is open and the other is closed.
   Figure 3 is a schematic vertical cross-section of another form of the wall structure
   having two layers of insulation.
20 Figure 4 is a schematic vertical cross-section of a further form of the wall structure
   having an air space on either side of the AAC panel.
   Figure 5 is a fragmentary partial isometric view of the form of the wall of Figure 1 in
   more detail.
25
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
   Embodiments of the wall structure will now be described with reference to the drawings
   in which the different embodiments are illustrated.
30
   In one embodiment, there is provided a building, typically a multi-level or multi-story
   building of separate conjoined dwellings occupied by different groups of people at the
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               -  15
   one level, such as for example, individual apartments housed within the building on the
   same floor defined by internal walls separating the individual apartments from each
   other, such as for example, single occupant units (SOU), and dividing individual
   apartments at the one level, generally denoted as 2, into separate adjacent rooms 4, 6 or
 5 the like. The construction or structure of the building can be in any suitable or
   convenient form and includes such examples at HEBEL@ floor on steel lightweight
   construction, reinforced concrete frame/floor construction, Concrete Bondek on steel
   construction, timber frame construction or other suitable construction capable of being
   structurally constructed. The wall structure is one form of a layered dividing wall
10 having multiple components located between adjacent rooms 4, 6 and is essentially a
   sound deadening or sound absorbing wall to reduce the amount of noise or sound being
   transmitted through or by the wall, even though not all components or layers extend to
   the full height of the wall as will be described in more detail later.
15 One form of the wall structure is a multi-layer or multi-component wall 10, typically of
   the type as shown in Figure 1, which comprises a first inner wall member in the form of
   a framework member or frame element, such as for example, a metal stud 12,
   preferably of a width of about 64mm, located at or towards one side of wall 10. One
   form of metal stud 12 is a galvanised steel C-shaped stud or similar, such as for
20 example, a RONDO@ Lipped C stud or a RONDO@ Quiet Stud. However, stud 12 can
   have different profiles or shapes, such as two C-shaped studs in back-to-back
   relationship or an H-shaped section or profile. Stud 12 is fixedly attached at one end to
   floor slab 14 of room 4 and at the other end to ceiling slab 16 of room 4. Stud 12 may
   be connected to the floor and ceiling slabs respectively directly by being fixedly
25 fastened thereto, or indirectly through a suitable connector or fitting such as for
   example, an upper bracket, channel section, or upper end piece 18 located at the upper
   end of stud 12, and a lower bracket, channel, section or lower end piece 20 located at
   the lower end of stud 12. Stud 12 is oriented such that the open channel of the C-shape
   is aligned along the plane of wall 10 so that one of the side edges of the C-shaped
30 profile faces towards the interior of room 4 and the other side edge of the C-shaped
   profile faces into the interior of wall structure 10. If provided, brackets 18, 20 holding
   studs 12 are also C-shaped with the open channel of the "C" facing vertically
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              - 16
   downwards in the upper bracket 18 which is mounted to the ceiling or facing vertically
   upwards in lower bracket 20 which is mounted to the floor. Thus, brackets 18, 20 and
   studs 12 form the perimeter of a stud wall cavity. Any number of individual studs 12 in
   aligned spaced apart relationship to each other, can be used to form the stud wall. As
 5 the number of studs 12 vary. in accordance with the length of the wall, any number of
   studs 12 can be used to form the stud walls in which any number of cavities are formed.
   In one embodiment, stud 12 can be in the form of two C-shaped studs in back-to-back
   relationship with each other such as in the form of an H-shape so that the open channel
10 of the "C" faces outwardly in opposite directions from two sides of the stud.
   A layer of insulation is optionally provided within the stud cavity formed in the stud
   wall between adjacent studs 12. In one embodiment, the layer of insulation can take
   any suitable form, such as for example, being in the form of panels, sheets, batts, rolls,
15 fluff, wadding or similar. One preferred form of the insulation is an insulation batt 22
   which can be fitted in the stud cavity between adjacent studs 12 and secured in place by
   any suitable fastener or fixing. In one embodiment, insulation batt 22 can be made
   from any suitable material, such as for example, glass wool, rock wool, fibreglass, or
   similar. One preferred form of insulation is a 75mm thick batt of 11 kg/m 3 glass wool
20 insulation made and supplied by CSR Bradford.
   It is to be noted that stud 12 with or without brackets 18, 20 at one or either end extends
   from floor 14 to ceiling 16 and is secured in place to form one of the main structural
   parts of wall 10.
25
   A second inner wall member in the form of a building component, such as for example,
   a building panel 26, typically an AAC panel, is located in alignment with studs 12 and
   spaced apart from insulation batt 22 to form another layer of wall 10, including
   contributing to the support or structural integrity of wall 10 by being fixed indirectly to
30 floor slab 14 and ceiling slab 16. An upper L-shaped bracket 28 is fixedly attached to
   ceiling slab 16 and a lower L-shaped bracket 30 is fixedly attached to floor slab 14 in
   vertical alignment with each other to provide for fixing of panel 26 by the upper edge
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              - 17
   and lower edge of panel 26 being connected to the upper and lower brackets 28, 30,
   respectively, to enable panel 26 to be securely connected between floor 14 and ceiling
    16.
 5 A small space or gap in the form of upper joint 32 is provided between ceiling 16 and
   upper edge of panel 26 to accommodate the placement of one leg of upper bracket 28
   and a small gap or space in the form of a lower joint 34 is provided between floor 14
   and lower edge of panel 26 to accommodate placement of one leg of lower bracket 30,
   so that panel 26 extends only substantially between floor 14 and ceiling 16 by extending
10 between brackets 28, 30. In this form, the height of panel 26 is not the slab to slab
   distance. Joints 32, 34 each have a size of from about 2mm to about 30mm, preferably
   from about 5mm to 20mm, more preferably from about 10mm to 15mm. In one
   embodiment, joint 32 is provided with reinforcement, such as a backer rod or backing
   rod 36, typically made from polyethylene, at or towards the outer side of wall 10 to
15 assist in forming sealed joint 32. Joint 32 is filled with a suitable adhesive, sealant,
   bonding agent, grout paste, thixotropic agent or the like, such as a fire retardant foam
   sealer in the form of BOSTICK FIREBAN ONE TM which is a one part fire rated
   polyurethane joint sealant.
20 Lower joint 34 is also filled with a suitable material in the form of an adhesive, sealant,
   bonding agent, grout, thixotropic agent, paste, gel or similar, such as a fire retardant
   sealer, in the form of BOSTIK FIREBAN ONE T M . Joint 34 ranges in size from about
   2mm to about 30mm, preferably from about 4mm to 20mm, more preferably from
    10mm to 15mm.
25
   A backer rod or locking rod may be used optionally to fill joint 34 or to assist in sealing
   joint 34.
   In one embodiment, building panel 26 is spaced from studs 12 and insulation batt 22 to
30 form an insulation gap or space, such as a sound or noise deadening insulation space or
   gap 40. Gap 40 can have any suitable size, width or form. A typical spacing between
   the respective facing sides of the insulation layer batt 22 and building panel 26 is about
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               -  18
   35mm or similar. However, it is to be noted that the spacing can have any suitable or
   convenient spacing, such as for example, up to about 100mm or more.
   Building panel 26 can take any suitable form, size, shape type or the like. In one
 5 embodiment, panel 26 is a rectangular panel, typically made from a lightweight
   material, such as for example, a concrete or concrete like material including an artificial
   or synthetic concrete material. One preferred form is Autoclaved Aerated Concrete
   (AAC), such as for example, made and/or supplied by CSR Building Products Limited
   and sold under the CSR HEBEL@ name as a Power Panel@.
10
   In one embodiment, panel 26 is a rectangular 75mm thick HEBEL@ Power Panel
   provided with tongue and grooves along opposed edges allowing the panels to be
   interlockingly interconnected to adjacent or contiguous panels in edge-to-edge side-by
   side relationship along the respective longitudinal edges of the panels. It is to be noted
15 that a single HEBEL@ panel is of a size to extend substantially from floor slab 14 to
   ceiling slab 16, or more particularly from upper joint 32 to lower joint 34 to take
   account of the presence of upper bracket 28 and lower bracket 30 or other fitting for
   fixing panel 26 securely in place.
20 A first outer wall in the form of a first lining member, typically one or more
   plasterboard sheets 46, is aligned along studs 12 collectively to form an exterior
   covering for one side of wall 10 which is the side facing into room 4 by extending to a
   first distance from floor 14 in a direction near to ceiling 16. Multiple sheets of
   plasterboard 46 are connected to studs 12 collectively to form a covering for the side of
25 wall 10 facing into room 4. Multiple sheets of plasterboard 46 are connected to studs
   12 collectively by suitable fasteners, such as in the form of plasterboard nails, screws or
   specialised fasteners, to form the outer skin or outer wall surface of wall 10. Any
   number of sheets of plasterboard can be used and joined together in edge-to-edge
   relationship along the respective longitudinal edges and along the respective transverse
30 edges in the usual manner to cover studs 12 to form a covered part of the studs. The
   plasterboard sheets 46 can be finished in the usual manner.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                                - 19
   It is to be noted that in most buildings, two sheets of plasterboard 46, each about
   1200mm in height are arranged one on top of the other in edge-to-edge abutting
   relationship in alignment with each other to form a planar wall or outer surface of the
   wall, covering most but not all of the outer surfaces of wall 10 by not extending to the
 5 full height of wall 10, i.e. does not extend from slab to slab, so that there is an
   uncovered part or section 48 of the stud cavity wall located at or towards the top of
   studs 12 which is not covered by plasterboard sheets 46, but rather studs 12 and the
   layer of insulation 22 (if present) immediately below ceiling slab 16, are exposed, i.e.
   form uncovered part 48. This arrangement allows for easier and faster installation of
10 sheets of plasterboard 46 and construction of wall 10 since none of plasterboard sheets
   46 need to be cut to fit vertically between ceiling and floor to the full height of wall 10,
   as is usually required in conventional building construction techniques, but rather, an
   unfinished edge along the top edge of the upper plasterboard sheet can remain, and
   further the top of the plasterboard sheet does not need to be joined to the ceiling such as
15 for example, by forming a neat joint or neat cornice around the joint between the outer
   surface of plasterboard sheet 46 and the exposed surface of ceiling 16. Instead, a
   bulkhead 50 having a false ceiling 52, typically in the form of a ceiling box or similar,
   can be constructed to hide the uncovered part 48 of studs 12. In one embodiment, the
   ceiling box or bulkhead 50 has an end 54 depending downwardly, preferably vertically
20 downwards from ceiling slab 16 to form one end of the ceiling box 50. One form of
   end 54 is made from two layers. sheets of thicknesses of plasterboard having a
   preselected width or height laminated together to form the end of bulkhead 50, such as
   for example, two sheets or strips of 13mm thick fire treated plasterboard, such as CD
   plasterboard. In one embodiment, bulkhead 50 extends downwardly from ceiling slab
25 16 to a distance of about 400mm. One form of bulkhead 50 extends horizontally
   outward from studs 12 to a distance of about 1000mm or the like.
   It is to be noted that the use of fire rated materials to make bulkhead 50 allows wall
   structure 10 to be compliant with building regulations concerning the spread of fire and
30 noise transmission within rooms 4 and 6, even though the outer lining of plasterboard
   does not extend to the ceiling.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  20
   Although one form of bulkhead 50 is shown as being rectangular, any other suitable
   form is possible to suit the design of the building and/or room, including the exposed
   outer surfaces of the bulkhead being provided with decorative effects or architectural
   features.
 5
   In one embodiment, internal brackets 60 may be used to connect bulkhead 50,
   particularly false ceiling 52, to plasterboard sheet 46. In one embodiment, internal
   bracket 60 is a P50 connector which is an elongate strip of angle iron. In another form,
   bracket 60 is a generally C-shaped channel or section in which false ceiling 52 is
10 secured to one side of bracket 60 and the vertical stub of plasterboard 46 is connected to
   the web of bracket 60 as shown in the drawings.
   In one embodiment, on the other side of wall structure 10, in room 6, a second outer
   wall member in the form of a second lining member, typically one or more sheets of
15 plasterboard 64, are aligned along the outwardly facing side of building panel 26 for
   forming an exterior covering for the other side of wall 10 which side is the side facing
   into room 6 by extending a second distance from floor 14 to near to ceiling 16.
   Multiple sheets of plasterboard 64 are used to form the side of wall 10 facing into room
   6. Plasterboard sheets 64 are connected directly to the surface of building panel 26 by
20 any suitable means, such as for example, an adhesive, sealant, bonding agent, glue,
   fasteners or the like. Plasterboard lining 64, made from multiple individual sheets, does
   not extend to the full height of wall 10, but rather extends to a distance short of ceiling
   slab 16 only, leaving an upper part 66 of building panel 26 exposed and uncovered, thus
   forming an uncovered part 66 of panel 64, the remaining part of panel 26 being covered
25 by plasterboard 64 thus forming a covered part.
   A bulkhead 68 in the form of a false ceiling 70, such as a ceiling box, is formed on this
   side of wall 10 to enclose the exposed surface of uncovered part 66 of building panel 64
   as shown in the drawings. The arrangement of bulkhead 68 is the same as, or similar to
30 arrangement of bulkhead 50, by also having false ceiling 70 and a double plasterboard
   thickness end wall 72 of fire rated materials.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                               - 21
   It is to be noted that the height of plasterboard wall 64 is the same or different to the
   height of plasterboard wall section 46.
   In one or other forms of the wall structure, an aperture, typically in the form of an open
 5 return air grill 76, is optionally provided in the false ceiling of one or both bulkheads.
   In one embodiment, open return air grills 76 are cut into the false ceiling 52, 70 of each
   bulkhead 50, 68 adjacent to wall structure 10, such as for example, about 200mm away
   from wall 10. In one embodiment, open return air grill 76 has a size of about 600mm x
10 600mm. It is to be noted that even when two return air grills 76 are provided, one on
   either side of wall 10 in the respective bulkheads, wall 10 has acceptable sound
   transmission resistance to be compliant with the relevant building regulations, such as
   for example, performance which is complaint with Australian Standards AS2253 and
   AS 1276.
15
   Other arrangements of wall structure 10 having combinations of different numbers of
   different layers of different components are possible.
   One such structure is illustrated in Figure 3. One embodiment of the wall is wall
20 structure 110, as illustrated in Figure 3, comprises a stud cavity wall of studs 112
   forming the main support for wall 110. A plasterboard sheet outer lining 146 covering
   the outer surface of wall 110 in room 4, a first layer of insulation 122 located within the
   cavity wall formed by studs 112, forming one side of wall 110.
25 The other side of wall 110 includes building panel 126 secured in place between upper
   bracket 130 and lower bracket 132, with an air gap or space 140 being provided
   intermediate the opposed facing surfaces of insulation batt 122 and building panel 126.
   A second layer of insulation 180 is provided on the other side of panel 126 to air gap
30 140. A second layer of plasterboard sheet 164 is provided on the outboard side of
   insulation batt 180. All details of the construction of wall 110 are the same as or similar
   to the details of constructions of wall 10, as is the form and construction of both
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  22
   bulkheads 150, 168 with or without grills 176.
   A further embodiment of the wall structure is wall structure 210, as shown in Figure 4
   in which there is an air gap 240, 282 on either side of centrally located building panel
 5 226 and two spaced apart layers of insulation 222 and 280 on either side of wall 210, to
   provide additional sound deadening and noise abatement for rooms 4, 6.
   The remainder of the construction of wall 210 is the same or similar to that of wall 10.
10 In Figure 5, the construction of wall 10 of Figure 1 is shown in more detail, particularly
   showing the orientation of studs 12 forming the first inner wall members.
   SAMPLE ONE
15 A first test sample wall structure, referred to as Sample One, was constructed in
   accordance with the wall structure of Figure 1 between two adjacent rooms within a test
   chamber to simulate an internal dividing wall between two single occupant units to
   measure sound loss of the particular wall structure. Sample One wall structure was
   constructed using a 75mm thick CSR HEBEL@ Tongue and Groove "Power Panel" and
20 one row of 64mm wide steel studs forming a stud cavity wall with one layer of 13mm
   CD plasterboard fixed on both sides of the wall structure to form the outwardly facing
   linings of the wall. An insulation batt of 75mm thick 11kg/m 3 glass wool insulation
   was packed into the stud cavity. The gap between the stud cavity wall, particularly the
   surface of the insulation batt and the HEBEL@ Power Panel is 35mm. The dropped
25 plasterboard sheets on either side of the wall were fixed to the ceiling plasterboard of
   the bulkhead using a P50 angle iron strip located between the two sheets of
   plasterboard.
   The remaining perimeter of the wall was sealed on both sides using BOSTIK
30 FIREBAN ONETM polyurethane sealant. The construction of Sample One wall is in
   accordance with the wall structure illustrated in Figure 1.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  23
   The results of the test on Sample One are provided in Table 1. Table 1 shows that the
   test sample achieved an acoustic rating of Rw+ Ctr of 51.9 which is compliant with
   current Building Code of Australia (BCA) regulations for party walls in high rise
   residential buildings. It is to be noted that a typical acoustic rating, represented by R, is
 5 about 502-3 dB, including actual values in the range from 47 to 53 dB, such as for
   example 51.9 dB, 51 dB, 50.8 dB and the like.
   In one embodiment, the weighted sound reduction index, Rw, is a single number value
   expressed in decibels (dB) which describes the overall sound insulation performance or
10 sound reduction that the wall or floor provides. Note that sound pressure levels are
   usually expressed in decibels, with one decibel being the smallest change in sound
   pressure level or intensity (loudness) detectable by the human ear. Rw ratings are
   determined by laboratory testing. A sample of the wall or floor is constructed in an
   opening separating a source room (where sounds are generated at various frequencies)
15 from a receiver room, where the sound level is measured. The difference in sound level
   between the source room and receiver room represents the sound reduction or
   transmission loss, R, through the test specimen for that frequency, in decibels (dB).
   Measurements are conducted in one-third octave bands over frequencies typically from
   100 to 3,150 Hz. To determine the Rw value, the results for each frequency are plotted
20 on a diagram and a reference curve (from AS/NZS ISO 717.11) is positioned so that the
   sum of the differences at each test frequency under the reference curve is as large as
   possible but not more than 32 dB. Once the reference curve is correctly positioned, the
   sound reduction at 500 Hz is determined and this becomes the single-number Rw value.
   The procedure results in the sound reduction index being weighted to about the average
25 sound reduction in the middle of the human hearing range, with higher values indicating
   better performance.
   Weighted sound reduction index plus spectrum adaptation term (Rw + Ctr)
30 The spectrum adaptation term, Ctr, takes into account the performance of the building
   element in specifically reducing the transmission of low frequency sound. The term is
   calculated by combining the measured performance of the wall or floor element at
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  24
   various frequencies with a curve that represents a typical low frequency sound source
   (typically traffic noise and hence the 'tr' subscript). As most noise related issues
   involve the transmission of low frequency sounds from audio equipment, the BCA's
   sound insulation requirements generally include the Ctr term by setting a minimum Rw
 5 + Ctr value - typically 50 dB.
   SAMPLE TWO
   A second test sample wall structure, referred to as Sample Two, was constructed as
10 indicated above in connection with Sample One, except that a 600mm x 600mm
   opening in the form of a grille was provided in the false ceiling panel of the bulkhead
   on one side of the wall structure which side is the same side as the source of noise for
   the test. The grille was constructed to simulate the presence of an air conditioning
   return air duct or grille in the bulkhead of the wall.
15
   The wall structure of sample two is as illustrated in Figure 2 of the drawings showing a
   single air return grille.
   The results of the test on Sample Two are provided in Table 2. Table 2 shows that the
20 test sample achieved an acoustic rating of Rw + Ctr of 51.0 which is compliant with the
   current BCA regulations for party walls in high rise residential buildings.
   SAMPLE THREE
25 A third test sample wall structure, referred to as Sample Three, was constructed
   similarly as indicated above in respect of Sample One except that a 600mm x 600mm
   opening in the form of a grille was formed in the false ceilings of both bulkheads on
   either side of the wall structure to simulate an air conditioning return duct or grille on
   either side of the wall structure.
30
   The results of the Test on Sample Three are provided in Table 3. Table 3 shows that
   the test sample achieved an acoustic rating of Rw + Ctr of 50.8 which is compliant with
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                             - 25
   current BCA regulations for party walls in high rise residential buildings.
   ADVANTAGES
 5 Advantages of embodiments as disclosed herein include the following. Lower cost in
   constructing walls in comparison to current methods, less wastage in plasterboard
   materials resulting in less on-site waste materials, speed of construction due to modular
   use of Hebel@ panels and Gyprock@ panels.
10 Owing to the linings forming the exposed surfaces of the two walls of the wall structure
   not having to be cut to size or trimmed since the upper edges of the linings or either
   wall is covered by the enclosed bulkheads, the wall structure can be constructed in less
   time and at a lower cost.
15 The wall structure is compliant with the relevant sections of the Building Code of
   Australia relating to the transmission of sounds through internal walls.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                                                  -  26
SUMMARY OF RESULTS
                          TEST V4ESULT OF SAMPLjE!              n2ui
                  Wall Area!                         -m
                  Receiver Room Volume:            3t22m3
                         NZ101125 1E M2IM0    250 L  31 14001%0163 0NOCGX1250i51ICE                   !5
                       TL"IA 11I1111 13 14I1E]6064 67 17                                                 IZ
                                                                                                  31S7LE~I
                                                           TL olSampit I
                                                        10* .15                  ' i t
                        4n~
                                                                                tQ~t;   Js:
                                                                                      in-,  '-  ; -- kOi
                      1W    I25  1K0 2E   2M)  3r5   40   5NW ON    DM0 ION ff3    130 WO     2
                                                         Mwrodtati
52800761 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                                              -   27
                      TEST RESULT Of SAMPLE         -"T-i           I- .
                Wall Are;                       5Am'
                Receer Room Volume'             32.2mf
                    W    0 1251             250  32514001     00 630     800    112501      20025D   MsC
                       L  39 E5 39      47   503            o 5 55 60165       55   70 72    74   73  7n
                                                        TtSmas                     ass
                                  ..   wi-,EMU
                                     -'1*..                               EEE                            - 3
                    1} 125 10 2[] !!I       S15 45    5O  00l     8101DMGLS      IWONW   IN  31%
          IMftmred  Ratiria
                                                   R. = 59.3: C,,= -8.3; R. * C0,
                                                                                752
        (GHMatters)
5280076_1        P92694.AU.2

                                                           -28
                    TESTASSULT OSAPt~l-      C t
            Walt Area:                    .m
             Nacivt-om Vglwne:           322m'
             Ml1IM        US 110 2M0 250 M540D )S0f'3SGSN          J01211    600 2000 25CC 3
                                               7L-                I    Iwq
                                                               -A
                     gas<                             lW
                                           .  .. . ... ... .
               11DIf      125 IF* 2W0315  0M 50    6BM   K* K120    V0   tM 25M 59
        (GHMatters)
5280076_1        P92694.AU.2

                                                        - 29
       Table 4 summarises the results from the test performed on Samples One, Two and
       Three.
                                            Table 4 - Summary of Results
Sample                                    Test                                Rw       Ctr     Rw + Ctr
   1                Single stud system with plasterboard lining               60      -8.1      51.9
         terminating at the ceiling and unperforated bulkheads
                         plasterboard dropping with P50 joints
  2                 Single stud system with plasterboard lining              59.3     -8.3       51
          terminating at the ceiling and 600 x 600 open hole cut
               into the bulkhead on the Hebel side of the wall
                         plasterboard dropping with P50 joints
  3                 Single stud system with plasterboard lining              57.9     -7.1      50.8
         terminating at the ceiling and 600 xO 600 open hole cut
                   into the bulkhead on both sides of the wall
                         plasterboard dropping with P50 joints
     5
       The above results indicate that:
             *      All walls achieved the minimum R. + Ctr 50 requirement of the BCA.
             *      Cutting a (simulated) return air grille on the Hebel side of the wall had a
   10               measurable effect on the wall performance (0.9 points).
             *      Cutting a return air grille on the direct stick side of the wall had no measurable
                    effect on the wall performance.
       The tests conducted indicate that provided the ceilings adjacent to the walls are
   15  perforated in a manner that is typically undertaken in residential and hotel situations
       (i.e. light fittings and return air grilles) then the systems including plasterboard linings
       connected to Hebel wall panels which are terminated at the ceiling level with P50 joints
       between the ceiling and dropped plasterboard, form walls which will comply with the
       requirements of current BCA Part F5.
   20
       5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  30
   The described arrangement has been advanced by explanation and many modifications
   may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure, which
   disclosure includes every novel feature and novel combination of features herein
   disclosed.
 5
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the wall structure as described herein is
   susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. It is
   understood that the wall structure may include all such variations and modifications
   which fall within the spirit and scope of the disclosure.
10
   In the claims which follow, and in the preceding description, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   "comprise" and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence
15 or addition of further features in various embodiments of the wall structure as disclosed
   herein.
   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2

                                              -  37
                                             CLAIMS
   1.      A wall structure for a wall of a building, the wall structure comprising:
           a first inner wall member for providing support for the wall structure, the first
 5 inner wall member extending between a first level and a second level of the building,
           a second inner wall member extending substantially between the first level and
   the second level of the building,
           a first outer wall member connected to the first inner wall member for forming a
   covering for the first inner wall member, the first outer wall member extending in
10 alignment with the first inner wall member to a first distance in the direction between
   the first level and the second level to form a covered part of the first inner wall member
   and an uncovered part of the first inner wall member,
            a second outer wall member connected to the second inner wall member for
   forming a covering of the second inner wall member, said second outer wall member
15 extending in alignment with the second inner wall member to a second distance in the
   direction between the first level and the second level to form a covered part of the
   second inner wall member and an uncovered part of the second inner wall member,
            wherein the first distance and the second distance are both less than the distance
   between the first level and the second level of the building.
20
   2.      A wall structure of a building for dividing the one level of the building into first
   and second adjacent rooms, with the wall structure located intermediate the two
   adjacent rooms, the wall structure comprising:
            a frame member for forming the frame at a first side of the wall structure, the
25 frame member extending between a floor member of the first room and a ceiling
   member of the first room,
            a building component for forming a second side of the wall structure, the
   building component extending substantially from a floor member of the second room of
   the building to a ceiling member of the second room of the building, said building
30 component being capable of being securely fixed in place between the floor member
   and the ceiling member,
            a first lining member connected to the frame member for forming a first outer
   covering of the wall of the first room, the first lining member facing into the first room
                                                                    5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                              - 38
   and extending to a first distance between the floor member and the ceiling member of
   the first room to form a covered part of the frame member and an uncovered part of the
   frame member,
            a second lining member connected to the building component for forming an
 5 outer covering of the wall of the second room, the second lining member facing into the
   second room and extending to a second distance between the floor member and the
   ceiling member of the second room to form a covered part of the building component
   and an uncovered part of the building component,
            wherein the first distance and the second distance are both less than the distance
10 between the floor member and ceiling member of the respective rooms in which the
   first lining member and the second lining member are located.
   3.       A method of constructing a wall structure of a building, the method comprising:
            locating a first inner wall member at or towards a first side of the wall structure
15 to extend between a first level and a second level of the building,
            locating a second inner wall member at or towards a second side of the wall
   structure to extend substantially between the first level and the second level of the
   building and securely fixing the second inner wall member in place between the first
   level and the second level,
20          locating a first outer wall member in alignment with the first inner wall member
   and connecting the first outer wall member to the first inner wall member so that the
   first outer wall member extends to a first distance in the direction between the first level
   and the second level to form a covered part of the first inner wall member and an
   uncovered part of the first inner wall member,
25          locating a second outer wall member in alignment with the second inner wall
   member and connecting the second outer wall member to the second inner wall member
   to extend to a second distance in the direction between the first level and the second
   level to form a covered part of the second inner wall member and an uncovered part of
   the second inner wall member,
30          wherein the first distance and the second distance are both less than the distance
   between the first level and the second level, thereby forming a wall structure having
   part of the first inner wall member uncovered and part of the second inner wall member
                                                                     5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                               - 39
   uncovered.
   4.       A method of constructing a wall structure of a building for forming a dividing
   wall between a first room and a second room in side-by-side relationship to each other
 5 at the same level of the building, the method comprising:
            locating a frame member for forming the frame or support of the wall structure
   at a first side of the wall structure to extend between a floor member and a ceiling
   member of the first room,
            locating a building component for forming a second side of the wall structure
10 and securing the building component in place using a connector so that the building
   component extends substantially between the floor member and the ceiling member of
   the second room,
            locating a first lining member in alignment with the frame member and
   connecting the first lining member to the frame member so that the lining member faces
15 into the first room and extends to a first distance along the frame member to form a
   covered part of the frame member and an uncovered part of the frame member,
            locating a second lining member in alignment with the building component and
   connecting the second lining member to the building component so as to face into the
   second room and to extend to a second distance along the building component between
20 the floor and the ceiling to form a covered part of the building component and an
   uncovered part of the building component
            wherein the first distance and the second distance are both less than the distance
   between the floor and the ceiling of the first and second rooms.
25 5.       A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which at least
   one of the first inner wall member and second inner wall member is a light weight
   building panel or block made from Autoclaved Aerated Concrete (AAC) including
   reinforced AAC panels.
30 6.       A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
   an air gap or air space between one or other of the inner or outer layers, preferably
   located between the two inner wall members or between the inner and outer wall
   members or both in between the two inner wall members and between the inner and
                                                                    5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                              -  40
   outer wall members on either side of the wall structure.
   7.       A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the first
   inner wall member is a structural member being a load bearing member including a
 5 frame member such as a frame member in the form of a stud for forming an internal
   stud wall.
   8.       A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
   frame member is a metal stud or a wooden or timber stud.
10
   9.       A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the stud
   is of an open cross section, typically in the form of a C shaped section or H shaped
   section in cross section having one or more open faces in the form of channels.
15 10.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the stud
   extends from the floor slab to the ceiling slab and is firmly secured or fixed to the floor
   slab at one end and is securely fixed to the ceiling slab at the other end.
   11.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
20 second inner wall member is in the form of a slab, block, sheet or similar of AAC
   including reinforced AAC.
   12.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
   second inner wall member comprises a multitude of light weight building panels
25 arranged in edge to edge abutting relationship to each other.
   13.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the first
   outer wall member is a covering member in the form of a panel, partition, cladding,
   facade, sheet, board, lining, or similar located on the outer surface of the first inner wall
30 member.
   14.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
   lining is made from plasterboard, including fire rated plasterboard, such as 13mm thick
   CD plasterboard.
35
   15.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
   at least one bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity.
                                                                     5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                              -  41
   16.      A wall structure according to claim 15 in which the at least one bulkhead,
   ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity encloses at least the uncovered part of the
   inner wall member not covered by the outer wall member.
 5
   17.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
   second outer wall is made from the same material as the first outer wall.
   18.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the first
10 distance and the second distance are the same distance or are different distances to each
   other.
   19.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
   a layer of insulation located within the wall structure including being located within the
15 stud wall formed by the frame member or being located in an air space or gap between
   the first and second inner wall members.
   20.      A wall structure for a wall of a building, the wall structure comprising:
            a first inner wall member for providing support for the wall structure, the first
20 inner wall member extending between a first level and a second level of the building,
            a second inner wall member extending substantially between the first level and
   the second level,
            a first outer wall member connected to the first inner wall member for forming a
   covering for the first inner wall member, the first outer wall member extending in
25 alignment with the first inner wall member to a first distance in the direction between
   the first level and the second level to form a covered part of the first inner wall member
   and an uncovered part of the first inner wall member,
            a second outer wall member connected to the second inner wall member for
   forming a cover of the second inner wall member, said second outer wall member
30 extending in alignment with the second inner wall member to a second distance in the
   direction between the first level and the second level to form a covered part of the
   second inner wall member and an uncovered part of the second inner wall member,
            wherein the first distance and the second distance are both less than the distance
   between the first level and the second level, to allow a part of the first inner wall
                                                                      5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                               -  42
   member to remain uncovered by the first outer wall member and a part of the second
   inner wall member to remain uncovered by the second outer wall member.
   21.      A wall structure according to claim 20 further comprising:
 5          a first bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity located at or towards
   the first level of the building on one side of the wall structure, and
            a second bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity located at or
   towards the first level of the building on the other side of the wall structure,
            the first bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity extending from the
10 second level to contact the first outer wall member to cover a part of the first outer wall
   member,
            the second bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity extending from
   the first level to contact the second outer wall member to cover a part of the second
   outer wall member,
15          the first bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity forming a first
   cavity with the first inner wall member at or towards one end thereof, and
            the second bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity forming a
   second cavity with the second inner wall member at or towards one end thereof.
20 22.      A wall structure according to claim 21 wherein the first bulkhead, ceiling box,
   false ceiling, or ceiling cavity extends with respect to the first outer wall member to a
   distance greater than the uncovered part of the first inner wall member to cover the
   uncovered part of first inner wall member, and
            wherein the second bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity extends
25 with respect to the second outer wall member to a distance greater than the uncovered
   part of the second inner wall member to cover the uncovered part of the second inner
   wall member.
   23.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
30 at least one gap or space intermediate the first inner wall member and the second inner
   wall member, wherein the gap is from about 2mm up to about 130mm or greater.
   24.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
                                                                       5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                              -  43
   a third inner wall member in which the first inner wall member is located intermediate
   the second and third inner wall members in which at least two of the first inner wall
   member, the second inner wall member and the third inner wall member, is a
   lightweight building panel, preferably a building panel of Autoclaved Aerated Concrete
 5 (AAC).
   25.      A wall structure of a building for dividing the one level of the building into a
   first and a second adjacent room with the wall structure located intermediate the two
   adjacent rooms, the wall structure comprising:
10          a frame member for forming the frame at a first side of the wall structure, the
   frame member extending between a floor member of the first room and a ceiling
   member of the first room,
            a building component for forming a second side of the wall structure, the
   building component extending substantially from a floor member of the second room of
15 the building to a ceiling member of the second room of the building, said building
   component being capable of being securely fixed in place between the floor member
   and the ceiling member,
            a first lining member connected to the frame member for forming a first outer
   covering of the wall of the first room, the first lining member facing into the first room
20 and extending to a first distance between the floor member and the ceiling member of
   the first room, to form a covered part of the frame member and an uncovered part of the
   frame member,
            a second lining member connected to the building component for forming an
   outer covering of the wall of the second room, the second lining member facing into the
25 second room and extending to a second distance between the floor member and the
   ceiling member of the second room to form a covered part of the building component
   and an uncovered part of the building component,
            wherein the first distance and the second distance are both less than the distance
   between the floor member and ceiling member of the respective rooms.
30
   26.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the first
   distance and/or the second distance is from close to the floor of the room to less than
   the level of the ceiling slab but greater than the level to which the bulkhead or false
   ceiling extends along the respective outer surface of the wall structure.
35
   27.      A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
                                                                     5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                             -  44
   covered part of the first and/or second inner wall member corresponds to the height or
   width of two sheets of plaster board stacked in edge to edge abutting relationship, such
   as each sheet of plaster board having a width or height of about 1200mm.
 5 28.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
   bulkhead or ceiling box depends downwardly from the ceiling to a greater extent than
   the length of the uncovered part of the first and/or second inner wall members.
   29.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the wall
10 structure has an acoustic rating R= Rw + Ctr in the range of about 502-3 in which Rw
   represents the weighted sound reduction index which is a single value expressed in
   decibels (dB) and Ctr represents a spectrum adaptation term relating to the transmission
   of sound, particularly low frequency sound through the wall structure.
15 30.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims having a sound
   reduction or transmission loss of sound R of about 502-3 dB calculated in accordance
   with AS/NZS ISO 717.11 standard.
   31.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the first
20 and/or second outer wall member is two outer wall sheets arranged in edge to edge
   abutting relationship wherein the two sheets in abutting relationship extend to a distance
   corresponding to the covered part of the respective inner wall.
   32.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which studs
25 having an open cross-section in the form of a channel and are arranged in back to back
   relationship to each other to present open channels on two opposed sides of the one
   stud.
   33.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the first
30 level corresponds to the level of the floor of the room and the second level corresponds
   to the level of the ceiling of the room.
   34.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which there is a
   gap or space between the lower end in use of the first or second inner wall members and
35 the floor on which the wall structure is constructed wherein the or each gap or space is
   from about 2mm to about 20mm, more preferably from about 5mm to about 15mm,
   most preferably from about 10mm to about 15mm.
                                                                   5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                              -  45
   35.     A wall structure according to any one of the preceding claims in which the
   frequency of noise attenuated by the wall structure is in the range from about 40 to
   200Hz.
 5
   36.     A wall structure for a wall of a building, the wall structure comprising:
           a first inner wall member for extending between a floor and a ceiling of the
   building,
           a first outer wall member for covering the first inner wall member, the first outer
10 wall member in use extending substantially from the floor to a first distance that is less
   than the distance between the floor and the ceiling,
           a first bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity to be spaced in use
   from the ceiling so as to cover a part of an outward face of the first outer wall member,
           a second inner wall member extending substantially between the floor and the
15 ceiling of the building,
           a second outer wall member for covering the second inner wall member, the
   second outer wall member in use extending substantially from the floor to a second
   distance that is less than the distance between the floor and the ceiling,
           a second bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity to be spaced in
20 use from the ceiling so as to cover a part of an outward face of the second outer wall
   member.
   37.     A wall structure for a wall of a building, the wall structure comprising:
           a first inner wall member for extending between a floor and a ceiling of the
25 building,
           a first outer wall member for covering the first inner wall member,
           a second inner wall member extending substantially between the floor and the
   ceiling of the building,
           a second outer wall member for covering the second inner wall member,
30         wherein the second inner wall member comprises a slab, block, sheet or the like
   of AAC, optionally reinforced AAC.
   38.     A wall structure according to claim 37, the wall structure further comprising:
                                                                      5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

                                              -  46
           a first bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity to be spaced in use
   from the ceiling so as to cover a part of an outward face of the first outer wall member,
           a second bulkhead, ceiling box, false ceiling, or ceiling cavity to be spaced in
   use from the ceiling so as to cover a part of an outward face of the second outer wall
 5 member.
   39.     A wall structure according to claim 37 or 38, wherein the first outer wall
   member in use extends substantially from the floor to a first distance that is less than the
   distance between the floor and the ceiling, and
10         wherein the second outer wall member in use extends substantially from the
   floor to a second distance that is less than the distance between the floor and the ceiling.
                                                                      5280076_1 (GHMatters) P92694.AU.2 28/06/18

<removed-date>
                                       1/5
                                                                          2
                                  32
                                            28   18                  16
                             36
<removed-apn>
                                                      12                               54
                            66                                  48
                                                           60
              72
                       70                                       52
                                                                              50
              68
                             64
                                                                     10
                                                      46                           2
                                                                              4
                   6
                                                           12
                             26
                                                       22
                                                                     14
                                       30
                             34                  40   20
                                  FIGURE 1

<removed-date>
                                        2/5
                                                                            2
                                  32
                                            28    18                   16
                             36
<removed-apn>
                                                       12                                54
                            66                                    48
                                                             60
              72
                       70                              52
                                                                  76                50
              68
                             64
                                                                       10
                                                        46                           2
                                                                                4
                   6
                                                             12
                             26
                                                            22
                                                                   14
                                       30
                             34                   40   20
                                       FIGURE 2

<removed-date>
                                  3/5
                                        130
<removed-apn>
                                                      176   150
              168                             112
                                                146
                                                      110
                6
                                                        4
                    164
                                                122
                                                140
                     180
                                        132
                           126
                                 FIGURE 3

<removed-date>
                                4/5
                                                     216
<removed-apn>
                                                      210
              6
                                                       4
                                               222
                  280
                                                       214
                        282   226
                              FIGURE 4   240

<removed-date>
                          5/5
                                   22
<removed-apn>
                                             12
              66
                                                  46
              64
                                                       26
                   22
                                        40        30
                         20
                        FIGURE 5

