Abstract
The invention is directed to a particulate composition adapted for forming a bone graft
substitute cement upon mixing with an aqueous solution, a bone graft substitute cement
 made therefrom, a bone graft substitute kit comprising the particulate composition,
 methods of making and using the particulate composition, and articles made from the bone
graft substitute cement.
The particulate composition of the invention comprises calcium sulfate hemihydrate (CSH)
 powder of at least 50wt% based on total weight of the particulate composition in
combination with p-tricalcium phosphate (p-TCP) powder or granules with a porous
morphology, and typically also in combination with a brushite-forming calcium phosphate
 mixture (i.e. monocalcium phosphate monohydrate (MCMP), non-porous P-TCP granules
and/or non-porous p-TCP powder), in modulating/reducing resorption rate of the cement as
compared to a cement composition solely comprising calcium sulfate hemihydrate. Upon
 mixing the particulate composition with an aqueous mixing solution comprising water which
 may include additives selected from sodium chloride, glycolic acid among others, a hardened
triphasic cement comprising brushite and calcium sulfate dihydrate (CSD) is typically formed.
The particulate composition includes accelerant particles for conversion of CSH to CSD, as
well as the cement formed will become a highly porous matrix of calcium phosphate due to
relatively quick resorption rate of CSH whilst providing excellent scaffolding for bone
ingrowth. The specific powder component ratios, the use of porous P-TCP, and/or the use of
a mixing solution comprising sodium chloride in the glycolic acid solution contribute, at least
in part, to the enhanced setting properties of the bone graft substitute here.

        WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
                      MULTIPHASIC BONE GRAFT SUBSTITUTE MATERIAL
                                        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The invention is directed to a particulate composition adapted for forming a bone graft
  substitute cement upon mixing with an aqueous solution, a bone graft substitute cement made
  therefrom, a bone graft substitute kit comprising the particulate composition, methods of making
  and using the particulate composition, and articles made from the bone graft substitute cement.
                                      BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Defects in bone structure arise in a variety of circumstances, such as trauma, disease, and
  surgery. There is a need for effective repair of bone defects in various surgical fields, including
  maxillo-craniofacial, periodontics, and orthopedics. Numerous natural and synthetic materials and
  compositions have been used to stimulate healing at the site of a bone defect. As with compositions
  used to repair other types of tissue, the biological and mechanical properties of a bone repair
  material are critical in determining the effectiveness and suitability of the material in any particular
  application.
           After blood, bone is the second most commonly transplanted material. Autologous
  cancellous bone has long been considered the most effective bone repair material, since it is both
   osteoinductive and non-immunogenic. However, adequate quantities of autologous cancellous bone
   are not available under all circumstances, and donor site morbidity and trauma are serious
   drawbacks to this approach. The use of allograft bone avoids the problem of creating a second
   surgical site in the patient, but suffers from some disadvantages of its own. For instance, allograft
D  bone typically has a lower osteogenic capacity than autograft bone, a higher resorption rate, creates
   less revascularization at the site of the bone defect, and typically results in a greater immunogenic
   response. The transfer of certain diseases is also a danger when using allografts.
           To avoid the problems associated with autograft and allograft bone, considerable research
   has been conducted in the area of synthetic bone substitute materials that can be used in lieu of
5  natural bone. For example, various compositions and materials comprising demineralized bone
   matrix, calcium phosphate, and calcium sulfate have been proposed.
   Cements comprising calcium sulfate have a long history of use as bone graft substitutes. Modern
   surgical grade calcium sulfate cements offer high initial strength, good handling properties, and are
   consistently replaced by bone in many applications. However, calcium sulfate cements are
0  characterized by relatively rapid resorption by the body, which can be undesirable in certain
   applications.
                                                      -1-

        WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
          Hydroxyapatite is one of the most commonly used calcium phosphates in bone graft
  materials. Its structure is similar to the mineral phase of bone and it exhibits excellent
  biocompatibility. However, hydroxyapatite has an extremely slow resorption rate that may be
  unsuitable in certain applications. Other calcium phosphate materials have also been used in the art,
  such as [-tricalcium phosphate, which exhibits a faster resorption rate than hydroxyapatite, but has
  less mechanical strength. Certain calcium phosphate materials that set in situ have also been
  attempted, such as mixtures of tetracalcium phosphate and dicalcium phosphate anhydrate or
  dihydrate, which react to form hydroxyapatite when mixed with an aqueous solution.
           The presently available synthetic bone repair materials do not present ideal functional
  characteristics for all bone graft applications. As noted above, some compositions exhibit a
  resorption rate that is either too slow or too rapid. Further, many bone graft cements are difficult to
  implant because they fail to set or cannot be injected. Other drawbacks are inadequate strength and
  difficulty in adding biologically active substances for controlled release. Furthermore, certain bone
  graft cements developed to address these concerns fail to completely set (harden) in the presence of
  particular additives. For these reasons, there remains a need in the art for bone graft cement
  compositions that combine a desirable resorption rate with high mechanical strength, ease of
  handling, osteoconductivity, and workable set time even in the presence of additives.
                                BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides a particulate composition adapted for forming a bone graft
  substitute cement upon mixing with an aqueous solution, as well as a hardened bone graft substitute
  cement made therefrom. The invention also relates to kits comprising the particulate composition,
  and methods of making and using the composition. In some embodiments, the particulate
  composition of the invention comprises a calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder in combination with
5 calcium phosphate granules with a porous morphology, and typically also in combination with a
  brushite-forming calcium phosphate mixture. Upon mixing the particulate composition with an
   aqueous mixing solution, a hardened triphasic cement comprising brushite and calcium sulfate
   dihydrate is typically formed. The calcium sulfate dihydrate provides good mechanical strength
   and, due to its relatively fast resorption rate, is rapidly replaced with bone tissue in the resulting
0  cement, while the brushite serves to reduce the overall resorption rate of the cement as compared to
   a cement composition solely comprising calcium sulfate dihydrate. Certain embodiments of the
  bone substitute cement of the invention exhibit high mechanical strength, such as high compressive
   strength and diametral tensile strength, set into a hardened composition within a reasonable period
   of time, facilitate development of high quality bone at the site of the bone defect, and exhibit
                                                         -2-

       WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
  acceptable handling characteristics. In certain embodiments, the bone substitute cement of the
  invention is capable of hardening and setting in the presence of biological additives.
           In one aspect of the present invention is provided a particulate composition adapted for
  forming a bone graft substitute cement upon mixing with an aqueous solution, comprising: i) a
  calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is present at a
  concentration of at least about 50 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate
  composition; ii) a monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder; iii) a non-porous          p-tricalcium
  phosphate powder; and iv) a porous     p-tricalcium  phosphate powder.
           The calcium sulfate hemihydrate can be, for example, a-calcium sulfate hemihydrate. In
  certain embodiments, the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is present at a concentration of at least about
  70 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition. The calcium sulfate
  hemihydrate can, in certain embodiments, have a bimodal particle distribution. The calcium sulfate
  hemihydrate may have a median particle size of about 5 microns to about 20 microns, for example.
  In some embodiments, the calcium sulfate hemihydrate has a bimodal particle distribution
  comprising about 30 to about 60 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 1.0 to about
  3.0 microns and about 40 to about 70 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 20 to
  about 30 microns, based on the total volume of the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder.
           The porous  p-tricalcium phosphate    powder can be present, for example, at a concentration
  of between about 5 and about 15 weight percent. In some embodiments, the porous         p-tricalcium
  phosphate powder exhibits a bimodal particle size distribution. For example, in certain
  embodiments, the porous     p-tricalcium phosphate powder comprises less than 50% by weight of
  particles having a particle size up to about 63 microns and greater than 50% by weight of particles
  having a particle size greater than about 63 microns. In certain embodiments, the porous p
  tricalcium phosphate powder comprises about 25% by weight of particles having a particle size up
5 to about 63 microns and about 75% by weight of particles having a particle size greater than about
  63 microns.
           The non-porous P-tricalcium phosphate powder can have, for example, a median particle
  size of less than about 20 microns. In some embodiments, the non-porous       p-tricalcium  phosphate
  powder has a bimodal particle size distribution comprising about 30 to about 70 volume percent of
) particles having a mode of about 2.0 to about 6.0 microns and about 30 to about 70 volume percent
  of particles having a mode of about 40 to about 70 microns based on the total volume of the      p
  tricalcium phosphate powder. In some embodiments, the f-tricalcium phosphate powder has a
  bimodal particle size distribution comprising about 50 to about 65 volume percent of particles
  having a mode of about 4.0 to about 5.5 microns and about 35 to about 50 volume percent of
                                                      -3-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
particles having a mode of about 60 to about 70 microns based on the total volume of the     p
tricalcium phosphate powder.
         Various other components can be incorporated within the compositions described herein.
For example, in some embodiments, the particulate composition can further comprise non-porous
p-tricalcium  phosphate granules having a median particle size of at least about 75 microns (e.g.,
having a median particle size of about 75 to about 1,000 microns). The non-porous P-tricalcium
phosphate granules can be, for example, present at a concentration of up to about 20 weight percent
based on the total weight of the particulate composition or present at a concentration of up to about
12 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
         The particulate composition can, in some embodiments, further comprise an accelerant
adapted for accelerating the conversion of calcium sulfate hemihydrate to calcium sulfate dihydrate.
For example, the accelerant can be selected from the group consisting of calcium sulfate dihydrate
particles, potassium sulfate particles, and sodium sulfate particles, wherein the accelerant is
optionally coated with sucrose. In some embodiments, the accelerant may be present at a
concentration of up to about 1 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate
composition.
         In one specific embodiment is provided a particulate composition adapted for forming a
bone graft substitute cement upon mixing with an aqueous solution, comprising: i) a calcium
sulfate hemihydrate powder having a bimodal particle distribution and a median particle size of
about 5 to about 20 microns, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is present at a concentration
of at least about 70 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition; ii) a
monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder; iii) a non-porous         p-tricalcium phosphate powder
having a median particle size of less than about 20 microns, the monocalcium phosphate
monohydrate powder and the non-porous -tricalcium phosphate powder being present at a
combined concentration of about 3 to about 20 weight percent based on the total weight of the
particulate composition; iv) non-porous P-tricalcium phosphate granules having a median particle
size of at least about 75 microns and present at a concentration of up to about 20 weight percent
based on the total weight of the particulate composition; v) porous   p-tricalcium  phosphate powder,
in an amount of up to about 15 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate
composition; and vi) an accelerant adapted for accelerating the conversion of calcium sulfate
hemihydrate to calcium sulfate dehydrate, the accelerant being present at a concentration of up to
about 1 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
         In another specific embodiment is provided a particulate composition adapted for forming a
bone graft substitute cement upon mixing with an aqueous solution, comprising: i) an a-calcium
                                                  -4-

      WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
sulfate hemihydrate powder having a bimodal particle distribution and a median particle size of
about 5 to about 20 microns, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is present at a concentration
of at least about 70 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition, and
wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder has a bimodal particle distribution comprising
about 30 to about 60 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 1.0 to about 3.0 microns
and about 40 to about 70 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 20 to about 30
microns, based on the total volume of the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder; ii) a monocalcium
phosphate monohydrate powder; iii) a -tricalcium phosphate powder having a median particle size
of less than about 20 microns, the monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder and the p
tricalcium phosphate powder being present at a combined concentration of about 3 to about 20
weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition; iv)      p-tricalcium  phosphate
granules having a median particle size of about 100 to about 400 microns and present at a
concentration of up to about 12 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate
composition; v) porous     p-tricalcium phosphate   powder, in an amount of up to about 15 weight
percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition, wherein the porous       p-tricalcium
phosphate powder comprises less than 50% by weight of particles having a particle size up to
about 63 microns and greater than 50% by weight of particles having a particle size greater than
about 63 microns; and vi) an accelerant adapted for accelerating the conversion of calcium sulfate
hemihydrate to calcium sulfate dihydrate, the accelerant being present at a concentration of up to
about 1 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
         The particulate compositions described herein can, in some embodiments, further comprise
a biologically active agent. Exemplary biologically active agents that can be useful in the
compositions include, but are not limited to, the group consisting of cancellous bone chips, growth
factors, antibiotics, pesticides (e.g., antifungal agents and antiparasitic agents), chemotherapeutic
agents, antivirals, analgesics, and anti-inflammatory agents. In some embodiments, the optional
biologically active agent comprises bone marrow aspirate. In some embodiments, the optional
biologically active agent comprises a growth factor selected from the group consisting of fibroblast
growth factors, platelet-derived growth factors, bone morphogenic proteins, osteogenic proteins,
transforming growth factors, LIM mineralization proteins, osteoid-inducing factors, angiogenins,
endothelins; growth differentiation factors, ADMP-1, endothelins, hepatocyte growth factor and
keratinocyte growth factor, heparin-binding growth factors, hedgehog proteins, interleukins,
colony-stimulating factors, epithelial growth factors, insulin-like growth factors, cytokines,
osteopontin, and osteonectin.
         The properties of the particulate compositions described herein upon mixing with an
                                                     -5-

        WO 2015/089373                                                              PCT/US2014/069963
  aqueous solution can vary. For example, in some embodiments, the particulate composition has a
  Vicat set time upon mixing with an aqueous solution of about 3 to about 8 minutes. In some
  embodiments, the particulate composition has a Gillmore set time upon mixing with an aqueous
  solution of about 6 to about 20 minutes.
            In another aspect of the invention is provided a bone graft substitute cement comprising the
  reaction product formed by mixing a particulate composition as described herein with an aqueous
  solution, the reaction product comprising calcium sulfate dehydrate and brushite. The resulting
  cement can, in some embodiments, be cast in a predetermined shape (e.g., including, but not
  limited to, a pellet, granule, wedge, block, or disk). The makeup of the aqueous solution with
  which the particulate compositions are mixed can vary. For example, in some embodiments, the
  aqueous solution comprises a carboxylic acid (e.g., including, but not limited to, a hydroxy
  carboxylic acid, such as glycolic acid). In some embodiments, the carboxylic acid can be
  neutralized to a pH of about 6.5 to about 7.5. In certain embodiments, the aqueous solution further
  comprises sodium chloride. For example, in some embodiments, the aqueous solution comprises
  both a carboxylic acid and sodium chloride.
            In another aspect of the present invention is provided a bone graft substitute kit, comprising
  one or more containers enclosing a particulate composition as described herein, a separate container
  enclosing a sterile aqueous solution, and a written instruction set describing a method of using said
  kit. The bone graft substitute kit may optionally further comprise a mixing apparatus adapted for
  mixing the particulate composition and the aqueous solution. The bone graft substitute kit may
   optionally further comprise a delivery device adapted for delivering a bone graft substitute cement
  mixture to the site of a bone defect, such as a Jamshidi needle. In certain embodiments, a portion
   of the particulate composition is enclosed in a first syringe and a portion of the particulate
   composition is enclosed in a second syringe, and the kit further includes a syringe connector
5  adapted to connect the first and second syringe such that the contents of each syringe can be mixed.
   In still further embodiments, the kit includes at least one syringe containing at least a portion of the
   particulate composition and a vial adaptor adapted to connect the syringe to the container enclosing
   the sterile aqueous solution.
             In a still further aspect of the invention is provided a method for treating a bone defect,
)  comprising applying a bone graft substitute cement as described herein to the site of the bone
   defect.
             The invention includes, without limitation, the following embodiments.
             Embodiment 1: A particulate composition adapted for forming a bone graft substitute
   cement upon mixing with an aqueous solution, comprising:
                                                          -6-

        WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
          i) a calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is present
  at a concentration of at least about 50 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate
  composition;
           ii) a monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder;
           iii) a non-porous   p-tricalcium  phosphate powder; and
          iv) a porous  p-tricalcium phosphate powder.
          Embodiment 2: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is present at a concentration of at least about 70 weight
  percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
          Embodiment 3: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder has a bimodal particle distribution.
          Embodiment 4: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder has a median particle size of about 5 to about 20
  microns.
          Embodiment 5: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  wherein the non-porous     p-tricalciumn  phosphate powder has a median particle size of less than about
  20 microns.
          Embodiment 6: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  wherein the porous    p-tricalcium   phosphate powder exhibits a bimodal particle size distribution.
          Embodiment 7: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  wherein the porous    p-tricalcium phosphate powder comprises less than 50% by weight of particles
  having a particle size up to about 63 microns and greater than 50% by weight of particles having a
  particle size greater than about 63 microns.
          Embodiment 8: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
5 wherein the porous    p-tricalcium   phosphate powder comprises about 25% by weight of particles
  having a particle size up to about 63 microns and about 75% by weight of particles having a
  particle size greater than about 63 microns.
          Embodiment 9: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  further comprising non-porous f-tricalcium phosphate granules having a median particle size of at
D least about 75 microns.
           Embodiment 10: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
  wherein the non-porous      p-tricalcium phosphate granules have a median particle size of about 75 to
  about 1,000 microns.
           Embodiment 11: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
                                                       -7-

     WO 2015/089373                                                         PCT/US2014/069963
wherein the non-porous P-tricalcium phosphate granules are present at a concentration of up to
about 20 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
        Embodiment 12: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the non-porous P-tricalcium phosphate granules are present at a concentration of up to
about 12 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
        Embodiment 13: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is a-calcium sulfate hemihydrate.
        Embodiment 14: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder has a bimodal particle distribution comprising
about 30 to about 60 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 1.0 to about 3.0 microns
and about 40 to about 70 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 20 to about 30
microns, based on the total volume of the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder.
        Embodiment 15: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the porous P-tricalcium phosphate powder is present at a concentration of between about 5
and about 15 weight percent.
        Embodiment 16: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the non-porous   p-tricalcium phosphate powder has a bimodal particle size distribution
comprising about 30 to about 70 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 2.0 to about
6.0 microns and about 30 to about 70 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 40 to
about 70 microns based on the total volume of the non-porous 1-tricalcium phosphate powder
        Embodiment 17: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the non-porous   p-tricalcium  phosphate powder has a bimodal particle size distribution
comprising about 50 to about 65 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 4.0 to about
5.5 microns and about 35 to about 50 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 60 to
about 70 microns based on the total volume of the non-porous     -tricalcium phosphate powder.
        Embodiment 18: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
further comprising an accelerant adapted for accelerating the conversion of calcium sulfate
hemihydrate to calcium sulfate dihydrate.
        Embodiment 19: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the accelerant is selected from the group consisting of calcium sulfate dihydrate particles,
potassium sulfate particles, and sodium sulfate particles, wherein the accelerant is optionally coated
with sucrose.
        Embodiment 20: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the accelerant is present at a concentration of up to about 1 weight percent based on the
                                                  -8-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
total weight of the particulate composition.
        Embodiment 21: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
comprising:
         i) a calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder having a bimodal particle distribution and a
median particle size of about 5 to about 20 microns, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is
present at a concentration of at least about 70 weight percent based on the total weight of the
particulate composition;
          ii) a monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder;
         iii) a non-porous   p-tricalcium  phosphate powder having a median particle size of less than
about 20 microns, the monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder and the non-porous             p
tricalcium phosphate powder being present at a combined concentration of about 3 to about 20
weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition;
         iv) non-porous    p-tricalcium  phosphate granules having a median particle size of at least
about 75 microns and present at a concentration of up to about 20 weight percent based on the total
weight of the particulate composition;
         v) porous P-tricalcium phosphate powder, in an amount of up to about 15 weight percent
based on the total weight of the particulate composition; and
         vi) an accelerant adapted for accelerating the conversion of calcium sulfate hemihydrate to
calcium sulfate dihydrate, the accelerant being present at a concentration of up to about 1 weight
percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
         Embodiment 22: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
 comprising:
         i) an a-calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder having a bimodal particle distribution and a
median particle size of about 5 to about 20 microns, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is
present at a concentration of at least about 70 weight percent based on the total weight of the
particulate composition, and wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder has a bimodal
particle distribution comprising about 30 to about 60 volume percent of particles having a mode of
 about 1.0 to about 3.0 microns and about 40 to about 70 volume percent of particles having a mode
 of about 20 to about 30 microns, based on the total volume of the calcium sulfate hemihydrate
powder;
          ii) a monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder;
         iii) a p-tricalcium  phosphate powder having a median particle size of less than about 20
 microns, the monocalcium phosphate monohydrate powder and the         p-tricalcium  phosphate powder
 being present at a combined concentration of about 3 to about 20 weight percent based on the total
                                                     -9-

     WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
weight of the particulate composition;
         iv) p-tricalcium   phosphate granules having a median particle size of about 100 to about 400
microns and present at a concentration of up to about 12 weight percent based on the total weight of
the particulate composition;
        v) porous   p-tricalcium phosphate powder, in an amount of up to about 15 weight percent
based on the total weight of the particulate composition, wherein the porous    p-tricalcium phosphate
powder comprises less than 50% by weight of particles having a particle size up to about 63
microns and greater than 50% by weight of particles having a particle size greater than about 63
microns; and
        vi) an accelerant adapted for accelerating the conversion of calcium sulfate hemihydrate to
calcium sulfate dihydrate, the accelerant being present at a concentration of up to about 1 weight
percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
        Embodiment 23: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
further comprising a biologically active agent.
        Embodiment 24: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the biologically active agent is selected from the group consisting of cancellous bone
chips, growth factors, antibiotics, pesticides, chemotherapeutic agents, antivirals, analgesics, and
anti-inflammatory agents.
         Embodiment 25: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the biologically active agent is bone marrow aspirate.
         Embodiment 26: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the biologically active agent is a growth factor selected from the group consisting of
fibroblast growth factors, platelet-derived growth factors, bone morphogenic proteins, osteogenic
proteins, transforming growth factors, LIM mineralization proteins, osteoid-inducing factors,
angiogenins, endothelins; growth differentiation factors, ADMP-1, endothelins, hepatocyte growth
factor and keratinocyte growth factor, heparin-binding growth factors, hedgehog proteins,
interleukins, colony-stimulating factors, epithelial growth factors, insulin-like growth factors,
cytokines, osteopontin, and osteonectin.
         Embodiment 27: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the particulate composition has a Vicat set time upon mixing with an aqueous solution of
about 3 to about 8 minutes.
         Embodiment 28: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the particulate composition has a Gillmore set time upon mixing with an aqueous solution
of about 6 to about 20 minutes.
                                                   -10-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
         Embodiment 29: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the pore sizes of the porous   p-tricalcium phosphate powder are in the range of about 100
microns to about 400 microns.
         Embodiment 30: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the porous    p-tricalcium phosphate powder is characterized by an interconnected,
multidirectional porosity.
         Embodiment 31: The particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the porous    p-tricalcium phosphate powder has a total porosity of at least about 50%.
         Embodiment 32: A bone graft substitute cement comprising the reaction product formed by
mixing the particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment with an aqueous
solution, the reaction product comprising calcium sulfate dihydrate, brushite, and a porous f
tricalcium phosphate component.
         Embodiment 33: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, comprising non-porous       p-tricalcium  phosphate granules
         Embodiment 34: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, wherein said cement is cast in a predetermined shape.
         Embodiment 35: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, wherein said cement is cast in a predetermined shape selected from the group
consisting of pellets, granules, wedges, blocks, and disks.
         Embodiment 36: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, wherein the aqueous solution comprises a carboxylic acid.
         Embodiment 37: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, wherein the carboxylic acid is a hydroxy carboxylic acid.
         Embodiment 38: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, wherein the hydroxy carboxylic acid is glycolic acid.
         Embodiment 39: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, wherein the carboxylic acid is neutralized to a pH of about 6.5 to about 7.5.
         Embodiment 40: The bone graft substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent
embodiment, wherein the aqueous solution further comprises sodium chloride.
         Embodiment 41: A method for treating a bone defect, comprising applying the bone graft
 substitute cement of any preceding or subsequent embodiment to the site of the bone defect.
         Embodiment 42: A bone graft substitute kit, comprising one or more containers enclosing
the particulate composition of any preceding or subsequent embodiment, a separate container
 enclosing a sterile aqueous solution, and a written instruction set describing a method of using the
                                                   -11-

      WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
kit.
        Embodiment 43: The bone graft substitute kit of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
further comprising a mixing apparatus adapted for mixing the particulate composition and the
aqueous solution.
        Embodiment 44: The bone graft substitute kit of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
further comprising a delivery device adapted for delivering a bone graft substitute cement mixture
to the site of a bone defect.
         Embodiment 45: The bone graft substitute kit of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein the delivery device comprises a Jamshidi needle.
         Embodiment 46: The bone graft substitute kit of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
wherein a portion of the particulate composition is enclosed in a first syringe and a portion of the
particulate composition is enclosed in a second syringe, and wherein the kit further includes a
syringe connector adapted to connect the first and second syringe such that the contents of each
syringe can be mixed.
         Embodiment 47: The bone graft substitute kit of any preceding or subsequent embodiment,
further comprising at least one syringe containing at least a portion of the particulate composition
and a vial adaptor adapted to connect the syringe to the container enclosing the sterile aqueous
 solution.
         These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from a
reading of the following detailed description together with the accompanying drawings, which are
briefly described below. The invention includes any combination of two, three, four, or more of the
 above-noted embodiments as well as combinations of any two, three, four, or more features or
 elements set forth in this disclosure, regardless of whether such features or elements are expressly
 combined in a specific embodiment description herein. This disclosure is intended to be read
holistically such that any separable features or elements of the disclosed invention, in any of its
 various aspects and embodiments, should be viewed as intended to be combinable unless the
 context clearly dictates otherwise. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will
 become apparent from the following.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Having thus described the invention in general terms, reference will now be made to the
 accompanying drawings, wherein:
         FIG. 1 is a graph comparing the ejective force of an inventive bone graft cement
 composition and a control composition;
                                                    -12-

     WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
        FIG. 2 is a graph comparing the diametral tensile strength of an inventive bone graft cement
composition and a control composition;
        FIG. 3 is a graph comparing the daily accelerated in vitro dissolution properties of an
inventive bone graft cement composition and a control composition;
        FIG. 4 is an example of a bone graft substitute kit of the present invention; and
        FIG. 5 illustrates a method of preparing a bone graft substitute composition using the kit of
FIG. 4.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        The present inventions now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the
accompanying drawings. The invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not
be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are
provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. As used in this
specification and the claims, the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless
the context clearly dictates otherwise.
        The present invention provides a particulate composition useful as a bone graft substitute
cement that hardens or sets upon mixing with an aqueous solution. Advantageously, the particulate
composition can provide a bone graft substitute cement with a set time that is faster than certain
other commercially available bone graft substitute cements. The particulate composition includes a
calcium sulfate hemihydrate (hereinafter "CSH") powder, a porous       p-tricalcium phosphate
(hereinafter "P-TCP") component, and optionally a brushite-forming calcium phosphate mixture
comprising monocalcium phosphate monohydrate (hereinafter "MCPM") powder and a non-porous
j-TCP powder. Certain components useful according to the present invention are described in
U.S. Patent Nos. 8,025,903 and 7,754,246 to Moseley et al. and U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 2007/0128248 to Moseley et al., which are all incorporated herein by reference.
        Use of the particulate composition of the invention produces a bone graft substitute cement
comprising calcium sulfate dehydrate (hereinafter "CSD"), which is the product of the reaction
between CSH and water. The CSD component of the cement confers good mechanical strength to
the cement, stimulates bone growth, and provides a relatively fast resorption rate in vivo, such that
a porous structure in the cement is quickly created upon implantation. Thus, the CSD component
of the cement can be rapidly replaced with bone tissue ingrowth into the implant site.
        Certain preferred components of the composition (e.g., MCPM, non-porous        p-TCP
 granules, and/or non-porous f-TCP powder) can react, at least in part, to form brushite upon mixing
with an aqueous solution. The presence of the brushite in the cement slows the resorption rate of
                                                   -13-

       WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
the bone graft substitute cement as compared to a cement comprising CSD only. Thus, the bone
graft substitute cement of the invention provides a triphasic resorption defined by the CSD
component, the TCP component and the brushite component.
          In addition to a relatively slow resorption rate, embodiments of the particulate composition
of the invention can provide a bone graft substitute cement that exhibits high mechanical strength,
good handling characteristics, and a reasonable setting time, particularly a setting time that is
somewhat faster than certain other commercially available bone graft substitute cements.
Additionally, certain embodiments of the bone graft substitute cement of the invention are capable
of producing high quality bone when used to treat bone defects. Furthermore, certain embodiments
 described herein are uniquely able to set in the presence of biologically active agents.
          The CSH powder used in the present invention preferably has a bimodal particle
 distribution. As understood in the art, a bimodal particle distribution refers to a particle distribution
 characterized by two peaks in a plot of particle size vs. the volume percentage of particles of each
 size. In a preferred embodiment, the bimodal particle distribution of the CSH powder is
 characterized by about 30 to about 60 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 1.0 to
 about 3.0 microns and about 40 to about 70 volume percent of particles having a mode of about 20
 to about 30 microns, based on the total volume of the CSH powder. In yet another embodiment, the
 bimodal particle distribution comprises about 40 to about 60 volume percent of particles having a
 mode of about 1.0 to about 2.0 microns and about 40 to about 60 volume percent of particles
 having a mode of about 20 to about 25 microns. The median particle size of the CSH powder is
 preferably about 5 to about 20 microns, more preferably about 8 to about 15 microns, and most
 preferably about 10 to about 15 microns.
          As used herein, "median particle size" refers to the particle size that divides a population of
 particles in half such that half of the volume of particles in the population is above the median size
 and half is below. Median particle size is measured using linear interpolation of data acquired
 through a high resolution laser diffraction method. More specifically, the laser diffraction method is
 performed with parallel light with a constant frequency of 632.8 nanometers and which exhibits 5
 milliwatts of power. Measurements of laser diffraction are acquired through a 32 channel detector
 array. Particle delivery to measurement system is performed through a relatively constant mass
 flow rate using an optimum dispersing media such as air flow creating a -3.5 bar gauge pressure. A
 commercially available machine for laser-diffraction particle analysis is the OASIS (Sympatec;
 Clausthal-Zellerfeld, Germany) dispersing unit. The OASIS system is used in the dry mode via the
 VIBRI model HDD200 and RODOS M. The VIBRI model is used with a 75% feed rate and 3.0
 mm gap. The -3.5 bar gauge pressure is produced through a 4 mm injector. For measuring particle
                                                     -14-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
size of calcium sulfate hemihydrate, the R2 lens (0.25/0.45 . . . 87.5 microns) is preferred, and for
tricalcium phosphate components, the R4 lens (0.5/1.8 . . . 350 microns) is preferred (both also
from Sympatec).
         The particulate composition in the invention preferably comprises a CSH powder in an
amount of at least about 50 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition,
more preferably at least about 60 weight percent, and most preferably at least about 70 weight
percent. Typically, the CSH powder is present in an amount of about 70 weight percent to about 99
weight percent, more preferably about 70 weight percent to about 90 weight percent, and most
preferably about 70 weight percent to about 80 weight percent (e.g., between about 70 weight
percent and about 75 weight percent).
         The CSH is preferably c-calcium sulfate hemihydrate, which exhibits higher mechanical
strength as compared to the beta form upon setting to form CSD. The CSH portion of the
particulate composition is important for providing mechanical strength to the resulting bone graft
substitute cement, as well as contributing to the ability to set or harden in a relatively short period
of time. As is known in the art, CSH has the formula CaSO 4 ./ 2H2 0, and will react with water to
form calcium sulfate dihydrate (CaSO 4 .2H 2 0). It is believed that the presence of CSD in the bone
graft substitute cement of the invention contributes to rapid regeneration of bone tissue at the site of
the bone defect.
         CSH powder can be formed by dehydration of the dihydrate form by heating. Depending on
the method of heating, the alpha or beta form is obtained. The two forms exhibit crystallographic
and particle morphology differences. The preferred alpha form, which has a higher density, is
typically characterized by large, hexagonal shaped rod-like primary crystals that are compact and
well formed with sharp edges.
         In a preferred embodiment, the CSH powder is made by the process disclosed in U.S. Pat.
No. 2,616,789, which is incorporated entirely herein by reference in its entirety. The process
involves immersion of calcium sulfate dihydrate in a solution of water and an inorganic salt.
Preferred salts include magnesium chloride, calcium chloride, and sodium chloride. However, other
inorganic salts can be used without departing from the invention, such as ammonium chloride,
ammonium bromide, ammonium iodide, ammonium nitrate, ammonium sulfate, calcium bromide,
calcium iodide, calcium nitrate, magnesium bromide, magnesium iodide, magnesium nitrate,
sodium bromide, sodium iodide, sodium nitrate, potassium chloride, potassium bromide, potassium
iodide, potassium nitrate, cesium chloride, cesium nitrate, cesium sulfate, zinc chloride, zinc
bromide, zinc iodide, zinc nitrate, zinc sulfate, cupric chloride, cupric bromide, cupric nitrate,
cupric sulfate, and mixtures thereof. Preferred salts are biocompatible, and any of the salts can be
                                                   -15-

       WO 2015/089373                                                             PCT/US2014/069963
  used in their anhydrous or hydrate forms. Reference to the salt is intended to encompass both
  anhydrous and hydrate forms. The calcium sulfate dihydrate and the solution are heated to
  substantially the boiling point at atmospheric pressure until a substantial portion of the calcium
  sulfate dihydrate is converted to CSH. The resulting CSH has a different crystalline structure than
  CSH produced by other hydrothermal processes and has a lower water-carrying capacity after being
  milled. In particular, the crystalline structure of the CSH made according to this method is
  characterized by thick, stubby, rod-like crystals.
           In one embodiment, the CSH powder further includes an accelerant capable of accelerating
  the conversion of CSH to the dihydrate form, thereby causing the bone graft substitute cement
  made therefrom to set more quickly. Although not wishing to be bound by a theory of operation, it
  is believed that the accelerant particles act as crystallization nucleation sites for the conversion of
  CSH to calcium sulfate dihydrate. Examples of accelerants include calcium sulfate dihydrate,
  potassium sulfate, sodium sulfate, or other ionic salts. A preferred accelerant is calcium sulfate
  dihydrate crystals (available from U.S. Gypsum) coated with sucrose (available from VWR
  Scientific Products). A process of stabilizing the dihydrate crystals by coating with sucrose is
  described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,573,947, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The
  accelerant is typically present in an amount of up to about 1.0 weight percent, based on the total
  weight of the particulate composition. In some embodiments, the particulate composition includes
  between about 0.001 and about 0.5 weight percent of the accelerant, more typically between about
  0.01 and about 0.3 weight percent (e.g., between about 0.05 and about 0.15 weight percent).
  Mixtures of two or more accelerants can be used.
           The non-porous calcium phosphate portion of the particulate composition of the invention
  typically comprises a MCPM powder (Ca(H 2PO 4) 2.H20) and non-porous P-TCP powder
  (Ca 3 (PO 4)2 ). As understood in the art, the main reaction product of MCPM and the non-porous       p
5 TCP powder is brushite, otherwise known as dicalcium phosphate dihydrate (CaHPO 4 .2H 20)
   (DCPD). The brushite-forming materials may also participate in other reactions that would result in
  the formation of certain calcium phosphates with a greater thermodynamic stability than DCPD,
   such as hydroxyapatite, octacalcium phosphate, and the like. A certain amount of the non-porous        p
   TCP powder may also remain unreacted in the cement. In certain embodiments of the invention,
0  one or both of the brushite-forming components are not included in the inventive composition.
            The non-porous   p-TCP powder     component preferably has a median particle size of less than
   about 35 microns, and more preferably a median particle size of less than about 30 microns, and
   most preferably a median particle size of less than about 25 microns. Typically the non-porous       p
   TCP powder will have a median particle size of about 10 microns to about 30 microns (e.g., around
                                                       -16-

        WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
  20 microns). The size of the non-porous [-TCP powder may affect the amount of brushite formed
  in the bone graft substitute cement. It is believed that smaller particle sizes of non-porous   p-TCP
  will result in an increased rate of brushite formation, and larger particle sizes will result in a lower
  rate of brushite formation. It is typically preferred to use smaller non-porous   p-TCP particles   in
  order to increase the brushite-forming reaction rate.
           The non-porous   p-TCP   powder portion of the particulate composition preferably has a
  bimodal particle size distribution characterized by about 30 to about 70 volume percent of particles
  having a mode of about 2.0 to about 6.0 microns and about 30 to about 70 volume percent of
  particles having a mode of about 40 to about 70 microns based on the total volume of the p
  tricalcium phosphate powder. In one embodiment, the non-porous         p-TCP   powder has a bimodal
  particle size distribution characterized by about 50 to about 65 volume percent of particles having a
  mode of about 4.0 to about 5.5 microns and about 35 to about 50 volume percent of particles
  having a mode of about 60 to about 70 microns based on the total volume of the non-porous          p
  tricalcium phosphate powder.
           The MCPM powder is relatively soluble in water, which means particle size is relatively
  unimportant. Typically, the MCPM powder will have a particle size of less than about 350
  microns; however, other particles sizes could be utilized without departing from the invention. As
  would be understood, MCPM is the hydrate form of monocalcium phosphate (MCP). As used
  herein, reference to MCPM is intended to encompass MCP, which is simply the anhydrous form of
  MCPM that releases the same number of calcium and phosphoric acid ions in solution. However, if
  MCP is used in place of MCPM, the amount of water used to form the bone graft substitute cement
  would need to be increased to account for the water molecule missing from MCP (if it is desired to
  produce precisely the same dissolution product as formed when using MCPM).
           As noted above, the brushite component of the bone graft substitute cement of the invention
5 serves to slow the in vivo resorption of the bone graft substitute cement as compared to a calcium
  sulfate cement. In turn, the slower resorption rate may enable the bone graft substitute cement to
  provide structural support at the site of the bone defect for longer periods of time, which can aid the
  healing process in certain applications. Although not bound by any particular theory of operation, it
  is believed that the bone graft substitute cement of the invention will become a highly porous
) matrix of calcium phosphate material after being administered in vivo due to the relatively quick
  resorption of the calcium sulfate component of the mixture. The remaining porous matrix of
  calcium phosphate provides excellent scaffolding for bone ingrowth during the natural healing
  process.
  The amount of MCPM powder and non-porous            p-TCP  powder present in the particulate
                                                      -17-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
composition can vary and depends primarily on the amount of brushite desired in the bone graft
substitute cement. The brushite-forming calcium phosphate composition (i.e., the combined amount
of MCPM and non-porous f-TCP powders) will typically be present at a concentration of about 3
to about 30 weight percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition, more
preferably about 5 to about 10 weight percent, most preferably about 8 weight percent. The relative
amounts of MCPM and non-porous 3-TCP can be selected based on their equimolar, stoichiometric
relationship in the brushite-forming reaction. In one embodiment, the MCPM powder is present at
a concentration of about 2 to about 5 weight percent, based on the total weight of the particulate
composition, and the non-porous     p-TCP   is present in an amount of about 3 to about 6 weight
percent.
         It has been discovered that the MCPM and non-porous 1-TCP powders can react
prematurely during storage in the presence of residual moisture to form brushite and/or monetite,
an undesirable anhydrous analog of brushite. Thus, storage of the brushite-forming calcium
phosphate powders together in a homogenous mixture can result in reduction in the amount of
brushite produced upon mixing the particulate composition with the aqueous mixing solution to
form the bone graft substitute cement, which in turn, can alter the properties of the bone graft
 substitute cement in an undesirable manner. As a result, in a preferred embodiment, the two
calcium phosphate components are either packaged together in a dry environment and hermetically
 sealed against moisture invasion during storage or are packaged separately during storage. In one
 embodiment, the two calcium phosphate powders are packaged separately, wherein each powder is
 either packaged alone with no other components of the particulate composition of the invention or
 in admixture with one or more of the remaining components (e.g., the CSH powder).
         In certain embodiments, the particulate composition of the invention will also include a
 plurality of non-porous f-TCP granules having a median particle size greater than the median
 particle size of the non-porous p-TCP powder.      The non-porous  p-TCP  granules typically have a
 median particle size of about 75 to about 1,000 microns, more preferably about 100 to about 400
 microns, and most preferably about 180 to about 240 microns. The granules serve to further reduce
 the resorption rate of the bone graft substitute cement and contribute to scaffold formation. The
 non-porous f-TCP granules are typically present at a concentration of up to about 20 weight
 percent, based on the total weight of the particulate composition, more preferably up to about 15
 weight percent based on the total weight of the composition, and most preferably up to about 12
 weight percent. In one preferred embodiment, the non-porous      p-TCP  granules are present at a
 concentration of about 8 to about 12 weight percent (e.g., about 10 weight percent). The non
 porous f-TCP granules can provide a relatively inert third phase in the final cement that exhibits an
                                                    -18-

        WO 2015/089373                                                              PCT/US2014/069963
  even slower resorption rate than the brushite formed by reaction of the MCPM and the non-porous
  p-TCP    powder. Thus, the presence of the granules can further alter the resorption profile of the
  resulting bone graft substitute cement.
           Both the non-porous     p-TCP  granules and the non-porous    p-TCP   powder used in the present
  invention can be formed using a commercially available non-porous          p-TCP   powder as a starting
  material, such as non-porous      p-TCP  powder available from Plasma Biotal Ltd. (Derbyshire, UK).
  In one embodiment, the non-porous        p-TCP components     of the particulate composition are formed
  by first wet milling a commercially available non-porous       p-TCP powder in a ball mill to a median
  particle size of less than 1.0 micron and then draining the resulting slurry through a strainer to
  remove the milling media. Thereafter, the solid cake of non-porous        p-TCP   can be separated from
  any remaining liquid components using any of a variety of techniques known in the art, such as
  centrifuging, gravity separation, filter pressing, evaporation, and the like. The dry cake is then
  processed through a series of sieves in order to produce two separate non-porous        p-TCP
  components having different median particle sizes. The dried cake         of non-porous P-TCP is
  typically milled either during or prior to sieving in order to fragment the cake. In one preferred
  embodiment, the system of sieves produces a non-porous p-TCP component having a particle size
  range of about 125 to about 355 microns in a green (i.e., unfired) state and another non-porous        p
  TCP component having a particle size range of about 75 to about 355 microns in a green state.
   Thereafter, the two non-porous      p-TCP components    are sintered, and thereby densified, by heat
  treatment in a furnace. In one embodiment, the furnace treatment involves heating the non-porous
   p-TCP powder     components on an alumina plate at a temperature of about 1100-1200'C for about
   three hours. It is typical to ramp the temperature up to the desired sintering temperature and ramp
   the temperature back down during the cooling period at a rate no greater than about 5-6'C per
   minute.
5           Following the sintering process, the densified non-porous     p-TCP   granules having had a
   green state particle size of about 125 to about 355 microns can be used as the granule component of
   the particulate composition. The sintered non-porous      p-TCP   component having had a green (i.e.,
   unfired) state particle size of about 75 to about 355 microns can be dry milled in a ball mill for
   approximately one to four hours in order to form the non-porous        p-TCP powder   having a median
D  particle size of less than about 20 microns, which can then be used in the particulate composition as
   described above.
            The porous   p-TCP component     comprises 3-TCP particles that exhibit a relatively high
   degree of porosity as compared with the non-porous       p-TCP component(s).      Porous -TCP can have
   various macrostructures and microstructures. The size of the particles cap vary and can be, e.g., in
                                                      -19-

      WO 2015/089373                                                         PCT/US2014/069963
granular or powder form. Also, the total surface area of the particles can vary and the shapes and
sizes of the pores present within the p-TCP  particles can also vary. In some embodiments, the
porous -TCP component comprises -TCP particles having interconnected, multidirectional
porosity. In some embodiments, the porous 1-TCP component comprises f-TCP particles having a
multiplicity of unconnected pores. Pore sizes (e.g., diameters) can range, for example, from about
100 microns to about 400 microns. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the porous        p-TCP particles
can be characterized as microporous, in some embodiments, the porous f-TCP can be characterized
as macroporous, and in some embodiments, the porous       p-TCP can be  characterized as both
microporous and macroporous. The total porosity can be at least about 50%, at least about 60%, or
at least about 70%. In exemplary embodiments, the total porosity can range, e.g., from about 50%
to about 90%, such as between about 60% and about 90% or between about 70% and about 90%.
The total porosity values of a given material can be determined, e.g., by the measurement of the
density by weight of a sample of the material. It is noted that the non-porous  p-TCP  described
herein can, in some embodiments, be described as having a porosity of less than about 15% or less
than about 10% as determined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images. It is noted that the
porous f-TCP incorporated into the compositions described herein can, in certain embodiments,
comprise some percentage of an alpha TCP phase. For example, in some embodiments, the porous
f-TCP can comprise up to about 40% alpha-TCP.
         In one exemplary embodiment, the porous     p-TCP comprises   CELLPLEX@ TCP from
Wright Medical Technology, Inc. (Tennessee, USA). See, for example, U.S. Patent Nos.
6,136,029; 6,527,810; and 6,296,667, all to Johnson et al., which are all incorporated herein by
reference in their entireties. Other commercially available porous   p-TCP  powders/granules
include, but are not limited to: Conduit@ TCP Granules (DePuy Synthes, Pennsylvania, USA);
Ceros@ TCP Granules (Thommen Medical, Inc., Switzerland);          p-TCP  Porous Granules (Cam
BioCeramics, the Netherlands); Osprolife   p-TCP    Granules (Eurocoating, Italy); and BoneSigmaTM
Porous TCP (SigmaGraft, Inc., California, USA). Porous f-TCP can also be prepared as described,
for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,390,498 and 6,949,251 to Dalal et al.; and U.S. Patent
Application Publication Nos. 2006/0292200 to Delaney; and 2003/0180376 to Brevetto et al.,
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
         The amount of porous 1-TCP in the compositions described herein can vary. In certain
embodiments, porous -TCP is present at a concentration of up to about 20 weight percent, based
on the total weight of the particulate composition and more preferably up to about 15 weight
percent based on the total weight of the composition. In one preferred embodiment, the porous
TCP is present at a concentration of about 5 to about 15 weight percent (e.g., about 10 weight
                                                  -20-

      WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
percent).
         The porous  p-TCP   portion of the particulate composition preferably has a bimodal particle
size distribution characterized by a minority (i.e., less than about 50%), e.g., about 25% by weight,
porous   p-TCP having a smaller particle size and a majority (i.e., greater than about 50%), e.g.,
about  75%, porous p-TCP having a larger particle size. The particle sizes can vary; however, in a
representative embodiment, the smaller particle size can be up to about 63 im (i.e., about 0-63 tm)
and the larger particle size can be greater than about 63 tm (e.g., from about 63 tm to about 250
[im). Accordingly, one specific bone substitute cement composition embodiment comprises porous
p-TCP powder having a bimodal       particle size distribution, wherein less than about 50% of the
porous -TCP powder has a particle size of between about 0 microns and about 63 microns and
wherein greater than about 50% of the porous      p-TCP powder    has a particle size of between about
63 microns and about 250 microns.
         The aqueous component that is mixed with the particulate composition of the invention is
selected in order to provide the composition with a desired consistency and hardening or setting
time. Typically, the aqueous solution is provided in an amount necessary to achieve a liquid to
powder mass ratio (l/p) of at least about 0.2, more preferably at least about 0.21, and most
preferably at least about 0.23. A preferred 1/p ratio range is about 0.2 to about 0.3, more preferably
about 0.2 to about 0.25.
Examples of suitable aqueous components include water (e.g., sterile water) and solutions thereof,
optionally including one or more additives selected from the group consisting of sodium chloride,
potassium chloride, sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, EDTA, ammonium sulfate, ammonium
acetate, and sodium acetate. In one preferred embodiment, the aqueous mixing solution used is a
 saline solution or a phosphate buffered saline solution. An exemplary aqueous solution is 0.9%
NaCl saline solution available from Baxter International (Deerfield, Ill.) and others.
         In one embodiment, the aqueous solution further includes one or more organic or inorganic
 carboxylic acid-containing compounds (hereinafter carboxylic acids or carboxylic acid compounds)
which may or may not contain a hydroxyl group on the alpha carbon, optionally titrated to a neutral
pH using a suitable base (e.g., neutralized to a pH of about 6.5 to about 7.5 using an alkali metal
 base such as sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide), which can alter water demand,
 flowability, and/or viscosity of the bone graft substitute cement composition upon mixing.
 Exemplary carboxylic acids include glycolic acid and lactic acid. Preferred carboxylic acids have a
 single carboxylic acid group, from I to about 10 total carbon atoms (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or
 10 carbon atoms including the carbonyl carbon), and 0-5 hydroxyl groups (e.g., 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5)
 attached to the carbon chain. In one preferred embodiment, the mixing solution comprises glycolic
                                                     -21-

        WO 2015/089373                                                             PCT/US2014/069963
  acid, sodium hydroxide, and sodium chloride in water. Reference to the carboxylic acid compound
  herein encompasses both the free acid and salt forms.
           It has been previously discovered, as detailed in U.S. Patent No. 7,754,246 to Moseley et
  al., which is incorporated herein by reference, that the presence of the carboxylic acid component
  in the aqueous solution prior to gamma radiation sterilization can lead to inconsistent bone graft
  substitute cement properties, such as "drift" in cement setting time, due to degradation of the acid
  resulting from the radiation exposure. Thus, in one preferred embodiment, the carboxylic acid
  compound discussed above in connection with the aqueous mixing solution is packaged as a
  crystalline powder (e.g., in free acid or salt form) with the remaining particulate components of the
  kit, either in admixture with one or more other powder components or in a separate container,
  rather than in solution. Using the acid component in powder form avoids degradation of the acid
  upon sterilization of the composition with gamma radiation. Alternatively, the carboxylic acid
  component is added to the aqueous solution after the solution is sterilized by radiation so that the
  carboxylic acid is not exposed to sterilizing radiation while in solution.
           In one embodiment, the carboxylic acid for use in the invention is neutralized to a pH of
  about 6.5 to about 7.5 in solution using, for example, an alkali metal base as noted above, and then
  isolated as a crystalline powder by evaporation of the solvent (e.g., water). The crystalline powder
  is typically isolated in a salt form, such as an alkali metal salt form (e.g., lithium, sodium, or
  potassium salts). Exemplary dry crystalline powders of a carboxylic acid, in salt form, for use in
  the invention include sodium glycolate, potassium glycolate, sodium lactate, and potassium lactate.
  The powdered carboxylic acid salt can be added to any of the other powder ingredients that
  together form the particulate portion of the bone graft substitute cement, such as the CSH
  component or either of the calcium phosphate components. However, in certain embodiments, the
  powdered carboxylic acid is stored in a separate container so that it can be reconstituted with the
5  aqueous solution prior to mixing the solution with the remaining particulate components of the
   composition.
            Although brushite-forming components are preferred in the inventive compositions of the
   invention, certain embodiments of the invention do not include one or both brushite-forming
   components. For example, in certain embodiment of the invention, the composition includes CSH
D  as described herein (in any of the amounts noted herein), a porous p-TCP component as described
   herein (in any of the amounts noted herein), and a porous    p-TCP   granule component as described
   herein (in any of the amounts noted herein). Such embodiments can be supplemented with one of
   the brushite-forming components, such as the f-TCP powder or the MCPM powder as described
   herein (in any of the amounts noted herein).
                                                      -22-

        WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
           The bone graft substitute cement of the invention can further include other additives known
  in the art. The additives can be added as a solid or liquid to either the particulate composition of the
  invention or the aqueous mixing solution. One example of an additive for the calcium sulfate
  composition is a plasticizer designed to alter the consistency and setting time of the composition.
  Such a plasticizing ingredient can retard the setting of calcium sulfate hemihydrate pastes, thereby
  increasing the time it takes for the composition to set following mixing with an aqueous solution.
  Exemplary plasticizers include glycerol and other polyols, vinyl alcohol, stearic acid, hyaluronic
  acid, cellulose derivatives and mixtures thereof. Alkyl celluloses are particularly preferred as the
  plasticizer ingredient. Exemplary alkyl celluloses include methylhydroxypropylcellulose,
  methylcellulose, ethylcellulose, hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose,
  hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, carboxymethylcellulose, cellulose acetate butyrate, and mixtures or
  salts thereof.
           Exemplary additives also include biologically active agents. As used herein, the term
  "biologically active agent" is directed to any agent, drug, compound, composition of matter or
  mixture that provides some pharmacologic effect that can be demonstrated in vivo or in vitro.
  Examples of biologically active agents include, but are not limited to, peptides, proteins, enzymes,
  small molecule drugs, dyes, lipids, nucleosides, oligonucleotides, polynucleotides, nucleic acids,
  cells, viruses, liposomes, microparticles, and micelles. It includes agents that produce a localized or
   systemic effect in a patient.
           Particularly preferred classes of biologically active agents include osteoinductive or
   osteoconductive materials, antibiotics, chemotherapeutic agents, pesticides (e.g., antifungal agents
   and antiparasitic agents), antivirals, anti-inflammatory agents, and analgesics. Exemplary
   antibiotics include ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, oxytetracycline, chlorotetracycline, cephalosporins,
   aminoglycocides (e.g., tobramycin, kanamycin, neomycin, erithromycin, vancomycin, gentamycin,
5  and streptomycin), bacitracin, rifampicin, N-dimethylrifampicin, chloromycetin, and derivatives
   thereof. Exemplary chemotherapeutic agents include cis-platinum, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), taxol
   and/or taxotere, ifosfamide, methotrexate, and doxorubicin hydrochloride. Exemplary analgesics
   include lidocaine hydrochloride, bipivacaine and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as
   ketorolac tromethamine. Exemplary antivirals include gangeyclovir, zidovudine, amantidine,
D  vidarabine, ribaravin, trifluridine, acyclovir, dideoxyuridine, antibodies to viral components or gene
   products, cytokines, and interleukins. An exemplary antiparasitic agent is pentamidine. Exemplary
   anti-inflammatory agents include a,--anti-trypsin and a-1-antichymotrypsin.
            Useful antifungal agents include diflucan, ketaconizole, nystatin, griseofulvin, mycostatin,
   miconazole and its derivatives as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,717,655, the entire teachings of
                                                      -23-

        WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
  which are incorporated herein by reference; bisdiguanides such as chlorhexidine; and more
  particularly quaternary ammonium compounds such as domiphen bromide, domiphen chloride,
  domiphen fluoride, benzalkonium chloride, cetyl pyridinium chloride, dequalinium chloride, the cis
  isomer of 1-(3 -chlorallyl)-3,5,7-triaza- 1 -azoniaadamantane chloride (available commercially from
  the Dow Chemical Company under the trademark Dowicil 200) and its analogues as described in
  U.S. Pat. No. 3,228,828, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference, cetyl
  trimethyl ammonium bromide as well as benzethonium chloride and methylbenzethonium chloride
  such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,170,111; 2,115,250; and 2,229,024, the entire teachings of
  which are incorporated herein by reference; the carbanilides and salicylanilides such 3,4,4'
  trichlorocarbanilide, and 3,4,5-tribromosalicylanilide; the hydroxydiphenyls such as dichlorophene,
  tetrachlorophene, hexachlorophene, and 2,4,4'-trichloro-2'-hydroxydiphenylether; and
  organometallic and halogen antiseptics such as zinc pyrithione, silver sulfadiazone, silver uracil,
  iodine, and the iodophores derived from non-ionic surface active agents such as described in U.S.
  Pat. Nos. 2,710,277 and 2,977,315, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by
  reference, and from polyvinylpyrrolidone such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,706,701, 2,826,532
  and 2,900,305, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.
           As used herein, the term "growth factors" encompasses any cellular product that modulates
  the growth or differentiation of other cells, particularly connective tissue progenitor cells. The
   growth factors that may be used in accordance with the present invention include, but are not
   limited to, fibroblast growth factors (e.g., FGF-1, FGF-2, FGF-4); platelet-derived growth factor
   (PDGF) including PDGF-AB, PDGF-BB and PDGF-AA; bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) such
   as any of BMP-1 to BMP-18; osteogenic proteins (e.g., OP-1, OP-2, or OP-3); transforming growth
   factor-a, transforming growth factor-p (e.g., P1, (2, or $3); LIM mineralization proteins (LMPs);
   osteoid-inducing factor (OIF); angiogenin(s); endothelins; growth differentiation factors (GDF's);
5  ADMP-1; endothelins; hepatocyte growth factor and keratinocyte growth factor; osteogenin (bone
   morphogenetic protein-3); heparin-binding growth factors (HBGFs) such as HBGF-1 and HBGF-2;
   the hedgehog family of proteins including indian, sonic, and desert hedgehog; interleukins (IL)
   including IL-I thru -6; colony-stimulating factors (CSF) including CSF-1, G-CSF, and GM-CSF;
   epithelial growth factors (EGFs); and insulin-like growth factors (e.g., IGF-I and -II);
0  demineralized bone matrix (DBM); cytokines; osteopontin; and osteonectin, including any isoforms
   of the above proteins. Particulate DBM is a preferred osteoinductive additive.
           The biologically active agent may also be an antibody. Suitable antibodies, include by way
   of example, STRO-1, SH-2, SH-3, SH-4, SB-10, SB-20, and antibodies to alkaline phosphatase.
   Such antibodies are described in Haynesworth et al., Bone (1992), 13:69-80; Bruder, S et al., Trans
                                                       -24-

       WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
Ortho Res Soc (1996), 21:574; Haynesworth, S. E., et al., Bone (1992), 13:69-80; Stewart, K., et al,
J Bone Miner Res (1996), 1 1(Suppl.):S142; Flemming J. E., et al., in "Embryonic Human Skin.
Developmental Dynamics," 212:119-132, (1998); and Bruder S. P. et al., Bone (1997), 21(3): 225
235, the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein by reference.
          Other examples of biologically active agents include bone marrow aspirate, platelet
concentrate, blood, allograft bone, cancellous bone chips, synthetically derived or naturally derived
chips of minerals such as calcium phosphate or calcium carbonate, mesenchymal stem cells, and
chunks, shards, and/or pellets of calcium sulfate.
          A bone graft substitute cement according to the invention can be formed by mixing the
particulate composition with the aqueous solution using manual or mechanical mixing techniques
and apparatus known in the art. It is preferred to mix the components of the cement at atmospheric
pressure or below (e.g., under vacuum) and at a temperature that will not result in freezing of the
aqueous component of the mixture or significant evaporation. Following mixing, the homogenous
composition typically has a paste-like consistency, although the viscosity and flowability of the
mixture can vary depending on the additives therein. The bone graft substitute cement material can
be transferred to a delivery device, such as a syringe, and injected into a target site, for example, to
fill in cracks or voids of a bone defect. In some embodiments, the material can be injected through
an 8- to 16-gauge needle up to, for example, 10 cm long.
          The bone graft substitute cements of the invention will generally set, as defined by the Vicat
needle drop test set forth below, in about 3 to about 25 minutes, more preferably about 5 to about
15 minutes (e.g., between about 5 and about 12 minutes). The bone graft substitute cement
material of the invention will typically reach a hardness comparable to or greater than bone within
about 8 to about 60 minutes or about 10 to about 60 minutes (e.g., having a Gillmore set time of
between about 8 and about 30 minutes or about 12 to about 30 minutes, more preferably between
about 12 and about 20 minutes, e.g., between about 14 and about 17 minutes). Setting of the
material can occur in a variety of environments, including air, water, in vivo, and under any number
of in vitro conditions. It is noted that the presence of certain biologically active agents in the
material may retard the set time of the material to some extent, as described in greater detail below.
          Although not intended to be limited by theory, it is believed that, in certain embodiments,
one or more of the specific powder component ratios, the use of porous       p-TCP, and/or the use of a
mixing solution comprising sodium chloride in the glycolic acid solution contribute, at least in part,
to the enhanced setting properties of the bone graft substitute here. By "enhanced setting
properties" is meant that such compositions set in the presence of biologically active agents and set
more quickly (with shorter Vicat and Gillmore set times) than similar, commercially available
                                                   -25-

        WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
  compositions (e.g., Pro-Dense@, Wright Medical Technology, Inc., Tennessee, USA).
           In certain embodiments, the compositions described herein are uniquely capable of
  achieving a relatively fast set time even in the presence of various biologically active agents (e.g.,
  including but not limited to, in the presence of bone marrow aspirate or in the presence of platelet
  derived growth factors). Interestingly, compositions described in the present disclosure can exhibit
  improved properties as compared with a commercially available composition (Pro-Dense, Wright
  Medical Technology, Inc.) prepared as described in U.S. Patent Application No. 7,754,246 to
  Moseley et al., which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. When biologically active
  agents are incorporated in the bone graft substitute cements described herein, the cements may
  exhibit a slight delay in setting as compared with identical bone graft substitute cements that are
  free of biologically active agents. However, the compositions described herein are uniquely
  capable of hard setting even in the presence of various such biologically active agents. For
  example, in certain embodiments, compositions as described herein, further comprising one or
  more biologically active agents can exhibit a Vicat set time of about 25 minutes or less, about 20
  minutes or less, about 15 minutes or less, or about 10 minutes or less (e.g., between about 7 and
   about 15 minutes or between about 10 and about 15 minutes). In certain embodiments,
   compositions as described herein, further comprising one or more biologically active agents can
   exhibit a Gillmore set time of about 35 minutes or less, about 30 minutes or less, about 25 minutes
   or less or about 20 minutes or less (e.g., between about 10 and about 20 minutes or between about
   15 and about 20 minutes).
            The hardened bone graft substitute cement preferably exhibits certain mechanical strength
   properties, particularly as characterized by diametral tensile strength and compressive strength.
   Preferred embodiments of the cement exhibit a diametral tensile strength of at least about 4 MPa
   after curing for one hour in ambient air following mixing of the particulate composition with an
5  aqueous solution, more preferably a diametral tensile strength of at least about 5 MPa, most
   preferably at least about 6 MPa. Further, preferred embodiments of the bone graft substitute
   cement exhibit a diametral tensile strength of at least about 8 MPa after curing for 24 hours in
   ambient air following mixing of the particulate composition with an aqueous solution, more
   preferably a diametral tensile strength of at least about 9 MPa after curing for 24 hours, and most
D  preferably at least about 10 MPa.
            The bone graft substitute cement of the invention typically exhibits a dissolution rate that is
   significantly slower than a comparable bone graft substitute cement made substantially entirely of
   calcium sulfate. In certain preferred embodiments, the cement of the invention exhibits an average
   dissolution rate, expressed as an average percentage of weight loss per day, that is at least about
                                                      -26-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
25% lower than the average dissolution rate of a cement formed using a particulate composition
consisting of calcium sulfate, the average dissolution rate measured by immersion of a 4.8 mm OD
pellet having a length of 3.3 mm in distilled water at 37'C as described in greater detail below.
More preferably, the bone graft substitute cement of the invention has an average dissolution rate
that is at least about 30% lower than a calcium sulfate cement, most preferably at least about 35%
lower, and in some embodiments, as much as 40% lower or more. A preferred range of dissolution,
expressed as an average percentage of weight loss per day measured using the test procedure set
forth below, is about 5% to about 15%, more preferably about 7% to about 13%. Average
dissolution rates stated are determined by linear regression of % weight loss per day using data
from days 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 determined using the procedure set forth below.
         The present invention also provides a bone graft substitute kit comprising the particulate
composition of the invention. Typically, the kit comprises one or more containers enclosing the
particulate composition as described above and a separate container enclosing a sterile aqueous
solution. The kit will typically contain a written instruction set describing a method of using the
kit. In addition, the bone-graft substitute kit of the invention will preferably comprise an apparatus
for mixing the particulate composition with the aqueous solution in order to form the bone graft
cement, such as a vacuum mixing apparatus. Additionally, the kit will typically include a device
for delivering the bone graft cement to the site of the bone defect, such as an injection device (e.g.,
a needle and syringe).
         As noted previously, in certain embodiments, the kit of the invention will separate the two
calcium phosphate powder components into different containers to avoid reaction during storage.
There are a number of packaging configurations that can accomplish this goal. For example, in one
embodiment, the kit includes one container for CSH powder, one container for       p-TCP powder, and
 one container for MCPM powder. In another embodiment, the kit includes two containers for the
particulate composition, one including    p-TCP powder    and a portion of the CSH component and a
 second containing MCPM powder and a portion of the CSH component. In yet another
 embodiment, the MCPM powder is packaged in a separate container by itself, and the       p-TCP
powder and the CSH powder are packaged together. In a still further embodiment, the -TCP
powder is packaged in a separate container by itself, and the MCPM powder and the CSH powder
 are packaged together. In any of the above embodiments, any of the powder containers can further
 include the crystalline powder of the carboxylic acid salt component and/or the    p-TCP  granules, or
those components could be packaged separately in their own containers. When present, the
 accelerator adapted to accelerate conversion of CSH to CSD is typically in admixture with the CSH
 powder. In one preferred embodiment, the kit comprises one container enclosing the MCPM
                                                    -27-

        WO 2015/089373                                                         PCT/US2014/069963
  powder, and a second container enclosing the remaining particulate ingredients in admixture, such
  as one or more of the CSH powder, the CSH accelerator, the     p-TCP   powder, the P-TCP granules,
  and the carboxylic acid crystalline powder.
           In certain embodiments, a dual syringe mixing system can be incorporated in the kit. The
  dual syringe system may afford an alternative means for separating the components of the kit as
  noted above. For example, in one embodiment, one syringe can contain the MCPM component and
  a second syringe can contain the remaining powder components of the bone graft substitute
  composition. The liquid component can be provided, for example, in a vial, such as a crimp-top
  vial, which can be attached to the end of one syringe to draw the liquid into either the MCPM
  component or the remaining powder components of the composition. The two syringes can then be
  connected (e.g., with a syringe connector), and the liquid material can be passed back and forth
  between the two syringes to afford complete mixing of the components. For injection, the mixture
  can be drawn into one of the syringes, the syringe connector and other syringe can be removed, and
  a needle can be applied to the end of the mixture-containing syringe.
           FIG. 4 illustrates one embodiment of a bone graft substitute kit 100 suitable for use in the
  present invention, and FIG, 5 illustrates a method of preparing a bone graft substitute composition
  using the kit of FIG. 4. As shown in FIG. 4, the kit 100 includes two syringes containing
  particulate material, a first syringe 110 labelled "Part A" containing a majority of the powder
  components of the kit and a second syringe 120 labelled "Part B" containing a minor portion of the
  powder components of the kit. Although the contents of each syringe can vary, in one
  embodiment, the Part A syringe includes all powder/granular components except the MCPM
  component and the Part B syringe contains the MCPM component. The kit 100 also contains a
  liquid-containing vial 130 containing the mixing diluent solution, which can be, for example, a
  saline solution containing glycolic acid. The vial 130 will typically include a lid comprising a
5 pierceable septum. The sizes of the syringes, 110 and 120, as well as the vial 130 will depend on
  the desired amount of bone graft substitute material to be made, and will typically vary in size as
  needed to produce bone graft substitute compositions in amounts ranging from about 1 cc to 10 cc
  (e.g., about 2 cc to about 4 cc).
           The illustrated kit 100 also contains a syringe connector 140 and a vial adaptor 150. The
) syringe connector 140 typically includes a connector at each end for facilitating connection, such as
  threaded connection, of the connector to a syringe and a passageway adapted to allow fluid to pass
  from one connected syringe to the other. The vial adaptor 150 typically includes a connector for
  connecting to a syringe, such as through threaded engagement, a passageway adapted to allow fluid
  to pass from a vial into the syringe, and a spike adapted for piercing a septum of a vial. Finally, the
                                                      -28-

      WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
kit 100 may contain one or more, and preferably multiple, needles for delivery of the bone graft
substitute composition to the bone site in need thereof. The illustrated kit 100 contains two
needles, 160 and 170, which are shown as advantageously being of the Jamshidi type, the two
needles differing in size (e.g., differing in length and/or gauge). As shown, one exemplary kit 100
contains a 11-gauge Jamshidi needle 160 of a first length and a 16-gauge Jamshidi needle 170 of a
second, shorter length. Other sizes or needle types could be used without departing from the
invention. The kit will also typically contain a written instruction set, such as a set of instructions
outlining the basic method set forth in FIG. 5 and explained herein.
         As set forth in FIG. 5, one method of using the kit 100 of FIG. 4 involves the step 200 of
attaching the vial adaptor 150 to the Part A syringe 110 (after removing any cap present on the
syringe). The vial adaptor 150 can join the syringe 110 in any manner, such as through threaded
engagement. Thereafter, the method can include the step 210 of attaching the mixing diluent vial
130 to the vial adaptor 150, which will result in the spike (not shown) of the vial adaptor piercing
the septum of the vial. Advantageously, one can draw back the Part A syringe 110 to draw air into
the syringe before attaching the vial 130. The contents of the vial 130 can then be withdrawn into
the Part A syringe 110 in step 220, which can be preceded by injection of the air optionally drawn
into the syringe into the vial. Multiple injection/withdrawal steps may be required to withdraw all
liquid from the vial 130. Thereafter, the vial 130 and vial adaptor 150 can be removed from the
syringe 110 and the syringe connector 140 can be attached to the Part B syringe 120 in step 230.
Thereafter, the two syringes, 110 and 120, can be attached together via the syringe connector 140 in
step 240. Application of an alternating plunging action to the two syringes in step 250 will enable
the materials in the two syringes to mix well. In certain embodiments, the alternating plunging of
the syringes should occur at least about 20 times, such as at least about 30 or at least about 40
times. To avoid loss of injectability of the material, it is advantageous to inject the bone graft
substitute material within about 6 minutes (such as within about 5 minutes or within about 3
minutes) of the time the liquid is first added to the powder material.
         Once the materials are thoroughly mixed, the two syringes can be decoupled in step 260
(with all bone graft substitute material in one syringe) and a delivery needle (e.g., needle 160 or
170) can be attached to the syringe containing the bone graft material. Finally, in step 270, the
bone graft substitute material is delivered to the desired bone site using the syringe/needle device.
         The particular composition and the sterile aqueous solution will typically be sterilized by
irradiation prior to packaging in the kit. In one preferred embodiment, the powdered form of the
carboxylic acid is packaged separately so that it can be reconstituted in the aqueous solution, if
desired, prior to mixing the solution with the remaining particulate components. However, as noted
                                                    -29-

        WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
  previously, the aqueous solution of the kit may also contain the carboxylic acid component in
  solution form if the carboxylic acid is added after radiation sterilization of the aqueous component
  of the kit.
           It can be important to utilize all of the aqueous solution packaged in the kit in order to
  ensure that consistent setting times are achieved. In one embodiment, the aqueous solution is
  packaged in a highly hydrophobic container, such as a glass syringe or other glass container, which
  is less prone to retention of residual solution in amounts that will cause changes in the performance
  characteristics of the bone graft substitute cement. When mixing with a biologically active agent, it
  may in some embodiments be beneficial to use a specified ratio of aqueous solution to biologically
  active agent. For example, in one specific embodiment, desirable results are achieved using bone
  marrow aspirate in a ratio of 60:40 solution to bone marrow aspirate to achieve an injectable, fast
  setting material.
           The present invention also provides a method for treating a bone defect. The method of the
  invention involves applying a bone graft substitute cement as described above to the site of the
  bone defect. The bone graft substitute cement can be applied in flowable form following mixing of
  the particulate composition with the aqueous solution. For example, methods of application
  include, but are not limited to, applying the cement through an injection device or digitally packing
  the cement, prior to setting of the composition. Alternatively, the bone graft substitute cement can
  be used in a precast hardened form, wherein the cement is provided in predetermined shapes such
  as pellets, granules, wedges, blocks, or disks, or used in the form of randomly-shaped shards
  created by mechanically breaking a cement mass into smaller pieces. In a further embodiment, the
  clinician can form the bone graft cement mixture and manually mold the mixture into a desired
  shape, such as the shape needed to fill a particular bone defect, prior to application.
           In another embodiment, the bone graft substitute cement of the invention can be
5 incorporated into an orthopedic implant, such as any of the various devices adapted for joint
  replacement. The bone graft substitute cement is typically incorporated into such devices as an
  outer coating or as a filling material within the pores of a porous outer component of the device. In
  this embodiment, the bone graft substitute cement facilitates bone in-growth in the area surrounding
  the implanted device. Exemplary orthopedic implants include knee replacement devices (e.g.,
D constrained or non-constrained knee implant devices, hinged knee devices, metallic plateau knee
  devices, and patellar devices), hip replacement devices (e.g., acetabular components and femoral
  components), elbow replacement devices (e.g., constrained, semi-constrained, and non-constrained
  devices), upper femoral devices, upper humeral devices, wrist replacement devices (e.g., semi
  constrained 2- and 3-part articulation devices), shoulder devices, passive tendon devices, spinal
                                                       -30-

     WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
devices (e.g., thoracolumbar spinal fixation devices, cervical spinal fixation devices, and spinal
fusion cages), finger/toe devices, and diaphysis devices.
        The present invention will be further illustrated by the following non-limiting examples.
                                                   -31-

     WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
                                           EXPERIMENTAL
Example 1
        One exemplary embodiment of the presently disclosed composition is provided as follows
below in Table 1.
Table 1. Inventive Composition A
          Component                       Percent by weight             Particle size range
  Calcium sulfate hemihydrate                  71.90%                      5 rim- 10 am
          Accelerator                           0.10%                         <595 am
  Non-porous   p-TCP   granules                  10%                     180 pim -240 pm
 Porous -TCP granules (0-63                     2.50%                      0 tm - 63 tm
                m)
  Porous -TCP granules (63-                     7.50%                     63 tm -250 tm
            250 ptm)
  Non-porous     -TCP powder                    4.41%                   13.3 im - 15.7 pLm
            MCPM                                3.59%                         <350   m
Glycolic acid in saline solution               0.25 1/p*
        *liquid to powder mass ratio
        The Inventive Composition A powder components, excluding MCPM, are weighed out to
the appropriate amount and mixed in a V-shape blender for a minimum of ten minutes. The MCPM
and glycolic acid components are weighed out and set aside. After mixing, the powder components
are added to a mixer. The MCPM is then added, and the powder and MCPM are stirred to combine.
The glycolic acid/saline solution is added, and a timer is started. The mixture is mixed at a rate of
50 rotations per 30 seconds. The resultant paste is then typically transferred to a syringe for
immediate use.
        For use within a dual syringe system as described herein, the blended powder components
are located in one syringe and the MCPM is located in the second syringe. The glycolic acid/saline
solution (present, e.g., in a vial having a puncturable septum) is pulled into the blended powder
containing syringe via suction. This syringe is then connected to the MCPM syringe via a
connector, and the mixture is mixed 30 times between the syringes.
        A comparative composition (commercially available Pro-Dense material, Wright Medical
Technology, Inc., Tennessee, USA) is prepared as described in U.S. Patent No. 7,754,246 to
Moseley et al., which is incorporated herein by reference, with specific components and amounts as
noted below in Table 2.
                                                   -32-

      WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
Table 2. Comparative Composition
           Component                    Percent by weight             Particle Size Range
  Calcium sulfate hemihydrate                 74.906%                     5 im - 10 tm
           Accelerator                         0.094%                        <595 jim
  Non-porous p-TCP granules                   10.000%                   180 tm - 240 ptm
   Non-porous P-TCP powder                      8.30%                  13.3 im - 15.7 tm
             MCPM                              6.700%                        <350     m
      Glycolic acid solution                   0.25 1/p
Work times/set times:
        Inventive Composition A (Table 1) is compared against the Comparative Composition
(Table 2, which is a standard, commercially available Pro-Dense@ composition). Inventive
Composition A exhibits a work time (injection/delivery time) of 3-5 minutes, a Vicat set time
(point at which the composition is no longer deformable without fracture) of 8-12 minutes, and
Gillmore set time (point at which a rock hard set is achieved) of 14-17 minutes. The Comparative
Composition exhibits a work time of 3-5 minutes, a Vicat set time of 14-19 minutes, and a
Gillmore set time of 30+ minutes.
        Data for set times of both Inventive Composition A and the Comparative Composition in
the presence of various biologically active agents are also provided. Table 3 illustrates set times for
trials with both compositions, incorporating a sodium acetate buffer and/or recombinant human
platelet derived growth factor (rhPDGF-BB) in the buffer. As noted in the table, the Inventive
Composition exhibited lower set times as compared to the Comparative Composition in the
presence of certain biologically active agents.
Table 3. Set Time Data for Inventive Composition A and Comparative Composition in the
presence of biologically active agents
                                Graft      Graft        Sodium    rhPDGF-       Vicat   Gillmore
                   Gaft
                   Graft                     raft     acetate 20  BB@ 0.3         set   set time
       Trial     material      powder     diluent       mM (g)   mg/mL in        time   stime
                                                      ("buffer")  buffer (g)    (min)      nm)
               Comparative
         1     Composition       22.0       2.2           3.0                   23:30
                with sodium
               acetate buffer
               Comparative                                                                40:00
         2     Composition       22.0       2.2                      3.0        23:30
                    with
               rhPDGF-BB                                                                  43:00
                                                   -33-

     WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
                                 Graft      Graft       Sodium     rhPDGF-      Vicat   Gillmore
                   Graft                               acetate 20  BB@ 0.3         set
                 material       powder     diluent      mM (g)     mg/mL in      time   set time
                                                       ("buffer") buffer (g)    (min)     mn)
                 Inventive
               Composition
        3         A with          25.0       3.4                       3.0      15:00    < 17:45
               rhPDGF-BB
                 Inventive
        4      Composition        25.0       6.4                                13:00     16:50
                     A
                 Inventive
               Composition
        5         A with          25.0       3.4           3.0                  12:30     14:00
                  sodium
               acetate buffer
        Tables 4 and 5 illustrate set times for trials with the Comparative Composition and various
inventive compositions and other comparative compositions incorporating antibiotics Tobramycin
(Table 4) or Vancomycin (Table 5). Bead set times, as shown in Tables 4 and 5, are determined by
preparing the bone graft pastes (with or without antibiotics); and pressing the pastes into bead
molds to form beads of uniform size. "Bead set time" refers to the amount of time required for the
beads to remain in the mold so that they will not deform once the bead mold is removed.
Table 4. Set Time Data for various compositions in the presence and absence of Tobramycin
                                         No antibiotics                    Tobramycin
                                 Vicat                    Bead     Vicat                  Bead
           Graft material          Set     Gillmore         Set      Set     Gillmore      Set
                                 Time      Set Time       Time      Time     Set Time     Time
                                 (mm)        (mi)         (mm)      (mm)       (mi)       (mm)
            Comparative           19.5         47           47        38          54        46
            Composition
          Composition Al
          (75% CSH, 25%          <10.5       <10.5        <10.5      11.5         17        15
         non-porous TCP
             granules)
          Composition A2
          (85% CSH, 10%
         non-porous TCP          13.25         17            17       13          15        15
      granules, 5% brushite
          (equimolar TCP
      powder and MCPM))
                                                    -34-

WO 2015/089373                                            PCT/US2014/069963
                             No antibiotics             Tobramycin
                       Vicat                Bead  Vicat               Bead
    Graft material      Set    Gilimore      Set   Set   Gilimore      Set
                       Time    Set Time     Time  Time   Set Time     Time
                       (min)     mn)        (min) (min)    mn)        (min)
   Composition A2
  Deriv. (82% CSH,
 10% non-porous TCP      17        21         21    12       16         19
 granules, 8% brushite
    (equimolar TCP
 powder and MCPM))
        Inventive
   Composition A3
   (75% CSH, 10%
   non-porous TCP       9.5       11.5       11.5  10.5      16         16
 granules, 15% porous
      TCP granules
        (<1mm))
        Inventive
   Composition A4
   (75% CSH, 15%
   non-porous TCP        7        9.5        8.5   12.5      23         17
 granules, 10% porous
      TCP granules
         (<1mm)
        Inventive
   Composition A5
   (75% CSH, 14%
   non-porous TCP        16        19         19    13       21        21
     granules, 6 .6 %
 porous TCP granules
     (<1mm), 4.4%
         MCPM
        Inventive
   Composition A6
   (75% CSH, 10%
   non-porous TCP
 granules, 10% porous    11       14.5       14.5   15       19         17
      TCP granules
 (<1mm),5% brushite
    (equimolar TCP
 powder and MCPM)
        Inventive
     Composition A      13.5      16.5       16.5   23       29        31
        (Table 1)
                                       -35-

    WO 2015/089373                                                    PCT/US2014/069963
Table 5. Set Time Data for various compositions in the presence and absence of Vancomycin
                                   No antibiotics                 Vancomycin
                            Vicat                   Bead   Vicat    Gilimore    Bead
         Graft material       Set    Gime            Set     Set    Gillme       Set
                            Time       (im          Time   Time     Set Time     Se
                            (min)           n)      (min)  (min)      mn)       (min)
           Comparative       19.5        47          47      25         63       ~60
           Composition
        Composition Al
        (75% CSH, 25%       <10.5      <10.5        <10.5    9.5        14        14
        non-porous TCP
             granules)
        Composition A2
        (85% CSH, 10%
        non-porous TCP
           granules, 5%      13.25        17          17    20.8       24.2      23.5
              brushite
        (equimolar TCP
            powder and
             MCPM))
        Composition A2
       Deriv. (82% CSH,
         10% non-porous
       TCP granules, 8%       17          21          21    24.0       28.0       28
              brushite
         (equimolar TCP
            powder and
             MCPM))
             Inventive
        Composition A3
        (75% CSH, 10%
        non-porous TCP        9.5        11.5        11.5    12.5       17        17
          granules, 15%
            porous TCP
       granules (<1mm))
             Inventive
        Composition A4
        (75% CSH, 15%
        non-porous TCP
          granules, 10%        7         9.5          8.5   12.75       19        19
            porous TCP
        granules (<1mm)
                                               -36-

        WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
                                        No antibiotics                     Vancomycin
                                  Vicat                   Bead      Vicat                 Bead
             Graft material        Set     Gilimore        Set        Set    Gilimore      Set
                                  Time     Set Time       Time      Time     Set Time     Time
                                  (min)       mn)         (min)     (min)      (          (min)
                 Inventive
            Composition A5
            (75% CSH, 14%
            non-porous TCP          16          19          19      27.25        32.5      32.5
              granules, 6.6%
               porous TCP
           granules (<1mm),
               4.4% MCPM
                 Inventive
            Composition A6
            (75% CSH, 10%
            non-porous TCP
              granules, 10%
                porous TCP          11         14.5        14.5      16.75        19        20
           granules (<1mm),
                5% brushite
             (equimolar TCP
                powder and
                  MCPM)
                 Inventive
              Composition A        13.5        16.5        16.5       17.5       21.5       20
                  (Table 1)
           As noted in Tables 4 and 5, all of the tested compositions exhibited an improvement in set
  time in the presence of antibiotics as compared to the Comparative Composition (i.e., PRO
  DENSE composition). However, some of the tested compositions, such as Composition Al,
5 Composition A2, and Composition A2 Deriv., did not compare as favorably with PRO-DENSE
  composition in other properties, such as strength, ejection force, or dissolution rate.
           The inventive compositions comprising the porous granule component were particularly
  advantageous compositions with respect to a number of physical properties, with Inventive
  Compositions A, A5, and A6 providing the best overall profile of properties such as set time and
) diametral tensile strength (DTS).
   Set Times:
           Vicat set times described herein are measured using a Vicat needle that is 1 mm in diameter,
   5 cm long, and which possesses a total weight of 300 g, all per ASTM C-472, which is incorporated
  by reference herein in its entirety. The sample being tested should be mixed in a maner that a
5 homogeneous, flowable paste is created. The sample size for the Vicat needle drop test is about 3
   cc to about 5 cc of material tapped down to a cake in an approximately 20 mL polyethylene cup;
                                                      -37-

     WO 2015/089373                                                             PCT/US2014/069963
the sample is handled such that no agitation is inflicted upon the material 1 minute after the
aqueous solution contacts the particulate composition other than the dropping and removal of the
Vicat needle. The cup is of such dimensions that the cake is a short, flat cylinder measuring about
%" to about Vs" in height.
        Set time according to the Vicat needle drop test is defined as the amount of time elapsed
between the time the aqueous solution contacts the particulate composition and the time the Vicat
needle will not pass through 50% of the height of a cement sample upon being dropped from the
upper surface of the sample. The needle is allowed to fall under its own weight, under gravity
alone, through a line perpendicular to the top and bottom, flat faces of the cylinder-shaped sample
cake. The needle is dropped every 30 seconds after the first drop. The needle shall not be dropped
more than 6 times during the duration of the test. If after the 6 th drop the needle continues to pass
through more that 50% of the height of the sample, the test must be repeated with fresh material; a
new, clean cup; and a clean Vicat needle free of debris, especially that which is left behind from
previous tests. Cups, mixing equipment, and material transfer equipment should not be reused. All
materials and equipment used during testing should be between 21-27 0 C. and exposed to an
environment with a relative humidity between 20-50%.
        Gillmore set times as described herein are tested based on ASTM standard C266-08:
Standard Test Method for Time of Setting of Hydraulic-Cement Paste by Gillmore Needles.
Similarly to Vicat set time determination, a sample of material is prepared and placed into a small
cup. After determining the Vicat set time of the sample, a 453.6 gram weight with a 1.06 mm
diameter needle is lightly placed onto the surface of the sample. The testing is continued at 1
minute intervals until there is no appreciable indentation left by the needle on the surface of the
sample.
        Work time as described herein is a description of the amount of time from immediately after
the fluid component is added to the powder component until the material can no longer be
reasonably ejected from a syringe/needle. Accordingly, "work time" as used herein includes the
mixing time, the time to transfer the material to a syringe and the time it takes to complete ejection
the material to its final placement.
Ejection force:
        The ejection force (measured 3 minutes after mixing the solution and powder components
of the compositions) for both the Inventive Composition A (indicated as "FastSet") and the
Comparative Composition (indicated as "PRO-DENSE") is provided in FIG. 1. The left-most bar
on the graph represents Inventive Composition A, injected through an 11 gauge needle, the middle
bar represents Inventive Composition A, injected through an 8 gauge needle, and the right-most bar
                                                  -38-

        WO 2015/089373                                                            PCT/US2014/069963
  on the graph represents the Comparative Composition, injected through an 11-gauge needle. The
  graph indicates that Inventive Composition A has acceptable values of ejection force through 8
  gauge and 11-gauge needles.
  Diametral tensile strength:
           The diametral tensile strength (DTS) of the Inventive Composition A is tested and
  compared against the DTS of the Comparative Composition in FIG. 2. As shown in FIG. 2, the
  DTS, after 24 hours of cure time, is somewhat higher for Inventive Composition A (indicated as
  "FastSet") than for the Comparative Composition (indicated as "PRO-DENSE"). The difference
  in DTS between the Comparative Composition and Inventive Composition A at 24 hours is
  statistically significant.
           Diametral tensile strength is determined through the following test methodology. A 1" cube
  of 10 lb/ft3 closed-cell polyurethane foam (available as Last-A-Foam from General Plastics
  Manufacturing Company, Tacoma, WA) with an approximately % in. (15.8 mm) outer diameter
  cylindrical void and notches for side removal is used as the specimen mold. The approximately /
  in. outer diameter cylindrical void is created by drilling perpendicularly through opposite faces of
  the cube in one depression of a drill press utilizing a % in. drill bit. The void runs the entire length
  of the cube and is centered such that both opposite, drilled faces share the same center as the
  circular voids created in them from the drilling. Two opposite sides from the remaining four full
  sides are designated to become the open sides of the final specimen; these sides will be removed
  via the notches. These sides are notched, two notches per side, in a manner such that they can be
  removed immediately prior to testing and not affect the sample integrity. The notches run the entire
  length of the cube and are separated in a manner that upon removal, >50% of the height of the
  specimen is exposed. Commonly the notches are created using an upright band saw. Further
  details regarding exemplary tensile test molds are provided in U.S. Patent No. 7,754,246 to
5 Moseley et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007/0059281 to Carroll et al., which
  are incorporated herein by reference.
           The material to be tested is mixed to a homogeneous paste and loaded into a device suitable
  for injection of the paste into the 16 mm outer diameter cylindrical void. Commonly, a 30 cc
  syringe with a 1 cm opening is used for this. The mold is held by hand using the thumb and middle
  finger positioned on the opposite, notched sides. The index finger of the hand used to hold the mold
  is positioned over one of the circular openings. The material is then injected into the void from the
  opposite side of the void from the index finger; the entire face of the syringe exhibiting the 1 cm
  opening is lightly pushed up against the circular opening of the mold. Upon injection of the
  material into the mold, pressure will be felt on the index finger covering the back opening from the
                                                     -39-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
ejected material. The index finger is slowly removed while filling continues, allowing the paste to
flow out of the rear of the mold in an extrusion with the same 16 mm outer diameter as the void.
The syringe is slowly backed out from the front opening while back filling of paste is performed
through further ejection from the syringe until the entire void is filled and excess material is located
outside the dimensions of the original cube of foam. The front and rear sides of the specimen are
wiped smooth, flush with the front and rear sides of the mold using a spatula. All specimens to be
tested should be made within 2 minutes from the start of mixing, defined by the aqueous solution
coming into contact with the particulate composition.
         The specimens are allowed to cure horizontally in air in the mold with the front and rear
sides of the mold exposed to air at room conditions (21-27 0 C.; 20-50% relative humidity) for a
predetermined amount of time, normally 1 hr or 24 hrs. This predetermined amount of time begins
at the time at which the aqueous solution comes into contact with the particulate composition at the
beginning of the mixing process. Testing is performed on a mechanical test frame capable of
displacement control and of monitoring displacement and force through data acquisition running at
20 Hz or faster. The sides of the specimen mold are removed immediately prior to testing; only the
areas between the notches are removed.
         Removal of the sides is normally performed with a knife. The top and bottom of the mold
are held between two fingers with slight pressure to prevent specimen surface-to-mold interface
damage. The knife blade is placed into one of the notches and then twisted to break the area
between the notches free; this is repeated for the other side in the same manner. The tops and
bottom of the molds are left in place to hold the specimen and prevent shear stresses on the surface.
The specimen is placed between two flat, parallel platens; one of which is free to swivel to allow
alignment with the loading train. The swiveling platen assures an equally distributed load across the
specimen contact points. The specimen is loaded transversely at a rate of 5 mm/minute until failure.
Proper failure will result in a vertical fracture completely through the length of the specimen. The
maximum force at failure is noted.
         A loading curve of force versus displacement is created to determine the maximum force at
failure, in which displacement and force are positive values. The first part of the loading curve
 shows the loading of the foam followed by its compression. The compression of the foam portion
will be evident by continued displacement with no substantial increase in force; this can also be
 seen visually during the test. After the foam is completely compressed, the force will begin to rise
again, creating an increasing slope on the loading curve followed by a constant slope as the load is
transferred to the specimen. The increasing slope is commonly known as a "toe in". Failure is
defined as a sudden drop in load, a decrease in the slope of the loading curve after the constant
                                                    -40-

      WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
slope from specimen loading has been established, and/or the force noted upon visual failure of the
specimen while the test is running.
         The diametral tensile strength in MPa is then calculated as followed: (2*Pmax)/(q*L*H);
where Pmax is the load at failure in Newtons, 7Eis approximately equal to 3.14, L is the length of
the specimen in mm (25.4), and H is the height of the specimen in mm (16). Specimens are
disqualified for diametral tensile strengths if any one or more of the following occur: fracture is not
vertical, fracture does not completely run the length of the specimen, length of the specimen fails,
or voids in the material are seen on the fractured walls of the specimen.
Dissolution rates:
         Dissolution rates for Inventive Composition A and the Comparative Composition are
determined through the following methodology. Specimens are cast in silicone molds to a size of
4.8 mm outer diameter and 3.3 mm tall cylinders. A 3.3 mm thick sheet of silicone containing
cylindrical voids is used as a mold. Cylindrical voids are 4.8 mm in outer diameter and 3.3 mm tall,
and orientated such that the circular faces of the void are parallel and in the same plane as the
 surfaces of the silicone sheet.
         A thin sheet of polyethylene is laid on a table. A polyethylene mesh is placed on top of the
polyethylene sheet; sheet and mesh are of same dimensions (excluding thickness) and positioned
 such that the mesh masks the sheet from the top. Next a silicone mold of smaller dimensions is
placed on top of the mesh (excluding thickness). No part of the mold hangs off the edge of the
mesh or sheet.
         The material to be tested is then mixed together to form a homogeneous paste. The paste is
then wiped across the top of the mold using a spatula in a manner that the voids are packed with the
 material. The mesh will allow air to be displaced out of the void as the mold is filled. Several wipes
 are performed to assure that material has completely penetrated to bottom of the mold and extruded
 out through the mesh and onto the lower polyethylene sheet. A final wipe with the spatula across
 the top of the mold is performed to remove the majority of excess material and produce smooth top
 faces for the specimens.
 Another polyethylene sheet of the same dimensions as the first is then placed across the top of the
 mold, such that it completely covers the top of the mold. This sheet is then gently pressed against
 the mold using a finger in a gentle rubbing motion. An intimate contact between the top
 polyethylene sheet and the specimens is created.
         The entire system, sheet, mesh, mold, and sheet, is then picked up as a whole and flipped
 over in a manner such that the original top is now facing down. The system is held by hand and
 slapped repeatedly onto table in a manner such that any air entrapped in the molds will be displaced
                                                    -41-

        WO 2015/089373                                                          PCT/US2014/069963
  out by the material; slapping of the system should not be excessive in force or repetitions. Upon
  removal of the majority of the air the system is returned to table in the upside down orientation,
  sheet and mesh side up. The top polyethylene sheet, originally the bottom, and mesh are removed
  and the spatula is again used to wipe material into voids in the tops (previously bottoms) of the
  specimens created from air removal. A final wipe with the spatula across the top of the mold is
  performed to remove the majority of excess material. The sheet (no mesh) is returned to the top of
  the mold. The sheet is then pressed against the mold using a finger in a gentle rubbing motion. An
  intimate contact between the top and bottom polyethylene sheet and the specimens has now been
  created.
           The specimens are left in the mold to cure for a minimum of 8 hrs after the second
  polyethylene sheet has been placed in direct contact with the specimens and mold (no mesh). After
  at least 8 hrs have passed, the specimens are demolded by hand. Any flash remaining attached to
  pellet faces are removed by rolling specimen between fingers. All defective specimens are
  disqualified from the test and discarded. A defective specimen is defined as a specimen not
  exhibiting a cylindrical shape, which could be caused by entrapped air, defects created upon
  demolding, and/or physical damage to the specimen itself.
           All specimens which are not defective are spread across a stainless steel pan in a monolayer.
  The pan and specimens are then dried in an oven at 40'C. for a minimum of 4 hrs, and then
  removed from oven and allowed to cool for 30 minutes in room conditions (21-27'C; 20-50%
  relative humidity).
           From the specimens created, five (5) specimens are arbitrarily chosen to be used for
  dissolution testing. Each specimen chosen is paired with a clean cylindrical fritted glass extraction
  thimble of the following dimensions: 90.25 mm overall height, 4 mm fritted glass base (40-60
  micron pores) located 80 mm from top of thimble, 25 mm outer diameter, and 22 mm inner
5 diameter. The mass of each extraction thimble is measured (0.01 mg) and noted. The mass of each
  specimen in measured (0.01 mg) and noted. A polyethylene bottle (300 mL) is designated to each
  pair (specimen and thimble). The bottle has dimensions that allow thimble and specimen to easily
  be placed in and removed from bottle and upon filling with 275 mL of water will create a column
  of water that is taller than the thimble. The bottle is filled with 275 mL of distilled water at room
) temperature (21-27 0 C). The specimen is placed into its corresponding thimble and the thimble is
  lowered into the bottle; care is taken to keep any part of the material from escaping from the
  thimble. The bottle is capped and placed into a water bath at 37'C with no agitation and the time is
  noted.
           At 24 hrs after the specimen has been in the water, the thimble containing the specimen is
                                                      -42-

      WO 2015/089373                                                             PCT/US2014/069963
retrieved. The water is allowed to drain out of the thimble through the fritted glass base. The
thimble containing the specimen is then dried for 4 hrs in a 40'C oven or until completely dried
(determined gravimetrically). The thimble containing the specimen is then allowed to cool down
for 30 minutes at room conditions (21-27'C; 20-50% relative humidity).
         The thimble containing the pellet is then weighed to an accuracy of 0.01 mg. Subtracting
the known empty thimble mass from the mass of the combination will result in the mass of the
specimen alone. Subtracting this mass from the initial specimen mass will produce the mass lost to
dissolution. This mass lost can be divided by the specimen initial mass and the product of that
multiplied by 100 will result in the % mass lost from dissolution.
         At this point the thimble containing the pellet is returned to the bottle containing fresh
distilled water (275 mL) at room temperature (21-270 C), and the bottle is capped and returned to
the water bath. After 24 hrs the drying and weighing process is repeated. These actions are repeated
with fresh distilled water after every 24 hr soak until the test is terminated or the material
completely dissolves. The Inventive Composition A (indicated as "FastSet" in FIG 3) provided a
 slightly slower daily accelerated dissolution than the Comparative Composition (indicated as "PD"
in FIG. 3).
Example 2
         A second exemplary embodiment of the presently disclosed composition is provided as
 follows, and was prepared specifically for the purposes of characterization and evaluation of the
 Inventive Composition against the Comparative Composition. It is noted that "Inventive Powder
 Composition A" as referenced in Table 6 is comparable to "Inventive Composition A" as
 referenced in Table 1; however, "Inventive Powder Composition A" as referenced in Table 6 does
 not include the MCPM and glycolic acid/saline solution of "Inventive Composition A." Table 7
 indicates the relative mixing amounts of Inventive Powder Composition A, MCPM, and glycolic
 acid/saline solution to provide "Inventive Composition A."
 Table 6. Inventive Powder Composition A
            Component                    Percent by weight                Particle size range
   Calcium sulfate hemihydrate                 74.59%                        5 jim- 10 jim
  Accelerator (calcium sulfate)                  0.10%                          <595 pim
   Non-porous     -TCP granules                 10.37%                     180 ptm - 240 pim
  Porous    -TCP granules (0-63                 2.59%                        0 pim - 63 pim
                jim)
                                                    -43-

        WO 2015/089373                                                        PCT/US2014/069963
    Porous p-TCP granules (63-                  7.78%                    63 [tm -250 ptm
               250 urm)
     Non-porous P-TCP powder                    4.57%                   13.3 mim - 15.7 ptm
           The components of Inventive Powder Composition A as shown in Table 6 were mixed.
  Inventive Powder Composition A, MCPM, and glycolic acid/saline solution were separately
  sterilized by gamma irradiation and combined in the amounts provided below in Table 7 for the
  tests indicated in the table.
  Table 7. Inventive Composition A Makeup for Various Tests
                                                 Inventive Composition A
              Test                                                                Glycolic
                                Inventive Powder           MCPM (g)             Acid/Saline
                                Composition A (g)                               Solution (g)
             FTIR
             XRD                       19.28                   0.72                 5.00
          Dissolution
    Maximum Exothermic                 24.10                   0.90                 6.25
          Temperature
    Vicat and Gillmore Set             33.74                   1.26                 8.75
          Time (wet)
    Vicat and Gillmore Set             33.74                   1.26                 8.75
           Time (dry)
        Dilute slurry pH               24.10                   0.90                 6.25
            Density                    24.10                   0.90                 6.25
            Porosity                   24.10                   0.90                 6.25
           DTS (wet)                   57.85                   2.15                15.00
           DTS (dry)                   57.85                   2.15                 15.00
    Injectability (Ejection)           38.56                   1.44                 10.00
   Chemical Composition (FTIR, XRD):
           Inventive Powder Composition A, MCPM, and glycolic acid/saline solution were mixed
) and the resulting paste was spread onto a pellet mold and allowed to dry for a minimum of 8 hours
   at room temperature to give a pellet. The pellet was then oven dried at 40'C for 5 hours and
   crushed to a powder using a mortar and pestle for analysis.
           A ThermoScientific Nicolet i2lOg FTIR instrument was used for FTIR analysis using a
   diffuse reflectance method. The spectrum of Inventive Composition A exhibited peaks indicative
                                                    -44-

        WO 2015/089373                                                        PCT/US2014/069963
  of a calcium sulfate dihydrate, calcium sulfate hemihydrate, and tricalcium phosphate, correlating
  with the spectrum of the Comparative Composition.
           A Rigaku MiniFlex X-Ray Diffraction instrument was used for XRD analysis. The
  Inventive Composition A demonstrated an almost full conversion from calcium sulfate hemihydrate
  form (CaSO 4 - % H2 0) to the dehydrate form (CaSO 4 - 2H 2 0). Peaks of tricalcium phosphate
  (Ca3 (PO 4 ) 2 ) and brushite (CaHPO 4 - 2H 2 0) were also identified.
  Physical Properties (pH, maximum exothermic temperature, dissolution, porosity, and density):
           For pH determination, a loose slurry of the powder and liquid components of Inventive
  Composition A was mixed continuously for five minutes. At the end of the five minutes, pH was
  recorded. Three separate slurries were prepared and tested in this way, giving an average pH of
  5.52 and a standard deviation of 0.02. The pH of Inventive Composition A was determined to be
  not significantly different than that of the Comparative Composition (p=0.0 7 4 ), based on a two
  sample T-Test.
           For maximum exothermic temperature determination, Inventive Powder Composition A and
  MCPM were mixed together, the glycolic acid/saline solution was added to the mixer, and the
  materials were mixed vigorously for 30 seconds under 22-25" vacuum to give Inventive
  Composition A. The paste was transferred to a polyethylene mold containing a thermocouple to
  record the temperature of the specimen. The temperature was recorded continuously as the material
  cured and the maximum was determined (based on ASTM F45 1). Three separate specimens were
  prepared and tested in this way, giving an average maximum exothermic temperature of 30.7 and a
  standard deviation of 0.1. The average maximum exothermic temperature of Inventive Composition
  A was determined to be significantly different than that of the Comparative Composition
  (p=0.000). A slight increase in reaction temperature is not unexpected due to the increased reaction
  rate for the Inventive Composition A and for all materials tested, the maximum temperature was
5 advantageously well below the average body temperature of 370 C.
           For dissolution testing, Inventive Powder Composition A and MCPM were mixed together,
  the glycolic acid/saline solution was added to the mixer, and the materials were mixed vigorously
  for 30 seconds under 22-25" vacuum to give Inventive Composition A. The resulting paste was
   spread onto a pellet mold and allowed to dry for a minimum of 8 hours at room temperature to give
   a pellet. The pellet was then oven dried at 40'C for 5 hours. Changes in pellet weight were
  recorded after 96 hours of immersion in deionized water. Five trials were done and the average
  percentage of mass remaining in pellets comprising Inventive Composition A was 68.03%. The
   average dissolution of Inventive Composition A was determined to be not significantly different
  than that of the Comparative Composition (p=0.067), based on a Mann-Whitney test.
                                                       -45-

       WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
          For porosity testing, Inventive Powder Composition A and MCPM were mixed together, the
  glycolic acid/saline solution was added to the mixer, and the materials were mixed vigorously for
  30 seconds under 22-25" vacuum to give Inventive Composition A. The resulting paste was
  loaded into a 10 cc syringe and the syringe was tapped to remove air bubbles. The loaded syringe
  was air dried at room temperature, the end of the syringe was cut, and the sample was pushed out of
  the syringe. The resulting material was oven dried at 40'C for 12 hours and broken in half by
  bending. The fracture surface was wet ground with alcohol to produce a smooth surface for
  analysis. The smoothed surface was examined with a microscope and porosity was evaluated by
  examination of the surface for visible pores at 7.5 x. The area of each void was measured using
  software and the total void area was calculated by summing the areas of all voids. The total void
  area of the section was divided by the total area of the fracture surface to determine percent
  porosity. The average percent porosity of Inventive Composition A was determined to be not
  significantly different than that of the Comparative Composition (p=1.00), based on a Mann
  Whitney test.
          For density testing, Inventive Powder Composition A and MCPM were mixed together, the
  glycolic acid/saline solution was added to the mixer, and the materials were mixed vigorously for
  30 seconds under 22-25" vacuum to give Inventive Composition A. The resulting paste was
  loaded into a 15 cc open bore syringe and ejected into specimens approximately 1.5" long and 0.5"
  wide. The resulting specimen was dried at room temperature for 24 hours and then oven dried at
  40'C for 12 hours. After drying, the specimen was weighed and then submerged into a 10 cc
  graduated cylinder containing 5 mL deionized water and degassed in a sonicator for 3 minutes.
  The change in volume was measured visually on the graduated cylinder and the ratio was
  calculated by dividing the dried mass by the change in volume. The density of Inventive
  Composition A was determined to be not significantly different than that of the Comparative
5 Composition (p=O.89), based on a two-sample t-test.
  Performance Characteristics (Vicat set time, Gillmore set time, Injectability, and Diametral tensile
  strength):
          For performance characteristic testing, Inventive Powder Composition A and MCPM were
  mixed together, the glycolic acid/saline solution was added to the mixer, and the materials were
) mixed vigorously for 30 seconds under 22-25" vacuum to give Inventive Composition A.
          For Vicat set time determination, the paste was transferred to a small testing cup and evenly
  spread to create a material with constant thickness. A 300 g weight with an attached probe of 1 mm
  diameter was placed on the specimen and the specimen was considered to be "Vicat set" when the
  probe penetrated half the specimen thickness or less (as described in greater detail in Example 1).
                                                    -46-

         WO 2015/089373                                                         PCT/US2014/069963
  Vicat set time was determined in both "dry" (cured in air) and "wet" (cured in bovine serum)
  conditions. In both the dry and wet environments, Inventive Composition A had a significantly
  faster Vicat set time than the Comparative Composition (p=0.000 and p=0.005, respectively), based
  on a two-sample t-test.
           The dry Vicat set time averages for specimens prepared from three different lots of
  Inventive Composition A (each lot used to prepare four specimens and the Vicat set times of these
  four specimens averaged to give a Lot Vicat set time average) were 12:3 8 (std. dev. 01:15), 10:38
  (std. dev. 01:10), and 12:40 (std. dev. 01:26). The dry Vicat set time average for specimens
  prepared from the Comparative Composition (four specimens prepared and the Vicat set times of
  these four specimens averaged to give a Vicat set time average) was 16:50 (std. dev. 00:46).
           The wet Vicat set time averages for specimens prepared from three different lots of
  Inventive Composition A (each lot used to prepare three specimens and the Vicat set times of these
  three specimens averaged to give a Lot Vicat set time average) were 13:40 (std. dev. 00:3 5), 11:40
   (std. dev. 00:17), and 13:00 (std. dev. 00:17). The wet Vicat set time for the second lot of Inventive
   Composition A was significantly faster setting in the wet environment than the first and third lots
   (p=0.005, ANOVA); however, the difference in set times was not large and historically, wet testing
  has been more prone to variation within samples. The wet Vicat set time average for specimens
  prepared from the Comparative Composition (three specimens prepared and the Vicat set times of
  these three specimens averaged to give a Vicat set time average) was 18:15 (std. dev. 01:09).
           For Gillmore set time determination, the paste was transferred to a small testing cup and
   evenly spread to create a material with constant thickmess. The specimen was considered to be
   "Gillmore set" when the probe left no appreciable indentation on the surface of the specimen (as
   described in greater detail in Example 1). Gillmore set time was evaluated immediately after Vicat
   set time and was determined in both "dry" (cured in air) and "wet" (cured in bovine serum)
5  conditions. In the dry environment, Inventive Composition A had a significantly faster Gillmore
   set time than the Comparative Composition (p=0.002), based on a two-sample t-test. In the wet
   environment, no data was available for the Comparative Composition and the Comparative
   Composition is typically not used under such conditions, so the Gillmore set time of Inventive
   Composition A in a wet environment could not be compared against that of the Comparative
0  Composition.
            The dry Gillmore set time averages for specimens prepared from three different lots of
   Inventive Composition A (each lot used to prepare four specimens and the Vicat set times of these
   four specimens averaged to give a Lot Gillmore set time average) were 16:08 (std. dev. 2:25),
    13:00 (std. dev. 01:21), and 14:30 (std. dev. 02:05). The dry Vicat set time average for specimens
                                                      -47-

        WO 2015/089373                                                           PCT/US2014/069963
  prepared from the Comparative Composition (four specimens prepared and the Vicat set times of
  these four specimens averaged to give a Vicat set time average) was 47:00 (std. dev. 05:37).
           The wet Vicat set time averages for specimens prepared from three different lots of
  Inventive Composition A (each lot used to prepare three specimens and the Vicat set times of these
  three specimens averaged to give a Lot Vicat set time average) were 17:50 (std. dev. 00:35), 15:20
  (std. dev. 00:34), and 19:00 (std. dev. 01:30). The wet Vicat set time for the second lot of Inventive
  Composition A was significantly faster setting in the wet environment than the first and third lots
  (p=0.010, ANOVA); however, the difference in set times was not large and historically, wet testing
  has been more prone to variation within samples.
           For injectability (ejection) determination, the paste was placed into a 20 cc syringe equipped
  with a 11 Ga, 6 cm Jamshidi needle. A force was applied to the syringe/needle system at the rate of
  4.4 mm/sec until the specimen was ejected into a test cup. The resistance to ejection force at 15
  mm displacement was recorded for the specimen at 3 minutes after initiation of mixing. The
   injectability of Inventive Composition A was determined to be not significantly different than that
   of the Comparative Composition (p=0.098), based on a two-sample t-test.
            For diametral tensile strength, specimens were prepared and tested under dry conditions (as
   described in greater detail in Example 1). Specimens were also prepared and tested under wet
   conditions (i.e., a proteinaceous environment meant to simulate in situ conditions) by curing the
   paste for one hour, immersing the specimens in bovine serum, and heating the mixture at 37'C 
   1 C. A 2-hour test was performed by allowing the specimens to cure for one hour in bovine serum
   before testing and a 24-hour test was performed by allowing the specimens to cure for 23 hours in
   bovine serum. Specimens were then placed between the plates of a compression sub-press
   mounted in a test frame and compressed at a constant rate of 1.5 mm/min until fracture occurred.
            The 2-hour diametral tensile strength of Inventive Composition A in both dry and wet
5  conditions was determined to be significantly different (roughly a 20% increase in strength) than
   that of the Comparative Composition (p=0.001 for the dry conditions, based on a two-sample t-test
   and p=0.003 for the wet conditions, based on a Kruskal-Wallis test). A higher initial strength is
   consistent with the significantly faster set time of Inventive Composition A as compared with the
   Comparative Composition.
0           The 24-hour diametral tensile strength of Inventive Composition A in dry conditions was
   determined not to be significantly different than that of the Comparative Composition (p=0.061),
   based on a two-sample t-test. The 24-hour diametral tensile strength of Inventive Composition A in
   wet conditions was determined to be significantly different (with Inventive Composition A being
   stronger than the Comparative Composition) than that of the Comparative Composition (p=0.012),
                                                      -48-

      WO 2015/089373                                                         PCT/US2014/069963
based on a two-sample t-test. The cause of this higher strength is not known, but the difference is
relatively small (1.9 MPa) and likely due to known variation in data when materials are cured in a
wet environment.
        Overall, Inventive Composition A is statistically equivalent to the Comparative
Composition both chemically and physically. Inventive Composition A provides improvements in
performance characteristics by decreasing the Vicat and Gillmore set times while maintaining the
strength and injectability of the material.
        Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to
mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings
presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be
understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that
modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended
claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive
 sense only and not for purposes of limitation.
                                                  -49-

WHAT IS CLAIMED:
1. A particulate composition adapted for forming a bone graft substitute cement upon mixing
with an aqueous solution, comprising:
        i) a calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is
present at a concentration of at least about 50 weight percent based on the total weight of the
particulate composition; and
        ii) porous p-tricalcium phosphate particulates in the form of either a powder, granules,
or a mixture of powder and granules.
2. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is present
at a concentration of at least about 70 weight percent based on the total weight of the
particulate composition.
3. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder
has a bimodal particle distribution.
4. The particulate composition of claim 3, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder
has a median particle size of about 5 to about 20 microns.
5. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates exhibits a bimodal particle size distribution.
6. The particulate composition of claim 5, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates comprises less than 50% by weight of particles having a particle size up to about
63 microns and greater than 50% by weight of particles having a particle size greater than
about 63 microns.

7. The particulate composition of claim 5, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates comprises about 25% by weight of particles having a particle size up to about 63
microns and about 75% by weight of particles having a particle size greater than about 63
microns.
8. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate is a
calcium sulfate hemihydrate.
9. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder
has a bimodal particle distribution comprising about 30 to about 60 volume percent of
particles having a mode of about 1.0 to about 3.0 microns and about 40 to about 70 volume
percent of particles having a mode of about 20 to about 3 0 microns, based on the total
volume of the calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder.
10. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the porous f3-tricalcium phosphate
particulates is present at a concentration of between about 5 and about 15 weight percent
based on the total weight of the particulate composition.
11. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates have a pore size in the range from about 100 microns to about 400 microns.
12. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates is characterized by an interconnected, multidirectional porosity.
13. The particulate composition of claim 1, wherein the porous f3-tricalcium phosphate
particulates has a total porosity of at least about 50%.
14. A particulate composition, comprising:

         i) a calcium sulfate hemihydrate powder having a bimodal particle distribution and a
median particle size of about 5 to about 20 microns, wherein the calcium sulfate hemihydrate
is present at a concentration of at least about 70 weight percent based on the total weight of
theparticulate composition; and
         ii) porous p-tricalcium phosphate particulates, in an amount of up to about 15 weight
percent based on the total weight of the particulate composition, wherein the porous   p
tricalcium phosphate particulates comprises less than 50% by weight of particles having a
particle size up to about 63 microns and greater than 50% by weight of particles having a
particle size greater than about 63 microns.
15. The particulate composition of claim 14, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates have a pore size in the range from about 100 microns to about 400 microns.
16. The particulate composition of claim 14, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates is characterized by an interconnected, multidirectional porosity.
17. The particulate composition of claim 14, wherein the porous p-tricalcium phosphate
particulates has a total porosity of at least about 50%.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
