                     RESERVE CREDITS FOR USE ON GAMING DEVICE
                                 ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
          Embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods and apparatus in which a
5 player plays one of a plurality of networked gaming devices. Game awards below a predefined
  level are tracked and stored on the network. If the game awards are less than a predefined
  criterion, a pay command is sent over the network to the player's gaming device, which may be
  used for a free game. Implementation in a single gaming device is also disclosed.

          Attorney Docket No. 1351-0081/Application No. Filed Herewith
                                    1/12
                                   19                                  10
                                                                           55
    27,FG                                                               26
   28,-",                         20
                                                                          25
                                                                              1l2
   3
30
     40-                            P                            --
   42,/        MIJ-45
                                               47
           Network                                     46
                          50
                              FIG. 1A

                                                                              PATENT APPLICATION
                                                                       Attorney Docket No. 1351-0081
 5                                                 TITLE
                               "Reserve Credits for Use on Gaming Device"
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise"
 0  and variations such as "comprises", "comprising" and "comprised" are to be understood to imply
    the presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
    group of integers.
            Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "include"
    and variations such as "includes", "including" and "included" are to be understood to imply the
 5  presence of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or
    group of integers.
                                            TECHNICAL FIELD
            This disclosure relates generally to gaming devices and more particularly to electronic
 '0 gaming devices of the type that accept wagers from players and pay awards for winning
    outcomes.
                                           BACKGROUND ART
            Any discussion of background art, any reference to a document and any reference to
25  information that is known, which is contained in this specification, is provided only for the
    purpose of facilitating an understanding of the background art to the present invention, and is not
    an acknowledgement or admission that any of that material forms part of the common general
    knowledge in Australia or any other country as at the priority date of the application in relation
    to which this specification has been filed.
                                                      1

            Such electronic gaming devices can be set to provide a predetermined payback to players.
    In other words, for all amounts wagered a set percentage, e.g., in the range of 92-98%, is
    returned to players of the gaming device in the form of awards associated with winning
    outcomes for the game. Because the gaming devices generate random outcomes, the payback
 5  percentage calculated based on historical wagers and awards may deviate significantly from a
    long-term average over a single playing session. This deviation may be in either direction, i.e., a
    player may experience a streak of either winning or losing outcomes.
            Most players experiencing a streak of losing outcomes feel discouraged. From the
    standpoint of the operator of the gaming devices, e.g., a casino, it is especially disadvantageous
 0  for a new player or a relatively new player to experience a losing streak. Studies have shown
    that players who have an early negative gaming experience at a new location do not return often
    and may even exclude it entirely in view of a losing experience.
            It would be desirable to recognize when a player has had a losing experience and
    compensate him or her in some fashion. Ideally, the compensation should come in a manner that
 5  enhanced the player's gaming experience.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            In accordance with one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
    operating a plurality of gaming devices interconnected via a computer network, the method
 '0 comprising:
            permitting a player to play one of the gaming devices;
            tracking game awards that are below a predefined level;
            storing the tracked awards at a storage device located on the network;
            using a process located on the network to determine if the game awards are less than a
25  predefined criterion; and
            sending a pay command over the network to the player's gaming device if the game
    awards are less than the predefined criterion.
                                                     2

           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
   operating a plurality of gaming devices interconnected via a computer network, the method
   comprising:
           predefining a plurality of game outcomes that comprise a losing experience;
 5         storing the predefined plurality of game outcomes on the network;
           permitting a player to play at least one of the gaming devices;
           tracking the player's play on the network;
           determining whether outcomes of games played by the player comprise a losing
   experience; and
 0         if so, awarding the player a credit via the network that is usable to play at least one
   additional game.
           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
   program product, comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program
   code embodied therein, said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to
 5 implement a method for generating a report, said method comprising:
           permitting a player to play one of the gaming devices;
           tracking game awards that are below a predefined level;
           storing the tracked awards at a storage device located on the network;
           using a process located on the network to determine if the game awards are less than a
 O predefined criterion; and
           sending a pay command over the network to the player's gaming device if the game
   awards are less than the predefined criterion.
           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer
   program product, comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program
25 code embodied therein, said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to
   implement a method for generating a report, said method comprising:
           predefining a plurality of game outcomes that comprise a losing experience;
           storing the predefined plurality of game outcomes on the network;
           permitting a player to play at least one of the gaming devices;
                                                      3

            tracking the player's play on the network;
            determining whether outcomes of games played by the player comprise a losing
    experience; and
            if so, awarding the player a credit via the network that is usable to play at least one
 5  additional game.
            In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a gaming
    device comprising:
            an outcome generator operable to generate random outcomes for each game played;
            a wager intake device adapted to receive a wager from a player for enabling a game for
 0  play;
            an award table that associates at least some of the outcomes with a player award;
            an award monitor constructed and arranged to track awards made; and
            a circuit operatively connected to the award monitor, the circuit configured to enable a
    game for play when the tracked awards are less than a predefined criterion.
 5
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The present invention will now be described, by way of example only, with reference to the
    accompanying drawings, in which:
            FIG. 1A is a functional block diagram that illustrates a gaming device according to
 '0 embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 1B is an isometric view of the gaming device illustrated in FIG. 1A.
            FIGs. 2A, 2B, and 2C are detail diagrams of exemplary types of gaming devices according
    to embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 3 is a functional block diagram of networked gaming devices according to
25  embodiments of the invention.
            FIG. 4 is a flow chart depicting operation according to an embodiment of the invention.
            FIG. 5 is a flow chart depicting operation according to another embodiment of the
    invention.
                                                       4

            FIG. 6 is a flow chart depicting operation according to still another embodiment of the
    invention.
            FIG. 7 is a flow chart depicting operation according to yet another embodiment of the
    invention.
 5          FIG. 8 is a flow chart depicting operation according to one more embodiment of the
    invention.
            FIG. 9 is a schematic diagram of a gaming device according to an embodiment of the
    invention.
 0                                 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
            FIGs. 1A and 1B illustrate example gaming devices according to embodiments of the
    invention.
            Referring to FIGs. 1A and 1B, a gaming device 10 is an electronic gaming machine.
    Although an electronic gaming machine or "slot" machine is illustrated, various other types of
 5  devices may be used to wager monetarily based credits on a game of chance in accordance with
    principles of the invention. The term "electronic gaming device" is meant to include various
    devices such as electro-mechanical spinning-reel type slot machines, video slot machines, and
    video poker machines, for instance. Other gaming devices may include computer-based gaming
    machines, wireless gaming devices, multi-player gaming stations, modified personal electronic
 '0 gaming devices (such as cell phones), personal computers, server-based gaming terminals, and
    other similar devices. Although embodiments of the invention will work with all of the gaming
    types mentioned, for ease of illustration the present embodiments will be described in reference
    to the electronic gaming machine 10 shown in FIGs. 1A and 1B.
            The gaming device 10 includes a cabinet 15 housing components to operate the gaming
25  device 10. The cabinet 15 may include a gaming display 20, a base portion 13, a top box 18, and
    a player interface panel 30. The gaming display 20 may include mechanical spinning reels (FIG.
    2A), a video display (FIGs. 2B and 2C), or a combination of both spinning reels and a video
    display (not shown). The gaming cabinet 15 may also include a credit meter 27 and a coin-in or
    bet meter 28. The credit meter 27 may indicate the total number of credits remaining on the
                                                      5

    gaming device 10 that are eligible to be wagered. In some embodiments, the credit meter 27
    may reflect a monetary unit, such as dollars. However, it is often preferable to have the credit
    meter 27 reflect a number of 'credits,' rather than a monetary unit. The bet meter 28 may
    indicate the amount of credits to be wagered on a particular game. Thus, for each game, the
 5  player transfers the amount that he or she wants to wager from the credit meter 27 to the bet
    meter 28. In some embodiments, various other meters may be present, such as meters reflecting
    amounts won, amounts paid, or the like. In embodiments where the gaming display 20 is a video
    monitor, the information indicated on the credit meters may be shown on the gaming display
    itself 20 (FIG. 2B).
 0           The base portion 13 may include a lighted panel 14, a coin return (not shown), and a
    gaming handle 12 operable on a partially rotating pivot joint 11. The game handle 12 is
    traditionally included on mechanical spinning-reel games, where the handle may be pulled
    toward a player to initiate the spinning of reels 22 after placement of a wager. The top box 18
    may include a lighted panel 17, a video display (such as an LCD monitor), a mechanical bonus
 5  device (not shown), and a candle light indicator 19. The player interface panel 30 may include
    various devices so that a player can interact with the gaming device 10.
             The player interface panel 30 may include one or more game buttons 32 that can be
    actuated by the player to cause the gaming device 10 to perform a specific action. For example,
    some of the game buttons 32 may cause the gaming device 10 to bet a credit to be wagered
 '0 during the next game, change the number of lines being played on a multi-line game, cash out
    the credits remaining on the gaming device (as indicated on the credit meter 27), or request
    assistance from casino personnel, such as by lighting the candle 19. In addition, the player
    interface panel 30 may include one or more game actuating buttons 33. The game actuating
    buttons 33 may initiate a game with a pre-specified amount of credits. On some gaming devices
25   10 a "Max Bet" game actuating button 33 may be included that places the maximum credit
    wager on a game and initiates the game. The player interface panel 30 may further include a bill
    acceptor 37 and a ticket printer 38. The bill acceptor 37 may accept and validate paper money or
    previously printed tickets with a credit balance. The ticket printer 38 may print out tickets
    reflecting the balance of the credits that remain on the gaming device 10 when a player cashes
                                                       6

    out by pressing one of the game buttons 32 programmed to cause a 'cashout.'     These tickets may
    be inserted into other gaming machines or redeemed at a cashier station or kiosk for cash.
            The gaming device 10 may also include one or more speakers 26 to transmit auditory
    information or sounds to the player. The auditory information may include specific sounds
 5  associated with particular events that occur during game play on the gaming device 10. For
    example, a particularly festive sound may be played during a large win or when a bonus is
    triggered. The speakers 26 may also transmit "attract" sounds to entice nearby players when the
    game is not currently being played.
            The gaming device 10 may further include a secondary display 25. This secondary
 0  display 25 may be a vacuum fluorescent display (VFD), a liquid crystal display (LCD), a cathode
    ray tube (CRT), a plasma screen, or the like. The secondary display 25 may show any
    combination of primary game information and ancillary information to the player. For example,
    the secondary display 25 may show player tracking information, secondary bonus information,
    advertisements, or player selectable game options.
 5          The gaming device 10 may include a separate information window (not shown) dedicated
    to supplying any combination of information related to primary game play, secondary bonus
    information, player tracking information, secondary bonus information, advertisements or player
    selectable game options. This window may be fixed in size and location or may have its size and
    location vary temporally as communication needs change. One example of such a resizable
 '0 window is International Game Technology's "service window". Another example is Las Vegas
    Gaming Incorporated's retrofit technology which allows information to be placed over areas of
    the game or the secondary display screen at various times and in various situations.
            The gaming device 10 includes a microprocessor 40 that controls operation of the gaming
    device 10. If the gaming device 10 is a standalone gaming device, the microprocessor 40 may
25  control virtually all of the operations of the gaming devices and attached equipment, such as
    operating game logic stored in memory (not shown) as firmware, controlling the display 20 to
    represent the outcome of a game, communicating with the other peripheral devices (such as the
    bill acceptor 37), and orchestrating the lighting and sound emanating from the gaming device 10.
    In other embodiments where the gaming device 10 is coupled to a network 50, as described
                                                      7

   below, the microprocessor 40 may have different tasks depending on the setup and function of
   the gaming device. For example, the microprocessor 40 may be responsible for running the base
   game of the gaming device and executing instructions received over the network 50 from a
   bonus server or player tracking server. In a server-based gaming setup, the microprocessor 40
 5 may act as a terminal to execute instructions from a remote server that is running game play on
   the gaming device.
           The microprocessor 40 may be coupled to a machine communication interface (MCI) 42
   that connects the gaming device 10 to a gaming network 50. The MCI 42 may be coupled to the
   microprocessor 40 through a serial connection, a parallel connection, an optical connection, or in
 0 some cases a wireless connection. The gaming device 10 may include memory 41 (MEM), such
   as a random access memory (RAM), coupled to the microprocessor 40 and which can be used to
   store gaming information, such as storing total coin-in statistics about a present or past gaming
   session, which can be communicated to a remote server or database through the MCI 42. The
   MCI 42 may also facilitate communication between the network 50 and the secondary display 25
 5 or a player tracking unit 45 housed in the gaming cabinet 15.
           The player tracking unit 45 may include an identification device 46 and one or more
   buttons 47 associated with the player tracking unit 45. The identification device 46 serves to
   identify a player, by, for example, reading a player-tracking device, such as a player tracking
   card that is issued by the casino to individual players who choose to have such a card. The
 0 identification device 46 may instead, or additionally, identify players through other methods.
   Player tracking systems using player tracking cards and card readers 46 are known in the art.
   Briefly summarizing such a system, a player registers with the casino prior to commencing
   gaming. The casino issues a unique player-tracking card to the player and opens a corresponding
   player account that is stored on a server or host computer, described below with reference to
25 FIG. 3. The player account may include the player's name and mailing address and other
   information of interest to the casino in connection with marketing efforts. Prior to playing one of
   the gaming devices in the casino, the player inserts the player tracking card into the identification
   device 46 thus permitting the casino to track player activity, such as amounts wagered, credits
   won, and rate of play.
                                                      8

           To induce the player to use the card and be an identified player, the casino may award
   each player points proportional to the money or credits wagered by the player. Players typically
   accrue points at a rate related to the amount wagered, although other factors may cause the
   casino to award the player various amounts. The points may be displayed on the secondary
 5 display 25 or using other methods. In conventional player tracking systems, the player may take
   his or her card to a special desk in the casino where a casino employee scans the card to
   determine how many accrued points are in the player's account. The player may redeem points
   for selected merchandise, meals in casino restaurants, or the like, which each have assigned point
   values. In some player tracking systems, the player may use the secondary display 25 to access
 0 their player tracking account, such as to check a total number of points, redeem points for
   various services, make changes to their account, or download promotional credits to the gaming
   device 10. In other embodiments, the identification device 46 may read other identifying cards
   (such as driver licenses, credit cards, etc.) to identify a player and match them to a corresponding
   player tracking account. Although FIG. 1A shows the player tracking unit 45 with a card reader
 5 as the identification device 46, other embodiments may include a player tracking unit 45 with a
   biometric scanner, PIN code acceptor, or other methods of identifying a player to pair the player
   with their player tracking account.
           During typical play on a gaming device 10, a player plays a game by placing a wager and
   then initiating a gaming session. The player may initially insert monetary bills or previously
 0 printed tickets with a credit value into the bill acceptor 37. The player may also put coins into a
   coin acceptor (not shown) or a credit, debit or casino account card into a card reader/authorizer
   (not shown). One of skill in the art will readily see that this invention is useful with all gambling
   devices, regardless of the manner in which wager value-input is accomplished.
           The credit meter 27 displays the numeric credit value of the money inserted dependent on
25 the denomination of the gaming device 10. That is, if the gaming device 10 is a nickel slot
   machine and a $20 bill inserted into the bill acceptor 37, the credit meter will reflect 400 credits
   or one credit for each nickel of the inserted twenty dollars. For gaming devices 10 that support
   multiple denominations, the credit meter 27 will reflect the amount of credits relative to the
                                                       9

    denomination selected. Thus, in the above example, if a penny denomination is selected after the
    $20 is inserted the credit meter will change from 400 credits to 2000 credits.
             A wager may be placed by pushing one or more of the game buttons 32, which may be
    reflected on the bet meter 28. That is, the player can generally depress a "bet one" button (one of
 5  the buttons on the player interface panel 30, such as 32), which transfers one credit from the
    credit meter 27 to the bet meter 28. Each time the button 32 is depressed an additional single
    credit transfers to the bet meter 28 up to a maximum bet that can be placed on a single play of
    the electronic gaming device 10. The gaming session may be initiated by pulling the gaming
    handle 12 or depressing the spin button 33. On some gaming devices 10, a "max bet" button
 0  (another one of the buttons 32 on the player interface panel 30) may be depressed to wager the
    maximum number of credits supported by the gaming device 10 and initiate a gaming session.
             If the gaming session does not result in any winning combination, the process of placing
    a wager may be repeated by the player. Alternatively, the player may cash out any remaining
    credits on the credit meter 27 by depressing the "cash-out" button (another button 32 on the
 5  player interface panel 30), which causes the credits on the credit meter 27 to be paid out in the
    form of a ticket through the ticket printer 38, or may be paid out in the form of returning coins
    from a coin hopper (not shown) to a coin return tray.
             If instead a winning combination (win) appears on the display 20, the award
    corresponding to the winning combination is immediately applied to the credit meter 27. For
 '0 example, if the gaming device 10 is a slot machine, a winning combination of symbols 23 may
    land on a played payline on reels 22. If any bonus games are initiated, the gaming device 10
    may enter into a bonus mode or simply award the player with a bonus amount of credits that are
    applied to the credit meter 27.
             FIGs. 2A to 2C illustrate exemplary types of gaming devices according to embodiments
25  of the invention. FIG. 2A illustrates an example spinning-reel gaming machine 10A, FIG. 2B
    illustrates an example video slot machine 10B, and FIG. 2C illustrates an example video poker
    machine 1OC.
             Referring to FIG. 2A, a spinning-reel gaming machine 1OA includes a gaming display
    20A having a plurality of mechanical spinning reels 22A. Typically, spinning-reel gaming
                                                      10

    machines 1OA have three to five spinning reels 22A. Each of the spinning reels 22A has
    multiple symbols 23A that may be separated by blank areas on the spinning reels 22A, although
    the presence of blank areas typically depends on the number of reels 22A present in the gaming
    device 10A and the number of different symbols 23A that may appear on the spinning reels 22A.
 5  Each of the symbols 22A or blank areas makes up a "stop" on the spinning reel 22A where the
    reel 22A comes to rest after a spin. Although the spinning reels 22A of various games 1OA may
    have various numbers of stops, many conventional spinning-reel gaming devices 1OA have reels
    22A with twenty two stops.
             During game play, the spinning reels 22A may be controlled by stepper motors (not
 0  shown) under the direction of the microprocessor 40 (FIG. 1A). Thus, although the spinning-reel
    gaming device 10A has mechanical based spinning reels 22A, the movement of the reels
    themselves is electronically controlled to spin and stop. This electronic control is advantageous
    because it allows a virtual reel strip to be stored in the memory 41 of the gaming device 10A,
    where various "virtual stops" are mapped to each physical stop on the physical reel 22A. This
 5  mapping allows the gaming device 1OA to establish greater awards and bonuses available to the
    player because of the increased number of possible combinations afforded by the virtual reel
    strips.
             A gaming session on a spinning reel slot machine 10A typically includes the player
    pressing the "bet-one" button (one of the game buttons 32A) to wager a desired number of
 '0 credits followed by pulling the gaming handle 12 (FIGs. 1A, IB) or pressing the spin button 33A
    to spin the reels 22A. Alternatively, the player may simply press the "max-bet" button (another
    one of the game buttons 32A) to both wager the maximum number of credits permitted and
    initiate the spinning of the reels 22A. The spinning reels 22A may all stop at the same time or
    may individually stop one after another (typically from left to right) to build player anticipation.
25  Because the display 20A usually cannot be physically modified, some spinning reel slot
    machines 1OA include an electronic display screen in the top box 18 (FIG. IB), a mechanical
    bonus mechanism in the top box 18, or a secondary display 25 (FIG. 1A) to execute a bonus.
             Referring to FIG. 2B, a video gaming machine 1OB may include a video display 20B to
    display virtual spinning reels 22B and various other gaming information 21B. The video display
                                                       11

   20B may be a CRT, LCD, plasma screen, or the like. It is usually preferable that the video
   display 20B be a touchscreen to accept player input. A number of symbols 23A appear on each
   of the virtual spinning reels 22B. Although FIG. 2B shows five virtual spinning reels 22B, the
   flexibility of the video display 20B allows for various reel 22B and game configurations. For
 5 example, some video slot games 1OB spin reels for each individual symbol position (or stop) that
   appears on the video display 20B. That is, each symbol position on the screen is independent of
   every other position during the gaming sessions. In these types of games, very large numbers of
   pay lines or multiple super scatter pays can be utilized since similar symbols could appear at
   every symbol position on the video display 20B. On the other hand, other video slot games 1OB
 0 more closely resemble the mechanical spinning reel games where symbols that are vertically
   adjacent to each other are part of the same continuous virtual spinning reel 22B.
            Because the virtual spinning reels 22B, by virtue of being computer implemented, can
   have almost any number of stops on a reel strip, it is much easier to have a greater variety of
   displayed outcomes as compared to spinning-reel slot machines 1OA (FIG. 2A) that have a fixed
 5 number of physical stops on each spinning reel 22A.
            With the possible increases in reel 22B numbers and configurations over the mechanical
   gaming device 1OA, video gaming devices 1OB often have multiple paylines 24 that may be
   played. By having more paylines 24 available to play, the player may be more likely to have a
   winning combination when the reels 22B stop and the gaming session ends. However, since the
 O player typically must wager at least a minimum number of credits to enable each payline 24 to be
   eligible for winning, the overall odds of winning are not much different, if at all, than if the
   player is wagering only on a single payline. For example, in a five line game, the player may bet
   one credit per payline 24 and be eligible for winning symbol combinations that appear on any of
   the five played paylines 24. This gives a total of five credits wagered and five possible winning
25 paylines 24. If, on the other hand, the player only wagers one credit on one payline 24, but plays
   five gaming sessions, the odds of winning would be identical as above: five credits wagered and
   five possible winning paylines 24.
            Because the video display 20B can easily modify the image output by the video display
   20B, bonuses, such as second screen bonuses are relatively easy to award on the video slot game
                                                     12

    1OB. That is, if a bonus is triggered during game play, the video display 20B may simply store
    the resulting screen shot in memory and display a bonus sequence on the video display 20B.
    After the bonus sequence is completed, the video display 20B may then retrieve the previous
    screen shot and information from memory, and re-display that image.
 5           Also, as mentioned above, the video display 20B may allow various other game
    information 21B to be displayed. For example, as shown in FIG. 2B, banner information may be
    displayed above the spinning reels 22B to inform the player, perhaps, which symbol combination
    is needed to trigger a bonus. Also, instead of providing a separate credit meter 27 (FIG. 1A) and
    bet meter 28, the same information can instead be displayed on the video display 20B. In
 0  addition, "soft buttons" 29B such as a "spin" button or "help/see pays" button may be built using
    the touch screen video display 20B. Such customization and ease of changing the image shown
    on the display 20B adds to the flexibility of the game 1OB.
             Even with the improved flexibility afforded by the video display 20B, several physical
    buttons 32B and 33B are usually provided on video slot machines 1OB. These buttons may
 5  include game buttons 32B that allow a player to choose the number of paylines 24 he or she
    would like to play and the number of credits wagered on each payline 24. In addition, a max bet
    button (one of the game buttons 32B) allows a player to place a maximum credit wager on the
    maximum number of available paylines 24 and initiate a gaming session. A repeat bet or spin
    button 33B may also be used to initiate each gaming session when the max bet button is not
 '0 used.
             Referring to FIG. 2C, a video poker gaming device 1OC may include a video display 20C
    that is physically similar to the video display 20B shown in FIG. 2B. The video display 20C
    may show a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player information 21C including a
    paytable for various winning hands, as well as a plurality of player selectable soft buttons 29C.
25  The video display 20C may present a poker hand of five cards 23C and various other player
    information 21C including a number of player selectable soft (touch-screen) buttons 29C and a
    paytable for various winning hands. Although the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 3C shows only
    one hand of poker on the video display 20C, various other video poker machines lOC may show
    several poker hands (multi-hand poker). Typically, video poker machines 1OC play "draw"
                                                      13

    poker in which a player is dealt a hand of five cards, has the opportunity to hold any combination
    of those five cards, and then draws new cards to replace the discarded ones. All pays are usually
    given for winning combinations resulting from the final hand, although some video poker games
    10C may give bonus credits for certain combinations received on the first hand before the draw.
 5  In the example shown in FIG. 2C a player has been dealt two aces, a three, a six, and a nine. The
    video poker game 1OC may provide a bonus or payout for the player having been dealt the pair
    of aces, even before the player decides what to discard in the draw. Since pairs, three of a kind,
    etc. are typically needed for wins, a player would likely hold the two aces that have been dealt
    and draw three cards to replace the three, six, and nine in the hope of receiving additional aces or
 0  other cards leading to a winning combination with a higher award amount. After the draw and
    revealing of the final hand, the video poker game 1OC typically awards any credits won to the
    credit meter.
             The player selectable soft buttons 29C appearing on the screen respectively correspond to
    each card on the video display 20C. These soft buttons 29C allow players to select specific cards
 5  on the video display 20C such that the card corresponding to the selected soft button is "held"
    before the draw. Typically, video poker machines 1OC also include physical game buttons 32C
    that correspond to the cards in the hand and may be selected to hold a corresponding card. A
    deal/draw button 33C may also be included to initiate a gaming session after credits have been
    wagered (with a bet button 32C, for example) and to draw any cards not held after the first hand
 '0 is displayed.
             Although examples of a spinning reel slot machine 1OA, a video slot machine 1OB, and a
    video poker machine 1OC have been illustrated in FIGs. 2A-2C, gaming machines and various
    other types of gaming devices known in the art are contemplated and are within the scope of the
    invention.
25           FIG. 3 is a block diagram illustrating networked gaming devices according to
    embodiments of the invention. Referring to FIG. 3, multiple electronic gaming devices (EGMs)
    70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75 may be coupled to one another and coupled to a remote server 80
    through a network 50. For ease of understanding, gaming devices or EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74,
    and 75 are generically referred to as EGMs 70-75. The term EGMs 70-75, however, may refer to
                                                      14

    any combination of one or more of EGMs 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, and 75. Additionally, the gaming
    server 80 may be coupled to one or more gaming databases 90. These gaming network 50
    connections may allow multiple gaming devices 70-75 to remain in communication with one
    another during particular gaming modes such as tournament play or remote head-to-head play.
 5  Although some of the gaming devices 70-75 coupled on the gaming network 50 may resemble
    the gaming devices 10, 10A, 10B, and 1OC shown in FIGs. lA-1B and 2A-2C, other coupled
    gaming devices 70-75 may include differently configured gaming devices. For example, the
    gaming devices 70-75 may include traditional slot machines 75 directly coupled to the network
    50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to the network 50, banks of gaming devices 70 coupled
 0  to the network through a bank controller 60, wireless handheld gaming machines 72 and cell
    phones 73 coupled to the gaming network 50 through one or more wireless routers or antennas
    61, personal computers 74 coupled to the network 50 through the internet 62, and banks of
    gaming devices 71 coupled to the network through one or more optical connection lines 64.
    Additionally, some of the traditional gaming devices 70, 71, and 75 may include electronic
 5  gaming tables, multi-station gaming devices, or electronic components operating in conjunction
    with non-gaming components, such as automatic card readers, chip readers, and chip counters,
    for example.
             Gaming devices 71 coupled over an optical line 64 may be remote gaming devices in a
    different location or casino. The optical line 64 may be coupled to the gaming network 50
 '0 through an electronic to optical signal converter 63 and may be coupled to the gaming devices 71
    through an optical to electronic signal converter 65. The banks of gaming devices 70 coupled to
    the network 50 may be coupled through a bank controller 60 for compatibility purposes, for local
    organization and control, or for signal buffering purposes. The network 50 may include serial or
    parallel signal transmission lines and carry data in accordance with data transfer protocols such
25  as Ethernet transmission lines, Rs-232 lines, firewire lines, USB lines, or other communication
    protocols. Although not shown in FIG. 3, substantially the entire network 50 may be made of
    fiber optic lines or may be a wireless network utilizing a wireless protocol such as IEEE 802.11
    a, b, g, or n, Zigbee, RF protocols, optical transmission, near-field transmission, or the like.
                                                      15

            As mentioned above, each gaming device 70-75 may have an individual processor 40
    (FIG. 1A) and memory 41 to run and control game play on the gaming device 70-75, or some of
    the gaming devices 70-75 may be terminals that are run by a remote server 80 in a server based
    gaming environment. Server based gaming environments may be advantageous to casinos by
 5  allowing fast downloading of particular game types or themes based on casino preference or
    player selection. Additionally, tournament based games, linked games, and certain game types,
    such as BINGO or keno may benefit from at least some server 80 based control.
            Thus, in some embodiments, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be
    dedicated to communications regarding specific game or tournament play. In other
 0  embodiments, however, the network 50, server 80, and database 90 may be part of a player
    tracking network. For player tracking capabilities, when a player inserts a player tracking card in
    the card reader 46 (FIG. 1A), the player tracking unit 45 sends player identification information
    obtained on the card reader 46 through the MCI 42 over the network 50 to the player tracking
    server 80, where the player identification information is compared to player information records
 5  in the player database 90 to provide the player with information regarding their player account or
    other features at the gaming device 10 where the player is wagering. Additionally, multiple
    databases 90 and/or servers 80 may be present and coupled to one or more networks 50 to
    provide a variety of gaming services, such as both game/tournament data and player tracking
    data.
 0O         The various systems described with reference to FIGs 1-3 can be used in a number of
    ways. For instance, the systems can be used to track data about various players. The tracked
    data can be used by the casino to provide additional benefits to players, such as extra bonuses or
    extra benefits such as bonus games and other benefits as described above. These added benefits
    further entice the players to play at the casino that provides the benefits.
25          Turning now to FIG. 4, consideration will be given to an embodiment according to the
    present invention. Indicated generally at 100 is a process that depicts operation of the disclosed
    embodiment. As will become apparent, process 100 could be implemented on a single gaming
    machine or it could be implemented on a plurality of gaming machines via network 50. In a
    network implementation, process 100 could be software operatively connected to the network,
                                                       16

   either at a single location, such as at server 80 or a similar server, or distributed on the network.
   The following description relates to a network implementation. Implementation on a single
   game will be described in connection with FIG. 8.
            At 102, a player is permitted to play gaming device 10. The player, in the present
 5 example, is enrolled in the player tracking system, and his or her play is tracked via the player
   tracking system and network at 104. Such tracking typically includes all awards made to the
   player but might include only tracking awards that are below a predefined level. In any event,
   such awards are obviously tracked when all awards are tracked. It should be appreciated that the
   present invention may be equally well implemented with a player who is not enrolled, but whose
 0 play is tracked and stored anonymously by the player tracking system or by a system dedicated
   to implementing the present embodiment.
            Tracking game awards that are below a predefined level can have many possible
   meanings. For example, this could be the total amount of money lost by the player. Or it could
   comprise consecutive losses after an initial wager. It also may comprise tracking consecutive
 5 game awards that are each below a predefined level. There are obviously many other ways to
   track game awards that are below a predefined level.
            At 106, the tracked awards are stored at a storage device located on network 50. The
   storage device may include database 90 or other databases or storage devices operatively
   connected to the network. At 108, the tracked data is checked to see if the awards to the player
 0 are less than a predefined criterion. Like tracking awards below a predefined level, checking to
   see if the awards to the player are less than a predefined criterion can also have many possible
   meanings.
            For example, the predefined criterion may be an amount of money. And that amount
   may be a function of at least one of the amount wagered by the player and the amount won by
25 the player. Such a function could be as simple as taking the difference between the two, or it
   may be related to a ratio of one to the other. On the other hand, it could simply be one or the
   other, i.e., amount wagered or amount won. Preferably all of the player's cash is exhausted
   before the predefined criterion is met. It is also possible to establish a predefined criterion
   related to winnings lost back to the game. For example, if the player has a hot streak and bets all
                                                      17

   of the awards, which are then lost, the predefined criterion may be met. There are clearly many
   other ways to establish the predefined criterion.
            If, at 108 in FIG. 4, the awards are determined not to be less than a predefined criterion,
   the player continues play at 102. On the other hand, if the awards are less than a predefined
 5 criterion, a pay command is sent over network 50 to the gaming device 10. In the embodiment
   of FIG. 4, the pay command is communicated via the network and interface 42 to credit meter 27
   or to bet meter 28 with enough credit to play one free game. The award of the credit or game
   may be accompanied by a message to the player that could be delivered on secondary display 25.
   The message can let the player know that the operator of the gaming device sympathizes with the
 0 player in view of the losing streak and is therefore providing some solace. In one
   implementation, the player is notified of the award made at 110, e.g., via display 25, and is
   required to take some action, such as pressing a button, before the award is usable to confirm that
   the player notices the award.
            The credit may be cashed out by the player or, preferably, it is a credit that can only be
 5 played, i.e., it cannot be cashed out. This free game is played at 110. Any award associated with
   play of the free game at 110 is checked at 112 to see if it is above a predefined amount. If so, the
   process returns to 102 where play continues. If not, the player is awarded a further credit for a
   second additional game. Any award associated with play of the second additional game is also
   checked at 112 with additional free games being awarded until the first free game that provides
 0 an award above the predefined level.
            In one embodiment, the award at 110 need not be the result of play only on gaming
   device 10. For a tracked player, the session results can be stored in the player tracking system,
   e.g., in database 90. As a result, when the player logs out of the player tracking system, typically
   by removing a player tracking card, at gaming device 10 and logs in at another gaming device on
25 the network, the player's record of wagers, wins, and losses, "follows" him or her to the next
   machine. Put simply, process 100 can be implemented over different player sessions or even
   over different visits, e.g., on different days.
            In another option related to moving to another gaming device, the award at 110 may be
   structured to be usable only at the second gaming device. In other words, the player would be
                                                      18

   required to move to receive the award. This might be implemented when a casino is urging
   players to play a new game or is trying to boost interest in under-played games.
           Turning now to FIG. 5, indicated generally at 114 is a modified version of process 100.
   Portions of process 100 that remain substantially the same in process 114 retain the same
 5 numeral in FIG. 5. In process 114, there may be a limit on the number of free games before the
   process returns to 102. This limit is checked at 111. If the limit is reached, the process returns to
   102, if not the check at 112 is made to see if the award is greater than a predefined level. If so,
   the process returns to 102 for further play; if not, the process returns to 110 for another free
   game. In other words, the player may be returned to 110 x times (where x       = an integer) at 112
 0 before finally being returned to 102 at 111 even if there has not been a win. In any event, after a
   win-in process 100-or a predefined number of free games that all result in losses-in process
   114-the process then returns to 102, and play continues.
           Turning now to FIG. 6, indicated generally at 116 is a modified version of process 100.
   Portions of process 100 that remain substantially the same in process 116 retain the same
 5 numeral in FIG. 6. In FIG. 6, after tracked play results are stored at 106, a check is made at 107
   to see whether the player qualifies for a possible additional game at 110 regardless of the level of
   the player's losses. This qualification step allows the operator of the gaming machines to
   provide the benefits of the process to specified players based on the perceived future worth of the
   player. For example, the decision made at 107 could simply be that all players who are logged in
 0 to the player tracking system will be qualified and those who are not logged in will not be.
           Even those who qualify at 107 and wind up at 108 may be further categorized by varying
   the process at 108 to identify tiers of players who are passed on to the free game at 110 based on
   different predefined criterion applied to different players at 108. Again, this provides the
   operator of the gaming devices with the ability to target and reward specific players or groups of
25 players in a way that encourages them to continue playing during the current session and in
   future sessions and visits. For example, one group of players may be identified as being from a
   wealthy area based on the zip code used in the address when the player enrolls in the player
   tracking system. Those players may qualify at a lesser loss than players deemed to be not as
   worthy and therefore be passed from 108 to 110 earlier in process 116.
                                                     19

            Turning now to FIG. 7, indicated generally at 118 is a modified version of process 100.
   Portions of process 100 that remain substantially the same in process 118 retain the same
   numeral in FIG. 7. Process 118 includes a wait at 120, which is set for a predefined amount of
   time. After the wait, process 118 checks at 122 to see if the free game allowed at 110 has been
 5 played. If not, the free game is lost and the process returns to normal play at 102. If the free
   game awarded at 110 has been played, process 118 checks at 112 to see if the award is greater
   than a predefined level and returns to either 110 or 102 in the same manner as process 100.
            Turning now to FIG. 8, indicated generally at 124 is a modified version of process 100.
   Portions of process 100 that remain substantially the same in process 124 retain the same
 0 numeral in FIG. 8. Process 124 includes an optional start at 126, which is the player logging in
   to a player tracking system. The process checks at 128, after one free game is allowed at 110, to
   see if the player has either logged out or cashed out of the gaming machine. Even if a player has
   not logged in at 126, if process 124 determines that the player has cashed out at 128, the process
   returns to 102 to wait for further play. For a player who has logged in at 126, the same return to
 5 102 is made if the player logs out at 128. The free game allowed at 110 is disallowed if the
   process returns to 102 via 128, whether the player has cashed out or logged out. But if the player
   plays the free game at 130, process 124 resumes operation at 112 in a manner similar to process
   100.
            Turning now to FIG. 9, indicated generally at 132 is a schematic diagram of gaming
 0 device 10 constructed to operate according to an embodiment of the invention. All of the
   structure previously identified retains the same numeral in FIG. 9. Also included in FIG. 9 is
   firmware 134, which is a computer usable medium that stores code that may implement any or
   all, or any combination, of the processes described in connection with FIGs. 4-8. As a result, the
   functionality for a gaming device on network 50 can be implemented in a single gaming device
25 10. Firmware 134 can include what is referred to herein as an award monitor. The firmware
   itself may be replaced with different firmware by the operator of the gaming device and thus may
   be used to adjust the predefined criterion to provide free games by switching to different
   firmware.
                                                     20

          As with gaming device 10, each of the functions described in the various
  implementations depicted in FIGs. 4-8 can all be implemented on the network, different ones can
  be implemented, or different combinations can be implemented. And on the network, all of these
  possibilities may be implemented simultaneously. In other words, different machines on the
5 network can implement different ones-or different combinations-of the functions.
          Some embodiments of the invention have been described above, and in addition, some
  specific details are shown for purposes of illustrating the inventive principles. However,
  numerous other arrangements may be devised in accordance with the inventive principles of this
  patent disclosure. Further, well known processes have not been described in detail in order not
0 to obscure the invention. Thus, while the invention is described in conjunction with the specific
  embodiments illustrated in the drawings, it is not limited to these embodiments or drawings.
  Rather, the invention is intended to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents that come
  within the scope and spirit of the inventive principles set out in the appended claims.
          Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art are
5 deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
                                                   21

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
           1.       A method of operating a plurality of gaming devices interconnected via a
   computer network, the method comprising:
           permitting a player to play one of the gaming devices;
 5         tracking game awards that are below a predefined level;
           storing the tracked awards at a storage device located on the network;
           using a process located on the network to determine if the game awards are less than a
   predefined criterion; and
           sending a pay command over the network to the player's gaming device if the game
 0 awards are less than the predefined criterion.
           2.       The method of claim 1 wherein the method further includes awarding the player a
   credit for playing at least one additional game in response to sending the pay command over the
   network to the player's gaming device.
 5
           3.       The method of claim 2 wherein the method further comprises:
           waiting a predefined time after awarding the credit;
           determining whether the one additional game has been played after waiting; and
           if not, preventing the one additional game from being played.
 0
           4.       The method of claim 2 wherein the method further comprises:
           logging the player in as an identified player during play; and
           preventing the one additional game from being played if the player logs out before
   playing the one additional game.
25
           5.       The method of claim 1 wherein tracking game awards that are below a predefined
   level comprises tracking the amount of money lost by the player.
                                                     22

           6.       The method of claim 5 wherein the predefined criterion comprises an amount of
   money.
           7.       The method of clam 4 wherein the amount of money comprises a function of at
 5 least one of the amount wagered by the player and the amount won by the player.
            8.      The method of claim 6 wherein the amount of money is related to the total awards
   generated as a result of game play.
 0         9.       The method of claim 1 wherein tracking game awards that are below a predefined
   level comprises tracking consecutive losses after an initial wager.
            10.     The method of claim 1 wherein tracking game awards that are below a predefined
   level comprises tracking consecutive game awards that are each below a predefined level.
 5
            11.     The method of claim 2 wherein awarding the player a credit for playing at least
   one additional game comprises:
           awarding the player a credit for a first additional game;
           permitting the player to play the first additional game;
 0         determining whether the player received a game award above a predefined amount for the
   first additional game; and
           if the player did not receive such a game award, awarding the player a further credit.
            12.     The method of claim 11 wherein awarding the player a further credit comprises
25 awarding the player a credit for a second additional game.
            13.     The method of claim 11 wherein the method further comprises awarding no
   further credits if the player did receive such a game award.
                                                     23

            14.     The method of claim 1 wherein the method further comprises:
            permitting the player to play at least two of the gaming devices; and
            tracking game awards that are below a predefined level on the two gaming devices.
 5          15.     The method of claim 1 further comprising changing the predefined criterion from
    a user-operated input device located on the network.
            16.     The method of claim 1 further comprising:
            permitting a plurality of players to play one of the gaming devices;
 0          establishing at least one qualification criterion for the player's gaming device to receive
    the pay command; and
            not sending the pay command unless the criterion is met.
            17.     The method of claim 16 wherein the method further comprises tracking at least
 5  some of the players via a player tracking system and wherein the qualification criterion
    comprises detecting a tracked player at the player's gaming device.
            18.     A method of operating a plurality of gaming devices interconnected via a
    computer network, the method comprising:
 10         predefining a plurality of game outcomes that comprise a losing experience;
            storing the predefined plurality of game outcomes on the network;
            permitting a player to play at least one of the gaming devices;
            tracking the player's play on the network;
            determining whether outcomes of games played by the player comprise a losing
25  experience; and
            if so, awarding the player a credit via the network that is usable to play at least one
    additional game.
                                                       24

            19.     The method of claim 18 wherein the losing experience comprises a plurality of
   consecutive outcomes in which game awards are less than a predefined amount.
            20.     The method of claim 19 wherein the predefined amount is a function of the total
 5 amount wagered by the player.
            21.     The method of claim 18 wherein the losing experience is related to the amount of
   game awards wagered and lost by the player.
 0          22.     The method of claim 19 wherein the first of the plurality of consecutive outcomes
   comprises the first outcome after the player applies an initial amount to a credit meter associated
   with the gaming device.
            23.     The method of claim 22 wherein the initial amount is above a predefined value.
 5
            24.     The method of claim 18 wherein awarding the player a credit that is usable to play
   at least one additional game comprises awarding a credit in an amount sufficient to play only one
   additional game.
 0          25.     The method of claim 24 further comprising:
            determining the outcome of the additional game; and
            if the outcome is associated with an award that is less than a predefined amount,
   awarding a further credit in an amount sufficient to play only one further game.
25          26.     The method of clam 20 further comprising for the additional game and for each
   game played subsequent thereto, awarding a credit in an amount sufficient to play only one game
   until the player cashes out or the game outcome is associated with an award above a predefined
   amount.
                                                    25

            27.      The method of claim 24 further comprising:
            determining the outcome of the additional game;
            if the outcome is associated with an award that is less than a predefined amount,
    awarding a further credit in an amount sufficient to play only one further game; and
 5          after the further game, continuing to award a credit in an amount sufficient to play only
    one game until the outcome of any of the games generates an award above a predefined amount.
            28.      The method of claim 27 wherein the predefined amount is zero.
 0          29.      The method of claim 18 wherein the method further comprises predefining the
    plurality of game outcomes that comprise a losing experience via a user-operated input device
    located on the network.
            30.      The method of claim 18 wherein the method further comprises:
 5          waiting a predefined time after awarding the player a credit;
            determining whether the one additional game has been played after waiting; and
            if not, preventing the one additional game from being played.
            31.      The method of claim 18 wherein the method further comprises:
 0O         logging the player in as an identified player during play; and
            preventing the one additional game from being played if the player logs out before
    playing the one additional game.
            32.      The method of claim 18 further comprising:
25          permitting a plurality of players to play one of the gaming devices;
            establishing at least one qualification criterion for the player's gaming device to receive
    the pay command; and
            not sending the pay command unless the criterion is met.
                                                       26

            33.     The method of claim 32 wherein the method further comprises tracking at least
    some of the players via a player tracking system and wherein the qualification criterion
    comprises detecting a tracked player at the player's gaming device.
 5          34.     A method according to any of the preceding claims wherein the method further
    comprises preventing the awarded credit from being cashed out.
            35.     A computer program product, comprising a computer usable medium having a
    computer readable program code embodied therein, said computer readable program code
 0  adapted to be executed to implement a method for generating a report, said method comprising:
            permitting a player to play one of the gaming devices;
            tracking game awards that are below a predefined level;
            storing the tracked awards at a storage device located on the network;
            using a process located on the network to determine if the game awards are less than a
 5  predefined criterion; and
            sending a pay command over the network to the player's gaming device if the game
    awards are less than the predefined criterion.
            36.     A computer program product, comprising a computer usable medium having a
 '0 computer readable program code embodied therein, said computer readable program code
    adapted to be executed to implement a method for generating a report, said method comprising:
            predefining a plurality of game outcomes that comprise a losing experience;
            storing the predefined plurality of game outcomes on the network;
            permitting a player to play at least one of the gaming devices;
25          tracking the player's play on the network;
            determining whether outcomes of games played by the player comprise a losing
    experience; and
            if so, awarding the player a credit via the network that is usable to play at least one
    additional game.
                                                      27

          37.     A gaming device comprising:
          an outcome generator operable to generate random outcomes for each game played;
          a wager intake device adapted to receive a wager from a player for enabling a game for
  play;
5         an award table that associates at least some of the outcomes with a player award;
          an award monitor constructed and arranged to track awards made; and
          a circuit operatively connected to the award monitor, the circuit configured to enable a
  game for play when the tracked awards are less than a predefined criterion.
0         38.     The gaming device of claim 37 further comprising an adjuster constructed and
  arranged to permit changing the predefined criterion.
          39.     The gaming device of claim 37 wherein the predefined criterion comprises an
  amount of money.
5
          40.     The gaming device of clam 31 wherein the amount of money comprises a
  function of at least one of the amount wagered by the player and the awards made to the player.
          41.     The gaming device of claim 39 wherein the amount of money is related to the
O total awards generated as a result of game play.
                                                    28

                                               ;5:1=3>
                              '('+')($'*($#"#+
                          ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                                       
<removed-date>
                                                   
                                                                                       
<removed-apn>
                                                   
                           ---                                                            
                           ...
                                                   
                                                                      6><8/B
                  
                                                                                               
              
                                                                   (%#
                      
                                                   %
                             ""
                             "
                                                               
                           #3?A;=7                                        
                                           

                                       ;5:1=3>
                      '('+')($'*($#"#+
                  ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                               
<removed-date>
                                                                              
<removed-apn>
                                            /
                                               :?/
                                                   >?6
                                                       1
                                                           >
              
                                                   (%
                                                     #
                          /
                            :?/
                               >?61
                                       
                                         >

                                           ;5:1=3>
                          '('+')($'*($#"#+
                      ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                                 
<removed-date>
                                                                                              
<removed-apn>                                                        /=
                                                                                         
                        /=                                      /=
                                                                  /=
                                       /=                        /=
              
                                      /=
                         /=          /=            /=                           /=
                                                                                         
                                                                                               

                                                     ;5:1=3>
                                    '('+')($'*($#"#+
                                ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                                            
                                                                                               
<removed-date>
                                                     
                                  $#*(
                      ;=9;=3(B90;8>;:/<8/B32</B86:3?=6443=>?53!@17B;:@>
<removed-apn>
                                      $#*(                                         /=
                      /=                                       /=
                                         /=                $#*(                              /=
                      38<                       
                                                         =326?>                            (%#
                                                                              !/>?3? 
                                                           
                      %8/B             %8/B                   %8/B              %8/B      %8/B
                     !6:3                                                                   
                                        !6:3>                   !6:3>              !6:3>      !6:3>
                                 
                      3?             3?                   3?              )       '3<3/?
                       %3=              %3=                    %3=
                      !6:3              !6:3                    !6:3               "-        3?
                                                                                                

                                                     ;5:1=3>
                                    '('+')($'*($#"#+
                                ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                                                                           
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                   
<removed-apn>
                   CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC                                                            
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                      
                   
                      
                                                                                                                                                            
              
                                                                                                                                                                                       
                        ;82                                 ;82                                 ;82                           ;82                                 ;82
                          ;82                                 ;82                                 ;82                           ;82                                 ;82
                           )                                                                                                                            !',
                                                                                                                                                                    

                                                       ;5:1=3>
                                      '('+')($'*($#"#+
                                  ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                                            
<removed-date>
                                                                                       
<removed-apn>
                                                                              
                                                     
                                                                                          
                        
                                                                              
                                                     
                                                                                
                                                     
                  
                                                                                                      
                                                                                        
                                                          
                                                                     
                                               
                                                                                       
                                                  
                                                               
                                                        
                                                                                                     
                              
                                                
                                                
                                                                                                
                                                
                                                                                                      
                                                                          
                                        

                                        ;5:1=3>
                       '('+')($'*($#"#+
                   ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                             
<removed-date>                                                                        
                            %!.
<removed-apn>
                                                  
                           )'
                                                  
                           ()$'
                                                                                
                                        
                                                                      !!$,$#'
              $#        ,'(-                   .(
                                                                          "
                                                                         ,'
                                                              $#        %'#      .(
                                                                          !+!

                                        ;5:1=3>
                       '('+')($'*($#"#+
                   ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                             
<removed-date>
                                              
                           %!.
                                              
<removed-apn>
                          )'
                                              
                          ()$'
                                                                                
                                        
                                                                     !!$,$#'
              $#       ,'(-                .(
                                                                         "
                                                                       '"(
                                                                                       .(
                                                                       -*()
                                                                            #$
                                                                        ,'
                                                             $#        %'#     .(
                                                                         !+!

                                             ;5:1=3>
                            '('+')($'*($#"#+
                        ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                                 
<removed-date>
                                                                                         
                              %!.
                                                 
<removed-apn>
                             )'
                                                 
                             ()$'
                                           
                            %!.'
                   $#
                           &*!
                                                                                
                               .(         
                                                                        !!$,$#'
              $#          ,'(-                .(
                                                                            "
                                                                           ,'
                                                                $#        %'#         .(
                                                                            !+!

                                        ;5:1=3>
                       '('+')($'*($#"#+
                   ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                                                                    
<removed-date>
                                                   
                            %!.
                                                   
<removed-apn>
                           )'
                                                   
                           ()$'
                                                                                 
                                         
                                                                      !!$,$#'
              $#        ,'(-                   .(
                                                                          "
                                                                                            
                                                                           ,)-
                                                                       "%!.       #$
                                                                                .(
                                                                          ,'
                                                               $#        %'#      .(
                                                                           !+!

                                   ;5:1=3>
                  '('+')($'*($#"#+
              ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                           
<removed-date>
                                                      
                          %!.'!$(#
                                                     
                                %!.
<removed-apn>
                                                     
                               )'
                                                     
                               ()$'
                                                                            
                                               
                                                                    !!$,$#'
                 $#         ,'(-             .(
                                                                        "
                                                                                       
                                                                      %!.'!$(
                                                                                      .(
                                                                      (($*)
                                                                           #$
                                                                                        
                                                                       '"
                                                                        %!.
                                                                       ,'
                                                               $#     %'#     .(
                                                                        !+!

                                                   <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                                              
                          )")' 
                                                                      
                                         
                                                                                                                 ;5:1=3>
                                                      '!(   
"*))$#        "'$%'$(($'                                                   
                                                    ')")' 
                                                                                                '('+')($'*($#"#+
                                                                      
                                                                                            ??;=:3B;173?#;   <<861/?6;:#;68323=3A6?5
                                       ""
               '",'
                                    "!$

