                                                                                                  ANT002AU
                                PORTABLE PROTECTIVE ENCLOSURE
                                                  ABSTRACT
         A portable protective enclosure and a method of using the enclosure is presented. The enclosure
may include a plurality of walls extending around and at least partially defining an interior space for being
occupied by a user, and a top panel overlying and at least partially defining the space. The plurality of
walls may include an entry wall and side walls. The entry wall may include a door flap moveable between
open and closed positions. The side wall may include a window having a see-through material, and a
window flap in a facing relationship with the window and moveable between open and closed positions.
The enclosure may include a floor panel detachably joined to at least one of the walls by a fastener that
is accessible from within the interior space, so that the floor panel is detachable from the walls from
within the interior space.
                                                       19

FIGURES
 FIG. 1

                                                                                                   ANT002AU
                                  PORTABLE PROTECTIVE ENCLOSURE
                              CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]        This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/431,082 filed
December 7, 2016, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                                    FIELD
[0002]        A portable protective enclosure is generally described. In particular, a portable personal
enclosure for providing protection against weather elements, bugs and/or insects, while facilitating a
user's privacy is provided.
                                               BACKGROUND
[0003]        Known techniques and devices for providing protection against weather elements, such as
rain, snow, hail and sleet, include shelter structures, such as, tents and other canopy structures. These
structures are often used outdoors, for activities that may include camping. Because these tents are
used in the outdoors and may be exposed to the weather elements, including wind, they often need to be
secured to the ground, by stakes or other strong and substantial securing means.
[0004]        In addition, use of these tent structures may vary from requiring portable shelters that can
be moved from one place to another to larger tent structures that may include rigid supports that help
keep the structure at a single location for an extended amount of time. While the portable shelters may
offer a user with flexibility of where the shelter can be used, this flexibility may be limited when the user
will be at locations experiencing, for example, heavy winds and/or rain. While larger and more rigid tent
structures may be able to withstand heavy winds and/or rain, they are not portable by the user.
[0005]        Tent structures are also often used in activities that may require privacy, such as sleeping
and changing clothing. These structures usually include fabric sheets or other cloth-like material that are
mounted on and/or secured to poles. Coupled with the desire to provide protection against the weather
elements, these structures may be substantially waterproof and/or leak-proof in an effort to keep users
dry. An issue with these structures is that while they may prevent water from entering the structure,
they do not allow for the admittance of air therethrough, which may limit the user's ability to received
required ventilation. In addition, should the user need to move the structure to, for example, a drier
location, the user will have to exit the structure in order to do so, which may expose the user to
undesirable weather elements and/or insects and/or bugs that are outside the structure. A user's
exposure to insects, such as mosquitos, can cause potentially serious health risks. For instance, users
may be exposed to an Aedes species mosquitos infected with the Zika virus - a virus for which no vaccine
and/or medicinal treatment are presently available. If users are bitten by an infected Aedesspecies
mosquito, the user may experience fever, rash, joint pain, conjunctivitis, headache and/or muscle pain. A
                                                        I

                                                                                                     ANT002AU
pregnant user may pass the Zika virus to her unborn fetus. Thus, limiting exposure to insects that may be
infected with serious
[0006]        In view of the disadvantages associated with currently available methods and devices for
protection against weather elements, there is a need for a device and method that provides full body
protection against weather elements, while also providing adequate ventilation for a user. There is also a
need for a protective enclosure that inhibits the admittance of bugs and/or insects within the enclosure,
while also providing all-around water resistance and ventilation for the user, and being versatile enough
to be moved from one location to another without requiring the user to exit the device. In addition, there
is a need for a protective enclosure that is easily transportable, without requiring assembly of multiple
components and tools to secure the device to various outdoor groundcover surfaces, such as grass, dirt,
sand, concrete, stone, synthetic (e.g. rubber) or natural mulch, wood chips, engineered wood fiber,
pavers, poured rubber, rubber tiles, wood decking, pea gravel, synthetic turf, and the like.
                                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION
[0007]        According to an aspect, the present embodiments may be associated with a portable
protective enclosure. The portable protective enclosure may include a plurality of walls extending around
and at least partially defining an interior space for being occupied by a user. The plurality of walls may
include an entry wall including a door flap. According to an aspect, the door flap is movable between an
open position and a closed position. The portable protective enclosure may include a side wall.
According to an aspect, the side wall may include a window having a see-through material, and a window
flap in a facing relationship with the window. The window flap may be movable between an open
position and a closed position. According to an aspect, the portable protective enclosure further includes
a top panel overlying and at least partially defining the interior space, and a floor panel. The floor panel
may be detachably joined to at least one of the plurality of walls by a fastener. In an embodiment, the
fastener is accessible from within the interior space, so that the floor panel can be at least partially
detached from the at least one of the plurality of walls from within the interior space.
[0008]        According to an aspect, the present embodiments may be associated with a portable
protective enclosure that includes a plurality of walls that at least partially define an interior space. The
plurality of walls may include an entry wall including a detachably fastened door flap that is movable
between an open position and a closed position. According to an aspect, the plurality of walls further
include a side wall having a window that include a see-through material, and a window flap for at least
temporarily covering the window. The portable protective enclosure may include a canopy overlying the
interior space, and a floor panel that is detachably attached to at least one wall of the plurality of walls.
The floor panel may be detachably attached to the at least one wall of the plurality of walls by a fastener
accessible by a user positioned within the interior space, such that the floor panel may be detached from
                                                       2

                                                                                                    ANT002AU
the walls from within the interior space. According to an aspect, a pair of handles is joined to an interior
side of a respective pair of the plurality of walls. The handles may be for moving the enclosure from a
first location to a second location, from within the interior space. More specifically, the present
embodiments relate to a method of using the portable protective enclosure. According to an aspect, the
method includes, from within the interior space, detaching the floor panel from the at least one wall of
the plurality of walls, grasping the pair of handles, lifting the portable protective enclosure, and moving
the portable protective enclosure to a desired location.
                                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0009]        A more particular description will be rendered by reference to specific embodiments thereof
that are illustrated in the appended drawings. Understanding that these drawings depict only typical
embodiments thereof and are not therefore to be considered to be limiting of its scope, exemplary
embodiments will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the
accompanying drawings in which:
[0010]        FIG. 1 is an exploded view of a portable protective enclosure, according to an embodiment;
[0011]        FIG. 2 is an exploded view of a portable protective enclosure, according to an embodiment;
[0012]        FIG. 3A is a perspective view of a portable protective enclosure, illustrating detachably
fastened door flaps detached from the entry wall, according to an embodiment;
[0013]        FIG. 3B is a perspective view of the detached door flaps of FIG. 3A;
[0014]        FIGS. 4A-4B are perspective views a connector of the detachably fastened door flaps of a
portable protective enclosure, according to an embodiment;
[0015]        FIG. 5A is a front view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 1;
[0016]        FIG. 5B is a front view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 2;
[0017]        FIG. 5C is a front view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 3;
[0018]        FIG. 6 is perspective view of a handle of a portable protective enclosure, according to an
embodiment;
[0019]        FIG. 7 is a side view of a weight of a portable protective enclosure, according to an
embodiment;
[0020]        FIG. 8 is a side perspective view of an attachment member of a portable protective
enclosure, according to an embodiment;
[0021]        FIG. 9 is a side perspective view of yet another attachment member of a portable protective
enclosure, according to an aspect;
                                                         3

                                                                                                    ANT002AU
[0022]        FIG. 10A is a side view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 1, illustrating a side wall,
a retractable floor and window in a closed position, according to an embodiment;
[0023]        FIG. 10B is a side view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 2, illustrating a side wall,
a retractable floor and a window in an open position, according to an embodiment;
[0024]        FIG. 10C is a side view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 3, illustrating a side wall,
a retractable floor and a window in an open position, according to an embodiment;
[0025]        FIGS. 11A and 11B are side view of a portable protective enclosure, illustrating the window in
a closed position and in an open position, respectively, according to an embodiment;
[0026]        FIGS. 12A-12B are top down views of a canopy forming a top wall of a portable protective
enclosure, according to an embodiment;
[0027]        FIG. 12C is a side view of a portable protective enclosure, illustrating the canopy of FIGS.
12A-12B;
[0028]        FIG. 13A is a bottom view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 1, illustrating the
retractable floor portion, according to an embodiment;
[0029]        FIG. 13B is a schematic illustration of a floor portion of the portable protective enclosure of
FIG. 1, according to an embodiment;
[0030]        FIG. 14A is a bottom view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 2, illustrating the
retractable floor portion and the windows in an open position, according to an embodiment;
[0031]        FIG. 14B is a schematic illustration of the floor portion of the portable protective enclosure of
FIG. 2, according to an embodiment;
[0032]        FIG. 15A is a bottom view of the portable protective enclosure of FIG. 3A, illustrating the
retractable floor portion and the windows in an open position, according to an embodiment;
[0033]        FIG. 15B is a schematic illustration of the floor portion of the portable protective enclosure of
FIG. 3A, according to an embodiment;
[0034]        FIG. 16A is a top down view of a sponsor panel of a portable protective enclosure, according
to an embodiment;
[0035]        FIG. 16B is a bottom up view of the sponsor panel of FIG. 16A; and
[0036]        FIG. 17 is a perspective view of a carrier bag of a portable protective enclosure, according to
an embodiment.
[0037]       Various features, aspects, and advantages of the embodiments will become more apparent
from the following detailed description, along with the accompanying figures in which like numerals
                                                        4

                                                                                                  ANT002AU
represent like components throughout the figures and text. The various described features are not
necessarily drawn to scale, but are drawn to emphasize specific features relevant to some embodiments.
                                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0038]        Reference will now be made in detail to various embodiments. Each example is provided by
way of explanation, and is not meant as a limitation and does not constitute a definition of all possible
embodiments.
[0039]        The term "protective enclosure" may mean a structure that is capable of providing protection
against at least one of weather elements, insects and/or bugs.
[0040]        As used herein, the term "see-through" may mean a substantially transparent material or a
material that has some degree of transparency that may allow a user to see objects that are separated
by the substantially transparent material. For example, a see-through material may be a mesh-like
material that provides limited obstruction to a user's view and/or a material that is lucid and provides no
obstruction to a user's view, such as, for example, acrylic and polycarbonate sheets of film.
[0041]        As used herein, the term "non-see-through" may mean a substantially opaque material that
substantially inhibits the transmittance of light therethrough, such that it obscures a user's view through
said material. For example, a non-see-through material may include canvas, nylon, polyester, polycotton,
and the like.
[0042]        As used herein, the term "solid material" may mean a material, such as fabric, that has high
density or denier. Such solid material may include polymers and/or various plastics, such as for example
nylon.
[0043]        As used herein, the term "waterproof material" may mean a material that is capable of
inhibiting / or sustaining water placed on a surface of the material for some time, before the water /
liquid leaks through the other side of the material.
[0044]        As used herein, the term "water resistant" may mean the ability of a material to cause water
to bead on its surface, thus resisting saturation of the material.
[0045]        Embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to devices and methods for providing
protection against the weather elements, bugs and/or insects. Such devices find particular utility in
providing protection against weather elements, such as, rain, snow, sleet, hail, wind, sun, etc., as well as
against bugs and/or insects, such as mosquitos, flies, ticks, etc. According to an aspect, the devices
contemplated may include a plurality of walls that extend around and define an interior space to be
occupied by a user. The plurality of walls may include an entry wall including a door flap. According to
an aspect, the door flap is movable between an open position and a closed position, such that the user
may enter and/or exit the interior space when desired, and when the user is within the interior space and
                                                        5

                                                                                                     ANT002AU
the door flap is in the closed position, the user receives protection from the weather elements, bugs
and/or insects external to the enclosure. The plurality of walls may further include a side wall that
includes a window and a window flap. In an embodiment, the window includes a see-through material,
and the window flap is in a facing relationship with the window. The window flap may be movable
between an open position and a closed position, thus being able to provide protection against the
weather elements, bugs and/or insects, and provide ventilation to the user. The portable protective
enclosure may include a top panel that overlies and at least partially defines the interior space, and a
floor panel that is detachably joined to at least one of the plurality of walls by a fastener. According to
an aspect, the fastener is accessible from within the interior space, so that the floor panel can be at least
partially detached from the at least one of the plurality of walls from within the interior space.
[0046]        Further, embodiments contemplated herein relate to a portable protective enclosure that is
moveable by a user while the user is within an interior space of the protective enclosure. The portable
protective enclosure includes a plurality of walls that at least partially define an interior space, a canopy
that defines the interior space, a floor panel that is detachably attached to at least one wall of the
plurality of walls, and a pair of handles joined to an interior side of a respective pair of the plurality of
walls. According to an aspect, the floor panel is for being detached from the walls from within the interior
space, and the handles are for moving the enclosure from a first location to a second location from within
the interior space. Embodiments of the disclosure may further relate to a method of using the portable
protective device. According to a method, the method includes detaching the floor panel from the at
least one wall of the plurality of walls, grasping the pair of handles, lifting the portable protective
enclosure, and moving the portable protective enclosure to a desired location.
[0047]        For purposes of illustrating features of the embodiments, examples will now be introduced
and referenced throughout the disclosure. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these examples are
illustrative and not limiting and are provided purely for explanatory purposes.
[0048]        In an embodiment, and with particular reference to the figures, a portable protective
enclosure 10 is illustrated. FIGS. 1, 2 and 3A illustrate the portable protective enclosure 10 including a
plurality of walls 20 that extend around and at least partially define an interior space 22 for being
occupied by a user. The portable protective enclosure 10 may further include a top panel 50 that overlies
the interior space 22 and a floor panel 60 that underlies the interior space 22.
[0049]        According to an aspect, and as illustrated in FIGS. 1-2 and 3A, the plurality of walls 20 each
include a non-see-through wall portion 24 that extends along and defines a lower portion 26 of the
plurality of walls 20. Each of the non-see-through wall portions 24 may inhibit or substantially limit the
view of the interior space 22 of the enclosure 10 by anyone located outside the interior space 22, thus
providing privacy for the user of the protective enclosure 10. In an embodiment, the plurality of walls 20
                                                         6

                                                                                                     ANT002AU
each include an upper portion 21 positioned between the lower portion 26 of the respective wall 20 and
the top panel 50. Then non-see-through wall portion / privacy panel 24 may be configured to hide items
within the interior space 22 form the view of any persons outside the portable protective enclosure 10. At
least a part of the upper portion 21 may include the non-see-through wall portion 24. According to an
aspect, the plurality of walls 20 includes an entry wall 30 and a side wall 40. Each of the entry wall 30
and the side wall 40 may include the lower portion 26 and the upper portion 21, thus the entry and side
walls 30, 40 may include a part of the non-see-through wall portions 24.
[0050]        According to an aspect, the embodiments may be associated with a portable protective
enclosure 10 that includes a detachably fastened door flap 32. In an embodiment, the portable
protective enclosure 10 includes a plurality of walls 20 that at least partially define an interior space 22.
The plurality of walls 20 may include an entry wall 30 including the detachably fastened door flap 32 that
is movable between an open position P1 and a closed position P2. The plurality of walls 20 may further
include a side wall 40 having a window 42 that includes a see-through material 43, substantially as
described hereinabove. The window 40 may also include a window flap 44 that at least temporarily
covers the window 40. According to an aspect, the enclosure 10 includes a canopy 80 overlying the
interior space 22, and a floor panel 60 detachably attached to at least one wall of the plurality of walls
20. The floor panel 60 may be detachably attached to the at least one wall of the plurality of walls 20 by
a fastener 62 that isaccessible by a user positioned within the interior space 22. The enclosure 10 may
further include a pair of handles 25 joined to an interior side 23 of a respective pair 20', 20" of the
plurality of walls 20. According to an aspect, the floor panel 60 isfor being detached from the walls 20
from within the interior space 22, and the handles 25 are for moving the enclosure 10 from a first
location P5 to a second location P6 from within the interior space 22.
[0051]        Now referring to FIGS. 5A-5C, the entry wall 30 isshown as having a door flap 32. As seen
for instance in FIGS. 1-2, 3A, 3B and 5A-5C, the door flap 32 may include at least a portion of each of the
upper portion 21' and the lower portion 26'. According to an aspect, the door flap 32 is movable
between an open position P1 and a closed position P2. The door flap 32 may include a peripheral edge
34 that isat least partially / temporarily secured to the entry wall 30. At least a portion of the door flap
32 may be secured to the entry wall via a connector 33. As seen, for instance in FIG. 4A, the connector
33 may be a zipper. To be sure, the connector 33 may be any device that iscapable of releasably
securing and/or connecting the door flap 32 to the entry wall 30. According to an aspect, a material used
to form the plurality of walls 20 may cover the connector 33. The material may be in a covering
relationship with the connector 33 to protect the connector 33 against damage, weather, and wear and
tear.
[0052]        In embodiment, and as illustrated in FIGS. 1-2 and 3B, the door flap 32 is fully removable
from the entry wall 30. In other words, the open position P1 of the door flap may be such that the
                                                       7

                                                                                                   ANT002AU
peripheral edge 34 of the door flap 32 is no longer in an engagement relationship with the entry wall 30.
According to an aspect, the door flap 32 may include 2, 3, or more door flaps 32 that are in a layering
relationship with each other. As illustrated in FIG. 3B and in an embodiment, the door flap 32 is a first
door flap 32', and a second door flap 32" is provided in a layered relationship with the first door flap 32'.
According to an aspect, the first door flap 32' may include a mesh material that allows the transmittance
of light and/or air therethrough. Thus, in instances where the first door flap 32' is in its closed position
P2, and when the second door flap 32 is not in a facing relationship with the first door flap 32', the first
door flap 32' may still allow light and/or air to enter and/or exit the interior space 22 of the portable
protective enclosure 10. Alternatively, when the door flap 32 is closed and / or when both the first door
flap 32' and the second door flap 32" is in a layering relationship and the peripheral edge 34 is
completely affixed to the entry wall 30, light may be admitted therethrough while air, water and/or snow
may be kept out of the interior space 22. This may be particularly helpful in circumstances where a user
seeks to prevent the admittance of weather elements within the interior space of the enclosure 10. While
two door flaps 32', 32" have been referenced herein, to be sure, the number of door flaps 32 provided
may be 1, 3, 4, 5, which may be selected based on the needs of the particular application in which the
enclosure 10 is being used.
[0053]        In an embodiment, the entry wall 30 includes one or more viewing windows. Each viewing
window may include a first edge and a second edge. (Not shown.) According to an aspect, the first edge
of the viewing windows is affixed to the door flap 32', 32". The first edge may be affixed to or may
extend from the door flap 32. In an embodiment, the second edge is configured to be vertically
moveable and/or sealable from a closed position P1 to an open position P2. According to an aspect, the
second edge may include a sealing and/or closing mechanism, such as, for example, magnets, clips,
snaps, Velcro@, and the like. The sealing mechanism may include a single-handed closure mechanism
that allows the viewing windows to easily open and/or close. It would be understood by one of ordinary
skill in the art that the second edge could be fixed and the first edge could be moveable to a closed/open
position. The viewing windows may be arranged at any position on the door flap 32 of the entry wall 30.
According to an aspect, the viewing windows may be positioned at the upper portion 21' of the entry
wall, such that when the enclosure 10 is in use, the viewing window may be substantially located at or
near the user's eye level. According to an aspect, two or more viewing windows are arranged in the door
flap 32', 32", such that the viewing windows may be used when the user sits and/or stands in the
enclosure 10. When the viewing windows provided are two or more, the viewing windows may be
vertically and/or horizontally arranged, with respect to each other. In an embodiment, each of the
viewing windows provides a substantially waterproof seal when positioned in the closed position P1.
Thus, the viewing window may be adapted for at least one of observation and admittance of light and air
therethrough.
                                                        8

                                                                                                     ANT002AU
[0054]        FIGS. 10A-10C and 11A-11B illustrate the sidewalls 40 of the enclosure 10, according to an
aspect. The side wall 40 may include a window 42 having a see-through material 43 and a window flap
44 that is in a facing relationship with the window 42. According to an aspect, the window flap 44 is
movable between an open position P3 and a closed position P4. FIGS. 10A and I1A illustrate the window
flap 44 in the closed position P4, and FIGS. 10B-10C and 11B illustrate the window flap 44 in an open
position.
[0055]        In an embodiment, the side wall 40 includes a non-see-through portion 41 extending along
and defining a lower portion 45 of the side wall 40. According to an aspect, the side wall 40 includes an
upper portion 47 positioned between the lower portion 45 of the side wall 40 and the top panel 50. In an
embodiment, the window 42 is disposed within the upper portion 47 of the side wall 40. According to an
aspect, the window 42 comprises from about 65 to about 85 percent of a total area of the upper portion
47 of the side wall 40. The window 42 may include a see-through material 43 selected from the group
consisting of a netting material, a screen material, a mesh material, a polymer film, and any combination
thereof. In this configuration, the window 42 may provide ventilation to a user when the window flap 44
is open and/or moved away from the window 42. While the window flap 44 is illustrated as being
secured at an end closest to the floor panel 60, and the free end being away from the top panel 50
towards the floor panel 60, it is envisioned that the window flap 44 may be secured at the end closest to
the top panel 50. In any event, and as seen for instance, in FIG. 11B, when the window 12 is the see
through material, such as a mesh material, and the window flap 44 is in the open position P3, air may be
admitted within the interior portion 22 of the enclosure 10. The window flap 44 may include a material
selected from the group consisting of a see-through material, a non-see-through material, and any
combination thereof. In an embodiment, the see-through material includes a polymer film. According to
an aspect, the non-see-through material is selected from the group consisting of a woven fabric, a
nonwoven fabric, a polymer film, and any combination thereof. In an embodiment, when the window
flap 44 is the non-see-though material and the window flap 44 is in the closed position P4. According to
an aspect, the window flap 44 may include at least one of a substantially solid material and a
substantially waterproof material.
[0056]        According to an aspect, at least a portion of at least one of the plurality of walls 20 includes
an anti-fog coating configured to prevent condensation on the walls 20. Such anti-fog coating may
minimize the surface tension of the walls 20 in a manner that does not allow beads of liquids, such as
water, to form on the walls 20. The anti-fog coating may be a surfactant film or a solution that is wiped
on and subsequently wiped off the walls 20. For example, the anti-fog coating may be applied to at least
one of the entry wall 20, including the detachably fastened door flaps 32, and the windows 42 of the side
walls 40, such that the user's line of sight is not compromised while the user is in the interior portion 22
of the enclosure 10 during rain, sleet, snow and the like.
                                                       9

                                                                                                  ANT002AU
[0057]       According to an aspect, and as illustrated in FIGS. 12A-12C, the enclosure 10 includes the
top panel 50. The top panel 50 may be arranged in a manner that allows it to overlay the interior space
22 of the portable protective enclosure 10. In an embodiment, the top panel 60 comprises the non-see
through material, which helps to provide shade to the user in the interior space 22 and / or prevent the
entry to rain, snow, sleet, debris, insets, etc., within the interior space 22. The top panel 60 may include
a thick / dense material that may prevent cold winds from entering the space 22. According to an
aspect, the top panel 50 at least partially defines the interior space 22. The enclosure 10 may include a
canopy 80 overlying the interior space 22. The canopy 80 may be held taut above the interior space 22
by way of a plurality of tension rods or flexible rods / poles 84 being arranged adjacent an underside 82
of the canopy 80 within the interior space 22. According to an aspect, the flexible rods 84 include a first
rod end 85a and a second rod end 85b. Each of the first and second rod ends, 85a, 85b may be secured
within the enclosure 10 by way of pockets 86 coupled to at least two of the plurality of walls 20. As seen
for instance in FIGS. 12-12B, the first rod end 85a is secured in a first pocket 86 while the second rod
end 85b is secured within an opposing pocket 86' arranged substantially across from the first pocket 86.
According to an aspect, the pockets 86, 86' are secured to a part of the upper portion 47 of the side walls
40. In an embodiment, the canopy 80 is domed by virtue of the tension rods 84 being arranged to form a
curved / elevated portion 83 that lies above the interior space 22. In an embodiment, the flexible rods
84 include a resilient material that helps facilitate the canopy's 80 domed and/or raised configuration, and
the canopy's overall ability to self deploy. This configuration may help to reduce the likelihood of water,
snow, ice, etc., from pooling on the top panel 50 and/or the canopy 80.
[0058]       According to an aspect, the enclosure 10 includes the floor panel 60. The floor panel 60 may
be detachably joined to at least one of the plurality of walls 20 by a fastener 62. According to an aspect,
the user of the portable protective enclosure 10 may access the fastener 62 from within the interior
space 22. The user may detach and/or reattach the floor panel 60 from / to at least one of the plurality
of walls 20. According to an aspect, the floor panel 60 can be at least partially detached from the at least
one of the plurality of walls 20 from within the interior space 22, so that the user has access to a
groundcover 90 that is oriented below the floor panel 60. When in the partially detached condition, the
floor panel may be secured to a single side of one of the plurality of walls, such as for example, one of
the side walls 40, by a retention device 64 such as a strap, ties, Velcro, or other temporary affixing
device. The groundcover 90 on which the enclosure 10 is placed may be any surface that the user
desires to position the portable protective enclosure 10 on, such as, for example, grass, synthetic turf,
concrete, dirt, sand, stone, synthetic (e.g. rubber) or natural mulch, wood chips, engineered wood fiber,
pavers, poured rubber, rubber tiles, wood decking, pea gravel, and the like.
[0059]       As illustrated in FIGS. 1-3A, 4B, 5A-5C, 10A-10C, the enclosure may include at least one
handle 25 attached to an interior side 23 of the plurality of walls 20. As seen in FIG. 6, the handle 25 is
                                                        10

                                                                                                   ANT002AU
configured as a strap / loop that has an open area for the user to place his or her hands, and secured
ends that are affixed to at least one of the plurality of walls 20. In an embodiment, the handle 25 may
be secured to the interior side 23 via stitch bonding, or any other method that may provide load bearing
characteristics to the handle 25. According to an aspect, the handle 25 may provide mobility for a user
without requiring the user to leave the interior space 22 of the enclosure 10. For instance, with the floor
panel 60 in an at least partially detached condition, the handles 25 may be utilized for lifting the
enclosure 10 from within the interior space 22. The user can also move the enclosure 10 from a first
location P5 to a second location P6. (See, for instance, FIG. 3A.) The handles 25, in combination with
the retracted floor panel 60, may allow the user to move the enclosure 10 from within an interior space
22 of the enclosure, and thus change the user's location, which may be desirable in unfavorable weather
conditions. For instance, when it is raining or snowing outside, the user can move the portable protective
enclosure 10 from a wet area to a dry area, without having to be exposed to the weather elements, such
as the rain / snow.
[0060]        The portable protective enclosure 10 may include a plurality of compartments 72 configured
for maintaining the enclosure 10 in a desired position. According to an aspect and as illustrated in FIG.
7, the compartments 72 may be configured as pocket structures that allow for insertion of sand, rocks,
sand bags, bean bags, and generally any substance capable of effectively anchoring the enclosure 10. As
seen for instance in FIGS. 1-3A, 5A-5C and 10A-10C, the compartments 72 may be provided on the
corners of the portable protective enclosure 10, closest to the groundcover 90. When weights are
provided in compartments 72 positioned in all four corners, this may help to stabilize the enclosure 10
during windy or turbulent weather conditions.
[0061]        According to an aspect and as illustrated in FIGS. 1, 3A, 5A-5C and 10A-10C, the portable
protective enclosure 10 may also include a plurality of attachment members 70. The plurality of
attachment members 70 may be configured as straps / loops that are secured at one or more ends of the
enclosure 10. The plurality of attachment members 70 may be provided adjacent to and/or in place of
the compartments 72, and may be positioned at one or more bottom corners 14 or top corners 12 of the
portable protective enclosure 10. The plurality of attachment members 70 may secure the portable
protective enclosure 10 to the groundcover 90 and help secure the enclosure 10 in the event of high wind
or turbulent forces that may cause the enclosure to topple over. For instance, if the enclosure 10 is to be
located on a grassy groundcover 90 surface, the attachment members 70 may receive tensioning
members 74 such as a string, rope, strand, twine, cable, wire or even a guy-wire, which may be coupled
to the attachment members 70 at one end and subsequently attached to an immobile structure, that is,
structures that are at least semi-immobile and capable of ensuring the enclosure 10 remains where it was
positioned, such as stakes or other at least semi-immobile structures, such as trees, park benches, and
the like, to aid with securing the enclosure to the groundcover 90. According to an aspect, the
                                                       11

                                                                                                    ANT002AU
attachment members 70 may be used with or without the plurality of compartments 72, and the
compartments 72 can be used without the attachment members 70, for assisting with maintaining the
portable protective enclosure 10 in a desired position.
[0062]         According to an aspect and as found in FIGS. 13A-13B, 14A-14B, 15A-15B, the side wall 40 is
the first side wall 40, and the plurality of walls 20 includes a second side wall 40' and a third side wall
40". In an embodiment, the second side wall 40' and the third side wall 40" each include a window 42
having a see-through material 43, and a window flap 44 for at least temporarily covering the window 42.
The window 42 may include a see-through material selected from the group consisting of a netting
material, a screen material, a mesh material, a transparent polymer film, a translucent polymer film, and
any combination thereof. According to an aspect, the window flap 44 includes at least one of a
substantially solid material and a substantially waterproof material.
[0063]         The portable protective enclosure 10 described herein may include a sponsor panel on the
non-see-through portions of the enclosure 10. The sponsor panel may include a removeable tab / label /
pocket slip that is able to receive the logos or other indicia on the non-see-through portions. According
to an aspect, the sponsor panel may be of the same size or less than the size of the non-see-through
portion of one of the plurality of walls 20, and may be attached to the lower portion 26 of the walls 20.
According to an aspect, the sponsor panel may be attached to at least one of the plurality of walls 20
directly under the top panel 50 and/or the canopy 80. It is envisioned that the logos or other indicia may
be directly printed on a surface of the sponsor panel. In an embodiment, the sponsor panel includes a
see-through pocket, within which the logos or other indicia may be provided. According to an aspect the
sponsor panel includes a removeable / releasable tab that includes attachment members on a lower
surface of the tab.
[0064]         It is envisioned that the portable protective enclosure 10 may be a self-erecting and
collapsible enclosure 10. According to an aspect, the enclosure 10 may be equipped with a flexible
frame, as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. (Not shown.) The flexible frame may
help facilitate the self-erectability of the enclosure 10, such that the enclosure 10 may self deploy into a
fully erected enclosure 10, with minimal effort by the user. In an embodiment, each of the plurality of
walls 20, the canopy 80, the top panel 50 and the bottom panel 60 may be include a foldable material
that helps to confine the flexible frame by way of stitching or other securing means. When the frame is
in its fully expanded position, each of the plurality of walls 20, the canopy 80, the top panel 50 and the
bottom panel 60 may be held taut, such that the portable protective enclosure 10 is in an upright, secure
and fully-expanded position. The enclosure 10 may be sized to receive a single user as shown, for
instance, in FIGS. 1, 5A, and 10A. In some embodiments, the enclosure 10 may be sized to receive 2, 3
4, or more users, as seen for instance in FIGS. 2-3, 5B-5C, and 10B-10C. According to an aspect, the
enclosure may be sized and dimensioned such to receive a standing person (see, for instance, FIGS. 1-3),
                                                        12

                                                                                                   ANT002AU
a seated person and a chair (see, for instance, FIGS. 1-3), and a group of people or team of persons, and
a picnic table (see, for instance, FIGS. 2-3). According to an aspect, the enclosure 10 may be collapsed in
such a manner that the entire enclosure 10 is flat and compact, and insertable within a carrier bag 95.
(See for instance, FIG. 17.) The carrier bag 95 may include straps 97 that enable the user to transport
the portable protective enclosure 10 from one location to another desired location. As shown herein, the
straps 97 are arranged as a backpack.
[0065]       The embodiments of the disclosure may be associated with a method of using the portable
protective enclosures 10, substantially as described hereinabove. For instance, a method 200 of using
the portable protective enclosure may include, from within the interior space, detaching 220 the floor
panel 60 from the at least one wall of the plurality of walls, grasping 240 the pair of handles, lifting 260
the portable protective enclosure, and moving 280 the portable protective enclosure 10 to a desired
location. The portable protective enclosure thus provides the user with mobility that does not require the
user to leave the enclosure.
[0066]       The components of the apparatus illustrated are not limited to the specific embodiments
described herein, but rather, features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used on
or in conjunction with other embodiments to yield yet a further embodiment. It is intended that the
apparatus include such modifications and variations. Further, steps described in the method may be
utilized independently and separately from other steps described herein.
[0067]       While the apparatus and method have been described with reference to specific
embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and
equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope contemplated. In
addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings
found herein without departing from the essential scope thereof.
[0068]       In this specification and the claims that follow, reference will be made to a number of terms
that have the following meanings. The singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless
the context clearly dictates otherwise. Furthermore, references to "one embodiment", "some
embodiments", "an embodiment" and the like are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the
existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features. Approximating language,
as used herein throughout the specification and claims, may be applied to modify any quantitative
representation that could permissibly vary without resulting in a change in the basic function to which it is
related. Accordingly, a value modified by a term such as "about" is not to be limited to the precise value
specified. In some instances, the approximating language may correspond to the precision of an
instrument for measuring the value. Terms such as "first," "second," "upper," "lower" etc. are used to
                                                       13

                                                                                                  ANT002AU
identify one element from another, and unless otherwise specified are not meant to refer to a particular
order or number of elements.
[0069]        As used herein, the terms "may" and "may be" indicate a possibility of an occurrence within a
set of circumstances; a possession of a specified property, characteristic or function; and/or qualify
another verb by expressing one or more of an ability, capability, or possibility associated with the
qualified verb. Accordingly, usage of "may" and "may be" indicates that a modified term is apparently
appropriate, capable, or suitable for an indicated capacity, function, or usage, while taking into account
that in some circumstances the modified term may sometimes not be appropriate, capable, or suitable.
For example, in some circumstances an event or capacity can be expected, while in other circumstances
the event or capacity cannot occur - this distinction is captured by the terms "may" and "may be."
[0070]        As used in the claims, the word "comprises" and its grammatical variants logically also
subtend and include phrases of varying and differing extent such as for example, but not limited thereto,
"consisting essentially of" and "consisting of." Where necessary, ranges have been supplied, and those
ranges are inclusive of all sub-ranges therebetween. It is to be expected that variations in these ranges
will suggest themselves to a practitioner having ordinary skill in the art and, where not already dedicated
to the public, the appended claims should cover those variations.
[0071]        Advances in science and technology may make equivalents and substitutions possible that
are not now contemplated by reason of the imprecision of language; these variations should be covered
by the appended claims. This written description uses examples to disclose the method, machine and
computer-readable medium, including the best mode, and also to enable any person of ordinary skill in
the art to practice these, including making and using any devices or systems and performing any
incorporated methods. The patentable scope thereof is defined by the claims, and may include other
examples that occur to those of ordinary skill in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within
the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the
claims, or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal
language of the claims.
                                                      14

                                                                                                    ANT002AU
                                                      CLAIMS
What Is Claimed Is:
          1.      A portable protective enclosure, comprising:
         a plurality of walls extending around and at least partially defining an interior space for being
                  occupied by a user, wherein the plurality of walls comprises
                           an entry wall comprising a door flap, wherein the door flap is movable between
                                    an open position and a closed position, and
                           a side wall comprising
                                    a window comprising a see-through material,
                                    a window flap in a facing relationship with the window, wherein the
                                            window flap is movable between an open position and a closed
                                            position;
         a top panel overlying and at least partially defining the interior space; and
         a floor panel, wherein the floor panel is detachably joined to at least one of the plurality of walls
                   by a fastener, the fastener being accessible from within the interior space, so that the
                  floor panel can be at least partially detached from the at least one of the plurality of
                  walls from within the interior space.
         2.       The portable protective enclosure of claim 1, wherein the side wall comprises a non-see
through portion extending along and defining a lower portion of the side wall.
         3.       The portable protective enclosure of claims 2-3, wherein
         the side wall comprises an upper portion positioned between the lower portion of the side wall
and the top panel, and
         the window is disposed within the upper portion of the side wall.
         4.       The portable protective enclosure of claim 3, wherein the window comprises from about
65 to about 85 percent of a total area of the upper portion of the side wall.
          5.      The portable protective enclosure of any of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of
walls each comprise a non-see-through wall portion extending along and defining a lower portion of the
plurality of walls.
         6.       The portable protective enclosure of claim 5, wherein
         the plurality of walls each comprise an upper portion positioned between the lower portion of the
respective wall and the top panel, and
                                                        15

                                                                                                   ANT002AU
         the door flap comprises at least a portion of each of the upper portion and the lower portion of
the entry wall.
         7.       The portable protective enclosure of any of the preceding claims, further comprising at
least one handle attached to an interior side of the plurality of walls.
         8.       The portable protective enclosure of claim 7, wherein, with the floor panel in an at least
partially detached condition, the handles are for lifting the enclosure from within the interior space and
moving the enclosure from a first location to a second location.
         9.       The portable protective enclosure of any of the preceding claims, wherein the window
comprises a see-through material selected from the group consisting of a netting material, a screen
material, a mesh material, a polymer film, and any combination thereof.
          10.     The portable protective enclosure of any of the preceding claims, wherein the window
flap comprises at least one of a substantially solid material and a substantially waterproof material.
          11.     The portable protective enclosure of any of claims 1-9, wherein the window flap
comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a see-through material, a non-see-through
material, and any combination thereof.
          12.     The portable protective enclosure of claim 11, wherein the see-through material
comprises a polymer film.
          13.     The portable protective enclosure of claim 11, wherein the non-see-through material is
selected from the group consisting of a woven fabric, a nonwoven fabric, a polymer film, and any
combination thereof.
          14.     The portable protective enclosure of any of the preceding claims, further comprising a
plurality of attachment members for securing the portable protective enclosure to a groundcover.
          15.     The portable protective enclosure of any of the preceding claims, further comprising a
plurality of compartments for assisting with maintaining the portable protective enclosure in a desired
position.
          16.     A portable protective enclosure, comprising:
                                                       16

                                                                                                     ANT002AU
        a plurality of walls that at least partially define an interior space, wherein the plurality of walls
                 comprises
                          an entry wall comprising a detachably fastened door flap, the door flap being
                                    movable between an open position and a closed position, and
                          a side wall comprising
                                   a window comprising a see-through material, and
                                   a window flap for at least temporarily covering the window;
        a canopy overlying the interior space;
        a floor panel detachably attached to at least one wall of the plurality of walls, wherein the floor
                  panel is detachably attached to the at least one wall of the plurality of walls by a fastener
                 accessible by a user positioned within the interior space; and
        a pair of handles joined to an interior side of a respective pair of the plurality of walls,
        wherein the floor panel is for being detached from the walls from within the interior space, and
                 the handles are for moving the enclosure from a first location to a second location from
                 within the interior space.
         17.     The portable protective enclosure of claim 16, wherein
        the plurality of walls each comprise a non-see-through wall portion extending along and defining
a lower portion of the walls , and
        the door flap comprises at least part of the lower portion of the entry wall.
         18.     The portable protective enclosure of claims 16-17, wherein
        the side wall is the first side wall, and
        the plurality of walls comprise a second side wall and a third side wall,
        wherein the second side wall and the third side wall each comprise
                 a window comprising a see-through material, and
                 a window flap for at least temporarily covering the window.
         19.     The portable protective enclosure of any of claims 16-18, wherein
        the window comprises a see-through material selected from the group consisting of a netting
material, a screen material, a mesh material, a transparent polymer film, a translucent polymer film, and
any combination thereof, and
        the window flap comprises at least one of a substantially solid material and a substantially
waterproof material.
        20.      A method of using the portable protective enclosure of claim 16, comprising,
                                                         17

                                                                                ANT002AU
from within the interior space,
detaching the floor panel from the at least one wall of the plurality of walls,
grasping the pair of handles,
lifting the portable protective enclosure, and
moving the portable protective enclosure to a desired location.
                                              18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
     <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                    74
     14
                              12
          14
                         12
14                                      12
                                   12
               14   74

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
     14
          12
          12
14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                 <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
      FIG. 11A                10
FIG. 11B

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      12A
12C
       12B

                  <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                               40
       40
             40                          40
                  40
40

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  40
       40
40
              40                      40
             40

                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      40
       40
                  40
                                             40
             40
40

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 17

