ABSTRACT
In one preferred form of the present invention, there is provide a computer
implemented     elevator  emergency    telecommunications      method   comprising   the
automated process of:    (a) using a communications controller to process emergency
requests; the emergency requests originating from at least one elevator; (b) in response
to one or more of the emergency requests, informing of a required emergency
management action using a cellular transmitter;     (c) retrieving location data from a
location store; and (d) making location information from the location data available for
the emergency management action; the location information concerning the location
of each elevator or groups of elevators from which emergency requests originated.

                           1/6
Fig. 1
                                                        10
         12
                      EMERGENCY INITIATE
                                                        22
                                                  12
            ,      60
         14
                   60                000000              2
                               ~                         24
                                     000000
                                     000000
      28
              28     28         28--                 16
               16       -.    16            -    16  2018
  26              26                          26
              18               ,      18                18

                                                  1
ELEVATOR SYSTEMS AND METHODS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention relates to elevator systems and methods.
BACKGROUND          To THE INVENTION
[0002] Elevator emergency telephone systems are typically used in commercial buildings. The
present invention seeks to provide several systems and methods in relation to such elevator
emergency telephone systems.
[0003] It is against this background and the problems and difficulties associated therewith that
the inventor(s) has developed the present invention.        The present invention may also find
application in domestic elevator emergency telephone systems.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004] According to a first aspect of preferred embodiments herein described there is provided a
computer-implemented       elevator   emergency    telecommunications   method    comprising   the
automated process of: using a communications controller to process emergency requests; the
emergency requests originating from at least one elevator; in response to one or more of the
emergency requests, informing of a required emergency management action using a cellular
transmitter; retrieving location data from a location store; and making location information from
the location data available for the emergency management action; the location information
concerning the location of each elevator or groups of elevators from which emergency requests
originated.
[0005] Preferably the at least one elevator comprises a plurality of elevators and the method
includes: (a) using a communications controller to process emergency requests; the emergency
requests originating from the elevators; and (b) in response to each emergency request, informing
of a required emergency management action using the cellular transmitter.
[0006] Preferably making the location information, from the location data, available for the
emergency management action comprises providing one or more audio messages detailing the
location of each elevator from which an emergency request originated.

                                                   2
[0007] Preferably making location information available for an emergency management action
comprises providing an audio message detailing the location of each elevator from which
emergency requests originated during a predetermined interval.
[0008] Preferably the method includes deleting audio messages in response to operator deletion
requests.
[0009] Preferably the method includes recording the audio messages in the store of audio
messages with each recorded message corresponding to an associated elevator.
[0010] Preferably the method includes, in response to DTMF tone requests from emergency
operators, playing the audio messages detailing the location of each elevator from which the
emergency requests originated.
[0011] Preferably the location information comprises the elevator number, the address of the
building and the location of the elevator relative to the building.
[0012] Preferably the method includes ensuring that the cellular transmitter is able to wirelessly
transmit in response to each emergency request with the use of a battery power supply backup
during a power outage.
[0013] Preferably the battery power supply backup is provided to run for a period of 12 hours
before the cellular transmitter is unable to function.
[0014] Preferably the method includes providing the communications controller with a plurality
of line connectors; each line connector for connecting to a conventional PSTN elevator telephone
line from each elevator.
[0015] Preferably the method includes connecting a telephone call made to the cellular transmitter
through the communication controller to an elevator from which an emergency request has
originated.
[0016] According to a second aspect of preferred embodiments herein described there is provided
a computer-implemented        elevator emergency       telecommunications system comprising:     a
communications controller for processing emergency requests; the emergency requests originating
from at least one elevator; a cellular transmitter for use in informing of a required emergency

                                                  3
management action in response to one or more of the emergency requests; a location data provider
for retrieving location data from a location store; and a location informer for making location
information from the location data available for the emergency management action; the location
information concerning the location of each elevator or groups of elevators from which emergency
requests originated.
[0017] Preferably the at least one elevator comprises a plurality of elevators.
[0018] Preferably the location informer is configured to provide one or more audio messages
detailing the location of each elevator from which the emergency requests originated.
[0019] Preferably the location informer is configured to provide one or more audio messages
detailing the location of each elevator from which the emergency requests originated during a
predetermined interval.
[0020] Preferably the system includes a remover for deleting audio messages in response to
operator deletion requests.
[0021] Preferably the system includes a recorder for recording the audio messages in the store of
audio messages, with each recorded message corresponding to an associated elevator.
[0022] Preferably the system includes a responder for responding to DTMF tone requests from
emergency operators, the responder for playing the audio messages detailing the location of each
elevator from which the emergency requests originated.
[0023] Preferably the location information comprises the elevator number, the address of the
building and the location of the elevator relative to the building.
[0024] Preferably the system includes a battery power backup supply for allowing the cellular
transmitter to wirelessly transmit in response to each emergency request during a power outage.
[0025] Preferably the battery power backup supply is provided to run for a period of at least 12
hours.
[0026] Preferably the communications controller includes a plurality of line connectors; each line
connector for connecting to a conventional PSTN elevator telephone line from each elevator.

                                                 4
[0027] Preferably the communications controller is able to connect a telephone call made to the
cellular transmitter through the communication controller to an elevator from which an emergency
request has originated.
[0028] It is to be recognised that other aspects, preferred forms and advantages of the present
invention will be apparent from the present specification including the detailed description,
drawings and claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0029] In order to facilitate a better understanding of the present invention, several preferred
embodiments will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figures 1 to 6 provide several views of a method according to a first preferred embodiment of the
present invention; and
Figure 7 provides a view of a system according to a second preferred embodiment of the present
invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
[0030] It is to be appreciated that each of the embodiments is specifically described and that the
present invention is not to be construed as being limited to any specific feature or element of any
one of the embodiments. Neither is the present invention to be construed as being limited to any
feature of a number of the embodiments or variations described in relation to the embodiments.
[0031] Referring to Figures 1 to 5 there is shown a computer-implemented elevator emergency
telecommunications method 10. The method 10 accords with a first preferred embodiment of the
present invention and is considered to provide several advantages and/or differences over existing
systems.
[0032] At block 12, the method 10 includes using a communications controller 14 to process
emergency requests 16, where the emergency requests 16 originate from at least one elevator 18.
[0033] In this embodiment, the at least one elevator 18 comprises a plurality of elevators 18 that
form part of a monitored elevator system 20. The elevator system 20 is monitored by an emergency
call centre 22 having a number of service operators 24.      The emergency requests 16 comprise

                                                    5
telephone call requests initiated using a respective telephone 26 located within each corresponding
elevator 18.
[0034] The communications controller 14 advantageously comprises a single unit located at one
location for communicating with each of the elevator telephones 26. The telephones 26 comprise
standard PSTN telephones 26 and are connected by a standard distribution frame (intermediate or
main) by standard PSTN lines 28 to the communications controller 14.
[0035] At block 30, after receiving an emergency request 16, the method 10 includes informing
the call centre 22 of required emergency management action 32 using a cellular transmitter 34 that
forms part of the communications controller 14. The call centre 22 is informed of a required
emergency management action 32 by virtue of the message 36.             The cellular transmitter 34
comprises a cellular modem. In this embodiment the cellular modem has a SIM card.
[0036] More specifically, in the embodiment, informing of the required emergency management
action 32 comprises sending one or more mobile telephone SMS messages to the emergency call
centre 22. In other embodiments informing of the required emergency management action 32
comprises sending information over mobile-data broadband (using the cellular transmitter 34).
[0037] Advantageously, in both cases the method 10 does not require the use of a PSTN telephone
service traditionally associated with copper telephone lines. Retrofitting the communications
controller   14 to an existing emergency          elevator PSTN notification system is readily
accommodated.       The telephones 26 comprise conventional PSTN telephones connected by
conventional PSTN lines via the distribution frame to the communications controller 14. Thus in
the described sense, the method 10 advantageously comprises receiving the emergency requests
16 from conventional PSTN elevator telephones 26.
[0038] At block 38 the method 10 includes retrieving location data 40 from a location store 42.
The location store 42 forms part of the communications controller 14. In other embodiments the
location store 42 may be a remote location store.
[0039] At block 38 the method 10 includes making location information 44 from the location data
40 available for the emergency management action 32 by storing in an advisory store 46. With
this embodiment the location information 44 concerns the location of each elevator 18. In other

                                                    6
embodiments the location information 44 concerns groups of elevators (not shown) from which
emergency requests 16 originated.
[0040] Embodiments in which the location information 44 concerns groups of elevators 48, may
be particularly suited to large elevator installations. Generally however preferred embodiments
have location information 44 that details the location of each elevator 18 uniquely.
[0041] In this embodiment, the location data 40 comprises elevator number, building address and
elevator position data (relative to the building) for each elevator 18. The location data for a specific
elevator might comprise elevator number 20, 16 Mount Street West Perth, Western Australia 6005,
adjacent front entrance. In other embodiments making location information from the location data
could comprise providing a location key or indicator from which further location data is manually
or automatically determined.
[0042] At block 34, making the location information 44, available for the emergency management
action 32 comprises providing one or more audio messages 48 detailing the location of each
elevator 18 from which the emergency requests 16 originated.
[0043] In the method 10 the audio messages 48 are referenced in an advisory store 46 as a number
of audio message references 50. In response to a request by an operator 24, a message generator
52 accesses the advisory store 46 to provide the audio messages 48.
[0044] In operation, the call centre service operator 24 makes a request for information via the
communications controller 14. The audio messages 48 are generated by the message generator 52
and are provided to the call centre service operator 24 via the cellular transmitter 34.
[0045] The messages 48 inform the call centre service operator 24 of the location of each elevator
18 from which the emergency requests 16 originated. The time and date of the emergency request
is also provided in the corresponding audio message 48.
[0046] The audio message references 50 are automatically removed from the advisory audio
message store 46 after a predetermined interval has lapsed. In the present embodiment the
predetermined interval is 12 hours. Thus if an emergency request has been made from an elevator
18, the method 10 will make the audio message 48 available to the call centre service operator 24
for a period of 12 hours before the corresponding reference 50 is deleted. The call centre service

                                                    7
operator 24 may also manually remove the reference from the advisory store 46 before the 12 hour
period has lapsed.
[0047] At block 54 the method 10 includes deleting audio message references 50 from the audio
message store 46 in response to operator deletion requests. The requests are made by the call
centre service operator 24 who telephones the communications controller 14 via the transmitter
34 and follows a series of prompts to obtain the audio messages 48.          The call centre service
operator 24 subsequently removes the audio messages 48 by making the removal requests.
[0048] At block 56 the method 10 includes recording the audio location data 40 in the location
store. This is achieved by following voice prompts, and providing the audio location data 40 for
an elevator 18 using a microphone (the microphone forming part of the communications controller
14). In this manner custom data can be readily entered.
[0049] At block 58, the method 10 includes playing audio messages 48 detailing the location of
each elevator 18 from which the emergency requests 16 originated. Playing the audio messages
48 is performed in response to DTMF tone requests from an emergency operator.
[0050] For example after being informed of a required emergency management action 32, a call
centre service operator 24 is able to call a telephone number associated with the cellular transmitter
34 and press DTMF tone '1'. The audio messages 48 are then played in response to the receipt of
telephone key pad sequences (i.e.DTMF tones) made by an emergency operator'..               The audio
messages 48 each contain the location information 44 in terms of an audio representation of the
corresponding elevator number, the address of the building and the location of the elevator relative
to the building. DTMF tones are otherwise known as dual tone multi frequency tones.
[0051] It is considered that the gradual rollout of various national fibre optic broadband networks
may suffer from the possible disadvantage of the power supply being less secure than the presently
existing copper line PSTN. Advantageously, the method 10 includes ensuring that the cellular
transmitter 34 is able to wirelessly transmit in response to each emergency request 16 using a
battery power supply 60 (See Figure 1). With a high emergency call load, the battery power supply
60 is able to run for a period of at least 12 hours (and preferably 24 or 48 hours) before operation
of the method 10 fails. In this manner various embodiments will advantageously operate during a
power outage. By using a cellular transmitter 34, several advantages are provided over known
VOIP technology associated with national broadband networks such as the NBNTM in Australia.

                                                   8
[0052] At block 62, the method 10 includes connecting a telephone call from the call centre service
operator 24 where the communication is made via the cellular transmitter 34 to the communication
controller 14 to an elevator 18 from which an emergency request 16 originated. In the method 10,
the communications controller 14 responds with a pre-recorded voice message that requests the
call centre service operator 24 to enter the lift number they wish to contact. The call for service
operator 24 then uses the number key pad on their phone to select the lift number in order to
generate a ring tone request.      In response to the request, the communications controller 14
subsequently routes the voice call to the associated elevator 18.
[0053] As shown in Figure 6, the communications controller 14 is provided with a plurality of line
connectors 64. Each line connector 64 is provided for connecting a conventional PSTN based
elevator telephone line from each elevator 18 in association with a distribution frame (main or
intermediate).
[0054] The method 10 is considered to provide an approach in which the call centre service
operator 24 is informed of emergency calls from elevators 18 using a cellular modem.
Advantageously by simulating a PSTN service the existing emergency telephone equipment and
wiring from each elevator 18, can be used in the method 10.
[0055] Location information 44 is referenced in an advisory store 46 with the call operator 24
being able to access the location information 44 upon a series of DTMF tone requests. The method
10 does not require a single unit per elevator as the communications controller 14 can be
advantageously retrofitted to the existing distribution frame wiring typically associated with a
direct wired connection from the elevator telephones to the PSTN.
[0056] The call centre service operator 24 is able to determine the location of elevators by
accessing the audio messages 48 as described above. The audio messages 48 comprise
preprogramed digital voice messages that are collectively stored in the single communications
controller 14. The operator receiving an emergency notification is able to perform an interrogation
that is responded to by sending digital voice message that uniquely identifies the calling elevator
telephone.
[0057] Thus it will be appreciated that there is provided a computer-implemented elevator
emergency telecommunications method 10 in which there are provided a plurality of elevators 18.
The method 10 includes: (a) using a communications controller 14 to process emergency requests

                                                  9
16; the emergency requests 16 originating from the elevators 18; and (b) in response to each
emergency request 16, informing of required emergency management action 26 using a cellular
transmitter 34; (c) retrieving location data 40 from a location store 42; and (d) making location
information 44 from the location data 40 available for the emergency management action 26; the
location information 44 concerning the location of each elevator 18 from which the emergency
requests 16 originated. In this embodiment informing of required emergency management action
26 comprises sending an SMS or email to an operator requesting that the operator call a number
for retrieving details of the emergency requests 16 and the location information 44.
[0058] Referring to Figure 7 there is shown a computer-implemented elevator emergency
telecommunications system 66 according to a further preferred embodiment of the present
invention. The system 66 comprises a communications controller 68 for processing emergency
requests 70 originating from at least one elevator 72. A cellular transmitter 74 is provided for use
in informing of required emergency management action 76 in response to one or more of the
emergency requests 70.
[0059] A location data provider 78 is provided for retrieving location data 80 from a location store
82. A location informer 84 is provided for making location information 86 from the location data
80 available for the emergency management action 76 with the location information 86 concerning
the location of each elevator from which emergency requests 70 originated.             The location
information 86 comprises the elevator number, the address of the building and the location of the
elevator relative to the building. The location information in the system 66 comprises a store of
audio messages 88.
[0060] The location informer 84 is configured to provide the audio messages 88 detailing the
location of each elevator 72 from which the emergency requests 70 originated during a
predetermined interval.
[0061] The system 66 includes a remover 90 for deleting audio messages in response to operator
deletion requests. A recorder 92 is provided for recording the audio messages in a store of audio
messages 94, with each recorded message corresponding to an associated elevator 72.
[0062] A responder 96 is provided for responding to DTMF tone requests from emergency
operators. The responder 96 is configured for playing the audio messages 88 detailing the location
of each elevator 72 from which the emergency requests 70 originated.

                                                   10
[0063] A battery power backup supply 98 is provided for ensuring that the cellular transmitter 74
is able to wirelessly transmit in response to each emergency request 70. The battery power backup
supply 98 is provided to run for a period of 12 hours before the system 66 is unable to function
(assuming an average load).
[0064] The communications controller 68 includes a plurality of line connectors 100. Each line
connector 100 is provided for connecting to a conventional PSTN elevator telephone line from
each elevator 72.
[0065] The communications controller 68 is able to connect a telephone call via the cellular
transmitter 74 to an elevator 74 from which an emergency request 70 originated. This is achieved
by following DTMF tone requests.
[0066] In a further example, four lifts all share the one cellular modem. The operator receives an
emergency call from one of the lifts but does not know which one. In this case the operator uses
their telephone key pad to send a predetermined sequence of numbers and/or symbols e.g. #1.
[0067] Each key press sends DTMF tones to the cellular modem which is then received by the
communications controller.       The communications controller includes a DTMF receiver that
decodes these tones and plays the relevant voice message that identifies the lift from where the
call originated. In this embodiment, the controller knows which lift since it knows which one of
the four PSTN lines is active.    From the voice message the operator can identify and record from
which lift the call originates.
[0068] If the caller or operator should hang up, or the call is lost for some reason, the operator
can regain communications with the previous caller by calling the cellular number associated with
the communications controller. The communications controller will answer the call and use a
voice message to ask the operator to enter the number of the lift they wish to connect to (i.e. one
to four) the operator then presses the relevant sequence of numbers and or symbols on their
telephone key pad e.g. #1 for lift one, #2 for lift two etc. The communications controller then
connects the operator to the selected lift.
[0069] In terms of a number of advantages of the preferred embodiments described, it will be
appreciated that several of the embodiments described provide a Lift Emergency Telephone

                                                   11
Service that does not specifically require the use of a PSTN telephone service traditionally
associated with copper telephone lines.
[0070] With PSTN telephone technology the telephone is typically connected via an umbilical
cable from the lift to the Main Distribution Frame (MDF) and optionally via an Intermediate
Distribution Frame (IDF). This umbilical also contains cables to facilitate power for the lift
lighting, the lift controls, position sensors, floor feedback indicator, video monitoring and other
services.
[0071] As would be apparent, the systems and methods of the embodiments will advantageously
operate during a power outage. This is considered to be distinguished, among other things from
digital voice technology that operates over conventional broadband networks (i.e. voice over IP
technology).
[0072] Among other configurations, by providing the preferred systems and embodiments that
convert a call which would otherwise use a PSTN service to one that uses a cellular telephone
service, it is possible to provide embodiments that appear to be a regular PSTN service as far as
the elevator emergency telephone is concerned.
[0073] As described various systems and methods convert a call to a cellular based one by using
a cellular modem. By simulating a PSTN service the existing Emergency Telephone equipment
and wiring etc. can be used without substantial modifications. Installation occurs by removing the
existing PSTN connection and wiring it directly to a preferred unit.
[0074] In circumstances where there are multiple lifts, and hence multiple Emergency Telephones,
in a building, several preferred embodiments do not specially require a single unit per lift. These
preferred embodiments allow a number of lifts to be connected to a single cellular modem as
described in relation to the embodiment of Figure 1.
[0075] When a call is made from an Emergency Lift this is generally to a Call Service Provider.
When the call is received, the Call Service Provider is able to determine the location of the lift by
decoding caller line identification data. When multiple Emergency Phones are connected to a
single cellular modem it is necessary to identify from which lift the call originated.
Advantageously preferred embodiments are able to determine from which lift Telephone the call

                                                   12
originated using a respective pre-programmed digital voice message that is included in the unit
that identifies the location of the lift from which the call originated to the Call Service Provider.
[0076] The CLI is used to indicate to the Call Service provider that multiple Emergency Lift
Telephones are connected to the one cellular modem (i.e. from either manual or electronic
records). Advantageously the operator taking the call is able to interrogate the unit with the unit
responding by sending the digital voice message that uniquely identifies the calling Telephone.
[0077] The preferred method of interrogation is for the operator to use the number key pad on
their telephone to send DTMF tones e.g. #1, that will be decoded by the unit. Since the unit knows
which telephone originated the call the appropriate voice message can be played.                  The
interrogation can be initiated at any time the call is active.
[0078] The Call Centre is also advantageously able to call back to a specific lift that they have
previously been in contact with. In which case the operator will ring the cellular phone number
associated with the group of lifts. The unit answers the call with a pre-recorded voice message
that requests the operator to enter the lift number they wish to contact. The operator will use the
number key pad on their phone to generate a ring tone on the required telephone and subsequently
route the voice call to the selected telephone.
[0079] As would be apparent, various alterations and equivalent forms may be provided without
departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. This includes modifications within
the scope of the appended claims along with all modifications, alternative constructions and
equivalents.
[0080] The systems and methods are computer implemented and automated.                  The computer
implementations include the use of electronics components that provide processing of signals The
use of microprocessors and computer memory is preferred with possibly various input and output
interfaces provided by the system.
[0081] The computer data information may be provided in the form of encoded data instructions,
data signals, data structures, program logic for server side operation, program logic for client side
operation. Devices could be provided in distributed systems.
[0082] It is to be appreciated that systems, components, facilities, interfaces and so forth can be
provided in several forms.       Systems, components, facilities, interfaces and so forth may be

                                                   13
provided as hardware, software or a combination thereof. The present invention may be embodied
as an electronics device, computer readable memory, a personal computer and distributed
computing environments.
[0083] In addition the present invention may be embodied as: a number of computer executable
operations; a number of computer executable components; a set of process operations; a set of
systems, facilities or components; a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer
executable instructions for performing computer implemented methods and/or providing
computer implemented systems; and so forth. In the case of computer executable instructions they
preferably encode the systems, components and facilities described herein.           For example a
computer-readable medium may be encoded with one or more facilities configured to run an
application configured to carry out a number of operations forming at least part of the present
arrangements. Computer readable mediums preferably participate in the provision of computer
executable instructions to one or more processors of one or more computing devices.
[0084] Computer executable instructions are preferably executed by one or more computing
devices to cause the one or more computing devices to operate as desired. Preferred data structures
are preferably stored on a computer readable medium. The computer executable instructions may
form part of an operating system of a computer device for performing at least part of the preferred
arrangements.     One or more computing devices may preferably implement the preferred
arrangements.
[0085] The term computer is to be understood as including all forms of computing device
including electronics devices and distributed computing systems.
[0086] Components, systems and tasks may comprise a process involving the provision of
executable instructions to perform a process or the execution of executable instructions within say
a processor. Applications or other executable instructions may perform method operations in
different orders to achieve similar results. It is to be appreciated that the blocks of systems and
methods described may be embodied in any suitable arrangement and in any suited order of
operation. Computing facilities, modules, interfaces and the like may be provided in distinct,
separate, joined, nested or other forms and arrangements. Methods will be apparent from systems
described herein and systems will be apparent from methods described herein.

                                                    14
[0087] There is no intention to limit the present invention to the specific embodiments shown in
the drawings.    The present invention is to be construed beneficially to the applicant and the
invention given its full scope.
[0088] In the present specification, the presence of particular features does not preclude the
existence of further features. The words 'comprising', 'including', 'or' and 'having' are to be
construed in an inclusive rather than an exclusive sense.
[0089] It is to be recognised that any discussion in the present specification is intended to explain
the context of the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that the material discussed
formed part of the prior art base or relevant general knowledge in any particular country or region.

                                                  15
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A     computer-implemented        elevator   emergency      telecommunications  method
comprising the automated process of:
           (a)   using a communications controller to process emergency requests; the emergency
requests originating from at least one elevator;
           (b)   in response to one or more of the emergency requests, informing of a required
emergency management action using a cellular transmitter;
           (c)   retrieving location data from a location store; and
           (d)   making location information from the location data available for the emergency
management action; the location information concerning the location of each elevator or groups
of elevators from which emergency requests originated.
2.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in claim 1 wherein the at least one elevator comprises a plurality of elevators and the method
includes:   (a) using a communications controller to process emergency requests; the
emergency requests originating from the elevators; and (b) in response to each emergency
request, informing of a required emergency management action using the cellular transmitter.
3.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in claim 1 or 2 wherein making the location information, from the location data, available for
the emergency management action comprises providing one or more audio messages detailing
the location of each elevator from which an emergency request originated.
4.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in claim 1 or 2 wherein making location information available for a emergency management
action comprises providing an audio message detailing the location of each elevator from
which emergency requests originated during a predetermined interval.
5.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in claim 3 or 4 including deleting audio messages in response to operator deletion requests.

                                                16
6.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in any one of claims 3 to 5 including recording the audio messages in the store of audio
messages with each recorded message corresponding to an associated elevator.
7.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in any one of claims 1 to 6 including, in response to DTMF tone requests from emergency
operators, playing the audio messages detailing the location of each elevator from which the
emergency requests originated.
8.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the location information comprises the elevator number,
the address of the building and the location of the elevator relative to the building.
9.      A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in any one of claims 1 to 8 including ensuring that the cellular transmitter is able to wirelessly
transmit in response to each emergency request with the use of a battery power supply backup
during a power outage.
10.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in claim 9 wherein the battery power supply backup is provided to run for a period of 12 hours
before the cellular transmitter is unable to function.
11.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in any one of claims 1 to 10 providing the communications controller with a plurality of line
connectors; each line connector for connecting to a conventional PSTN elevator telephone
line from each elevator.
12.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications method as claimed
in any one of claims 1 to 11 including connecting a telephone call made to the cellular
transmitter through the communication controller to an elevator from which an emergency
request has originated.

                                               17
13.     A    computer-implemented      elevator    emergency      telecommunications      system
comprising: a communications controller for processing emergency requests; the emergency
requests originating from at least one elevator; a cellular transmitter for use in informing of a
required emergency management action in response to one or more of the emergency
requests; a location data provider for retrieving location data from a location store; and a
location informer for making location information from the location data available for the
emergency management action; the location information concerning the location of each
elevator or groups of elevators from which emergency requests originated.
14.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in claim 13 wherein the at least one elevator comprises a plurality of elevators.
15.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in claim 13 or 14 wherein the location informer is configured to provide one or more audio
messages detailing the location of each elevator from which the emergency requests
originated.
16.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in claim 13 or 14 wherein the location informer is configured to provide one or more audio
messages detailing the location of each elevator from which the emergency requests
originated during a predetermined interval.
17.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in claim 15 or 16 including a remover for deleting audio messages in response to operator
deletion requests.
18.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in any one of claims 15 to 17 including a recorder for recording the audio messages in the
store of audio messages, with each recorded message corresponding to an associated elevator.
19.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in any one of claims 13 to 18 including, a responder for responding to DTMF tone requests

                                                18
from emergency operators, the responder for playing the audio messages detailing the location
of each elevator from which the emergency requests originated.
20.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in any one of claims 13 to 19 wherein the location information comprises the elevator number,
the address of the building and the location of the elevator relative to the building.
21.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in any one of claims 13 to 20 including a battery power backup supply for allowing the cellular
transmitter to wirelessly transmit in response to each emergency request during a power
outage.
22.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in claim 21 wherein the battery power backup supply is provided to run for a period of at least
12 hours.
23.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in any one of claims 13 to 22 wherein the communications controller includes a plurality of
line connectors; each line connector for connecting to a conventional PSTN elevator
telephone line from each elevator.
24.     A computer-implemented elevator emergency telecommunications system as claimed
in any one of claims 13 to 23 in which the communications controller is able to connect a
telephone call made to the cellular transmitter through the communication controller to an
elevator from which an emergency request has originated.
25.     A computer implemented method or system substantially as herein described with
reference to the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2702>
<removed-date>
              <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E> <U+271F>
                                              <U+261B><U+261E>
                   <U+2720><U+2720>
                                             <U+261B><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2701><U+2701>              <U+2701><U+2701>          <U+2701><U+2701>          <U+2701><U+2701>
                                                                               <U+270C><U+2721>
                                        <U+2721><U+2721>         <U+2721><U+2721>
                                                                          <U+2721><U+2701>   <U+2720><U+2721>
                             <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                          <U+2721><U+261E>
                                                                     <U+261B><U+2721>
                                   <U+2721><U+270D>
                        <U+261B><U+270D>
                                                                    <U+270C><U+261E>
                              <U+270C><U+2720>                                    <U+270C><U+2701>
                                  <U+261B><U+2720>
                                                               <U+2721><U+2721>
                                                              <U+261E><U+261E>

