METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR OBTAINING CLINICAL SAMPLES
ABSTRACT
Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject include providing a sample collection room
within a retail store; and obtaining a sample. Methods for analyzing a sample include providing a
sample collection room within a retail store; obtaining a sample; and analyzing it, e.g., at the
retail location. A waiting room; a bathroom; and a pass-through from bathroom to sample
collection room may be provided. Sample collection rooms may include one or more of a
warming table; a warming plate; a finger warmer; a fingertip warmer; an air-warmer; a reclining
chair; a calming feature; and adjustable lighting. Samples may be analyzed at the retail location
or sent to elsewhere for analysis. Sample collection rooms may house a sample analysis device
or system. Samples may be small, e.g., a finger-stick, and may be analyzed in a short period of
time, e.g., in less than five hours, or less than four hours.

                                                  1
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR OBTAINING CLINICAL SAMPLES
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2014317896, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Clinical samples are useful in many situations, including being useful for monitoring the
health of subjects, for diagnosing diseases or pathological conditions, and for monitoring the
progress of therapeutic interventions, among various uses.
[0003] Obtaining clinical samples is required for such uses; however, subjects may find
providing clinical samples, such as blood, urine, or tissue swab samples, to be painful, or
difficult, or inconvenient. Accordingly, improves methods for obtaining clinical samples are
needed.
INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
[0004] All publications, patents, and patent applications mentioned in this specification are
herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication, patent, or
patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
SUMMARY
[0005] Improved methods for obtaining clinical samples include providing a designated location
in a retail store where a clinical sample may be provided for analysis. In embodiments,
improved methods for obtaining clinical samples include providing a designated location in a
retail store, where the designated location is configured for obtaining a clinical sample; and
obtaining a clinical sample from a subject. In embodiments, the sample may be analyzed at the
same location; or at an adjacent location; or may be sent to a different location for analysis. In
embodiments, the sample may be analyzed by an automatic analysis device or system at the
same location; or at an adjacent location; or at a different location. A designated location in a
retail store may be a sample collection room.

                                                     2
[0006] In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store comprises a room that is
separate from other areas in the retail store; for example, the designated location may be
separated from other areas in the retail store by a wall having a door, while being accessible to
subjects from within the retail store. In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store
comprises a room that is adjacent to other areas in the retail store, while being separate from
other areas in the retail store; in embodiments, the designated location may be accessible to
subjects from outside the retail store. In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store
comprises a plurality of rooms that are separate from other areas in the retail store; for example,
at least one of such rooms may be accessible directly from other areas in the retail store (e.g., via
a door or entry-way), or at least one of such rooms may be adjacent the other areas of the retail
store and be accessible from outside the retail store. For example, such rooms may include a
waiting room, a sample collection room, a bathroom, a sample analysis room, and other rooms.
In embodiments, a room may serve multiple functions (e.g., a bathroom may serve as a sample
collection room where a urine or stool sample is collected; or a sample collection room may
serve as a sample analysis room where a sample analysis device or a sample analysis system is
located in the room where a sample is collected).
[0007] In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store may be placed at the back of
the store (i.e., at a location spaced away from the main public entrance, or entrances, to the retail
store). In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store may be placed near the front of
the store (i.e., at a location close to the main public entrance, or entrances, to the retail store). In
embodiments, the designated location in the retail store may be placed along, or near to, a lateral
portion of the store (i.e., at a location to the right or to the left of the main public entrance, or
entrances, to the retail store). In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store may be
placed within the store away from the front, rear, or sides of the retail store.
[0008] In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store comprises at least two rooms.
In embodiments, the designated location in the retail store comprises at least two rooms,
wherein at least one room is configured to serve as a waiting room, and at least one room is
configured for obtaining a sample from a subject; in embodiments, the at least one room
configured for obtaining a sample from a subject is configured to provide privacy for a subject
while a sample is obtained. In embodiments, at least two rooms may be connected by a pass
through (e.g., a passageway) connecting a sample collection room (e.g., a room configured for
obtaining samples, such as blood samples) to a bathroom. In embodiments, at least two rooms

                                                 3
may be connected by a pass-through (e.g., a passageway) connecting a room configured for
obtaining samples to a room configured to serve as a waiting room. In embodiments, at least two
rooms may be connected by a pass-through (e.g., a passageway) connecting a room configured
for obtaining samples to a room configured to serve as a sample analysis room. In embodiments,
such a pass-through or passageway may have a door or hatch having an open configuration and
a closed configuration. Such a pass-through may have, for example, a round shape, a rectangular
shape, or a square shape. Such a pass-through may have, for example, a door which may be
closed when the pass-through is not in use for transfer of a sample from a patient to sample
collection personnel. Such a door may be, for example, a sliding door (e.g., may open and close
substantially in the plane of a wall through which the pass-through passes), or may be a hinged
door.
[0009] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a sample analysis device; in
embodiments, such a sample analysis device may be configured to analyze a sample obtained in
said sample collection room. In embodiments, a sample collection room may be adjacent, or
near to, a location or room housing a sample analysis device; for example a sample analysis
device may be located in a room adjacent to a sample collection room. In embodiments, a
sample collection room may include a sample analysis device that is configured to analyze a
fluid sample having a volume of about 500 pL or less obtained in the sample collection room. In
embodiments, a sample collection room may be adjacent, or near to, a location or room housing
a sample analysis device that is configured to analyze a fluid sample having a volume of about
500 ptL or less obtained in the sample collection room.
[0010] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a sample transport container
configured to hold a sample, or a plurality of samples. In embodiments, a sample collection
room may include a sample transport container configured to hold a sample container, or a
plurality of sample containers, said sample containers configured to hold fluid samples having
volumes of about 500 pLL or less. In embodiments, a sample transport container may hold a
sample container, or a plurality of sample containers, which include sample in one or more of
the sample containers. In embodiments, a sample transport container may be insulated, effective
to reduce the rate of change of temperature within the container. In embodiments, a sample
transport container may be refrigerated, effective maintain a desired temperature within the
container and in the samples held in the container.

                                                    4
[0011] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a centrifuge. In embodiments, a
centrifuge may be configured to receive and operate upon a small sample, or a plurality of
samples, collected in the sample collection room, or to receive and operate upon a calibration
container. In embodiments, a centrifuge included in a sample collection room may be configured
for placement on, and for use on, a table, a counter-top, or other work surface.
[0012] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a computer, a computer
keyboard, mouse, a monitor, or other computing equipment and peripheral devices. In
embodiments, a sample collection room may include a scanner, reader, or other device for
reading a label or other code (e.g., a bar-code, a QR-code, cell-phone image, magnetic strip,
radiofrequency identification (RFID) code. In embodiments, a sample collection room may
include a device for preparing a label, tag, sign, or other identifier, e.g., for affixing to a sample
collected in the sample collection room.
[0013] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a refrigerator. In embodiments, a
sample collection room may include two refrigerators, or may include a plurality of
refrigerators. In embodiments, a refrigerator may be used for sample storage; such a refrigerator
may be designated a "BioHazard" refrigerator. In embodiments, a refrigerator may be used to
store food, drink, reagents, containers, and consumables for use in sample collection or sample
analysis. In embodiments, a refrigerator used for storage of food, drink, reagents, containers, and
consumables, may be designated a "Clean" refrigerator.
[0014] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include furniture configured for use
during collection of a sample from a subject, such as, e.g., a blood sample, a throat swab, a nasal
swab, a cheek swab, a sputum sample, a tear sample, or other sample. For example, a sample
collection room may include a chair for use by a subject while a sample is collected. In
embodiments, such a chair is a reclining chair, having at least two configurations: an upright
configuration (in which a subject seated in the chair assumes a normal seated position with the
back in a substantially vertical orientation), and a reclined configuration (in which a subject is
leaned backwards when seated in the chair). In embodiments, such a reclining chair provides a
leg rest, or foot rest, or both, when in the reclined configuration. In embodiments, such a
reclining chair does not present a subject with a leg rest, or foot rest, when in the upright
configuration.

                                                      5
[0015] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a chair for use by a technician
(e.g., a phlebotomist) while collecting a sample from a subject; for use while processing a
sample for analysis, storage, or transport; or for use at other times while performing sample
collection, processing, analysis, or other tasks. In embodiments, a chair for use by a technician
in a sample collection room may be a stool; in embodiments, such a stool may be a low stool
configured to aid in positioning a technician adjacent a subject during sample collection. In
embodiments, a chair (e.g., a stool) for use by a technician in a sample collection room may
have wheels; may have a back; may be adjustable (e.g., the height of the chair seat may be
adjustable); and may be colored white or other neutral color.
[0016] In embodiments, the results of the analysis are available within a short period of time. In
embodiments, a clinician receives results of the analysis within a short period of time after the
sample was obtained. In embodiments, the subject receives results of the analysis within a short
period of time after the sample was obtained.
[0017] In embodiments, the clinical sample may be a small clinical sample. In embodiments, a
small clinical sample may be a peripheral blood sample; or a venous blood sample; or an arterial
blood sample; or a sample obtained by swab (e.g., a cheek swab, a throat swab, a nasal swab, a
vaginal swab, a cervical swab, or other swab sample). In embodiments, the clinical sample may
be provided for rapid analysis. In embodiments, a small clinical sample may be provided for
rapid analysis. In embodiments, the clinical sample may be provided for analysis at the
designated location in a retail store, or for analysis in a location adjacent to, or in close
proximity to, the designated location in a retail store; such a clinical sample may be a small
clinical sample. In embodiments, the clinical sample may be analyzed at the designated location
in a retail store, or in a location adjacent to, or in close proximity to, the designated location in a
retail store; such analysis may be rapid analysis.
[0018] Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising
providing a sample collection room in a retail store; and collecting a sample from a subject.
Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising providing a
sample collection room in a retail store; warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe
tip, or toe, of the subject; collecting a sample from a subject; and obtaining the sample.
Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising providing a
sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room comprising a warming table;

                                                  6
warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of the subject; and obtaining a
sample from the subject. Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a subject,
comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room
comprising a chair; warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of the
subject; and obtaining a sample from the subject. Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a
sample from a subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the
sample collection room comprising a chair having a warming plate or other warming element;
warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of the subject; and obtaining a
sample from the subject. Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a subject,
comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room
comprising an air-warmer; warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of
the subject; and obtaining a sample from the subject. Applicants disclose methods for obtaining
a sample from a subject, comprising any of the foregoing methods, and providing the subject
with a fingertoy, or placing a fingertoy on a finger of a subject following obtaining a sample
from the subject. It will be understood that a step of warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or
heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of a subject may comprise warming by use of a warming table, or
warming plate, or air-warmer, or other warming device, or a combination thereof. It will be
understood that the foregoing methods may be used together, and may be used in any
combination.
[0019] Applicant discloses sample collection systems. In embodiments, a sample collection
system for obtaining a sample from a subject comprises a sample collection room in a retail
store, the sample collection room comprising a warming surface on a chair, table, or counter,
and one or more of: a finger warmer; a fingertip warmer; a fingertoy; an air-warmer; a water
feature; and a calming feature. In embodiments, a warming surface may comprise one or more
of a surface of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair, or other
furniture for seating comprising a warming element, wherein such a warming surface is
configured to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and
presence or height of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject. In
embodiments, a sample collection system having features as disclosed herein may further
comprise a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and a pass-through connecting said
sample collection room with said bathroom, wherein said pass-through is configured to allow
the transfer of a sample from said bathroom to said sample collection room. In embodiments, a
sample collection system having features as disclosed herein may further comprise a sample

                                                  7
analysis device; or a sample transport container; or both a sample analysis device and a sample
transport container. In embodiments, a sample transport container may be configured to hold a
plurality of sample containers configured to hold fluid samples having volumes of about 500 tL
or less.
[0020] Applicant discloses sample analysis systems. In embodiments, a sample collection
system for obtaining a sample from a subject comprises a sample analysis system for analyzing
a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in a retail store, said sample
collection room comprising a sample analysis device configured to analyze a fluid sample
having a volume of about 500 pLL or less obtained in said sample collection room, a warming
surface on a chair, table, or counter, and one or more of: a finger warmer; a fingertip warmer; a
fingertoy; an air-warmer; a water feature; and a calming feature. In embodiments, a warming
surface may comprise one or more of a surface of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming
counter, a warming chair, or other furniture for seating comprising a warming element, wherein
such a warming surface is configured to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation,
distance from a subject, and presence or height of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or
foot of a subject. In embodiments, a sample analysis system having features as disclosed herein
may further comprise a bathroom adjacent the sample collection room; and a pass-through
connecting the sample collection room with the bathroom, wherein the pass-through is
configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said bathroom to said sample collection room.
[0021] In embodiments of the sample collection systems and of the sample analysis systems
disclosed herein, the sample is a blood or urine sample having a volume selected from the group
of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than about 150 pL, or
less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or less than about 10
pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.
[0022] Applicant discloses warming devices. In embodiments, Applicant discloses a warming
device having a warming surface, wherein said warming surface comprises one or more of a
surface of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair, or other
furniture for seating comprising a warming element, wherein said warming surface is configured
to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and presence
or height of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject. In embodiments, a
warming device disclosed herein is configured to warm at least a portion of a body of a subject

                                                  8
effective to aid in the collection of a blood sample from said subject. In embodiments, the at
least a portion of a body of a subject that may be warmed is selected from a fingertip, a finger,
and a hand of a subject. In embodiments, a blood sample collected from a subject pursuant to
warming at least a portion of the subject's body may have a volume of about 500 pLL or less.
[0023] Applicant discloses methods for obtaining samples from a subject. In embodiments, a
method for obtaining a sample from a subject, said subject having a body, comprises providing a
sample collection system of claim 1 in a retail store, said sample collection system comprising a
sample collection room; and obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said
subject. In embodiments, methods for obtaining samples from a subject disclosed herein
comprise warming at least a portion of said body of said subject, wherein said warming of at
least a portion of the body of the subject comprises warming with a warming surface, wherein
said warming surface comprises a surface of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming
counter, a warming chair, or other furniture for seating comprising a warming element, wherein
said warming surface is configured to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation,
distance from a subject, and presence or height of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or
foot of a subject. In embodiments, methods for obtaining a sample from a subject may further
comprise providing a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and providing a pass
through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom, wherein said pass-through
is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said bathroom to said sample collection
room. In embodiments, methods for obtaining a sample from a subject may further comprise one
or more of: providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being
configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample; providing flowing water in
said sample collection room; providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room;
providing a calming image in the sample collection room; providing calming sounds in the
sample collection room; and providing a calming scent in the sample collection room. In
embodiments of methods for obtaining a sample disclosed herein, the sample is a blood or urine
sample having a volume selected from the group of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less
than about 250 pL, or less than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or
less than about 25 pL, or less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.
In embodiments of methods for obtaining a sample disclosed herein, the sample is analyzed
within a short period of time, wherein said short period of time is selected from less than about 5
hours, or less than about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less
than about 1 hour, or less than about half an hour.

                                                   9
[0024] Applicant discloses methods for analyzing samples from a subject. In embodiments, a
method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body, comprises:
providing a sample analyzing system of claim 6 in a retail store, said sample analyzing system
comprising a sample collection room; obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from
said body part of said subject; and analyzing the sample at or adjacent to the retail store. In
embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample from a subject may further comprise analyzing
the sample at or adjacent to the retail store within a short period of time after obtaining the
sample. In embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample from a subject may further comprise
transporting the sample to an analysis location; and analyzing the sample at said analysis
location within a short period of time after obtaining the sample. In embodiments, methods for
analyzing a sample from a subject may further comprise warming at least a portion of said body
of said subject, wherein said warming of at least a portion of said body of said subject comprises
warming with a warming surface, wherein said warming surface comprises a surface of a
warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair, or other furniture for
seating comprising a warming element, wherein said warming surface is configured to adjust
one or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and presence or height
of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject. In embodiments, methods for
analyzing a sample from a subject may further comprise providing a bathroom adjacent said
sample collection room; and providing a pass-through connecting said sample collection room
with said bathroom, wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample
from said bathroom to said sample collection room. In embodiments, methods for analyzing a
sample from a subject may further comprise one or more of the following: providing a warming
table in said sample collection room; providing a warming plate in said sample collection room;
providing a fingertip warmer in said sample collection room; providing a fingertoy in said
sample collection room; providing an air-warmer in said sample collection room; providing a
chair or other furniture for seating in said sample collection room, said chair or other furniture
for seating comprising a warming plate or other heating element; providing a reclining chair in
said sample collection room, said reclining chair being configured for positioning a subject
effective for obtaining a sample; providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said
reclining chair comprising a warming plate or other heating element, said reclining chair being
configured for warming at least a portion of a body part of a subject, and for positioning a
subject effective for obtaining a sample; providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection
room; and providing a calming feature in the sample collection room, wherein said calming
feature is selected from the group of calming features consisting of flowing water, a flower, a

                                                    10
plant, a calming scent, a calming sound, a calming image, and a calming color. In embodiments,
methods for analyzing a sample from a subject may further comprise one or more of providing a
reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being configured for
positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample; providing flowing water in said sample
collection room; providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room; providing a
calming image in the sample collection room; providing calming sounds in the sample collection
room; and providing a calming scent in the sample collection room. In embodiments of methods
for analyzing a sample disclosed herein, the sample is a blood or urine sample having a volume
selected from the group of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less
than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or
less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL. In embodiments of
methods for analyzing a sample disclosed herein, the sample is analyzed within a short period of
time, wherein said short period of time is selected from less than about 5 hours, or less than
about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or
less than about half an hour.
[0025] In embodiments, the sample is a small sample. For example, in embodiments, the sample
is a small volume sample of blood, or of urine, or of saliva, or of tears, or of stool, or other
bodily secretion or excretion. In embodiments of the methods for obtaining a sample from a
subject, the sample is obtained from a finger-stick. In embodiments, the sample is a small
sample obtained from a small lancet puncture in the skin of the subject (a finger-stick). For
example, in embodiments, the sample comprises a few drops, or two drops, or one drop, of
blood obtained from a finger-stick. For example, in embodiments, the sample is a small sample
having a volume of less than about 200 pL, or less than about 150 pL, or less than about 100
pL, or less than about 75 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or less.
[0026] Applicants disclose methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, comprising
providing a sample collection room in a retail store; collecting a sample from a subject; and
analyzing the sample. Applicants disclose methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a
subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store; warming a fingertip, or
finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of the subject; collecting a sample from a subject; and
analyzing the sample. Applicants disclose methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a
subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection
room comprising a warming table; warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or

                                                     11
toe, of the subject; collecting a sample from a subject; and analyzing the sample. Applicants
disclose methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, comprising providing a
sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room comprising a chair; warming
a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of the subject; collecting a sample from
a subject; and analyzing the sample. Applicants disclose methods for analyzing a sample
obtained from a subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the
sample collection room comprising a chair having a warming plate or other warming element;
warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of the subject; collecting a
sample from a subject; and analyzing the sample. Applicants disclose methods for analyzing a
sample obtained from a subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store,
the sample collection room comprising an air-warmer; warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand,
or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of the subject; collecting a sample from a subject; and analyzing the
sample. Applicants disclose methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject,
comprising any of the foregoing methods, and providing the subject with a fingertoy, or placing
a fingertoy on a finger of a subject following obtaining a sample from the subject. It will be
understood that a step of warming a fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe, of a
subject may comprise warming by use of a warming table, or warming plate, or air-warmer, or
other warming device, or a combination thereof. It will be understood that the foregoing
methods may be used together, and may be used in any combination.
[0027] In embodiments, the sample is analyzed at, or adjacent to, or near to, the sample
collection room in the retail store. In embodiments, the sample is analyzed at a location other
than at the retail store. In embodiments of the methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a
subject, the sample is a small sample. For example, in embodiments, the sample is obtained
from a finger-stick. For example, in embodiments, the sample comprises a few drops, or two
drops, or one drop, of blood obtained from a small lancet puncture in the skin of the subject. For
example, in embodiments, the sample is a small volume sample of blood, or of urine, or of
saliva, or of tears, or other bodily secretion or excretion. For example, in embodiments, the
sample is a small sample having a volume of less than about 200 pL, or less than about 150 pL,
or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 75 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about
25 pL, or less.
[0028] Accordingly, Applicants disclose methods for obtaining and analyzing a sample obtained
from a subject, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; collecting a

                                                   12
sample from a subject in the sample collection room; and analyzing the sample. Applicants
disclose methods for obtaining and analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, comprising:
providing a sample collection room in a retail store; collecting a small sample from a subject in
the sample collection room; and analyzing the small sample. Applicants disclose methods for
obtaining and analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, comprising: providing a sample
collection room in a retail store; collecting a sample from a subject in the sample collection
room; and analyzing the sample at the retail store location, or adjacent to the retail store
location.
[0029] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a comfortable chair or seating
location for a subject, e.g., for use by a subject during collection of a sample from the subject. In
embodiments, a comfortable chair may be a reclining chair, having an upright configuration and
a reclined configuration. In embodiments, a comfortable chair may be a reclining chair having
an upright configuration and a plurality of reclined configurations. In embodiments, a sample
collection room may include a refrigerator, a cabinet, a sink, storage units, a work surface
(which may be configured for sample collection, for writing, or for other purposes), and other
furniture and architectural elements. In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a
centrifuge. In embodiments, a sample collection room may include one or more calming
features, such as, e.g., a calming image (including still images and video images); a sound
system for providing calming sounds and music; lighting (e.g., soft, white lighting) configured
to calm a subject; flowing water; plants, including flowers; and other calming features as
disclosed herein.
[0030] In embodiments, a sample collection room as disclosed herein may include a sample
analysis device or system; such a sample analysis device or system may be an automated sample
analysis device or system, or may be a semi-automated sample analysis device or system. In
embodiments, a sample collection room may include a computer, computer accessories,
communication equipment and capability effective to link a computer, cell phone, or other
device with WiFi, internet, cable, or other connections. In embodiments, a sample collection
room may include a scanner, a label printer, and other automated reading and printing
equipment.
[0031] Accordingly, Applicants disclose herein systems comprising a room in a retail location,
the room being configured for obtaining a clinical sample such as a blood sample. In

                                                  13
embodiments, such systems comprise a room in a retail location, the room being configured for
obtaining a clinical sample such as a blood sample, the room including one or more of a
warming table, a calming feature, a chair, a pass-through to an adjacent bathroom, adjustable
lighting, calming scents, and a sound source providing calming sounds. In embodiments, the
chair is a reclining chair. In embodiments, the system includes an adjacent bathroom.
[0032] In embodiments, the sample collection room may be part of a sample collection center,
or wellness center, including a waiting room and a sample collection room. In embodiments, a
sample collection room, or wellness center, may include a waiting room, a sample collection
room, and a bathroom. In embodiments, a bathroom that is part of a sample collection room, or
wellness center, may include a sink (e.g., for handwashing) and a toilet. In embodiments, a
bathroom and a sample collection room may be connected via a passageway configured for
passing a sample from the bathroom to the sample collection room.
[0033] Accordingly, Applicants disclose embodiments of systems for obtaining samples, and
systems for analyzing samples, including at least the following.
[0034] A room in a retail location configured for obtaining a blood sample including warming
table, a calming feature, and a chair, the room being configured for obtaining a clinical sample
such as a blood sample. In embodiments, the chair is a reclining chair.
[0035] A room in a retail location configured for obtaining a blood sample including a warming
table, a calming feature, a pass-through to an adjacent bathroom, and a reclining chair.
[0036] A room in a retail location configured for obtaining a blood sample including a warming
table, a calming feature, adjustable lighting, a pass-through to an adjacent bathroom, and a
reclining chair.
[0037] A room in a retail location configured for obtaining a blood sample including a warming
table, a calming feature, adjustable lighting, calming scents, a pass-through to an adjacent
bathroom, and a reclining chair.
[0038] A room in a retail location configured for obtaining a blood sample including a warming
table, a calming feature, a calming image, calming sounds, adjustable lighting, calming scents, a
pass-through to an adjacent bathroom, and a reclining chair.

                                                   14
[0039] A room in a retail location configured for obtaining a blood sample including a warming
table, a calming feature, a calming image, calming sounds, calming colors, adjustable lighting,
calming scents, a pass-through to an adjacent bathroom, and a reclining chair.
[0040] Applicants disclose methods for obtaining samples, and for analyzing samples, including
the following methods.
[0041] A method for obtaining a sample from a subject, said subject having a body part,
comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; and obtaining a sample from
said body part of said subject, wherein said obtaining is performed in said sample collection
room.
[0042] A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body
part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining, in said sample
collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; and analyzing the sample at or
adjacent to the retail store.
[0043] A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body
part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining, in said sample
collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; and analyzing the sample at or
adjacent to the retail store within a short period of time after obtaining the sample.
[0044] A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body
part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining, in said sample
collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; transporting the sample to an
analysis location; and analyzing the sample at said analysis location within a short period of
time after obtaining the sample. In embodiments, obtaining said sample comprises warming the
body part of the subject. In embodiments, warming the body part comprises warming with a
warming table. In embodiments, warming the body part comprises warming with a warming
plate. In embodiments, warming the body part comprises warming with an air-warmer. In
embodiments, the body part comprises a fingertip, a finger, a plurality of fingers, a hand, or
other body part or body parts.
[0045] In embodiments of the foregoing methods, the methods may comprise warming a body
part; for example, a body part may be warmed prior to obtaining a sample from the body part. In

                                                   15
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a warming table. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a warming plate. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a finger warmer. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a fingertip warmer. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with an air-warmer. In
embodiments, the body part comprises a fingertip, a finger, a plurality of fingers, a hand, or
other body part or body parts.
[0046] In embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample comprise analyzing said sample for the
presence of an analyte. In embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample comprise analyzing
said sample for the presence of a plurality of analytes. In embodiments, methods for analyzing a
sample comprise analyzing said sample for the presence of a plurality of analytes, wherein said
plurality of analytes includes two or more of a nucleic acid analyte, a peptide (or polypeptide)
analyte, an inorganic analyte, a cell or cell type, and other analytes. In embodiments, methods
for analyzing a sample comprise analyzing said sample for the presence of a plurality of
analytes, wherein said plurality of analytes are detected by methods including two or more of
nucleic acid hybridization methods, antibody binding methods, general chemistry methods,
cytometric methods, ion-selective electrode methods, and other methods.
[0047] In embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample comprise analyzing a sample by
automated analysis devices, or by semi-automated analysis devices, or systems comprising such
devices. In embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample comprise analyzing a sample at the
sample collection center, e.g., in the sample collection room, or in a room adjacent to the sample
collection room, or in a room near to the sample collection room. In embodiments, methods for
analyzing a sample comprise analyzing the sample in a short period of time. In embodiments,
methods for analyzing a sample comprise analyzing a small volume sample. In embodiments,
methods for analyzing a sample comprise analyzing a small volume sample in a short period of
time.
[0048] In embodiments, methods for collecting a sample comprise centrifuging a sample after
collection; in embodiments, the sample comprises a small volume sample. In embodiments,
methods for collecting a sample comprise centrifuging a sample within a short period of time
after sample collection; in embodiments, the sample comprises a small volume sample. In
embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample comprise centrifuging a sample; in embodiments,

                                                    16
the sample comprises a small volume sample. In embodiments, methods for analyzing a sample
comprise centrifuging and analyzing a small volume sample within a short period of time
following collection of the sample.
[0049] In embodiments, these methods may further comprise providing a bathroom adjacent
said sample collection room; and providing a pass-through connecting said sample collection
room with said bathroom, wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a
sample from said bathroom to said sample collection room. In embodiments, the sample
comprises a urine sample. In embodiments, the sample comprises a stool sample. In
embodiments, the sample comprises a sample obtained using a swab. In embodiments, a sample
obtained using a swab may comprise a throat swab, a cheek swab, a nasal swab, a vaginal swab,
or other swab.
[0050] In embodiments, these methods may further comprise one or more of: providing a
reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being configured for
positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample; providing a reclining chair in said sample
collection room, said reclining chair having a warming plate or other warming element and
being configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample; providing a warming
table in said sample collection room, said warming table being effective to warm a body part
(e.g., a fingertip, finger, fingers, or hand); providing a warming plate in said sample collection
room, said warming plate being effective to warm a body part (e.g., a fingertip, finger, fingers,
or hand); providing an air-warmer in said sample collection room, said air-warmer being
effective to warm a body part (e.g., a fingertip, finger, fingers, or hand); and providing a
calming feature in the sample collection room. In embodiments, the calming feature may be
selected from the group of calming features consisting of flowing water, a flower, a plant, a
calming scent, a calming sound, a calming image, and a calming color.
[0051] In embodiments, these methods may further comprise providing a reclining chair in said
sample collection room, said reclining chair being configured for positioning a subject effective
for obtaining a sample; providing flowing water in said sample collection room; providing
adjustable lighting in the sample collection room; providing calming sounds in the sample
collection room; and providing a calming scent in the sample collection room. In embodiments,
these methods may further comprise providing a calming image in the sample collection room.

                                                   17
[0052] In embodiments, these methods may further comprise providing a movable chair or stool
suitable for use by a technician during sample collection; may further comprise providing a
refrigerator, or refrigerators, for use before, during, or after sample collection; may further
comprise providing a bar-code or label reader; may further comprise providing a bar-code or
label printer; may further comprise providing a computer, and may include providing computer
peripheral devices; may include providing storage space; and may include providing other
furniture, devices, materials, and implements.
[0053] Applicants further provide systems, including the following systems.
[0054] A system for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in
a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a warming table. A system for obtaining a
sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in a retail store, said sample
collection room comprising a warming plate. A system for obtaining a sample from a subject,
comprising a sample collection room in a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a
chair, couch, bench, or other piece of furniture for seating, wherein the chair, couch, bench, or
other piece of furniture has a warming plate or warming element in an armrest of the chair,
couch, bench, or other piece of furniture. A system for obtaining a sample from a subject,
comprising a sample collection room in a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a
finger warmer. A system for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection
room in a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a fingertip warmer. A system for
obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in a retail store, said
sample collection room comprising an air-warmer.
[0055] A system for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in
a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a warming table; a reclining chair (or
other piece of furniture for seating) configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a
sample; and a calming feature. In embodiments, a warming table may be configured to adjust
one or more of temperature, height, longitudinal orientation, lateral orientation, distance from a
subject, and presence or height of a rest. In embodiments, a chair (or other piece of furniture for
seating) may include a warming plate or warming element in an armrest. In embodiments, a
calming feature may be selected from the group of calming features consisting of flowing water,
a flower, a plant, a calming scent, a calming sound, a calming image, and a calming color.

                                                   18
[0056] In embodiments, a system for obtaining a sample from a subject comprises a sample
collection room in a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a sample transport
container configured to hold a plurality of sample containers, said sample containers configured
to hold fluid samples having volumes of about 500 pL or less, and one or more of: a warming
table, a warming plate, a chair or other furniture for seating comprising a warming plate, a finger
warmer, a fingertip warmer, and an air-warmer. In embodiments, a system for analyzing a
sample from a subject comprises a sample collection room in a retail store, said sample
collection room comprising a sample analysis device configured to analyze a fluid sample
having volumes of about 500 pL or less obtained in said sample collection room, and one or
more of: a warming table; a reclining chair configured for positioning a subject effective for
obtaining a sample; and a calming feature. In embodiments, a system for analyzing a sample
from a subject comprises a sample collection room in a retail store, said sample collection room
comprising a sample analysis device configured to analyze a fluid sample having volumes of
about 500 pL or less obtained in said sample collection room, and one or more of: a chair or
other furniture for seating, said chair or other furniture for seating comprising a warming plate
or other heating element, the chair or other furniture for seating being configured to warm a
body part of said subject, and being configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a
sample; and a calming feature. In embodiments, a warming table of such a system is configured
to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and presence
or height of a rest. In embodiments, a calming feature of such a system is selected from the
group of calming features consisting of flowing water, a flower, a plant, a calming scent, a
calming sound, a calming image, and a calming color. In embodiments, a system further
comprises a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and a pass-through connecting said
sample collection room with said bathroom, wherein said pass-through is configured to allow
the transfer of a sample from said bathroom to said sample collection room. In embodiments, a
system further comprises one or more of a fingertoy; flowing water in said sample collection
room; adjustable lighting in said sample collection room; a calming image; a wall or wall
hanging having a calming color; a sound system configured for providing calming sounds in the
sample collection room; and a scent source configured to provide a calming scent in the sample
collection room, wherein said scent source is selected from a flower, a candle, an oil, a scented
wick, and an aerosol.
[0057] In embodiments, the system may further comprise a bathroom adjacent said sample
collection room; and a pass-through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom,

                                                   19
wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said bathroom to
said sample collection room. In embodiments, the sample comprises a urine sample.
[0058] In embodiments, such systems may further comprise one or more of: flowing water in
said sample collection room; adjustable lighting in said sample collection room; a calming
image; a wall or wall hanging having a calming color; a sound system configured for providing
calming sounds in the sample collection room; and a scent source configured to provide a
calming scent in the sample collection room. In embodiments, a scent source may be selected
from a flower, a candle, an oil, a scented wick, and an aerosol.
[0059] In embodiments, systems as disclosed herein may comprise a movable chair or stool
suitable for use by a technician during sample collection; may comprise a refrigerator, or
refrigerators, for use before, during, or after sample collection; may comprise a bar-code or label
reader; may comprise a bar-code or label printer; may comprise a computer, and may include
computer peripheral devices; may include storage space; and may include other furniture,
devices, materials, and implements.
[0060] In embodiments, systems as disclosed herein may further include a warming plate, or a
finger warmer, or a fingertip warmer, or an air-warmer, or combination thereof. In
embodiments, systems as disclosed herein may further include a fingertoy. It will be understood
that systems as disclosed herein may include combinations of some or all of the elements
disclosed herein.
[0061] In embodiments, systems disclosed herein are suitable for use with a blood, urine, stool,
or other sample having a volume selected from the group of volumes of less than about 250 pL,
or less than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25
pL, or less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.
[0062] Applicants disclose herein a sample collection room in a retail store, said sample
collection room comprising one or more of: a warming table, a warming plate, a chair or other
furniture for seating comprising a warming plate, a finger warmer, a fingertip warmer, and an
air-warmer. In embodiments, a sample collection room in a retail store further comprises a
sample analysis device, a sample transport container configured to hold a plurality of sample
containers, or both. In embodiments, a sample collection room in a retail store includes a sample
analysis device or sample analysis system. In embodiments, a sample collection room in a retail

                                                  20
store is located adjacent to a sample analysis device or sample analysis system. In embodiments,
such a sample analysis device is configured to analyze fluid samples having volumes of about
500 tL or less. In embodiments, a sample collection room in a retail store includes sample
containers configured to hold fluid samples having volumes of about 500 pL or less. In
embodiments, a sample collection room in a retail store is adjacent one or more of a waiting
room and a bathroom. In embodiments, a sample collection room in a retail store is adjacent a
bathroom, and further comprises a pass-through connecting said bathroom with said sample
collection room.
[0063] Applicants disclose herein a warming device selected from a warming table, a warming
plate, a chair or other furniture for seating comprising a warming plate, a finger warmer, a
fingertip warmer, and an air-warmer. In embodiments, a warming device is configured to warm
a body part of a subject effective to aid in the collection of a blood sample from said body part.
In embodiments, said body part is selected from a fingertip, a finger, and a hand. In
embodiments, a warming device is effective to aid in the collection of a blood sample having a
volume of about 500 tL or less.
[0064] Applicants disclose herein a method for obtaining a sample from a subject, said subject
having a body part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; and
obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject.
Applicants disclose herein a further method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said
subject having a body part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store;
obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; and
analyzing the sample at or adjacent to the retail store. Applicants disclose herein a further
method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body part,
comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining, in said sample
collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; and analyzing the sample at or
adjacent to the retail store within a short period of time after obtaining the sample. Applicants
disclose herein a further method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject
having a body part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining,
in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; transporting the
sample to an analysis location; and analyzing the sample at said analysis location within a short
period of time after obtaining the sample. In embodiments of such methods, obtaining said
sample comprises warming said body part of said subject. In embodiments, warming a body part

                                                 21
comprises warming with a warming table; a warming plate; a finger warmer; a fingertip warmer;
an air-warmer; furniture for seating comprising a warming plate or other heating element; or a
combination thereof. In embodiments, the methods further comprise: providing a bathroom
adjacent said sample collection room; and providing a pass-through connecting said sample
collection room with said bathroom, wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the
transfer of a sample from said bathroom to said sample collection room. In embodiments, the
methods further comprise one or more of the following: providing a warming table in said
sample collection room; providing a warming plate in said sample collection room; providing a
fingertip warmer in said sample collection room; providing a fingertoy in said sample collection
room; providing an air-warmer in said sample collection room; providing a chair or other
furniture for seating in said sample collection room, said chair or other furniture for seating
comprising a warming plate or other heating element; providing a reclining chair in said sample
collection room, said reclining chair being configured for positioning a subject effective for
obtaining a sample; providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining
chair comprising a warming plate or other heating element, said reclining chair being configured
for warming at least a portion of a body part of a subject, and for positioning a subject effective
for obtaining a sample; providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room; and
providing a calming feature in the sample collection room, wherein said calming feature is
selected from the group of calming features consisting of flowing water, a flower, a plant, a
calming scent, a calming sound, a calming image, and a calming color.
[0065] In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a sample has a volume selected from
the group of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than 150 pL,
or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or less than about
10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL. In embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein, a sample is analyzed within a short period of time, wherein said short period of
time is selected from less than about 5 hours, or less than about 4 hours, or less than about 3
hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less than about half an hour. In
embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a sample is analyzed within a short period of time
after obtaining the sample, wherein the short period of time is selected from less than about 5
hours, or less than about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less
than about 1 hour, or less than about half an hour.

                                                  22
[0066] The methods, rooms, and systems disclosed herein are suited for providing subjects with
pleasant surroundings, and convenient access to locations where a sample may be obtained for
analysis. The methods, rooms, and systems disclosed herein a provide methods and means for
obtaining samples from subjects in a pleasant and convenient manner. The methods, rooms, and
systems disclosed herein are configured to reduce discomfort to a subject during sample
collection; to reduce anxiety in a subject related to sample collection; and thus are useful in
improving subject compliance with diagnostic testing, and in improving subject engagement
with, desire to participate in, an enjoyment of, diagnostic testing. Greater subject participation
and greater subject compliance with diagnostic testing is believed to improve clinical outcomes,
for subjects suspected of suffering from a disease or medical conditions, and for healthy subjects
who may thus obtain more and more comprehensive baseline clinical data for subsequent
comparison and use. Increased convenience of diagnostic testing provided by the methods,
rooms, and systems disclosed herein provide decreased cost, increased availability, greater
subject compliance, and greater subject engagement with diagnostic testing which is believed to
lead to improved health and clinical outcomes. Thus, the methods, rooms, and systems disclosed
herein provide advantages to subjects who wish to provide a sample (e.g., a clinical sample for
medical analysis or diagnosis) and provide advantages over the art.
[0067] This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that
are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to
identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be
used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0068] Fig. 1A shows a plan view of a sample collection room within a retail location, having a
waiting room, a sample collection room, and a bathroom. Exemplary positioning of furniture,
work surfaces, and doors are indicated in the figure.
[0069] Fig. 1B shows a plan view of a sample collection room within a retail location, having a
waiting room, a sample collection room, a centrifuge, and a bathroom. Exemplary positioning of
furniture, work surfaces, and doors are indicated in the figure.

                                                  23
[0070] Fig. 1C shows a plan view of a sample collection room within a retail location, having a
waiting room, a sample collection room, a transport container, and a bathroom. Exemplary
positioning of furniture, work surfaces, and doors are indicated in the figure.
[0071] Fig. ID shows a plan view of a sample collection room within a retail location, having a
waiting room, a sample collection room, a centrifuge, a refrigerator, a transport container, and a
bathroom. Exemplary positioning of furniture, work surfaces, and doors are indicated in the
figure.
[0072] Fig. 2 shows an example of a warming table having features as disclosed herein.
[0073] Fig. 3 shows an example of a warming table having features as disclosed herein,
including an arm rest.
[0074] Fig. 4A shows an example of a warming plate having features as disclosed herein,
providing a top view of a warming plate, illustrating placement of fingers onto the plate for use
in warming fingers of a hand of a subject.
[0075] Fig. 4B shows an example of a warming plate having features as disclosed herein,
providing a perspective view of a warming plate in use warming fingers of a hand of a subject.
[0076] Fig. 4C shows an example of a warming plate having features as disclosed herein,
providing a front perspective view of a chair including a warming plate in an arm rest, and of a
cabinet attached to the chair, the cabinet including a warming plate on its top surface.
[0077] Fig. 5A shows an example of a finger warmer having features as disclosed herein,
providing a schematic top view of a finger warmer in an extended (unrolled) configuration.
[0078] Fig. 5B shows an example of a finger warmer having features as disclosed herein,
providing a front (right) and back (left) view of a finger warmer.
[0079] Fig. 5C shows a finger warmer wrapped around a finger of a subject.
[0080] Fig. 6A shows an example of a fingertip warmer having features as disclosed herein,
providing a side perspective view of a fingertip warmer.

                                                 24
[0081] Fig. 6B shows an example of a fingertip warmer having features as disclosed herein,
providing an image of a fingertip warmer in place around the fingertip of a subject.
[0082] Fig. 7 shows an example of an air-warmer having features as disclosed herein.
[0083] Fig. 8 shows an example of a fingertip cover toy for placement over a child's finger prior
to, or after obtaining a blood sample from the finger.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0084] Methods, devices, and systems for obtaining a biological sample from a subject, such as,
e.g., blood, are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent Application 61/875,092, filed September
8, 2013; in U.S. Patent Application 61/894,166, filed October 22, 2013; in U.S. Patent
Application 61/852,484, filed March 15, 2013; in U.S. Patent Application 14/214,854, filed
March 15, 2014; in U.S. Patent Application 61/803,449, filed March 19, 2013; and in U.S.
Patent Application 14/220,013, filed March 19, 2014, the disclosures of all of which patent
applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0085] Description and disclosure of examples of obtaining samples and of sample analysis
methods, devices, and systems, including automated analysis devices, semi-automated analysis
devices, and systems comprising such devices, which may be used with the methods and
systems disclosed herein may be found, for example, in: U.S. Patent 8,088,593; U.S. Patent
8,380,541; U.S. Patent 8,435,738; U.S. Patent 8,475,739; U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 13/769,817,
filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 13/769,818, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Pat.
App. Ser. No. 13/769,820, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 14/183,503, filed
February 18, 2014; U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 13/769,798, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Pat. App.
Ser. No. 13/769,779, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 13/769,820, filed
February 18, 2013; PCT/US2012/57155, filed September 25, 2012; U.S. Patent Application
13/244,949, filed September 26, 2011; U.S. Application Serial No. 61/800,606, filed March 15,
2013; U.S. Application Serial No. 14/214,850, filed March 15, 2014; U.S. Application Serial
No. 61/766,095, filed February 18, 2013; International Application Serial No.
PCT/US2014/016593, filed February 14, 2014; U.S. Application Serial No. 61/673,245, filed
July 18, 2012; U.S. Application Serial No. 13/945,202, filed July 18, 2013; U.S. Patent
Application 61/805,923, filed March 27, 2013; International Application Serial No.
PCT/US2014/016697, filed February 18, 2014; U.S. Patent Application 61/803,449, filed March

                                                  25
19, 2013; U.S. Patent Application 61/815,030, filed September 7, 2013; International Patent
Application PCT/US2013/052141, filed July 25, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
61/879,664, filed September 18, 2013; U.S. Application Serial No. 14/479,190, filed September
5, 2014; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/837,167, filed June 19, 2013; U.S. Application
Serial No. 14/309,689, filed June 19, 2014; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/874,976, filed
September 6, 2013; U.S. Application Serial No. 14/479,241, filed September 5, 2014; U.S.
Application Serial No. 14/479,245, filed September 5, 2014; U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
61/766,116, filed February 18, 2013; U.S. Application Serial No. 13/951,063, filed July 25,
2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 61/802,194, filed March 15, 2013; U.S. Application
Serial No. 13/951,449, filed July 25, 2013; U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/244,947 filed
Sept. 26, 2011; and U.S. Application Serial No. 13/244,946, filed September 26, 2011; the
disclosures of all which patents and patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference in
their entireties.
[0086] Systems, devices, and methods disclosed herein provide without limitation sample
collection rooms, sample collection methods, and related devices, apparatus, and methods.
Sample collection rooms, systems, devices, and methods may include sample analysis devices or
sample analysis systems. As used herein, a sample analysis system may include a sample
analysis device, and the term "sample analysis device" may also refer to systems for sample
analysis that include such devices. In embodiments, a sample analysis device may be an
automated sample analysis device; or may be a semi-automated sample analysis device.
[0087] In embodiments, for example, a sample analysis device may be useful for receiving a
sample. A sample analysis device may be useful for preparing, or for processing a sample. A
sample analysis device may be useful for performing an assay on a sample. A device may be
useful for obtaining data from a sample. A sample analysis device may be useful for
transmitting data obtained from a sample. A sample analysis device may be useful for disposing
of a sample following processing or assaying of a sample.
[0088] A sample analysis device may be part of a system, a component of which may be an
automated sample analysis device, or a semi-automated sample analysis device. A sample
analysis device may be configured to facilitate collection of a sample, prepare a sample for a
clinical test, or effect a chemical reaction with one or more reagents or other chemical or
physical processing, as disclosed herein. A sample analysis device may be configured to obtain

                                                  26
data from a sample. A sample analysis device may be configured to transmit data obtained from
a sample. A sample analysis device may be configured to analyze data from a sample. An
automated sample analysis device may be configured to communicate with another device, or a
laboratory, or an individual affiliated with a laboratory, to analyze data obtained from a sample.
[0089] A sample analysis device may include, or may be, an automated sample analysis device.
A sample analysis device may be configured to perform processing steps or actions on a sample
obtained from a subject. Sample processing may include sample preparation, including, e.g.,
sample dilution, division of a sample into aliquots, extraction, contact with a reagent, filtration,
separation, centrifugation, or other preparatory or processing action or step. An automated
sample analysis device may be configured to perform one or more sample preparation action or
step on the sample. Optionally, a sample may be prepared for a chemical reaction and/or
physical processing step. A sample preparation action or step may include one or more of the
following: centrifugation, separation, filtration, dilution, enriching, purification, precipitation,
incubation, pipetting, transport, chromatography, cell lysis, cytometry, pulverization, grinding,
activation, ultrasonication, micro column processing, processing with magnetic beads,
processing with nanoparticles, or other sample preparation action or steps. For example, sample
preparation may include one or more step to separate blood into serum and/or particulate
fractions, or to separate any other sample into various components. Sample preparation may
include one or more step to dilute and/or concentrate a sample, such as a blood sample, or other
biological samples. Sample preparation may include adding an anti-coagulant or other
ingredients to a sample. Sample preparation may also include purification of a sample. In
embodiments, all sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps are performed by a
single device. In embodiments, all sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps are
performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, most sample processing,
preparation, or assay actions or steps are performed by a single device, and may be performed
within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, many sample processing, preparation, or
assay actions or steps are performed by a single device, and may be performed within a housing
of a single device. In embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or steps
may be performed by more than one device.
[0090] A sample analysis device may be configured to run one or more assay on a sample, and
to obtain data from the sample. An assay may include one or more physical or chemical
treatments, and may include running one or more chemical or physical reactions. A sample

                                                 27
analysis device may be configured to perform one, two or more assays on a small sample of
bodily fluid. One or more chemical reaction may take place on a sample having a volume, as
described elsewhere herein. For example one or more chemical reaction may take place in a pill
having less than femtoliter volumes. In an instance, the sample collection unit is configured to
receive a volume of the bodily fluid sample equivalent to a single drop or less of blood or
interstitial fluid. In embodiments, the volume of a sample may be a small volume, where a small
volume may be a volume that is less than about 1000 pL, or less than about 500 ptL, or less than
about 250 pL, or less than about 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 75 tL, or
less than about 50 pLL, or less than about 40 pL, or less than about 20 [L, or less than about 10
pL, or other small volume. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed on a
single sample. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single
device. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or steps are performed within a housing of a
single device. In embodiments, most sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single
device, and may be performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, many
sample assay actions or steps are performed by a single device, and may be performed within a
housing of a single device. In embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or
steps may be performed by more than one device.
[0091] A sample analysis device may be configured to perform a plurality of assays on a
sample. In embodiments, an automated sample analysis device may be configured to perform a
plurality of assays on a single sample. In embodiments, an automated sample analysis device
may be configured to perform a plurality of assays on a single sample, where the sample is a
small sample. For example, a small sample may have a sample volume that is a small volume of
less than about 1000 pL, or less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than about
150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 75 pL, or less than about 50 RL, or less
than about 40 pL, or less than about 20 pL, or less than about 10 pL, or other small volume. A
sample analysis device may be capable of performing multiplexed assays on a single sample. A
plurality of assays may be run simultaneously; may be run sequentially; or some assays may be
run simultaneously while others are run sequentially. One or more control assays and/or
calibrators (e.g., including a configuration with a control of a calibrator for the assay/tests) can
also be incorporated into the device; control assays and assay on calibrators may be performed
simultaneously with assays performed on a sample, or may be performed before or after assays
performed on a sample, or any combination thereof. In embodiments, all sample assay actions or
steps are performed by a single device. In embodiments, all of a plurality of assay actions or

                                                   28
steps are performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, most sample assay
actions or steps, of a plurality of assays, are performed by a single device, and may be
performed within a housing of a single device. In embodiments, many sample assay actions or
steps, of a plurality of assays, are performed by a single device, and may be performed within a
housing of a single device. In embodiments, sample processing, preparation, or assay actions or
steps may be performed by more than one device.
[0092] In embodiments, all of a plurality of assays may be performed in a short time period. In
embodiments, such a short time period comprises less than about three hours, or less than about
two hours, or less than about one hour, or less than about 40 minutes, or less than about 30
minutes, or less than about 25 minutes, or less than about 20 minutes, or less than about 15
minutes, or less than about 10 minutes, or less than about 5 minutes, or less than about 4
minutes, or less than about 3 minutes, or less than about 2 minutes, or less than about 1 minute,
or other short time period.
[0093] A sample analysis device may be configured to detect one or more signals relating to the
sample. A sample analysis device may be configured to identify one or more properties of the
sample. For instance, the sample analysis device may be configured to detect the presence or
concentration of one analyte or a plurality of analytes or a disease condition in the sample (e.g.,
in or through a bodily fluid, secretion, tissue, or other sample). Alternatively, the sample
analysis device may be configured to detect a signal or signals that may be analyzed to detect
the presence or concentration of one or more analytes (which may be indicative of a disease
condition) or a disease condition in the sample. The signals may be analyzed on board the
device, or at another location. Running a clinical test may or may not include any analysis or
comparison of data collected.
[0094] A chemical reaction or other processing step may be performed, with or without the
sample. Examples of steps, tests, or assays that may be prepared or run by the device may
include, but are not limited to immunoassay, nucleic acid assay, receptor-based assay,
cytometric assay, colorimetric assay, enzymatic assay, electrophoretic assay, electrochemical
assay, spectroscopic assay, chromatographic assay, microscopic assay, topographic assay,
calorimetric assay, turbidmetric assay, agglutination assay, radioisotope assay, viscometric
assay, coagulation assay, clotting time assay, protein synthesis assay, histological assay, culture
assay, osmolarity assay, and/or other types of assays, centrifugation, separation, filtration,

                                                   29
dilution, enriching, purification, precipitation, pulverization, incubation, pipetting, transport, cell
lysis, or other sample preparation action or steps, or combinations thereof. Steps, tests, or assays
that may be prepared or run by the device may include imaging, including microscopy,
cytometry, and other techniques preparing or utilizing images. Steps, tests, or assays that may be
prepared or run by the device may further include an assessment of histology, morphology,
kinematics, dynamics, and/or state of a sample, which may include such assessment for cells.
[0095] A sample analysis device may be capable of performing all on-board steps (e.g., steps or
actions performed by a single device) in a short amount of time. A sample analysis device may
be capable of performing all on-board steps on a single sample in a short amount of time. For
example, from sample collection from a subject to transmitting data and/or to analysis may take
about 3 hours or less, 2 hours or less, 1 hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes or less, 40
minutes or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10 minutes or less, 5
minutes or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1 minute or less. The
amount of time from accepting a sample within the device to transmitting data and/or to analysis
from the device regarding such a sample may depend on the type or number of steps, tests, or
assays performed on the sample. The amount of time from accepting a sample within the device
to transmitting data and/or to analysis from the device regarding such a sample may take about 3
hours or less, 2 hours or less, 1 hour or less, 50 minutes or less, 45 minutes or less, 40 minutes
or less, 30 minutes or less, 20 minutes or less, 15 minutes or less, 10 minutes or less, 5 minutes
or less, 4 minutes or less, 3 minutes or less, 2 minutes or less, or 1 minute or less.
[0096] A sample analysis device may be configured to prepare a sample for disposal, or to
dispose of a sample, such as a biological sample, following processing or assaying of a sample.
[0097] In embodiments, a sample analysis device may be configured to transmit data obtained
from a sample. In embodiments, a sample analysis device may be configured to communicate
over a network. A sample analysis device may include a communication module that may
interface with the network. A sample analysis device may be connected to the network via a
wired connection or wirelessly. The network may be a local area network (LAN) or a wide area
network (WAN) such as the Internet. In some embodiments, the network may be a personal area
network. The network may include the cloud. The sample analysis device may be connected to
the network without requiring an intermediary device, or an intermediary device may be
required to connect a sample analysis device to a network. A sample analysis device may

                                                 30
communicate over a network with another device, which may be any type of networked device,
including but not limited to a personal computer, server computer, or laptop computer; personal
digital assistants (PDAs) such as a Windows CE device; phones such as cellular phones,
smartphones (e.g., iPhone, Android, Blackberry, etc.), or location-aware portable phones (such
as GPS); a roaming device, such as a network-connected roaming device; a wireless device such
as a wireless email device or other device capable of communicating wireless with a computer
network; or any other type of network device that may communicate possibly over a network
and handle electronic transactions. Such communication may include providing data to a cloud
computing infrastructure or any other type of data storage infrastructure which may be accessed
by other devices.
[0098] A sample analysis device may provide data regarding a sample to, e.g., a health care
professional, a health care professional location, such as a laboratory, or an affiliate thereof. One
or more of a laboratory, health care professional, or subject may have a network device able to
receive or access data provided by the sample analysis device. A sample analysis device may be
configured to provide data regarding a sample to a database. A sample analysis device may be
configured to provide data regarding a sample to an electronic medical records system, to a
laboratory information system, to a laboratory automation system, or other system or software.
A sample analysis device may provide data in the form of a report.
[0099] A laboratory, device, or other entity or software may perform analysis on data regarding
a sample in real-time. A software system may perform chemical analysis and/or pathological
analysis, or these could be distributed amongst combinations of lab, clinical, and specialty or
expert personnel. Analysis may include qualitative and/or quantitative evaluation of a sample.
Data analysis may include a subsequent qualitative and/or quantitative evaluation of a sample.
Optionally, a report may be generated based on raw data, pre-processed data, or analyzed data.
Such a report may be prepared so as to maintain confidentiality of the data obtained from the
sample, the identity and other information regarding the subject from whom a sample was
obtained, analysis of the data, and other confidential information. The report and/or the data may
be transmitted to a health care professional. Data obtained by a sample analysis device, or
analysis of such data, or reports, may be provided to a database, an electronic medical records
system, to a laboratory information system (LIS), to a laboratory automation system (LAS), or
other system or software.

                                                  31
[0100] A sample may be placed in a sample container, e.g., a vial, tube, or other container
configured to hold a sample. A sample container may be configured to fit into, or be held by, a
cartridge. For example, a cartridge may include a sample in a sample container, and may also
include reagents for use in processing or testing a sample, disposables for use in processing or
testing a sample, or other materials. A cartridge may be configured for placement on, or
insertion into, a sample analysis device. In embodiments, one or more components of the
cartridge may be brought into fluid communication with other components of the sample
analysis device. For example, one or more reagents may be transferred to portions of the sample
analysis device, and may be used in the analysis of a sample.
[0101] Samples collected in a sample collection room may be placed in a sample transport
container. A sample transport container may be located in, or may located near to, a sample
collection room. In embodiments, a sample collection room as disclosed herein may include a
sample transport container. In embodiments, a system comprising a sample collection room as
disclosed herein may include a sample transport container. In embodiments, samples may be
placed in a sample transport container, and then soon or immediately transported to another
location. In embodiments, samples may be stored in a sample transport container for a period of
time after collection, and may be transported to another location for analysis, inspection,
recordation, storage, or for other purposes. A sample transport container may be insulated, or
may be refrigerated, or both.
[0102] A sample transport container may be configured to hold a single sample, e.g., a single
sample within a single sample container; or may be configured to hold a plurality of samples,
e.g., a plurality of samples each in a single sample container. In embodiments, such samples are
fluid samples, such as blood or urine samples. In embodiments, such samples have small
volumes, typically less than about 500 piL. A sample transport container may be configured to
protect the samples, and sample containers, during transport. For example, a sample transport
container may be configured to protect the samples, and sample containers, from physical shock,
thermal changes, dessication, or other damage which may occur during transport. A sample
transport container may include padding; may include insulation; may include layers, including
one or more inner containers, and one or more outer containers, configured to protect and isolate
the samples held by the sample transport container. A sample transport container may include a
thermal control unit, and may include material that provides active and/or passive cooling. For
example in addition to, or in place of, insulating material, a sample transport container may

                                                   32
include phase change material (PCM) material that maintains the temperature at a prior, or
desired temperature. A sample transport container may include or use an active cooling system.
Optionally, a sample transport container may use an active cooling system to keep and/or extend
cooling time associated with a passive cooling component.
[0103] A sample transport container may include a temperature indicator, and may include a
thermal change indicator. For example a temperature indicator or thermal change indicator may
be disposed on a visible surface of the transport container. A temperature indicator may include
a thermometer, or a display or read-out (e.g., of a thermocouple, thermistor, or other temperature
sensor) configured to display the temperature within the sample transport container. A thermal
change indicator may display a message, or alert, to indicate if or when the temperature within
the sample transport container has exceeded a pre-defined limit. For example, thermochromic
ink may be used as an indicator of thermal change, particularly if the thermal change resulted in
temperatures outside a desired range.
[0104] It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following
detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention,
as claimed. It may be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a material" may include mixtures of materials,
reference to "a compound" may include multiple compounds, and the like. References cited
herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety, except to the extent that they
conflict with teachings explicitly set forth in this specification.
[0105] In this specification and in the claims which follow, reference will be made to a number
of terms which shall be defined to have the following meanings:
[0106] "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described circumstance may or
may not occur, so that the description includes instances where the circumstance occurs and
instances where it does not. For example, if a device optionally contains a feature for a sample
collection unit, this means that the sample collection unit may or may not be present, and, thus,
the description includes both structures wherein a device possesses the sample collection unit
and structures wherein sample collection unit is not present.

                                                    33
[0107] As used herein, the terms "substantial" means more than a minimal or insignificant
amount; and "substantially" means more than a minimally or insignificantly. Thus, for example,
the phrase "substantially different", as used herein, denotes a sufficiently high degree of
difference between two numeric values such that one of skill in the art would consider the
difference between the two values to be of statistical significance within the context of the
characteristic measured by said values. Thus, the difference between two values that are
substantially different from each other is typically greater than about 10%, and may be greater
than about 20%, preferably greater than about 30%, preferably greater than about 40%,
preferably greater than about 50% as a function of the reference value or comparator value.
[0108] As used herein, the term "point of service location" (POS) may include locations where a
subject may receive a service (e.g. testing, monitoring, treatment, diagnosis, guidance, sample
collection, ID verification, medical services, non-medical services, etc.), and may include,
without limitation, a subject's home, a subject's business, the location of a healthcare provider
(e.g., doctor), hospitals, emergency rooms, operating rooms, clinics, health care professionals'
offices, laboratories, retailers [e.g. pharmacies (e.g., retail pharmacy, clinical pharmacy, hospital
pharmacy), drugstores, supermarkets, grocers, etc.], transportation vehicles (e.g. car, boat, truck,
bus, airplane, motorcycle, ambulance, mobile unit, fire engine/truck, emergency vehicle, law
enforcement vehicle, police car, or other vehicle configured to transport a subject from one point
to another, etc.), traveling medical care units, mobile units, schools, day-care centers, security
screening locations, combat locations, health assisted living residences, government offices,
office buildings, tents, bodily fluid sample acquisition sites (e.g. blood collection centers), sites
at or near an entrance to a location that a subject may wish to access, sites on or near a device
that a subject may wish to access (e.g., the location of a computer if the subject wishes to access
the computer), a location where a sample processing device receives a sample, or any other
point of service location described elsewhere herein.
[0109] As used herein, the terms "retail store", "retail location", "retailer", and the like refer to
places of business in which retail transactions typically take place; a retail store is primarily a
location for business, and not for the practice of medicine or ancillary clinical procedures and
activities. Thus, a retail store is not primarily a location at which clinical procedures, such as
collection of samples for diagnosis or other clinical use, are performed. However, although not a
primary purpose or activity, collection of clinical samples are one of the activities which may
take place at a retail store. A retail store may be, without limitation, a pharmacy, including, e.g.,

                                                   34
a retail pharmacy, a clinical pharmacy, a hospital pharmacy, and a dispensary; a drugstore; a
supermarket or grocery store; or other retail store.
[0110] As used herein, a "sample", or "biological sample", or "clinical sample" refers to a
sample of fluid, tissue, secretion, or excretion obtained from a subject. A clinical sample may be
a sample of blood, serum, plasma, saliva, sputum, urine, gastric fluid, digestive fluid, tears,
sweat, stool, semen, vaginal fluid, interstitial fluid, fluid derived from tumorous tissue, ocular
fluids, mucus, earwax, oil, glandular secretions, spinal fluid, skin, cerebrospinal fluid from
within the skull, tissue, fluid or material from a nasal swab, a throat swab, a cheek swab, or
nasopharyngeal wash, biopsy fluid or material, placental fluid, amniotic fluid, cord blood,
lymphatic fluids, cavity fluids, pus, microbiota obtained from a subject, meconium, breast milk,
or other secretion or excretion. A sample may be a breath sample, a hair sample, a fingernail
sample, or other sample.
[0111] Biological samples may include nasopharyngeal wash, or other fluid obtained by
washing a body cavity or surface of a subject, or by washing a swab following application of the
swab to a body cavity or surface of a subject. Nasal swabs, throat swabs, cheek swabs, vaginal
swabs, cervical swabs, stool samples, hair, finger nail, ear wax, breath, and other solid, semi
solid, or gaseous samples may be processed in an extraction buffer, e.g., for a fixed or variable
amount of time, prior to their analysis. The extraction buffer or an aliquot thereof may then be
processed similarly to other fluid samples if desired. Examples of tissue samples of the subject
may include but are not limited to, connective tissue, muscle tissue, nervous tissue, epithelial
tissue, cartilage, cancerous sample, or bone. The sample may be obtained from a human or
animal. The sample may be obtained from a vertebrate, e.g., a bird, fish, or mammal, such as a
rat, a mouse, a pig, an ape, another primate (including humans), a farm animal, a sport animal,
or a pet. The sample may be obtained from a living or dead subject. The sample may be
obtained fresh from a subject or may have undergone some form of pre-processing, storage, or
transport.
[0112] Thus, as used herein, a "sample" may be, but is not limited to, a fluid sample, such as a
blood or urine sample, or a portion of a blood or urine sample. A sample may be of any suitable
size or volume, and is preferably of small size or volume. In some embodiments of the assays
and methods disclosed herein, measurements may be made using a small volume blood sample,
or no more than a small volume portion of a blood sample, where a small volume comprises no

                                                  35
more than about 5 mL; or comprises no more than about 3 mL; or comprises no more than about
2 mL; or comprises no more than about 1 mL; or comprises no more than about 500 pL; or
comprises no more than about 250 pL; or comprises no more than about 100 pL; or comprises
no more than about 75 pL; or comprises no more than about 50 pL; or comprises no more than
about 35 pL; or comprises no more than about 25 pL; or comprises no more than about 20 pL;
or comprises no more than about 15 pL; or comprises no more than about 10 pL; or comprises
no more than about 8 pL; or comprises no more than about 6 pL; or comprises no more than
about 5 pL; or comprises no more than about 4 pL; or comprises no more than about 3 pL; or
comprises no more than about 2 pL; or comprises no more than about 1 pL; or comprises no
more than about 0.8 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.5 pL; or comprises no more than
about 0.3 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.2 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.1 pL;
or comprises no more than about 0.05 pL; or comprises no more than about 0.01 pL.
[0113] As used herein, a "small volume" refers to a volume of less than about 1 mL, or less than
about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less
than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or less. In particular embodiments, a small volume,
such as a "finger-stick" volume, may comprise less than about 250 pL, and typically comprises
less than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL,
or less.
[0114] As used herein, a "short period of time" refers to a period of time of about 5 hours or
less, or about 4 hours or less, or about 3 hours or less, or about 2 hours or less, or about 1 hour
or less, or about 50 minutes or less, or about 40 minutes or less, or about 30 minutes or less, or
about 20 minutes or less, or about 10 minutes or less, or about 5 minutes or less. A short period
of time may be determined with respect to an initial time; the initial time may be the time at
which a sample analysis began; the initial time may be the time at which a sample is inserted
into a device for the analysis of the sample; the initial time may be the time at which a sample
was obtained from a subject.
[0115] It should be understood that embodiments in this disclosure may be adapted to have one
or more of the features described below.
[0116] Systems, methods, and devices for obtaining samples are provided. Such samples are
provided for analysis in order to detect a diseases or condition of a subject. Such samples may

                                                   36
be used, for example, to detect the presence of markers indicative of one or more of a plurality
of infectious agents in a single clinical sample, or in a plurality of aliquots of a single clinical
sample. The systems, methods, and devices disclosed herein may be point-of-service systems,
methods, and devices, configured for use at a point-of-service location, where a point-of-service
location may be a location at which a sample is obtained from a subject. In the embodiments
disclosed herein, a sample is obtained from a subject at a retail location. In particular, a sample
is obtained from a subject at a designated sample collection location within a retail location.
[0117] In embodiments, the sample is a small-volume sample. In embodiments, the sample is
used to test for a plurality of markers, or a plurality of diseases; such testing may include nucleic
acid testing (e.g., testing for DNA or RNA sequences present in the sample), amino acid testing
(e.g., using antibodies or binding proteins), general chemistry testing, cytometric testing (e.g.,
producing and analyzing images of cells in a sample, or using other optical and microscopic
techniques), and other testing. In embodiments, the sample is collected at the retail location, and
is analyzed at another location. In embodiments, the analysis of the small-volume clinical
sample is completed in a short period of time. In embodiments, the sample is collected at the
retail location, and is analyzed in a device at the retail location. In embodiments, the analysis of
the small-volume clinical sample is completed in a short period of time.
[0118] Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject include providing a sample collection
room within a retail store; obtaining a sample from the subject; and analyzing the sample.
Samples may be collected in a sample collection room adjacent a waiting room; a bathroom may
be provided with a pass-through to the sample collection room. A sample may be sent to a
remote location for analysis. A sample may be analyzed at, or adjacent to, the sample collection
location. A sample collection room may house a sample analysis device or sample analysis
system, and thus also serve as a sample analysis room. A sample may be a small sample, e.g., a
small blood sample may be taken from a single finger-stick, or two or a few finger-sticks. A
sample may be analyzed in a short period of time, e.g., in less than five hours, or less than four
hours.
[0119] Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject include providing a sample collection
room within a retail store, and obtaining a sample from the subject.

                                                   37
[0120] Methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject include providing a sample
collection room within a retail store; obtaining a sample from the subject; and analyzing the
sample. In embodiments of methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject the sample
is analyzed at the retail location. A sample collection room may be adjacent a waiting room; a
bathroom may be provided; a pass-through from bathroom to sample collection room may be
provided.
[0121] A warming table may be provided in a sample collection room which has an integrated
passthrough window specially designed to transfer urine into the blood collection area and into
sample analysis devices or systems.
[0122] In embodiments of methods for obtaining a blood sample from a subject, blood may be
obtained from a small skin puncture. Such a small skin puncture may be, e.g., a small skin
puncture on a finger, such as on a finger tip; a small skin puncture on a toe, such as on or near a
tip of a toe; a small skin puncture on a foot, such as on or near the heel; or other small skin
puncture. A small skin puncture is on a finger may be termed a "finger-stick"; the term finger
stick may also be used to describe the volume of a sample, i.e., a finger-stick volume is one,
two, or a few drops (e.g., about 50 pL to about 300 pL, or about 75 pL to about 250 pL, or
about 80 pL to about 150 pL).
[0123] In embodiments, a sample collection room includes a location for a practitioner (e.g., a
sample collection technician) to sit and obtain a bodily fluid or other sample from the patient. In
embodiments, a sample collection room includes a stool; a stool may have wheels; may have a
back; and may be adjustable in height.
[0124] A work surface such as a table is provided so that a patient has a surface on which they
can position the target site on the subject to allow for sampling. A work surface such as a table
in a sample collection room as disclosed herein may be movable, and may have wheels,
effective that it may be positioned near to a subject for support of a finger, hand, arm, leg, foot,
heel, toe, or other target body site for sample collection from a subject. In embodiments, a work
surface such as a table may be attachable to a chair on which a subject reposes during sample
collection. In embodiments, the height, angle, or other orientation of a work surface such as a
table may be adjusted for sample collection; such adjustment may aid in access to a target body
site; may improve the subject's comfort prior to, during, or after sample collection; may

                                                  38
improve blood flow during sample collection; and may have other advantages. In embodiments,
a work surface may include or be adjacent to storage (e.g., may be part of a movable table
having a drawer; or may be positioned on top of a drawer, or shelf, of a movable cabinet). Such
storage may be used to hold supplies and implements used in sample collection (e.g., lancets,
sample containers, tubes, gauze, or other items). In embodiments, the work surface storage not
only contains sample collection implements and supplies, but is effective to conceal them from
the subject at most times prior to and during sample collection. In embodiments, the work
surface comprises a surface that is easily cleaned, and that may be sterilized. A work surface
may be or include a hard surface (e.g., plastic, glass, hard rubber, acrylic, polymer, or other
material) or may be or include a soft or padded surface (e.g., cloth, rubberized cloth, soft rubber,
or other material).
[0125] The work surface may have one or more thermal controlled sites wherein the
temperature of the target site on the patient may be brought to a desired temperature. The
temperature may be adjustable. By way of example and not limitation, embodiments may heat a
finger or other target site to improve blood flow and thus blood yield from a finger-stick. For
example, the table may have thermal control areas to increase blood flow to the target area and
thus increase the speed with which sufficient blood or other bodily fluid can be drawn from the
subject. The heating is used to bring the target tissue to between about 40 'C to about 50 'C. In
embodiments, the heating brings target tissue to within a temperature range of between about 40
'C to about 44 'C. In embodiments, the heating brings target tissue to within a temperature
range of between about 41 'C to about 43 'C. In embodiments, the heating brings target tissue to
a temperature of about 42 'C. In embodiments, the heating brings target tissue to within a
temperature range of between about 44 'C to about 47 'C. In one embodiment, the temperature
is sufficient to increase blood flow to yield 120 uL of sample. In one embodiment, the
temperature is sufficient to increase blood flow to yield 130 uL of sample. In one embodiment,
the temperature is sufficient to increase blood flow to yield 140 uL of sample. In one
embodiment, the temperature is sufficient to increase blood flow to yield 150 uL of sample.
Optionally, the thermal controlled site is a shaped surface is contoured to match that of the target
site on a patient.
[0126] In embodiments, the thermal controlled site comprises a hard surface that is easily
cleaned, and that may be sterilized. Such a surface may be or include, for example, plastic,
glass, hard rubber, acrylic, polymer, and other materials. In embodiments, the thermal controlled

                                                   39
site comprises a soft or padded surface that is easily cleaned, and that may be sterilized. Such a
surface may be or include, for example, cloth, rubberized cloth, soft rubber, and other materials.
[0127] In embodiments, such a temperature-controlled work surface is provided as part of a
table, which may be termed a warming table. Accordingly, a sample collection room may
include a warming table. A warming table may be configured to warm a subject's hand, foot, or
other body part. The warming table may be tiltable; and its height may be adjustable. A
warming table may be configured for use with the left hand, or right hand, of a subject. A
warming table may be configured for use with the left foot, or right foot, of a subject. For
example, a warming table may be configured for placement near a chair (such as a reclining
chair) on either side of a subject seated in the chair.
[0128] It will be understood that a warming table may be any fixture or piece of furniture which
provides a temperature-controlled surface on which a subject may place a part of their body
(e.g., hand, arm, foot, or other part) for obtaining a sample. Thus, a warming table may provide
such a temperature-controlled surface configured to receive a part of a subject's body; may
provide such a temperature-controlled surface and also provide storage, e.g., for supplies; may
provide such a temperature-controlled surface and also provide guides for placement of a hand,
arm, foot, or other part of a subject's body; may provide such a temperature-controlled surface
and also provide lighting, e.g., for illuminating the subject or a part of a subject's body; a waste
receptacle; and other features and elements, and combinations thereof. Supply storage may be
provided by drawers, shelves, bins, slots, racks, or other features. A waste receptacle may be
configured to receive any waste, may be configured to receive biohazard waste (e.g., waste
containing bodily fluids or tissues); or both.
[0129] In embodiments, a warming table is adjustable, effective to adjust the temperature of a
surface of the warming table (e.g., a surface in contact with a body part of a subject from whom
a sample is, or is to be, obtained). In embodiments, a warming table is adjustable, effective to
adjust the height of the warming table, including effective to adjust the height of a warming
surface. In embodiments, a warming table is adjustable, effective to adjust the orientation, or the
tilt, of the warming table. In embodiments, a warming table is adjustable, effective to adjust the
distance of the warming table (or a surface thereof) from a subject. In embodiments, a warming
table is adjustable, effective to adjust the presence of, position of, and orientation of, a rest, such
as a hand or arm rest, on or near the warming table.

                                                 40
[0130] In embodiments, a warming table is configured to place the hand or other body part from
which a blood sample is to be collected at an optimal height and orientation for facilitating the
flow of gravity in the finger as blood droplets form. A warming table may include a rest, such as
an arm rest, or hand rest, or other rest which provides an additional surface for contacting a
subject; such a surface may make positioning of a hand, or arm, or foot, or leg, other body part
more comfortable for the subject, more convenient for the sample collection technician, or both.
Such a rest may be configured for placement in more than one position or orientation. Such a
rest may be retractable or otherwise configured to be placed or stored out of the way of a subject
or sample collection technician when not needed. A warming table may be designed to
accommodate the seating or placement of a sample collection technician near to a subject. A
warming table, or surface thereof, may be adjustable, or may include an adjustable surface,
which may be placed or oriented for the comfort and convenience of a subject, a sample
collection technician, or both. For example, a warming table may include a sliding surface
which may be extended or retracted as needed to accommodate a subject or a sample collection
technician; may include a tiltable surface which may be oriented as needed to accommodate a
subject or a sample collection technician; may include a surface which may be raised or lowered
as needed to accommodate a subject or a sample collection technician; or be otherwise
adjustable.
[0131] Accordingly, one or more of the lateral position, the height, and the orientation (e.g., tilt
or camber) of a warming table, or a surface thereof, may be adjustable. For example, the height
of an upper surface, or portion thereof, of a warming table may be adjustable, e.g., to
accommodate the comfort or convenience of the subject, of the sample collection technician, or
both. Similarly, the orientation of an upper surface, or portion thereof, of a warming table may
be adjustable, e.g., to accommodate the comfort or convenience of the subject, of the sample
collection technician, or both. In embodiments, the upper surface of a warming table, or a
portion thereof, may be configured for easy cleaning and for maintaining sterility during sample
collection. The upper surface of a warming table may be padded, or include a padded portion.
The upper surface of a warming table may be water-proof, or water-resistant, or include a water
proof, or water-resistant portion.
[0132] In embodiments, the height (as measured from the floor) of the upper surface of a
warming table configured to receive a part of a subject's body (e.g., during sample collection)
may be between about 10 inches and about 40 inches; or between about 15 inches and 30 inches;

                                                   41
or between about 16 inches and 28 inches; or between about 20 inches and about 24 inches in
height. In embodiments, the length of a warming table may be between about 20 inches and
about 60 inches; or between about 24 inches and 54 inches; or between about 20 inches and 50
inches; or between about 35 inches and about 45 inches in length. In embodiments, the width of
a warming table may be between about 8 inches and about 30 inches; or between about 10
inches and 24 inches; or between about 12 inches and 18 inches; or between about 11 inches and
about 15 inches in width. In embodiments, a warming table may have a length of about 38 to 42
inches, a width of 12 to 15 inches, and a height of about 19 to about 23 inches.
[0133] In embodiments, the orientation of the upper surface of a warming table configured to
receive a part of a subject's body (e.g., during sample collection) may be substantially parallel to
the floor of the sample collection room.
[0134] A subject may sit or lie next to a warming table during sample collection. When seated
or lying next to a warming table, the subject presents a subject orientation axis extending from
the subject's head towards the subject's feet. The orientation of the upper surface of a warming
table configured to receive a part of a subject's body (e.g., during sample collection) may be
adjustable; in embodiments, such orientation may be adjustable along an axis substantially
parallel to the subject orientation axis; or may be adjustable along an axis substantially
perpendicular to the subject orientation axis. In embodiments, the orientation of the upper
surface of a warming table may be adjustable along two axes (e.g., along an axis substantially
parallel to, and along an axis substantially perpendicular to, the subject orientation axis). It will
be understood that the orientation of an upper surface of a warming table may be adjustable
along other axes, or in other ways, as well as or instead of along these described axes. In
embodiments, the orientation of the upper surface of a warming table may be adjustable between
angles between about 00 to about 900, or between about 00 to about 450, or between about 00 to
about 300, or other ranges (where 00 indicates level, i.e., substantially parallel to the floor).
[0135] It will be understood that adjustment of the height, or orientation, or both, of an upper
surface of a warming table may comprise adjustment of a portion of the warming table other
than the upper surface; for example, adjustment of the height or orientation of an upper surface
of a warming table may be effected by adjusting a leg, or legs, or the warming table, or by
adjusting the surface (e.g., the floor or a portion of the floor, or other surface on the floor) on
which the warming table is placed; by adjusting an upper portion of the table; by adjusting a

                                                   42
lower portion of the table; by adjusting an intermediate portion of the table; or combinations
thereof.
[0136] A warming table may be used to warm the fingers of a subject prior to puncturing a
finger to obtain a blood sample. The thermal regulation of the warming table may be used in
conjunction with a finger warmer (a portable device for placement on or around a finger,
fingers, or hand of a subject. The thermal regulation of the warming table may be used in place
of a finger warmer. In embodiments, a warming table may include a built-in waste receptacle. In
embodiments, such a built-in waste receptacle may be, or may include, a biohazard bin.
[0137] A sample collection room may include a chair. In embodiments, the chair may be a
reclining chair. The chair may be configured for ease of placement of an arm or hand of a
subject effective to place the hand of the subject on a warming table, e.g., in proper placement
on a warming table for effective warming of the hand prior to obtaining a blood sample. In
embodiments, a chair in a sample collection room as disclosed herein may have and arm, or
arms, suitable for comfortably supporting an arm of a subject; may be able to recline to allow a
subject in the chair to lay back for comfort, ease, and safety; and may be accessible by a
technician from both sides (e.g., configured so that a left arm or hand, and a right arm or hand of
a subject are equally accessible to a technician for obtaining a sample). Where a foot of the
subject is to be used for obtaining a sample, the chair may be configured for ease of placement
of a leg or foot of a subject effective to place the foot of the subject on a warming table, e.g., in
proper placement on a warming table for effective warming of the foot prior to obtaining a
blood sample. Sample collection from a leg or foot may be preferred, for example, for pediatric
patients, or amputees, or patients with impaired blood flow to a hand, or other subjects. A
booster, pillow, insert, or other item or feature may be used to position a pediatric or other
patient in proper position for obtaining the sample. In embodiments, a chair in a sample
collection room as disclosed herein may be placed in a corner of a sample collection room. In
embodiments, a chair in a sample collection room as disclosed herein may be colored ivory,
white, or off-white, or other neutral color; may have arms or arm-rests made at least partially of
wood (e.g., birch wood, pine, or other wood); and may have a leg-rest made at least partially of
wood (e.g., birch wood, pine, or other wood).
[0138] Such a chair may be placed adjacent a warming table, effective that a subject may
comfortably place their hand, or other body part to be used for sample collection, on the

                                                  43
warming table. In embodiments, the warming table is movable. In embodiments, the chair and
the warming table are configured for use together. In embodiments, the chair is connected to the
warming table. In embodiments, the chair and the warming table form a single unit. In
embodiments, the chair and the warming table form a single unit after connection (e.g., latching,
locking, or otherwise securing) of the chair and warming table together. In embodiments, the
chair and the warming table are modified to become a single unit (e.g., by screws, nails, clamps,
or other permanent or semi-permanent fastening). In embodiments, the chair and the warming
table are built as a single unit.
[0139] A sample collection room may include a refrigerator. In embodiments, a sample
collection room may include two refrigerators, or may include a plurality of refrigerators. A
refrigerator may be placed in a ventilated cabinet. In embodiments, a refrigerator is placed at a
level that is convenient for ready access by a technician (e.g., for retrieval of materials or
supplies, or for placement of a sample following collection, or for other uses). In embodiments,
counter height is a convenient height for the placement of a refrigerator. In embodiments, a
refrigerator may be placed to the right of a work surface (e.g., a table, or a warming table, or
other surface on which a subject may rest a target body site for sample collection is placed to the
technician's right when the technician is seated in place for sample collection). In embodiments
of sample collection rooms including two or more refrigerators, one or more refrigerators may
be designated for, and may be used for, storage of samples following sample collection. In
embodiments of sample collection rooms including one or more refrigerators that are designated
for, or used for, storage of samples, such one or more refrigerators may be designated
"BioHazard" refrigerators. In embodiments of sample collection rooms including two or more
refrigerators, one or more refrigerators may be designated for, and may be used for, storage of
food, drink, reagents, containers, and consumables for use in sample collection or sample
analysis. In embodiments of sample collection rooms including one or more refrigerators that
are designated for, or used for, storage of food, drink, reagents, containers, and consumables,
such one or more refrigerators may be designated "Clean" refrigerators. In embodiments, food
or drink stored in a refrigerator in a sample collection room may be offered to a subject, e.g.,
before collection of a sample from the subject, or after collection of a sample from the subject,
or both. In embodiments, food or drink stored in a refrigerator in a sample collection room may
be useful for sample collection or analysis; e.g., where a glucose tolerance test is to be
performed, a subject may be given a drink or food containing glucose prior to sample collection.

                                                   44
[0140] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a centrifuge. In embodiments, a
centrifuge included in a sample collection room may be configured to receive and operate upon
(e.g., spin effective to apply centrifugal force to) a small sample collected in the sample
collection room. In embodiments, a centrifuge included in a sample collection room may be
configured to receive a sample container holding a small sample collected in the sample
collection room. In embodiments, a centrifuge included in a sample collection room may be
configured to receive a plurality of sample containers, each holding a small sample collected in
the sample collection room. In embodiments, a centrifuge included in a sample collection room
may be configured to receive one, or a plurality of, calibration containers, each holding a small
calibration reagent. In embodiments, a centrifuge included in a sample collection room may be
configured for placement on, and for use on, a table, a counter-top, or other work surface.
[0141] In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a computer, and may include one
or more of a computer keyboard, mouse, and monitor (which may be, e.g., operably connected
to a computer). In embodiments, a sample collection room may include a scanner, reader, or
other device i) capable of reading an optical code such as a bar-code, a QR-code, image
displayed on a cell-phone, or other optical label or optical code; ii) capable of reading a
magnetic code such as a magnetic strip, or other label or code; iii) capable of reading a
radiofrequency identification (RFID) label or code; or iv) other label or code related to a sample,
a container, a reagent, a kit, an individual patient (subject), or other labeled material. In
embodiments, a sample collection room may include a bar-code printer, or label printer, or other
device suitable for preparing a label, tag, sign, or other identifier, e.g., for affixing to a sample
collected in the sample collection room.
[0142] Calming features may be selected from flowing water, flowers, plants, scents, sounds,
colors, images, and other features and elements which may reduce any anxiety felt by a subject
prior to, during, or after obtaining a sample. A flower may be a cut flower, a flower growing as
part of a plant, an artificial flower, or an image of a flower.
[0143] A sample collection room may include a calming feature. For example, a calming feature
may include flowing water (e.g., a wall fixture with flowing water, such as water flowing down
from an upper location along a face to a lower collecting trough or frame; a fountain; a rock or
rocks over which water flows; an artificial stream; and other flowing water features). A calming
feature, including a water feature, may also include a plant, or plants, including ferns, bamboo,

                                                  45
moss, flowering plants (e.g., orchids, roses, and other plants), bonsai trees and plants, and other
plants. A water feature may produce calming sounds.
[0144] A calming feature may include calming sounds in addition to, or exclusive of, a water
feature; for example, speakers may provide recorded or synthesized music or sounds. Such
music will typically be calming music designed to calm, to reduce anxiety, and to produce or
enhance tranquility in a subject. Such sounds may include white noise sounds, beach sounds,
forest sounds, bird sounds, traffic sounds, and other sounds, and combinations thereof.
[0145] A calming feature may include calming scents, which may be provided by candles
present in the sample collection room, or may be provided by wicks, pads, tapes, oils, aerosols,
or other means present in the sample collection room or connected to vents and air-channels
connected to the sample collection room. Such calming scents may include perfumes, aromas,
and other scents and scented materials, whether natural, artificial, or combinations thereof.
Calming scents include, e.g., vanilla, rose scent, lavender, coconut, marjoram, chamomile, lilac,
citrus scents, and others. Such scents may be provided by flowers (e.g., rose, jasmine,
geraniums, and others) or plants (e.g., sage, mint, rosemary, and others) present in the sample
collection room or placed in or near sources of airflow into the sample collection room.
[0146] In embodiments, the walls, furniture, fixtures, and other elements of a sample collection
room may be white or off-white. In embodiments, the walls, furniture, fixtures, and other
elements of a sample collection room may be colored in calming colors, e.g. light pastel colors,
including greens, blues, yellows, and other light colors. In embodiments, black, red, purple, and
other colors may be avoided. In embodiments, the walls and fixtures of a sample collection
room may be white or off-white, and may include accents or designs in green or other calming
colors. In embodiments, signs, posters, and other wall hangings (including video monitors and
flat-screen monitors) may include still or moving images of water (e.g., streams, bays, or ocean
images), and may include images of coral, kelp, or other water-living plants and animals (e.g.,
fish, including jelly fish) or other aquatic images. In embodiments, signs, posters, and other wall
hangings (including video monitors and flat-screen monitors) may include still or moving
images of plants, including garden, forest, and other pastoral images. In embodiments, a wall
mounted video monitor may provide continuous calming, aquatic-themed video images; such
images may be accompanied by calming music or calming sounds related to, or complementary
to, the video images.

                                                   46
[0147] Lighting in a sample collection room as disclosed herein is typically dimmer than
sunlight, and may be soft white lighting; may be or include recessed lighting; may be or include
indirect lighting; or may otherwise be configured to reduce glare and to conform with, and to
enhance the calming effects of room design and features. In embodiments, soft white lighting in
a sample collection room may be soft, white lighting of about 2000K to about 4000K; in
embodiments, lighting in a sample collection room is soft, white lighting of about 3000K. A
sample collection room may have adjustable lighting, so that the light intensity may be adjusted
from dim to bright, and other levels in between, effective to provide a calming or reassuring
effect on a subject.
[0148] In embodiments, flooring in a sample collection room as disclosed herein is typically
configured to conform with, and to enhance the calming effects of room design and features. In
embodiments, flooring in a sample collection room as disclosed herein may include light
bamboo flooring.
[0149] A sample collection room as disclosed herein may include storage cabinets, or storage
modules, or shelves, or tables (in addition to a table for supporting a target body site during
sample collection), or other furniture suitable for storing supplies. Supplies which may be stored
in a sample collection room as disclosed herein include supplies typically used in the course of
sample collection (containers, lancets, tubes, pads, gauze, and other items and materials);
informational literature and consent forms; replenishment supplies (e.g., pens, paper, ink, etc.);
water bottles; and other supplies. Storage for technician personal items may also be provided,
and may be accommodated with, or by, the storage cabinets, or storage modules, or shelves, or
other furniture in a sample collection room as disclosed herein. In addition, a table, or shelf, or
cabinet may be used to store, and may be used to display, brochures, informational literature,
reading material, or other material for a subject.
[0150] A sample collection room may include a kiosk or work station configured to provide a
sample collection technician with the supplies and equipment needed for sample collection in a
location at, adjacent, or near to the collection location. For example, such a kiosk or work
station may include, or be placed near to, a table configured for placing a limb of a subject in
position for obtaining a sample. In embodiments, such a table may be a warming table.

                                                  47
[0151] A kiosk or work station (e.g., as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application 61/852,484 and in
U.S. Patent Application 14/214,854, filed March 15, 2014) may include a user accommodation
section adapted to locate a user in at least one position that enables an interaction between the
station and the user; a user interface adapted to permit a user to input data relevant to the user;
wherein the at least one position enables the user to position a portion of their body onto a work
surface for obtaining patient service. Such a workstation may include a secured, temperature
controlled sample storage location that is configured to be accessible through a first opening;
and a lockable cover for securing the user interface; in embodiments, the lockable cover may not
secure the sample storage location. In embodiments, a secured, temperature controlled sample
storage location may be configured to be accessible through a first opening and a second
opening, wherein a key, code, or structure to open one opening does not open the other opening.
[0152] A sample may be sent to a remote location for analysis. A sample may be analyzed at,
or adjacent to, the sample collection location. A sample collection room may house a sample
analysis device or sample analysis system, and thus also serve as a sample analysis room. A
sample may be a small sample, e.g., a small blood sample may be taken from a single finger
stick, or two or a few finger-sticks. A sample may be analyzed in a short period of time, e.g., in
less than five hours, or less than four hours.
[0153] Fig. 1A shows an exemplary system comprising a sample collection center in a retail
location, including a waiting room, a sample collection room, a bathroom, a pass-through
connecting the bathroom with the sample collection room, and including an (optional) sample
analysis device located in the sample collection room. As shown in Fig. 1A, a system may be a
sample collection center 100 in a retail store (a portion of the store is indicated by 900). The
sample collection center 100 includes a sample collection room 110, a waiting room 120, and a
bathroom 130; sample collection room 110 and the bathroom 130 are connected by a pass
through 140, which may be used, e.g., to pass a urine, stool, or other sample from the bathroom
130 to the sample collection room 110. The sample collection room 110 includes a reclining
chair 150; a warming table 160; an (optional) sample analysis device 170 for analyzing the
sample at the sample collection center; a wall-hanging with flowing water 180; an adjustable
lamp 190; a refrigerator 200; and a plant 210. In embodiments, a sample analysis device 170
may be placed on the floor, or on a table, or on a shelf, or in other convenient location. In
embodiments, a refrigerator 200 may be used to store materials which should not be near to, or
contaminate, or be contaminated by, samples collected in a sample collection room 110; such a

                                                  48
refrigerator may be termed a "clean" refrigerator. In embodiments, a refrigerator 200 may be
used to store samples collected in a sample collection room 110; since it contains material
derived from humans or other living subjects, such a refrigerator may be termed a "biohazard"
refrigerator (see Fig. ID below which illustrates a clean refrigerator 204 and a biohazard
refrigerator 206). In embodiments, a sample collection room 110 may include more than one
refrigerator 200. In embodiments, a sample analysis device 170 may be placed on the floor, or
on a table, or on a shelf, or in other convenient location. A movable stool 280 is provided for use
by a technician, e.g., during sample collection, during sample analysis, or during performance of
any other task. A technician may choose to seat themselves on stool 280, or may choose to stand
during performance of sample collection, analysis, or other tasks. It will be understood that air
flowing into the sample collection room 110 may be scented, and that soothing music or sounds
may be provided in the sample collection room 110. Access to the sample collection room 110
from the waiting room 120 may be by door 220 (shown as a sliding door). Access to the waiting
room 120 from retail store 900 may be via door 430. A subject may enter the bathroom 130
from the sample collection room 110 via door 330. Bathroom 130 includes a sink 310 and a
toilet 320. Chairs 410 are placed in the waiting room 120 for the convenience of subjects
waiting to have samples taken; a table 420 may provide space for informative literature or for
light reading material for waiting subjects.
[0154] Fig. 1B shows a plan view of a sample collection room within a retail location, having a
waiting room 120, a sample collection room 110, a centrifuge 240, a refrigerator 200, and a
bathroom 130. Other elements shown are labeled as in Fig. 1A. Centrifuge 240 and sample
analysis device 170 may be placed on a table 230 for convenience of access by a technician,
who may be seated on a movable stool 280. In embodiments, a centrifuge 240 may be placed on
a table 230 as shown, or may be placed on the floor, or on a shelf, or in other convenient
location. In embodiments, a sample analysis device 170 may be placed on a table 230 as shown,
or may be placed on the floor, or on a shelf, or in other convenient location. Exemplary
positioning of furniture, work surfaces, and doors are indicated in the figure.
[0155] Fig. IC shows a plan view of a sample collection room within a retail location, having a
waiting room 120, a sample collection room 110, a transport container 260, a refrigerator 200,
and a bathroom 130. In embodiments, a transport container 260 may be placed on the floor as
shown, or may be placed on a table 230, or on a shelf, or in other convenient location suitable
for supporting or holding a transport container 260. Exemplary positioning of furniture, work

                                                   49
surfaces, and doors are indicated in the figure. Other elements shown are labeled as in Figs. 1A
and 1B.
[0156] Fig. ID shows a plan view of a sample collection room within a retail location, having a
waiting room 120, a sample collection room 110, a centrifuge 240, a clean refrigerator 204, a
biohazard refrigerator 206, a transport container 260, and a bathroom 130. As illustrated in Fig.
ID, in embodiments, a sample collection room 110 may include more than one refrigerator 200;
for example, a sample collection room 110 may include two refrigerators, one of which may be
a clean refrigerator, and one of which may be a biohazard refrigerator. In embodiments, a
sample collection room 110 may include only a clean refrigerator 204 or only multiple clean
refrigerators 204; or a sample collection room 110 may include only a biohazard refrigerator
206 or only multiple biohazard refrigerators 206; or may include any combination of these. In
embodiments, a biohazard refrigerator 206 may be placed within a cabinet (which is preferably a
ventilated cabinet). In embodiments, a biohazard refrigerator 206 may be concealed in a cabinet.
In embodiments, a biohazard refrigerator 206 may be located on a table, counter, or shelf, or
otherwise (e.g., within a cabinet) be placed at counter height or other height providing
convenient access to a technician. In embodiments, a biohazard refrigerator 206 may be located
to the right of a surface used to support a target body location for sample collection; e.g., to the
right of a warming table, or warming surface, or to the right of a reclining chair, or other
furniture, device, or element where sample collection takes place. In embodiments, a clean
refrigerator 204 may be placed within a cabinet (which is preferably a ventilated cabinet), and
may be concealed in a cabinet. In embodiments, a clean refrigerator 204 may be located on a
table, counter, or shelf, or otherwise (e.g., within a cabinet) be placed at counter height or other
height providing convenient access to a technician. A clean refrigerator 204 may be used, for
example, to store glucose drinks for use in glucose tolerance tests. Exemplary positioning of
furniture, work surfaces, and doors are indicated in the figure. Other elements shown are labeled
as in Figs. 1A, IB, and IC.
[0157] Fig. 2 shows an example of a warming table having a warming surface. The warming
table 500 has a warming surface 510 which may be placed in any of several desired locations; as
shown, warming surface 510 may slide in and out of a slot. Warming surface 510 also provides
a support surface for a body part of a subject, such as an arm or hand, for use during sample
collection. Part or all of warming surface 510 may be warmed. Warming table 500 has storage
drawers 520 as shown, and adjustable legs 530. The height of adjustable legs 530 may be altered

                                                    50
independently of one another, to provide tilt; or may be adjusted together to provide a level
surface, as desired.
[0158] Fig. 3 shows an example of a warming table including an arm rest as well as a warming
surface. Warming table 600 has an extendable arm rest 610 which may be disposed adjacent
warming surface 620 for the comfort and convenience of a subject and for more effective
sample collection. Warming table 600 has storage drawers 630 as shown, and adjustable legs
640. The height of adjustable legs 640 may be altered independently of one another, to provide
tilt; or may be adjusted together to provide a level surface, as desired.
[0159] Applicants further disclose a warming plate, which includes a warming element and a
surface for contacting a finger, or fingers, or a hand of a subject. In embodiments, the upper
surface of a warming plate, or a portion thereof, may be configured for easy cleaning and for
maintaining sterility during sample collection. The upper surface of a warming plate may be
padded, or include a padded portion. The upper surface of a warming plate may be water-proof,
or water-resistant, or include a water-proof, or water-resistant portion. Examples of a warming
plate having features as disclosed herein are shown in Fig. 4.
[0160] A warming plate as disclosed herein may be a flat plate, suitable for resting on a table, or
desk, or shelf, or other surface. A warming plate as disclosed herein may be a flat plate
embedded in a table, or desk, or shelf, or other surface. A warming plate as disclosed herein may
be a flat plate embedded in the arm of a chair, or an arm of a couch, or an arm-rest attached to,
or placed near, a bed or other piece of furniture for seating or resting, positioned in such a way
as to allow a subject to rest a finger, or fingers, or hand, or other body part for warming.
[0161] The surface of a warming plate may have one or more thermal controlled sites wherein
the temperature of the target site on the patient (e.g., a finger) may be brought to a desired
temperature. The temperature may be adjustable. By way of example and not limitation,
embodiments may heat a finger or other target site to improve blood flow and thus blood yield
from a finger-stick. For example, the warming plate may have thermal control areas to increase
blood flow to the target area and thus increase the speed with which sufficient blood or other
bodily fluid can be drawn from the subject. The heating derived from the heating element of a
warming plate is used to bring the target tissue to between about 40 'C to about 50 'C. In
embodiments, the heating derived from the heating element is configured to bring target tissue

                                                 51
to within a temperature range of between about 40 'C to about 44 'C. In embodiments, the
heating derived from the heating element brings target tissue to within a temperature range of
between about 41 'C to about 43 'C. In embodiments, the heating derived from the heating
element brings target tissue to a temperature of about 42 'C. In embodiments, the heating
derived from the heating element brings target tissue to within a temperature range of between
about 44 'C to about 47 'C. In one embodiment, the temperature is sufficient to increase blood
flow to yield about 120 uL of sample. In one embodiment, the temperature is sufficient to
increase blood flow to yield about 130 uL of sample. In one embodiment, the temperature is
sufficient to increase blood flow to yield about 140 uL of sample. In one embodiment, the
temperature is sufficient to increase blood flow to yield about 150 uL of sample. Optionally, the
thermal controlled site is a shaped surface is contoured to match that of the target site on a
patient.
[0162] In embodiments, the thermal controlled surface of a warming plate comprises a hard
surface that is easily cleaned, and that may be sterilized. Such a surface may be or include, for
example, plastic, glass, hard rubber, acrylic, polymer, and other materials. In embodiments, the
thermal controlled site comprises a soft or padded surface that is easily cleaned, and that may be
sterilized. Such a surface may be or include, for example, cloth, rubberized cloth, soft rubber,
and other materials.
[0163] Fig. 4A shows a schematic view of an exemplary warming plate, the arrow illustrating
the motion to be taken by the hand in order to place one or more fingertips on the surface of the
warming plate. Placement of a fingertip, or of more than one fingertip, onto the surface of the
warming plate allows warming of the fingertip(s) and aids in increasing blood flow from a
subsequent puncture of the fingertip(s), thus aiding collection of a blood sample form the
fingertip(s). When in use, the surface of the warming plate is typically at a higher temperature
than ambient air temperature, and is effective to warm a fingertip placed thereon to between
about 30 'C to about 46 'C, or to between about 32 'C to about 45 'C, or to between about 34
'C to about 44 'C, or to between about 36 'C to about 43 'C, or to between about 38 'C to about
42 'C, or to between about 39 'C to about 41 'C. In embodiments, the surface of a warming
plate is maintained during use at a temperature of between about 30 'C to about 46 'C, or of
between about 32 'C to about 45 'C, or of between about 34 'C to about 44 'C, or of between
about 36 'C to about 43 'C, or of between about 38 'C to about 42 'C, or of between about 39
'C to about 41 'C.

                                                    52
[0164] Fig. 4B shows a top view of an exemplary warming plate on which some fingertips of a
subject are resting. As shown, the subject's fingertips are being warmed by contact with the
warming plate and are thus are being prepared for obtaining a finger-stick blood sample. A
slightly different view of a warming plate in use warming fingers of a hand of a subject is shown
in Fig. 4C. Fig. 4C illustrates a warming plate placed in the arm of a chair (within the circle in
the figure) or on the surface of a cabinet adjacent a chair (arrow in the figure points to a
warming plate on the upper surface of a cabinet attached to the chair). In embodiments, a
warming plate may be placed on, may be secured to, and may be embedded in, a table, desk,
shelf, or other surface. In embodiments, a warming plate may be placed on, may be secured to,
and may be embedded in, a surface effective to provide a convenient place for a subject to rest a
finger, or fingers, or a hand, during warming. In embodiments, a warming plate may be placed
on, may be secured to, and embedded in, the arm of a chair, sofa, couch, or other piece of
furniture for seating effective to provide a convenient place for a subject to rest a finger, or
fingers, or a hand, during warming.
[0165] An example of a chair including a warming plate in an arm rest and a warming plate in a
cabinet attached to the chair is shown in Fig. 4C. It will be understood that other seats (e.g.,
couch, bench, day-bed, or other pieces of furniture for seating, e.g., suitable to seat a subject)
may also include a warming plate in an arm rest, similar to the warming plate in a chair arm rest
shown in Fig. 4C. The attached cabinet shown in Fig. 4C includes a warming plate; such a
cabinet may also be used to store supplies (e.g., supplies for obtaining blood samples, including
lancets, containers, swabs, alcohol or other cleaners, band-aids, etc.), equipment, literature, and
other utensils and material related to the collection of blood or other biological samples from a
subject. In embodiments, a cabinet with a warming plate may be placed adjacent to, or near, a
chair, without being attached to the chair.
[0166] Figure 5 shows examples of a finger warmer which may be used to warm a subject's
finger (or other extremity, e.g., a toe, or a heel) in order to enhance blood flow from the
extremity during acquisition of a biological sample from the subject. A finger warmer having
features as illustrated in Figs. 5A, 5B, and 5C may be, for example, activated to provide warmth
and may be wrapped around a finger (or two or more fingers). The sample may be acquired after
a minute, or two minutes, or three minutes, or more after wrapping. For example, following a
few minutes of warming, the finger or fingers of the subject may be unwrapped sufficiently to

                                                   53
expose a fingertip, and a lancet applied so as to pierce the skin and allow a few droplets of blood
to escape the fingertip and be collected as a biological sample.
[0167] Fig. 5A shows a schematic view of an example of a finger warmer having features as
disclosed herein, providing a top view of a finger warmer illustrating some design features and
exemplary dimensions. Fig. 5B shows a schematic example of a finger warmer having features
as disclosed herein, providing a front view of a finger warmer and a back view of a finger
warmer. A finger warmer having features as disclosed herein comprises a closed container
enclosing a heating composition which can be triggered to provide heat. Thus, a finger warmer
may comprise an enclosed compartment, having a flexible outer covering (e.g., a "skin"), such
as a polymer, plastic, rubber, cloth, or other flexible material, enclosing materials which may,
when desired, react in an exothermic reaction effective to release heat which may be used to
warm an extremity of a subject. The flexible outer covering, or an inner portion of such a
covering, is typically suitable for containing the enclosed materials without leakage, and is
typically suitable for containing the enclosed materials in a state which prevents the occurrence
of the exothermic reaction until it is purposefully triggered. Such an outer covering may be a
water-proof covering, may be an air-tight covering, and, in embodiments, may be both water
proof and air-tight.
[0168] An outer covering of a finger warmer as disclosed herein is typically soft, or flexible, or
both, and is typically configured to allow bending, folding, or other manipulation effective, e.g.,
to wrap a finger warmer around a finger, or around two or more fingers, of a subject. In
embodiments, an outer covering of a finger warmer may comprise a polymer, such as Nylon
Dacron*, Perlon*, Terylene*, Kevlar*, and other polymers or polymer blends. In embodiments,
an outer covering of a finger warmer may comprise polyvinylchloride, polyethylene,
polyurethane, or other polymer. In embodiments, an outer covering of a finger warmer may
comprise a metallocene polymer, or a metallocene blend, such as, e.g., a metallocene nylon
blend. In embodiments, a finger warmer may comprise a metallocene blend/nylon/metallocene
blend composite. The perimeter of the outer covering, and the regions shown as vertical lines
within the perimeter in Fig. 5A and 5B, may be fused together, e.g., by heat, or glue, or
ultrasonic welding, or other means. In embodiments, a finger warmer may comprise an internal
baffle, or a plurality of internal baffles, or may comprise two or more enclosed compartments. In
embodiments, a finger warmer may be foldable, e.g., may be folded around an extremity of a
subject, or folded around itself (folded up, as for storage). In embodiments, a finger warmer may

                                                   54
be configured to be rolled, e.g., may be rolled around an extremity of a subject, or rolled around
itself (e.g., rolled up, as for storage). In embodiments, a finger warmer may be flexible. In
embodiments, a finger warmer may comprise hinges. As shown in Fig. 5A in an extended
configuration, the finger warmer may have a substantially rectangular shape; the vertical lines
within the rectangular perimeter indicate positions configured for folding the finger warmer. In
embodiments, a finger warmer in an extended configuration may have a square, or round, or
oval, or other shape.
[0169] As shown in Fig. 5A and Fig. 5B, a finger warmer 10 may have a perimeter 20 that may
be roughly rectangular in shape, with a length 12 of between about 3 to about 12 inches, or
between about 4 to about 10 inches, or between about 4.5 and about 8 inches, or between about
5 and about 7 inches. A perimeter 20 may enclose an inner perimeter 22. In embodiments, a
finger warmer 10 may have a length 12 of about 6 inches. A finger warmer 10 may have a width
14 of between about 1 and about 6 inches, or between about 2 and about 5 inches, or between
about 2.5 and about 4 inches. In embodiments, a finger warmer 10 may have a width 14 of about
3 inches. A finger warmer 10 may include an outer seam, or weld, which may have a seam
width 24 of between about 0.05 inches to about 0.5 inches, or between about 0.1 inches to about
0.3 inches, or of about 0.2 inches. A finger warmer 10 may thus provide an inner compartment
40, within the outer seam 24, having an internal width 16 of between about 0.5 and about 5
inches, or between about 1 and about 4 inches, or between about 1.5 and about 3 inches, or of
about 2.5 inches.
[0170] A finger warmer 10 may include an internal baffle 30 or multiple internal baffles 30,
which may facilitate folding a finger warmer by providing a thinner, or lower-resistance portion
than other portions of the finger warmer 10. Internal baffles 30 may extend between one wall of
the perimeter 20 and an opposite wall, or, as shown in Figs. 5A and 5B, an internal baffle 30
may extend partially from one wall, stopping short of the opposite wall of perimeter 20. A first
internal baffle 30 may be spaced apart from a second internal baffle 30, for example, by a
spacing 36 of between about 0.3 to about 2 inches, or of between about 0.5 to about 1.5 inches,
or of about 1 inch. An internal baffle 30 may have a baffle width 32 of between about 0.01 to
about 0.5 inches, or between about 0.05 to about 0.2 inches, or may have a baffle width 32 of
about 0.1 inches. An internal baffle 30 may have a baffle length 34 of between about 0.5 to
about 6 inches, or may have a baffle length 34 of between about 1 to about 4 inches, or between

                                                  55
about 1.5 to about 3 inches. In embodiments, an internal baffle 30 may have a baffle length 34
of about 2 inches.
[0171] A finger warmer 10 provides an enclosed space (e.g., internal compartment 40 shown in
Figs. 5A and 5B). In embodiments, an internal compartment 40 may comprise a volume of
between about 5 mL to about 250 mL; or between about 10 mL and about 200 mL; or between
about 15 mL and about 100 mL; or between about 20 mL and about 80 mL; or between about 30
mL and about 60 mL; or between about 35 mL and about 45 mL.
[0172] A finger warmer 10 as shown in Figs. 5A and 5B may have a single internal
compartment 40 (since, in this illustration, baffle length 34 is less than internal width 16, so that
internal baffles 30 do not completely isolate individual portions of internal compartment 40). In
embodiments, a finger warmer 10 may provide a plurality of enclosed spaces (e.g., enclosed
spaces separated by barriers similar to internal baffles 30 but which extend completely from one
perimeter wall to another, closing off one portion of an internal compartment 40 from another
portion of an internal compartment 40).
[0173] An enclosed space (e.g., internal compartment 40 shown in Figs. 5A and 5B) of a finger
warmer 10 may hold a heating composition (e.g., a composition capable of providing heat, by,
for example, an exothermic reaction). For example, the enclosed space of a finger warmer may
hold a supersaturated salt solution (e.g., supersaturated sodium acetate in water) containing a
trigger element, such as a metal disk which, when flexed, triggers crystallization of the salt,
thereby releasing heat. In embodiments, the enclosed space of a finger warmer may hold a
water-based solution including iron (typically as a powder), typically with a salt, and often also
with activated carbon and other materials; the iron, when exposed to air, releases heat as the iron
is oxidized, effective to warm a subject or a subject's extremity.
[0174] A finger warmer 10 may contain an oxidizable composition (e.g., a composition
containing iron particles); or other composition which may release heat under proper conditions.
An oxidizable composition may be contained or stored so as to prevent contact between the
composition and air (or more particularly, between the composition and oxygen in the air);
providing access to air initiates the desired heat generation. Thus, a finger warmer 10 containing
an oxidizable composition within an internal compartment 40 may be maintained ready for use
by preventing contact between the oxidizable composition and air, and heating may be initiated

                                                    56
by allowing contact between the oxidizable composition and air (e.g., by removing a covering
over a port which allows contact between the oxidizable composition and air, or otherwise
breaching an air-tight enclosure containing the oxidizable composition).
[0175] A finger warmer 10 may contain a super-saturated solution, such as a super-saturated salt
solution, which may release heat under proper conditions. A super-saturated salt solution (such
as super-saturated sodium acetate) may include therein a trigger 50. A trigger 50 may be, for
example, a metal disk which upon deformation is able to trigger the release of heat from the
super-saturated solution. In embodiments in which a finger warmer 10 has a single internal
compartment 40, activation of heating composition within the internal compartment 40
eventually activates all of the heating composition. In embodiments, such as embodiments in
which an internal baffle 30, or multiple internal baffles 30, extend from one wall of perimeter 20
to an opposite wall of perimeter 20 to isolate one portion of internal compartment 40 from
another portion of internal compartment 40, a finger warmer 10 may have separate portions of a
heating composition enclosed in separate internal compartments 40. In such embodiments, in
which a finger warmer 10 has multiple internal compartments 40, activation of heating
composition within one internal compartment 40 may not activate the heating composition in
another internal compartment 40, or may not activate the heating composition in all of the
internal compartments 40.
[0176] In Fig. 5A, a trigger 50 is shown in place within the internal compartment 40. A trigger
50 is used to initiate the release of heat from a heating composition within a finger warmer 10
(such initiation may be termed "activation" of the heating composition). For example, flexing or
deformation of a trigger 50 within a super-saturated salt solution may be effective to initiate salt
crystallization in the super-saturated solution; when the salt is an appropriate salt, such
crystallization generates heat. For example, deformation of a trigger 50 within a super-saturated
sodium acetate solution is able to trigger crystal formation in that solution. Without being bound
by theory, it is believed that sodium acetate crystals formed in cracks, on peaks or
discontinuities, or on the surface of the trigger 50 may be dislodged by deformation of the
trigger 50, and so made available as nucleation centers for further sodium acetate crystal
formation. In embodiments, a trigger 50 may be a packet or container holding sodium acetate (or
other salt) crystals, and be able to initiate release of heat from a surrounding super-saturated
sodium acetate (or other salt) solution by release of the crystals or other contact between the

                                                  57
crystals and the super-saturated solution (e.g., by tearing or otherwise opening the packet or
container).
[0177] In embodiments, a trigger 50 may comprise a metal disk, e.g., a thin metal disk having a
thickness of between about 0.05 to about 0.4 inches, or between about 0.1 to about 0.3 inches, or
of about 0.2 inches. In embodiments, a trigger 50 may comprise a thin metal disk having a
diameter of between about 0.1 to about 2 inches, or of between about 0.3 to about 1.5 inches, or
of between about 0.5 to about 1 inches, or of about 0.75 inches. In embodiments, a trigger 50 is
typically made of a material which does not degrade or decay when in contact with sodium
acetate or other salt. In embodiments a trigger 50 may be a stainless steel disk; in alternative
embodiments, a trigger 50 may be made of another metal, or other material able to trigger an
exothermic reaction when flexed or broken. In embodiments, a trigger 50 may have a square, or
rectangular, or oval, or other shape. In embodiments, a trigger 50 may have a continuous
surface, or may have holes, or pores, or other features breaking up the continuity of the trigger
surface. In embodiments, a trigger 50 may have a flat surface, or may have an irregular surface,
or a rough surface, or may include grooves, depressions, ridges, elevations, or other features
rising from, or dropping into, the surface of a trigger 50.
[0178] Prior to activation of a heating composition in the internal compartment 40 of a finger
warmer 10, the finger warmer 10 and its contents are typically at room temperature. Following
activation of a heating composition, the finger warmer 10 and its contents may reach
temperatures of between about 32 'C to about 48 'C, or between about 35 'C to about 45 'C, or
between about 37 'C to about 43 'C, or between about 39 'C to about 41 'C. Heat generation to
these levels may last for about 5 to 15 minutes, or about 8 to 10 minutes, following initiation of
the heating process. If desired, the temperature range may be increased by alteration of the
heating composition (e.g., by increasing the concentration of sodium acetate in a super-saturated
sodium acetate solution, or by increasing the amount of concentration of iron in heating
composition that relies on oxidation of iron to produce heat, etc.). Alternatively, lowering the
concentration of salt or iron, or other active component of the heating composition may reduce
the temperature range if less heat generation is desired.
[0179] Fig. 5B shows both the front side (left-hand image) and back side (right-hand image) of
a finger warmer 10 having features disclosed herein. A finger warmer 10 may have fasteners 60
and 70. Fasteners 60 and 70 may be used to secure a finger warmer 10 when the finger warmer

                                                 58
10 is rolled or folded around a finger. Fasteners 60 and 70 may be, for example, Velcro*
fasteners which, when in contact with each other, are able to hold a finger warmer 10 in a rolled
or folded configuration around a finger of a subject. Fasteners 60 and 70 may comprise
different, complementary, fastener elements; for example where fasteners 60 and 70 comprise
Velcro* fasteners, an external surface of fastener 60 differs from the corresponding, and
complementary, surface of fastener 70. A further example in which fasteners 60 and 70
comprise different fasteners is found where fasteners 60 and 70 form a snap, in which one of
fasteners 60 and 70 has a protruding portion which fits snugly into a depression or receptacle in
the other of fasteners 60 and 70. In embodiments, fastener 60 and fastener 70 may be similar, or
may be identical; for example fastener 60 and fastener 70 may both comprise hooks configured
to latch onto each other, or may comprise two portions of a zipper, or may comprise other
fasteners. A fastener 60 may have a fastener width 62 and a fastener length 64; a fastener 70
may have a fastener width 72 and a fastener length 74. In the example shown in Fig. 5B,
fastener width 62 and fastener length 64 are different than fastener width 72 and fastener length
74; however, in embodiments, fastener width 62 and fastener length 64 may be the same as
fastener width 72 and fastener length 74. In embodiments, as shown in Fig. 5B, fasteners 60 and
70 may be placed along a midline (e.g., with centers along a line that is a distance 19 from an
outer edge of perimeter 20); placement along a midline as shown facilitates opposition of
fastener 60 with fastener 70 and aids in their function of fastening to each other, effective to
hold a finger warmer 10 in a fastened configuration. In embodiments, so long as they may be
manipulated so as to make contact and to fasten with each other, fasteners 60 and 70 may be
placed asymmetrically. In embodiments, a finger warmer 10 may have a strap, or belt, which
may be used to hold a rolled or folded finger warmer 10 in a rolled or folded configuration, e.g.,
around a finger.
[0180] Fig. 5C shows a finger warmer 10 wrapped around the finger of a subject. The finger
warmer 10 has been folded along baffles 30, and, as it is flexible, is also curved or flexed in
other locations as well. Such folds, and such curvature, whether alone, or whether together, aid
in wrapping a finger warmer 10 around a finger, or portion thereof, of a subject, and aid in
warming the finger, or portion thereof, of the subject in order to facilitate acquisition of a
biological sample from the subject.
[0181] Fig. 6 shows an example of a fingertip warmer having features as disclosed herein. As
shown, a fingertip warmer may be a portable device which can enclose at least part of a finger,

                                                    59
or at least part of a fingertip, in preparation for obtaining a blood sample from a finger of a
subject. A side perspective view of an exemplary fingertip warmer 680 is shown in Fig. 6A. A
fingertip may be inserted into a fingertip warmer 680 via slot 690. A fingertip warmer 680 is
shown in place around the fingertip of a subject in Fig. 6B. A fingertip warmer may include a
heating element, or may be connected to a heating element, effective to warm a fingertip. The
results of warming due to a fingertip warmer may be substantially the same as the warming from
a warming table, or from a warming plate; that is, for example, the fingertip may be warmed to a
temperature of between about 32 'C to about 48 'C. For example, a fingertip warmer may be
effective to warm a fingertip of a subject to between about may reach temperatures of between
about 32 'C to about 48 'C, or between about 35 'C to about 45 'C, or between about 37 'C to
about 43 'C, or to between about 39 'C to about 41 'C. In embodiments, a fingertip warmer may
be effective to warm a fingertip of a subject to a temperature of between about 39 'C to about 40
'C. In embodiments, a fingertip warmer may be effective to warm a fingertip of a subject to a
temperature of about 38 'C. In embodiments, a fingertip warmer may be effective to warm a
fingertip of a subject to a temperature of about 39 'C. In embodiments, a fingertip warmer may
be effective to warm a fingertip of a subject to a temperature of about 40 'C. In embodiments, a
fingertip warmer may be effective to warm a fingertip of a subject to a temperature of about 41
'C. In embodiments, a fingertip warmer may be effective to warm a fingertip of a subject to a
temperature of about 42 'C. Such warming by a fingertip warmer may be sufficient, for
example, to enhance blood flow from a finger-stick or other puncture to yield about 100 uL of
sample, about 110 uL of sample, or about 120 uL of sample, or about 130 uL of sample, or
about 140 uL of sample, or about 150 uL of sample, or more.
[0182] A further embodiment of devices for warming a fingertip, or for warming a plurality of
fingers, or for warming a hand of a subject is shown in Fig. 7. The example shown in Fig. 7
illustrates such a warmer which utilizes warm air to warm a fingertip, or finger, or fingers, or a
hand. A hand may be inserted into aperture 720 of a warmer 710 as illustrated in Fig. 7. A
warmer 710 as illustrated in Fig. 7 may also include a surface 730 for resting a fingertip, finger,
fingers, or hand of a subject; in embodiments, such a surface may be configured to guide or
place a fingertip, finger, fingers, or hand of a subject into a proper or desired position or
orientation for warming. As shown, the warmer 710 may be configured to at least partially
enclose a hand, or fingers, or a subject. In embodiments, a warmer 710 as illustrated in Fig. 7
may include a heating element and a fan. In embodiments, a warmer 710 as illustrated in Fig. 7
may provide heating via convection, or other means of circulating air. a warmer 710 as

                                                   60
illustrated in Fig. 7 may include a source of radiant heat, such as, e.g., a heat lamp or other
infrared light source. In embodiments, a warmer using warm air to warm a finger or a fingertip
may be configured to enclose a single finger, or to enclose a portion of a single finger (e.g., a
fingertip) and to direct warm air towards, and onto, the fingertip, finger, fingers, or hand of the
subject. A warmer 710 having features a s disclosed herein may also include a screen, or a
baffle, or vanes, or other elements to direct the flow of air in the desired direction. In addition, a
screen, or a baffle, or vanes, or other elements may be effective to insure that the fingertip, or
finger, or fingers, or hand of the subject does not approach too closely to the source of air (e.g.,
an orifice or vent); or to a fan or fan blades; or to a heating element; or other element or portion
of the air-warmer to which contact with a subject is not desired.
[0183] Applicants disclose herein fingertoys which may fit onto a fingertip, and which may
serve as finger warmers, or as bandages, or to provide compression, or for other purposes. For
example, placement of a fingertoy on a fingertip of a child may provide comfort, or amusement,
or diversion, to the child. A fingertoy may be placed on the finger of a child or other subject
prior to acquisition of a blood sample from a fingertip. A fingertoy may be placed on the finger
of a child or other subject after acquisition of a blood sample from a fingertip. A fingertoy may
be placed on the finger of a child or other subject prior to acquisition of a blood sample from a
fingertip, and may be again placed on the finger of a child or other subject following acquisition
of a blood sample from a fingertip. Thus, a subject, such as a child, may don a fingertoy prior to,
or following puncture of a finger (e.g., following a fingerstick), for comfort, warmth, and
amusement.
[0184] An example of such a fingertoy is shown in Fig. 8. A fingertoy 810 may be placed over a
portion of the finger 820, such as a fingertip; for example, a fingertoy 810 as disclosed herein
may fit over a fingertip of a finger 820 in a manner similar that is similar to the manner in which
a thimble is commonly placed over a fingertip (or thumb-tip) of a person seeking to protect a
fingertip during sewing. In embodiments, a fingertoy 810 may be placed over a substantial
portion of a finger 820, or over all of a finger 820, in a manner similar to the manner in which
the finger of a glove covers a finger. A fingertoy 810 may be made from, or may include (e.g.,
as an inner lining) an absorbent material. A fingertoy 810 may be used in place of, or in
conjunction with, a bandaid or other bandage. A fingertoy 810 may include perfume or other
odorant. A fingertoy 810 may keep a finger warm, or may provide compression, or may provide

                                                     61
other physical sensations which may act to alleviate any discomfort which may ensue following
a fingerstick.
[0185] As shown, fingertoy 810 may include features which may suggest a face, or arms, or
hair, or other features which may be amusing, or diverting, or comforting, to a subject (e.g., a
child) who has had a blood sample taken from a finger. A fingertoy 810 may include writing, or
symbols, or other markings which may provide amusement, diversion, or comfort, or which
convey a message or reminder to a subject. In embodiments, a fingertoy 810 may identify the
location or enterprise which performed or collected the sample. In embodiments, a fingertoy 810
may include a commercial message, or may include symbols or other markings which convey a
commercial message.
[0186] Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject may comprise: providing a sample
collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room including a warming table; and
collecting a sample from a subject. Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject may
comprise: providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room
including a warming plate; and collecting a sample from a subject. Applicants disclose methods
for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail
store, the sample collection room including a warming plate; warming the subject's fingertip, or
finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe (e.g., using the warming table), and collecting a sample
from a subject. In embodiments, the sample is a blood sample, e.g., a blood sample obtained
from a fingerstick.
[0187] Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject may comprise: providing a sample
collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room including a chair, bench, couch, or
other piece of furniture for seating having a warming plate or other warming element (e.g., in an
armrest, on a cabinet, or other surface conveniently placed near to the subject); and collecting a
sample from a subject. Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a subject,
comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room
including a chair, bench, couch, or other piece of furniture for seating having a warming plate or
other warming element (e.g., in an armrest, on a cabinet, or other surface conveniently placed
near to the subject); warming the subject's fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or toe-tip, or toe
(e.g., using the warming plate or other warming element), and collecting a sample from a

                                                  62
subject. In embodiments, the sample is a blood sample, e.g., a blood sample obtained from a
fingerstick.
[0188] Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject may comprise: providing a sample
collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room including an air-warmer; and
collecting a sample from a subject. Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a
subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection
room including an air-warmer; warming the subject's fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or
toe-tip, or toe (e.g., using the air-warmer), and collecting a sample from a subject. In
embodiments, the sample is a blood sample, e.g., a blood sample obtained from a fingerstick.
[0189] Methods for obtaining a sample from a subject may comprise: providing a sample
collection room in a retail store, the sample collection room including a finger warmer; and
collecting a sample from a subject. Applicants disclose methods for obtaining a sample from a
subject, comprising providing a sample collection room in a retail store, the sample collection
room including a finger warmer; warming the subject's fingertip, or finger, or hand, or heel, or
toe-tip, or toe (e.g., using the finger warmer), and collecting a sample from a subject. In
embodiments, the sample is a blood sample, e.g., a blood sample obtained from a fingerstick.
[0190] Methods for obtaining blood from a subject in a sample collection room may further
include providing a post-draw toy to the subject (e.g., a child subject). For example, methods
include obtaining blood from a subject in a sample collection room, using a warming plate and
optionally providing a post-draw toy to the subject (e.g., a child subject), such as, e.g., a
fingertoy. Methods may include obtaining blood from a subject in a sample collection room,
using a warming plate (e.g., as illustrated in Fig. 4A, 4B, or 4C), and optionally providing a
post-draw toy to the subject (e.g., a child subject). Methods may include obtaining blood from a
subject in a sample collection room, using a finger-warmer (e.g., as illustrated in Fig. 5A, 5B, or
5C) and optionally providing a post-draw toy to the subject (e.g., a child subject). Methods may
include obtaining blood from a subject in a sample collection room, using an air-warmer (e.g.,
an air-warmer as illustrated in Fig. 6A or 6B) and optionally providing a post-draw toy to the
subject (e.g., a child subject).
[0191] Applicants disclose methods for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, comprising
providing a sample collection room in a retail store; collecting a sample from a subject; and

                                                   63
analyzing the sample. In embodiments, the sample collection room includes one or more of a
warming table; a chair or other piece of furniture for seating having a warming plate or other
warming element; an air-warmer; a calming feature; a finger warmer; a fingertoy; and other
elements. In embodiments, the sample collection room is adjacent to a bathroom. In
embodiments, the sample collection room comprises a pass-through connecting to a bathroom
adjacent to the sample collection room. In embodiments, the sample is analyzed at, or adjacent
to, or near to, the sample collection room in the retail store. In embodiments, the sample is
analyzed at a location other than at the retail store.
[0192] Accordingly, Applicants disclose methods for obtaining and analyzing a sample obtained
from a subject, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; collecting a
sample from a subject in the sample collection room; and analyzing the sample. Applicants
disclose methods for obtaining and analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, comprising:
providing a sample collection room in a retail store; collecting a small sample from a subject in
the sample collection room; and analyzing the small sample. Applicants disclose methods for
obtaining and analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, comprising: providing a sample
collection room in a retail store; collecting a sample from a subject in the sample collection
room; and analyzing the sample at the retail store location, or adjacent to the retail store
location. In embodiments, these methods may include warming a body part of a subject prior to,
or during, obtaining a sample from the body part. Such warming may include use of a warming
table, a warming plate, an air-warmer, a finger warmer, a fingertoy, a chair or other furniture for
seating including a warming plate or other warming element, and combinations thereof.
[0193] A method for obtaining a sample from a subject, said subject having a body part,
comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; and obtaining a sample from
said body part of said subject, wherein said obtaining is performed in said sample collection
room. In embodiments, the methods comprise warming a body part; for example, a body part
may be warmed prior to obtaining a sample from the body part, or may be warmed during
obtaining a sample. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a
warming table. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a warming
plate. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a finger warmer. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a fingertoy. In embodiments,
warming of the body part comprises warming with an air-warmer. In embodiments, the body
part comprises a fingertip, a finger, a plurality of fingers, a hand, or other body part or body
parts.

                                                  64
[0194] A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body
part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining, in said sample
collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; and analyzing the sample at or
adjacent to the retail store. In embodiments, the methods comprise warming a body part; for
example, a body part may be warmed prior to obtaining a sample from the body part, or may be
warmed during obtaining a sample. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises
warming with a warming table. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming
with a warming plate. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with an
air-warmer. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a finger
warmer. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a fingertoy. In
embodiments, the body part comprises a fingertip, a finger, a plurality of fingers, a hand, or
other body part or body parts.
[0195] A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body
part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining, in said sample
collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; and analyzing the sample at or
adjacent to the retail store within a short period of time after obtaining the sample. In
embodiments, the methods comprise warming a body part; for example, a body part may be
warmed prior to obtaining a sample from the body part, or may be warmed during obtaining a
sample. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a warming table. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a warming plate. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with an air-warmer. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a finger warmer. In
embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with a fingertoy. In embodiments,
the body part comprises a fingertip, a finger, a plurality of fingers, a hand, or other body part or
body parts.
[0196] A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body
part, comprising: providing a sample collection room in a retail store; obtaining, in said sample
collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject; transporting the sample to an
analysis location; and analyzing the sample at said analysis location within a short period of
time after obtaining the sample. In embodiments, the methods comprise warming a body part;
for example, a body part may be warmed prior to obtaining a sample from the body part, or may
be warmed during obtaining a sample. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises

                                                   65
warming with a warming table. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming
with a warming plate. In embodiments, warming of the body part comprises warming with an
air-warmer. In embodiments, the body part comprises a fingertip, a finger, a plurality of fingers,
a hand, or other body part or body parts.
[0197] In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a sample may be centrifuged prior to
placement in a transport container. In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a sample
may be centrifuged prior to placement in a sample analysis device. In embodiments of the
methods disclosed herein, a sample may be centrifuged as part of sample preparation for
analysis in a sample analysis device.
[0198] In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a sample may be placed in a
refrigerator prior to placement in a transport container. In embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein, a sample may be placed in a refrigerator prior to placement in a transport
container, and may be transported in a refrigerated condition; in embodiments, a transport
container may be a refrigerated transport container, effective to transport a sample in a
refrigerated condition. In embodiments of the methods disclosed herein, a sample may be placed
in a refrigerator prior to placement in a sample analysis device. In embodiments of the methods
disclosed herein, a sample may be refrigerated as part of sample preparation for analysis in a
sample analysis device.
[0199] Further methods disclosed herein include methods for analyzing a sample, comprising
collecting a sample in a sample collection room as disclosed herein, and placing the sample in a
transport container. In embodiments, a sample placed in a transport container may be
transported to a sample analysis location; or may be stored in the transport container at or near
the sample collection room for a period of time prior to being transported to a sample analysis
location.
[0200] A sample obtained by such methods may be a small sample. For example, such a sample
may be obtained from a finger-stick, and may comprise a few drops, or two drops, or one drop,
of blood obtained from a small lancet puncture in the skin of the subject. The sample, such as a
blood sample, may be obtained from the subject following warming a body part (e.g., a
fingertip, or finger, of fingers, or hand) of subject. For example, in embodiments, the sample is a
small volume sample of blood, or of urine, or of saliva, or of tears, or other bodily secretion or

                                                   66
excretion. For example, in embodiments, the sample is a small sample having a volume of less
than about 200 pL, or less than about 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 75
pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or less.
[0201] While the invention has been described and illustrated with reference to certain
particular embodiments thereof, those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations,
changes, modifications, substitutions, deletions, or additions of procedures and protocols may be
made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
[0202] Additionally, concentrations, amounts, and other numerical data may be presented herein
in a range format. It is to be understood that such range format is used merely for convenience
and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly
recited as the limits of the range, but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub
ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub-range is explicitly
recited. For example, a size range of about 1 nm to about 200 nm should be interpreted to
include not only the explicitly recited limits of about 1 nm and about 200 nm, but also to include
individual sizes such as 2 nm, 3 nm, 4 nm, and sub-ranges such as 10 nm to 50 nm, 20 nm to
100 nm, etc.
[0203] The publications discussed or cited herein are provided solely for their disclosure prior to
the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that
the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention.
Further, the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates
which may need to be independently confirmed. All publications mentioned herein are
incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the structures and/or methods in
connection with which the publications are cited. The following applications are fully
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes:
[0204] While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described
herein, it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way
of example only. Numerous variations, changes, and substitutions will now occur to those
skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various
alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in
practicing the invention. Any feature, whether preferred or not, may be combined with any other

                                                 67
feature, whether preferred or not. The appended claims are not to be interpreted as including
means-plus-function limitations, unless such a limitation is explicitly recited in a given claim
using the phrase "means for." It should be understood that as used in the description herein and
throughout the claims that follow, the meaning of "a," "an," and "the" includes plural reference
unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example, a reference to "an assay" may refer to
a single assay or multiple assays. Also, as used in the description herein and throughout the
claims that follow, the meaning of "in" includes "in" and "on" unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise. Finally, as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow, the
meaning of "or" includes both the conjunctive and disjunctive unless the context expressly
dictates otherwise. Thus, the term "or" includes "and/or" unless the context expressly dictates
otherwise.
[0205] This document contains material subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner
(Applicant herein) has no objection to facsimile reproduction of the patent documents and
disclosures, as they appear in the US Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but
otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply: Copyright
2013-2014 Theranos, Inc.

                                                  68
CLAIMS
1.     A system for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in a
retail store, said sample collection room comprising a sample transport container configured to
hold a plurality of sample containers, said sample containers configured to hold fluid samples
having volumes of about 500 pL or less, and one or more of: a warming table, a warming plate, a
chair or other furniture for seating comprising a warming plate, a finger warmer, a fingertip
warmer, and an air-warmer.
2.     A system for analyzing a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in a
retail store, said sample collection room comprising a sample analysis device configured to
analyze a fluid sample having volumes of about 500 pL or less obtained in said sample collection
room, and one or more of: a warming table; a reclining chair configured for positioning a subject
effective for obtaining a sample; and a calming feature.
3.     A system for analyzing a sample from a subject, comprising a sample collection room in a
retail store, said sample collection room comprising a sample analysis device configured to
analyze a fluid sample having volumes of about 500 pL or less obtained in said sample collection
room, and one or more of: a chair or other furniture for seating, said chair or other furniture for
seating comprising a warming plate or other heating element, the chair or other furniture for
seating being configured to warm a body part of said subject, and being configured for
positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample; and a calming feature.
4.     The system of claim 1, 2, or 3, wherein said warming table is configured to adjust one or
more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and presence or height of a
rest.
5.     The system of claim 2 or 3, wherein said calming feature is selected from the group of
calming features consisting of flowing water, a flower, a plant, a calming scent, a calming sound,
a calming image, and a calming color.
6.     The system of any of claims 1 to 5, further comprising:
       a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and
       a pass-through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom,
       wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said
bathroom to said sample collection room.

                                                    69
7.     The system of claim 6, wherein said fluid sample comprises a urine sample.
8.     The system of any of claims 1 to 7, further comprising one or more of the following:
       a fingertoy;
       flowing water in said sample collection room;
       adjustable lighting in said sample collection room;
       a calming image;
       a wall or wall hanging having a calming color;
       a sound system configured for providing calming sounds in the sample collection room;
and
       a scent source configured to provide a calming scent in the sample collection room,
wherein said scent source is selected from a flower, a candle, an oil, a scented wick, and an
aerosol.
9.     The system of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein said sample has a volume selected from the
group of volumes of less than about 250 pL, or less than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or
less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5
pL, or less than about 1 pL.
10.    The system of any of claims Ito 8, wherein said sample is a sample selected from blood,
serum, plasma, saliva, sputum, urine, gastric fluid, digestive fluid, tears, sweat, stool, semen,
vaginal fluid, interstitial fluid, fluid derived from tumorous tissue, ocular fluids, mucus, earwax,
oil, glandular secretions, spinal fluid, skin, cerebrospinal fluid from within the skull, tissue, fluid
or material from a nasal swab, a throat swab, a cheek swab, or nasopharyngeal wash, biopsy
fluid or material, placental fluid, amniotic fluid, cord blood, lymphatic fluids, cavity fluids, pus,
microbiota obtained from a subject, meconium, and breast milk.
11.    The system of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein said sample is a blood sample.
12.    A sample collection room in a retail store, said sample collection room comprising one or
more of: a warming table, a warming plate, a chair or other furniture for seating comprising a
warming plate, a finger warmer, a fingertip warmer, and an air-warmer.
13.    The sample collection room in a retail store of claim 12, wherein said sample collection
room is located adjacent to a sample analysis device or sample analysis system.

                                                   70
14.    The sample collection room in a retail store of claim 12, further comprising a sample
analysis device, a sample transport container configured to hold a plurality of sample containers,
or both.
15.    The sample collection room in a retail store of claim 14, wherein said sample analysis
device is configured to analyze fluid samples having volumes of about 500 pL or less.
16.    The sample collection room in a retail store of claim 14, wherein said sample containers
are configured to hold fluid samples having volumes of about 500 IL or less.
17.    The sample collection room in a retail store of any of claims 12 to 16, wherein said sample
collection room is adjacent one or more of a waiting room and a bathroom.
18.    The sample collection room in a retail store of claim 12, wherein said sample collection
room is adjacent a bathroom, further comprising a pass-through connecting said bathroom with
said sample collection room.
19.   A warming device selected from a warming table, a warming plate, a chair or other
furniture for seating comprising a warming plate, a finger warmer, a fingertip warmer, and an
air-warmer.
20.    The warming device of claim 19, wherein said warming device is configured to warm a
body part of a subject effective to aid in the collection of a blood sample from said body part.
21.    The warming device of claim 20, wherein said body part is selected from a fingertip, a
finger, and a hand.
22.    The warming device of any of claims 19 to 21, wherein said blood sample has a volume of
about 500 pL or less.
23.   A method for obtaining a sample from a subject, said subject having a body part,
comprising:
      providing a sample collection room of any of claims 12 to 18 in a retail store; and
       obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject.

                                                 71
24.   A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body part,
comprising:
      providing a sample collection room of any of claims 12 to 18 in a retail store;
      obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject;
and
      analyzing the sample at or adjacent to the retail store.
25.   A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body part,
comprising:
      providing a sample collection room of any of claims 12 to 18 in a retail store;
      obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject;
and
      analyzing the sample at or adjacent to the retail store within a short period of time after
obtaining the sample.
26.   A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body part,
comprising:
      providing a sample collection room of any of claims 12 to 18 in a retail store;
      obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject;
      transporting the sample to an analysis location; and
      analyzing the sample at said analysis location within a short period of time after obtaining
the sample.
27.   The method of any of claims 23 to 26, wherein obtaining said sample comprises warming
said body part of said subject.
28.   The method of claim 27, wherein said warming of said body part comprises warming with
a warming table; a warming plate; a finger warmer; a fingertip warmer; an air-warmer; furniture
for seating comprising a warming plate or other heating element; or a combination thereof.
29.   The method of any of claims 23 to 28, further comprising:
      providing a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and
      providing a pass-through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom,
      wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said
bathroom to said sample collection room.

                                                  72
30.    The method of claim 29, wherein said sample comprises a urine sample.
31.    The method of any of claims 23 to 30, further comprising one or more of the following:
       providing a warming table in said sample collection room;
       providing a warming plate in said sample collection room;
       providing a fingertip warmer in said sample collection room;
       providing a fingertoy in said sample collection room;
       providing an air-warmer in said sample collection room;
       providing a chair or other furniture for seating in said sample collection room, said chair or
other furniture for seating comprising a warming plate or other heating element;
       providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being
configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample;
       providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair comprising
a warming plate or other heating element, said reclining chair being configured for warming at
least a portion of a body part of a subject, and for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a
sample;
       providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room; and
       providing a calming feature in the sample collection room, wherein said calming feature is
selected from the group of calming features consisting of flowing water, a flower, a plant, a
calming scent, a calming sound, a calming image, and a calming color.
32.    The method of any of claims 23 to 31, further comprising:
       providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being
configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample;
       providing flowing water in said sample collection room;
       providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room;
       providing a calming image in the sample collection room;
       providing calming sounds in the sample collection room; and
       providing a calming scent in the sample collection room.
33.    The method of any of claims 23 to 32, wherein said sample has a volume selected from the
group of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less than 150 pL, or
less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or less than about 10
pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.

                                                    73
34.    The method of any of claims 23 to 33, wherein said sample is analyzed within a short
period of time, wherein said short period of time is selected from less than about 5 hours, or less
than about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1
hour, or less than about half an hour.
35.    The method of claim 25 or 26, wherein said short period of time after obtaining the sample
is selected from less than about 5 hours, or less than about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or
less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less than about half an hour.
36.    The method of any of claims 23 to 35, wherein said sample is a sample selected from
blood, serum, plasma, saliva, sputum, urine, gastric fluid, digestive fluid, tears, sweat, stool,
semen, vaginal fluid, interstitial fluid, fluid derived from tumorous tissue, ocular fluids, mucus,
earwax, oil, glandular secretions, spinal fluid, skin, cerebrospinal fluid from within the skull,
tissue, fluid or material from a nasal swab, a throat swab, a cheek swab, or nasopharyngeal wash,
biopsy fluid or material, placental fluid, amniotic fluid, cord blood, lymphatic fluids, cavity
fluids, pus, microbiota obtained from a subject, meconium, and breast milk.
37.    The method of any of claims 23 to 35, wherein said sample is a blood sample.
38.    A sample collection system for obtaining a sample from a subject, comprising a sample
collection room in a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a warming surface on a
chair, table, or counter, and one or more of: a finger warmer; a fingertip warmer; a fingertoy; an
air-warmer; a water feature; and a calming feature.
39.    The system of claim 38, wherein said warming surface comprises one or more of a surface
of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair, or other furniture for
seating comprising a warming element, wherein said warming surface is configured to adjust one
or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and presence or height of a
rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject.
40.    The system of claim 38, further comprising:
       a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and
       a pass-through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom,
       wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said
bathroom to said sample collection room.

                                                 74
41.    The system of claim 38, further comprising i) a sample analysis device, or ii) a sample
transport container configured to hold a plurality of sample containers configured to hold fluid
samples having volumes of about 500 ptL or less, or both i) and ii).
42.    The system of claim 38, wherein said sample is a blood or urine sample having a volume
selected from the group of volumes of less than about 500 LL, or less than about 250 pL, or less
than about 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL,
or less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.
43.    A sample analysis system for analyzing a sample from a subject, comprising a sample
collection room in a retail store, said sample collection room comprising a sample analysis
device configured to analyze a fluid sample having a volume of about 500 pL or less obtained in
said sample collection room, a warming surface on a chair, table, or counter, and one or more of:
a finger warmer; a fingertip warmer; a fingertoy; an air-warmer; a water feature; and a calming
feature.
44.    The system of claim 43, wherein said warming surface comprises one or more of a surface
of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair, or other furniture for
seating comprising a warming element, wherein said warming surface is configured to adjust one
or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and presence or height of a
rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject.
45.    The system of claim 43, further comprising:
       a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and
       a pass-through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom,
       wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said
bathroom to said sample collection room.
46.    The system of claim 43, wherein said sample is a blood or urine sample having a volume
selected from the group of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less
than about 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL,
or less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.
47.    A warming device having a warming surface, wherein said warming surface comprises one
or more of a surface of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair,

                                                  75
or other furniture for seating comprising a warming element, wherein said warming surface is
configured to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and
presence or height of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject.
48.    The warming device of claim 47, wherein said warming device is configured to warm at
least a portion of a body of a subject effective to aid in the collection of a blood sample from said
subject.
49.    The warming device of claim 48, wherein said at least a portion of a body of a subject is
selected from a fingertip, a finger, and a hand of a subject.
50.    The warming device of claim 48, wherein said blood sample has a volume of about 500 pL
or less.
51.    A method for obtaining a sample from a subject, said subject having a body, comprising:
       providing a sample collection system of claim 1 in a retail store, said sample collection
system comprising a sample collection room; and
       obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said subject.
52.    The method of claim 51, wherein obtaining said sample comprises warming at least a
portion of said body of said subject, wherein said warming of at least a portion of the body of the
subject comprises warming with a warming surface, wherein said warming surface comprises a
surface of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair, or other
furniture for seating comprising a warming element, wherein said warming surface is configured
to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and presence or
height of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject.
53.    The method of claim 51, further comprising:
       providing a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and
       providing a pass-through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom,
       wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said
bathroom to said sample collection room.

                                                  76
54.    The method of claim 51, further comprising one or more of:
       providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being
configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample;
       providing flowing water in said sample collection room;
       providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room;
       providing a calming image in the sample collection room;
       providing calming sounds in the sample collection room; and
       providing a calming scent in the sample collection room.
55.    The method of claim 51, wherein said sample is a blood or urine sample having a volume
selected from the group of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less
than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or
less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.
56.    The method of claim 51, wherein said sample is analyzed within a short period of time,
wherein said short period of time is selected from less than about 5 hours, or less than about 4
hours, or less than about 3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less
than about half an hour.
57.    A method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject, said subject having a body,
comprising:
       providing a sample analyzing system of claim 6 in a retail store, said sample analyzing
system comprising a sample collection room;
       obtaining, in said sample collection room, a sample from said body part of said subject;
and
       analyzing the sample at or adjacent to the retail store.
58.    The method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject of claim 57, further
comprising:
       analyzing the sample at or adjacent to the retail store within a short period of time after
obtaining the sample.

                                                  77
59.    The method for analyzing a sample obtained from a subject of claim 57, further
comprising:
       transporting the sample to an analysis location; and
       analyzing the sample at said analysis location within a short period of time after obtaining
the sample.
60.    The method of claim 57, wherein obtaining said sample comprises warming at least a
portion of said body of said subject, wherein said warming of at least a portion of said body of
said subject comprises warming with a warming surface, wherein said warming surface
comprises a surface of a warming table, a warming plate, a warming counter, a warming chair, or
other furniture for seating comprising a warming element, wherein said warming surface is
configured to adjust one or more of temperature, height, orientation, distance from a subject, and
presence or height of a rest configured to support a limb, hand, or foot of a subject.
61.    The method of claim 57, further comprising:
       providing a bathroom adjacent said sample collection room; and
       providing a pass-through connecting said sample collection room with said bathroom,
       wherein said pass-through is configured to allow the transfer of a sample from said
bathroom to said sample collection room.
62.    The method of claim 57, further comprising one or more of:
       providing a warming table in said sample collection room;
       providing a warming plate in said sample collection room;
       providing a fingertip warmer in said sample collection room;
       providing a fingertoy in said sample collection room;
       providing an air-warmer in said sample collection room;
       providing a chair or other furniture for seating in said sample collection room, said chair or
other furniture for seating comprising a warming plate or other heating element;
       providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being
configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample;
       providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair comprising
a warming plate or other heating element, said reclining chair being configured for warming at
least a portion of a body part of a subject, and for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a
sample;

                                                  78
       providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room; and
       providing a calming feature in the sample collection room, wherein said calming feature is
selected from the group of calming features consisting of flowing water, a flower, a plant, a
calming scent, a calming sound, a calming image, and a calming color.
63.    The method of claim 57, further comprising one or more of:
       providing a reclining chair in said sample collection room, said reclining chair being
configured for positioning a subject effective for obtaining a sample;
       providing flowing water in said sample collection room;
       providing adjustable lighting in the sample collection room;
       providing a calming image in the sample collection room;
       providing calming sounds in the sample collection room; and
       providing a calming scent in the sample collection room.
64.    The method of claim 57, wherein said sample is a blood or urine sample having a volume
selected from the group of volumes of less than about 500 pL, or less than about 250 pL, or less
than 150 pL, or less than about 100 pL, or less than about 50 pL, or less than about 25 pL, or
less than about 10 pL, or less than about 5 pL, or less than about 1 pL.
65.    The method of claim 57, wherein said sample is analyzed within a short period of time,
wherein said short period of time is selected from less than about 5 hours, or less than about 4
hours, or less than about 3 hours, or less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less
than about half an hour.
66.    The method of claim 58, wherein said short period of time after obtaining the sample is
selected from less than about 5 hours, or less than about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or
less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less than about half an hour.
67.    The method of claim 59, wherein said short period of time after obtaining the sample is
selected from less than about 5 hours, or less than about 4 hours, or less than about 3 hours, or
less than about 2 hours, or less than about 1 hour, or less than about half an hour.
                                            Theranos, Inc.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>

