                                  ABSTRACT
  A portable night vision apparatus comprising at least one image intensifier
  tube and a memory. The at least one image intensifier tube is coupled to a
  power supply and coupled to a processor. The memory is coupled to the
5 processor for the storage of data relating to the apparatus and to the use of
  the apparatus.

                  1/3
           C~CD
0        L
            LOLOS
  C))
    (00
      V;              QQ

                                          1
                                       TITLE
                  NIGHT VISION APPARATUS AND METHODS
                           FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5         The present invention relates to night vision apparatus or devices,
   such as night vision binoculars, monoculars, goggles and the like and to
   associated methods.
                       BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
10         Night vision apparatus or devices, such as night vision binoculars,
   goggles, monoculars and scopes, enable users to have improved vision in
   low light or no light conditions, for example, in military, surveillance, law
   enforcement, hunting and rescue applications.        Night vision apparatus
   typically comprise an image intensifier tube and associated circuitry for
15 capturing photons which are converted to electrons, amplified and converted
   back to photons to produce an enhanced image of the scene being viewed
   through the apparatus. Such devices are typically hand-held, head-mounted,
   helmet-mounted or mounted to equipment, such as a weapon.
           Developments in the design of night vision apparatus over seven
20 decades include improvements in light amplification, image resolution and
   contrast, signal to noise ratios and reliability, a reduction in power
   consumption, size and weight of the apparatus and the inclusion of features
   such as auto-gating to protect users against temporary blindness. Further

                                          2
   improvements in the design of night vision apparatus continue to be sought.
           One feature of night vision apparatus is that they have a limited useful
   lifetime due to degradation of the image intensifier tube through activation
   and use of the image intensifier tube. Degradation of the image intensifier
 5 tube can lead to a reduction in the amplification of light levels and a
   degradation in the image displayed to the user, such as the representation of
   distances inaccurately. Whilst certain levels of degradation can be tolerated
   depending on the application for which the night vision apparatus are being
   used, beyond certain levels of degradation, the night vision apparatus must
10 not be used, for example in aviation and other critical applications.
           Consequently, it is important that night vision apparatus are
   maintained and their performance monitored to ensure the apparatus are in
   working order and replaced when necessary. Such maintenance is typically
   performed by taking the apparatus apart and inspecting the components and
15 recording and tracking relevant information on a spreadsheet or the like. In
   many countries certain restrictions apply to night vision apparatus and it is a
   requirement to also record certain data relating to the night vision apparatus,
   such as serial numbers and types of apparatus. These maintenance and
   recordal obligations can be very time consuming and laborious particularly
20 where a fleet of night vision apparatus is maintained, such as in military and
   law enforcement organisations.

                                         3
                          OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
          It is a preferred object of the present invention to provide an
   apparatus and/or a system and/or a method that addresses or at least
   ameliorates one or more of the aforementioned problems and/or provides a
 5 useful commercial alternative.
                        SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          Generally, embodiments of the present invention relate to night vision
   apparatus, such as night vision binoculars, goggles, monoculars and scopes
10 comprising an on board memory for the storage of data relating to the
   apparatus and the use of the apparatus and to associated methods.
          Generally, embodiments of the present invention also relate to night
   vision apparatus comprising an illumination device, such as an infra red (IR)
   light emitting diode (LED) for illumination purposes, that is also used for
15 communicating the data relating to the apparatus and the use of the
   apparatus and to associated methods.
          Generally, embodiments of the present invention also relate to night
   vision apparatus comprising a processor for calibrating the apparatus and to
   associated methods.
20
          According to one aspect, but not necessarily the broadest aspect, the
   present invention resides in a portable night vision apparatus comprising:
          at least one image intensifier tube coupled to a power supply and

                                          4
   coupled to a processor; and
           a memory coupled to the processor to store data relating to the
   apparatus and to the use of the apparatus.
 5         According to another aspect, but not necessarily the broadest aspect,
   the present invention resides in a method of monitoring and maintaining one
   or more portable night vision apparatus, the apparatus comprising at least
   one image intensifier tube coupled to a power supply and coupled to a
   processor and a memory coupled to the processor, the method comprising:
10         storing in the memory data relating to the apparatus and to the use of
   the apparatus; and
           communicating at least some of the data stored in the memory to an
   external reader via an illumination device coupled to the processor.
15         Preferably, the illumination device is a low energy device, such as an
   infra red (IR) light emitting diode (LED) that is also used to communicate
   data over a short range to an external device.
           Preferably, communicating at least some of the data occurs when the
   apparatus is switched on and only for a short time period.
20         Preferably, the apparatus comprises a sensor coupled to the
   processor to detect ambient light levels.
          Suitably, the sensor is a photoresistor or light-dependent resistor.
          Suitably, the processor is configured to cut off the power supply to the

                                            5
   at least one image intensifier tube via a switch if the ambient light levels are
   greater than a specified illumination threshold.
          Suitably, the apparatus comprises a communications device to transmit
   and receive data relating to the apparatus and to the use of the apparatus
 5 to/from the processor and an external device.
          Suitably, the apparatus comprises one or more accelerometers
   coupled to the processor to detect a predefined movement and switch off
   one or more of the at least one image intensifier tube.
          Suitably, one of the accelerometers is associated with a movement of a
10 circuit board comprising the power supply and/or the processor.
          Suitably, one or more of the accelerometers are associated with a
   movement of the at least one image intensifier tubes.
           Suitably, the data relating to the apparatus includes, but is not limited
   to one or more of the following: a serial number and/or date of manufacture
15 of the apparatus; a serial number and/or date of manufacture of the at least
   one image intensifier tube; a serial number and/or date of manufacture of a
   circuit board comprising the components; a type of the apparatus, such as
   monocular or binocular; a class of the apparatus, such as a particular
   generation or Figure of Merit (FOM); capabilities of the apparatus; an image
20 of a surface of the image intensifier tube at one or more specified dates; an
   image obtained through the image intensifier tube at one or more specified
   dates.
           Suitably, the data relating to the apparatus includes images recording

                                           6
   the state of the image intensifier tube at the beginning of its working life and
   at subsequent dates.
          Suitably, the data relating to the use of the apparatus includes, but is
   not limited to one or more of the following: usage time of the apparatus;
 5 number of times the apparatus has been switched on and off; periods of high
   illumination or above a specified illumination threshold.
          Suitably, the data is used to monitor the apparatus for maintenance
   and or warranty purposes.
         Suitably, the method includes calibrating the apparatus using the
10 processor of the apparatus.
         Further aspects and/or features of the present invention will become
   apparent from the following detailed description.
                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
15         In order that the invention may be readily understood and put into
   practical effect, reference will now be made to embodiments of the present
   invention with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein like
   reference numbers refer to identical elements. The drawings are provided
   by way of example only, wherein:
20        FIG 1 is a block diagram of a night vision apparatus according to
   embodiments of the present invention;
           FIG 2 is a block diagram of a night vision apparatus according to
   other embodiments of the present invention; and

                                            7
            FIG 3 is a general flow diagram illustrating methods according to
   embodiments of the present invention.
            Skilled addressees will appreciate that elements in the drawings are
   illustrated for simplicity and clarity and have not necessarily been drawn to
 5 scale. For example, the relative dimensions of some of the elements in the
   drawings may be distorted to help improve understanding of embodiments of
   the present invention.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
10          Embodiments of the present invention relate to portable night vision
   apparatus or devices, such as night vision binoculars, monoculars, goggles,
   scopes and the like and to associated methods as will be described in detail
   herein.
            With reference to FIG 1, a schematic block diagram illustrates a
15 portable night vision apparatus 100, which comprises a processor 105 in the
   form of a micro controller coupled to at least one image intensifier tube 110.
   The processor 105 is coupled to the image intensifier tube 110 via an
   analogue/digital input of the processor 105 and via a digital/analogue output
   of the processor 105. A gain control input 112 for the image intensifier tube
20 110 is received via another analogue/digital input of the processor 105.
            It will be appreciated that where the apparatus 100 is in the form of a
   night vision monocular or a night vision scope, for example for attachment to
   equipment such as a weapon, the apparatus 100 will typically comprise a

                                          8
   single image intensifier tube 110. Where the apparatus 100 is in the form of
   night vision binoculars or night vision goggles, the apparatus will typically
   comprise a pair of image intensifier tubes 110 with appropriate adjustments
   to the apparatus 100 as will be appreciated by a person skilled in the art.
 5        The image intensifier tube 110 is coupled to a power supply 115, such
   as a 3V power supply and can be coupled to the power supply via a switch
   120, as shown in FIG 1. Processor 105 can also be coupled to the switch
   120 via an input/output of the processor 105 to control the power supply to
   the image intensifier tube 110.
10        The apparatus 100 also comprises a storage medium in the form of a
   memory 125 coupled to the processor 105 for the storage of data relating to
   the apparatus and data relating to the use of the apparatus. Memory 125
   comprises a computer readable medium, such as a random access memory
   (e.g. static random access memory (SRAM), ferroelectric random access
15 memory (FRAM),       or synchronous dynamic random access memory
   (SDRAM)), or hybrid memory (e.g., FLASH), or other types of memory as are
   well known in the art.
           In addition to the data relating to the apparatus and use of the
   apparatus described further herein, the computer readable medium can
20 comprise computer readable program code components at least some of
   which are selectively executed to cause communicating at least some of the
   data stored in the memory 125 to an external reader as described herein.
          An illumination device 130 is coupled in parallel with the processor

                                          9
   105 via a switch 135 and to the power supply 115. Control of the switch 135
   can be via another input/output of the processor 105. In preferred
   embodiments, illumination device 130 is a low energy illumination device
   such as an LED, and in particular an infra red (IR) light emitting diode (LED)
 5 that is also used to communicate data over a short range to an external
   device. Communication of data from the apparatus 100 is described further
   herein.Hence, the IR LED can be used for illumination purposes as is known
   in the art, but is also used for communication purposes in accordance with
   the present invention.
10         Processor 105 is also coupled to one or more other light emitting
   diodes (LEDs) 140,145 for indication purposes. For example, LED 140 can
   be in the form of a red LED indicating when the illumination device 130 is on
   and LED 145 can be in the form of a green LED indicating that a battery 150
   of the apparatus is low.
15         Battery 150 is coupled to a switch or selector 155 via a diode 160,
   which provides reverse polarity protection. Selector 155 is coupled via a
   reed switch 165 to power supply 115 and can be moved by a user between
   on and off positions. Selector 155 can also be moved to a magnetic bypass
   position and to a position to activate the transmitter 130. For example, the
20 switch can be a four position rotary switch.
           A sensor, such as a photoresistor or light-dependent resistor 170, is
   coupled to the processor 105 via at least one analogue/digital input for the
   detection of ambient light levels. Detection of ambient light levels enables

                                            10
   the processor 105 to control the level of amplification required by the image
   intensifier tube 110 and to cut off the power supply to the image intensifier
   tube 110 via switch 120 in circumstances of high light levels, for example if
   the ambient light levels are greater than a specified illumination threshold, to
 5 avoid eyesight damage to the user and to preserve the useful life of the
   image intensifier tube 110. This function can be calibrated by the processor
   105, via software and via password protection or encryption, by adjusting the
   illumination threshold and the time to power cut-off. In one example, the
   illumination threshold is 5000 Lux.
10        A communications device is provided to transmit and receive data,
   such as the data relating to the apparatus and to the use of the apparatus
   to/from an external device. Communication with processor 105 to external
   devices can be used, for example, for maintenance, programming, upgrades,
   calibration, etc. In the embodiment shown in FIG. 1, the communications
15 device is in the form of a universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter
   (UART) 175 that is integral with processor 105.
           In one embodiment, the apparatus is calibrated via the UART 175
   using an external device, for example, a computer. For example, software
   running on the external device can be used via the UART 175 to adjust
20 values and/or settings of the apparatus, such as the illumination threshold.
           Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the portable night vision
   apparatus 100 can comprise other known elements required for the
   apparatus to perform its known functions, but which are not shown in FIG 1

                                          11
   and which can vary according to the specific type of portable night vision
   apparatus.
           In accordance with embodiments of the present invention, the data
   stored in the memory 125 relating to the apparatus 100 includes, but is not
 5 limited to one or more of the following: a serial number and/or date of
   manufacture of the apparatus 100; a serial number and/or date of
   manufacture of the at least one image intensifier tube 110; a serial number
   and/or date of manufacture of a circuit board comprising the components a
   type of apparatus, such as a monocular, binoculars, goggles or a scope; a
10 class of the apparatus 100, such as a particular generation or Figure of Merit
   (FOM); capabilities of the apparatus; import/export restrictions; an image of
   a surface of the image intensifier tube 110 at one or more specified dates;
   an image obtained through the image intensifier tube 110 at one or more
   specified dates. In one example, images of the image intensifier tube are
15 uploaded to the memory 125 via the UART 175, for example, during
   maintenance, upgrade or manufacture. In another example, a serial number
   and/or date of manufacture of the at least one image intensifier tube 110 is
   uploaded to the memory 125 via the UART 175, for example, when the
   image intensifier tube 110 is installed in the apparatus.
20        The images of the image intensifier tube 110 stored in the memory
   125 of the apparatus record the state of the image intensifier tube 110 at the
   beginning of its working life and at subsequent dates such that the change in
   characteristics or degradation of the image intensifier tube 110 can be

                                          12
   monitored and the apparatus 100, or the image intensifier tube 110, can be
   replaced when appropriate. Recording images of the image intensifier tube
   110 is also useful for warranty purposes. Recording images of the image
   intensifier tube 110 can include recording any black spots detected,
 5 illumination levels, resolution etc.
            For example, the images of the image intensifier tube at each date
   can be compared to determine whether the image intensifier tube has
   deteriorated due to misuse or mistreatment of the apparatus. For example,
   the data relating to the use of the apparatus can be used to determine
10 whether, for example, the deterioration is due to long periods of exposure to
   high ambient light levels, which would suggest that the apparatus has been
   left in the sun.
            The data stored in the memory 125 relating to the use of the
   apparatus 100 includes, but is not limited to one or more of the following:
15 usage time or operational duration of the apparatus; a number of times the
   apparatus has been switched on and off (activated/deactivated); periods of
   high illumination or above a specified illumination threshold. These values
   influence the useful lifetime of the image intensifier tube 110.
            In some embodiments, the images of the image intensifier tube 110
20 are stored in a FRAM and the other data is stored in FLASH.
            According to another aspect, embodiments of the present invention
   include the illumination device 130 communicating at least some of the data
   stored in the memory 125 to an external reader, which can be carried by the

                                           13
   user. In preferred embodiments, communicating at least some of the data
   occurs automatically when the apparatus 100 is switched on and
   communication only occurs for a short time period. The communication of
   the data is low energy, short range and is not continuous for security and
 5 power consumption purposes. The data is encoded in the light emitted by
   the illumination device by any suitable means. For example, the processor
   105 can encode the data according to a predetermined switching frequency
   of the illumination device 130 that is known by the external reader. Hence,
   the data is translated into a series of ON/OFF signals emitted by the
10 illumination device 130. Where the illumination device is an IR LED, the
   emitted light can be either visible or not visible to the naked eye.
           Referring to FIG 2, a schematic block diagram illustrates a portable
   night vision apparatus 200 according to one embodiment of the invention.
   The night vision apparatus 200 comprises a circuit board 102, which
15 comprises a number of on-board components shown within a dotted box.
   The circuit board 102 is connected to a number of off-board components of
   the apparatus shown outside the dotted box.
           Tube contacts 112, 114 and 116 are provided on-board for
   connecting an image intensifier tube 110. The tube contacts can be, for
20 example, flexible copper contacts. The tube contacts include a positive tube
   contact 112, a negative tube contact 114 and a tube gain contact 116. A
   person skilled in the art will appreciate that some image intensifier tubes 110
   will not have a tube gain contact and therefore will only connect to the

                                          14
   positive tube contact 112 and negative tube contact 114.
           Where the apparatus 200 comprises more than one image intensifier
   tubes 110, such as binoculars, a separate set of contacts 112, 114, 116 and
   a switch 120 is provided for each image intensifier tube 110 to enable the
 5 image intensifier tubes to be controlled and calibrated separately.
           Battery terminals 152 and 154 are provided off-board, for example, in
   a battery compartment, for connecting a battery 150. The battery 150
   provides power to the power supply 115 which sets the voltage across the
   processor 105 and image intensifier tube 110.
10         The apparatus 200 also comprises one or more accelerometers
   coupled to the processor 105 to detect a predefined movement and switch
   off one or more of the at least one image intensifier tube 110. In preferred
   embodiments, each accelerometer can resolve acceleration in three
   dimensions. In some embodiments, data relating to the use of the apparatus
15 received from the accelerometers is stored in the memory 125. The data
   can be used for warranty purposes, for example, to determine whether the
   apparatus 200 has been dropped.
           A first accelerometer 180 is provided on-board and therefore is
   associated with a movement of the circuit board 102. In one embodiment, the
20 first accelerometer 180 is configured to detect a translation in the y-axis,
   such as a lifting of the circuit board 102 and hence the apparatus 200, and
   turn off the image intensifier tube 110. For example, the first accelerometer
    180 can detect a user removing the apparatus 200 in a head-mounted or

                                         15
   helmet-mounted apparatus.
           One or more of the accelerometers can be associated with a
   movement of the at least one image intensifier tubes 110. For example,
   when the apparatus is a binocular apparatus, a second accelerometer 185 is
 5 located on and/or associated with a first image intensifier tube 110 and a
   third accelerometer 190 is located on and/or associated with a second image
   intensifier tube 110.      The accelerometers each detect a predefined
   movement of the respective image intensifier tube 110, for example, a
   turning or translation in the x-axis, and turn off the respective image
10 intensifier tube 110. This enables each eye of the night vision binocular to
   be switched on/off separately. In a binocular apparatus, the circuit board
   102 comprises two sets of image intensifier tube contacts to enable to the
   gain of each image intensifier tube 110 to be adjusted and/or each image
   intensifier tube 110 to be switched on/off separately. A skilled addressee
15 will appreciate that in a monocular apparatus with only one image intensifier
   tube 110, the third accelerometer 190 is not required.
           In the embodiment shown in FIG. 2, a switch or selector 155 is
   provided off-board, and is for example, mounted at an exterior of the
   apparatus 200.
20         Selector 155 is coupled to power supply 115 and can be moved by a
   user between on and off positions. Selector 155 can also be moved to a
   magnetic position where the selector 155 is coupled to power supply 115 via
   a reed switch 165 and to a position to activate the illumination device 130.

                                          16
           The reed switch is activated via a magnet. For example, a magnet is
   configured on the apparatus such that the reed switch is activated when the
   at least one image intensifier tubes 110 is moved into position over a user's
   eye(s) for use.
 5         Referring to FIG 3, a general flow diagram illustrates a method 300 of
   monitoring and maintaining one or more portable night vision apparatus 100
   or 200 in accordance with embodiments of another aspect of the present
   invention. The method 300 comprises at step 310 storing in the memory 125
   data relating to the apparatus 100 as described herein. For example, data
10 may be received from one or more sensors of the apparatus or uploaded to
   the apparatus via the communications device 175. At step 320, the
   apparatus 100 is switched on (activated). Activation of the apparatus 100
   causes at step 330 communicating at least some of the data stored in the
   memory 125 to an external reader via the illumination device 130 as
15 described herein. Communicating the data can include encoding the data as
   described herein. The method 300 comprises at 340 storing in the memory
   125 data relating to the use of the apparatus 100 as described herein. At
   step 350, the apparatus 100 is switched off (deactivated), which is also
   recorded in the memory 125 at step 360. The cycle from steps 320 to 360 is
20 repeated when the apparatus is re-activated.
          According to further aspects of the present invention, calibration of
   the apparatus 100 and control of the gain of the apparatus 100 via gain
   control 112 is carried out using the processor 105. Inverse polarity protection

                                          17
   is also provided by the circuit board rather than mechanically as in the prior
   art.
           Embodiments of the present invention thus provide a solution the
   aforementioned problems and provide a useful commercial alternative.
 5 Storing in the on-board memory 125 of the portable night vision apparatus
   100 data relating to the apparatus and to the use of the apparatus 100 as
   described herein is much more efficient and accurate than the prior art
   method of recording the data via a spreadsheet and is particularly useful
   when managing a fleet of night vision apparatus. Such recording and
10 monitoring reduces the likelihood of any particular apparatus in a fleet being
   overused or underused, increases the likelihood that devices or components
   will be replaced when due and increases the likelihood that the best
   apparatus in a fleet are being sent out into the field.
           Communication of the data automatically upon activation of the
15 apparatus 100 via illumination device 130, such as a low energy, short range
   IR LED, is secure, efficient and reliable. Also, a connector or cable is not
   required for such communication, which reduces the component count and
   therefore the weight and production cost of the apparatus. Furthermore, the
   apparatus 100 does not need to be opened to obtain the information.
20         In this specification, the terms "comprises", "comprising" or similar
   terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that an
   apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements
   solely, but may well include other elements not listed.

                                        18
          Throughout the specification the aim has been to describe the
  invention without limiting the invention to any one embodiment or specific
  collection of features. Persons skilled in the relevant art may realize
  variations from the specific embodiments that will nonetheless fall within the
5 scope of the invention.

                                       19
                                    CLAIMS
   1. A portable night vision apparatus comprising:
        at least one image intensifier tube coupled to a power supply and
 5    coupled to a processor;
        a memory coupled to the processor to store data relating to the
      apparatus and to the use of the apparatus; and
        an illumination device coupled to the processor, wherein the
      illumination device is used for night vision illumination and for
10    communicating at least some of the data stored in the memory to an
      external reader.
   2. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the illumination device is a low
      energy illumination device for short range communication.
15
   3. The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the illumination device is an
      infra red light emitting diode (LED)
   4. The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein the apparatus is
20    configured to communicate the data when the apparatus is switched on
      and only for a short time period.
   5. The apparatus of any preceding claim, comprising a sensor coupled to

                                       20
       the processor to detect ambient light levels.
   6.  The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the sensor is a photoresistor or light
       dependent resistor.
 5
   7.  The apparatus of claim 5 or 6, wherein the processor is configured to
       cut off the power supply to the at least one image intensifier tube via a
       switch if the ambient light levels are greater than a specified
       illumination threshold.
10
   8.  The apparatus of any preceding claim, comprising a communications
       device to transmit and receive data relating to the apparatus and to the
       use of the apparatus to/from the processor and an external device.
15 9.  The apparatus of any preceding claim, comprising one or more
       accelerometers coupled to the processor to detect a predefined
       movement and switch off one or more of the at least one image
       intensifier tube.
20 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein one of the accelerometers is
       associated with a movement of a circuit board comprising the power
       supply and/or the processor.

                                         21
   11. The apparatus of claim 9 or 10, wherein one or more of the
       accelerometers are associated with a movement of the at least one
       image intensifier tubes.
 5 12. The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein the data is encoded in
       the light emitted by the illumination device.
   13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the data is encoded by the
       processor according to a predetermined switching frequency of the
10     illumination device that is known by the external reader.
   14. A method of monitoring and maintaining one or more portable night
        vision apparatus, the apparatus comprising at least one image
        intensifier tube coupled to a power supply and a processor coupled to
15      and the at least one image intensifier tube, a memory and an
        illumination device used for night vision illumination, the method
        comprising:
               storing in the memory data relating to the apparatus and to the
        use of the apparatus; and
20             communicating at least some of the data stored in the memory
        to an external reader via the illumination device.
   15. The method of claim 14, including communicating at least some of the

                                        22
        data when the apparatus is switched on and only for a short time
        period.
   16. The method of claim 14 or 15, including calibrating the apparatus using
 5      the processor of the apparatus.
   17. The method of any one of claims 14 to 16, including encoding
       the data in the light emitted by the illumination device.
10 18. The method of claim 17, including the processor encoding the data
       according to a predetermined switching frequency of the illumination
       device that is known by the external reader.
   19. The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 13 or the method of any of claims
15      14 to 18, wherein the data relating to the apparatus includes one or
        more of the following:
               a serial number and/or date of manufacture of the apparatus;
               a serial number and/or date of manufacture of the at least one
       image intensifier tube;
20             a serial number and/or date of manufacture of a circuit board
       comprising components of the apparatus;
               a type of the apparatus;
               a class of the apparatus;

                                       23
              a particular generation or Figure of Merit (FOM) of the
       apparatus; and
              capabilities of the apparatus.
 5 20. The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 13 or 19 or the method of any of
       claims 14 to 19, wherein the data relating to the apparatus includes
       one or more of the following:
              an image of a surface of the image intensifier tube at one or
       more specified dates; and
10            an image obtained through the image intensifier tube at one or
       more specified dates.
   21. The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 13, 19 or 20 or the method of any
       of claims 14 to 20, wherein the data relating to the apparatus includes
15     images recording the state of the image intensifier tube at the
       beginning of its working life and at subsequent dates.
   22. The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 13, or 19 to 21 or the method of
       any of claims 14 to 21, wherein the data relating to the use of the
20     apparatus includes one or more of the following:
              usage time of the apparatus;
              a number of times the apparatus has been switched on and off;
       and

                                     24
             periods of high illumination or above a specified illumination
      threshold.
  23. The apparatus or method of any preceding claim, wherein the data is
5      used to monitor the apparatus for maintenance and or warranty
       purposes.

                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                             100
  165
                                       135
                  115
                                                   120
            170
                         105
125
                                                   110
                                                           1/3
                                       130
                         175
      145
                   140
                               FIG 1

                                     <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                                                               200
          165                 115
                               105
0                                    135
    180               170
                                                 120
    125                                                 110
                                                 112                    2/3
                                           116
                              175                114
                                     130
                145
                        140
                      185              190
                                                       FIG 2

                      3/3
<removed-date>
                                           300
              Store apparatus data   310
                   in memory
<removed-apn>    Switch apparatus on    320
               Communicate data      330
              stored in the memory
              Store usage data in    340
                   memory
              Switch apparatus off
                                     350
              Store data in memory
                                     360
                     FIG 3

