                                     ABSTRACT
       The present invention relates to recombinant cells, particularly recombinant
plant cells, which are capable of producing dihydrosterculic acid and/or derivatives
thereof. The present invention also relates to methods of producing oil comprising
dihydrosterculic acid and/or derivatives thereof.

                                                 1
         PRODUCTION OF DIHYDROSTERCULIC ACID AND DERIVATIVES
                                          THEREOF
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5          This  application    is a divisional of Australian     Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>, in turn a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012327162, the
   entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10          The present invention relates to recombinant cells, particularly recombinant
   plant cells, which are capable of producing dihydrosterculic acid and/or derivatives
   thereof. The present invention also relates to methods of producing oil comprising
   dihydrosterculic acid and/or derivatives thereof.
15 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Dihydrosterculic   acid  (DHS)    is a fatty    acid containing   a  'mid-chain'
   cyclopropane ring structure that can be processed into industrial oils with the rare
   combination of high oxidative stability and low melting points (Kinsman, 1979; Zhang
   et al., 2004).
20          Although routes for the chemical synthesis of DHS are known, these reactions
   generate a series of side-products requiring purification procedures (Zhang et al.,
   2004). In contrast, biological routes of synthesis accurately generate cyclopropanated
   fatty acids from membrane-bound 18:1 by cyclopropanated synthetases (CPFAS)
   isolated from various plants (Bao et al., 2002) and bacteria (Wang et al., 1992).
25          The plant CPFAS isolated from Sterculia foetida, and likely all plant CPFAS
   enzymes, are atypical lipid modifying enzymes by virtue of using 18:1 at the snI
   position of PC (Bao et al., 2003), rather than the acyl-groups attached to the sn2
   position of PC, such as FAD2 (Stymne and Appelqvist, 1978).          The DHS formed in
   transgenic tobacco cell lines was found predominantly on the PC fraction, suggesting
30 that sn1-bound DHS is not easily moved into neutral lipid fractions, such as the
   glycerol backbone of triacylglycerides (TAG, (Bao et al., 2002)). Recently a cotton
   CPFAS (GhCPFAS) expressed in Arabidopsis seed produced ~1% DHS in seed lipid
   analysis (Yu et al., 2011), suggesting that the transfer of DHS from the site of synthesis
   on PC into seed oil is problematic.
35          There is a need for recombinant cells with enhanced levels of DHS production.

                                                   2
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present inventors have developed processes and cells for producing
   dihydrosterculic acid (DHS) and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof.
           In one aspect, the present invention provides a process for producing oil
 5 containing dihydrosterculic acid (DHS) and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof, the
   process comprising
           i) obtaining plant cells, algal cells or fungal cells comprising DHS, and/or a fatty
   acid derivative thereof, the DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof being esterified in
   triacylglycerols in the cells, wherein at least about 3% of the total fatty acid in
10 extractable oil in the cells is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof, and,
           ii) extracting oil from the cells so as to thereby produce the oil.
           In an embodiment, the plants cells of step i) are obtained as a plant or part
   thereof comprising said cells, such as a leaf or a stem.
           In an embodiment, the part is a vegetative plant tissue. In an embodiment, the
15 plant cells are cells other than cells in seeds.
           In another aspect, the present invention provides a process for producing oil
   containing dihydrosterculic acid (DHS) and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof, the
   process comprising
           i) obtaining an oilseed or vegetative plant tissue comprising DHS, and/or a fatty
20 acid derivative thereof, the DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof being esterified in
   triacylglycerols in the oilseed, wherein at least about 3% of the total fatty acid in
   extractable oil in the oilseed or vegetative plant tissue is DHS and/or a fatty acid
   derivative thereof, and
           ii) extracting oil from the oilseed or vegetative plant tissue so as to thereby
25 produce the oil.
           Examples of oilseeds useful for the invention include, but are not limited to,
   seed from a canola plant, a corn plant, a soybean plant, a lupin plant, a peanut plant, a
   sunflower plant, a cotton plant, a safflower plant, a crambe (Crambe abyssinica) plant,
   a camelina (Camelina sativa) plant, a plant of a Euphorbiaceaespecies such as jatropha
30 (Jatropha curcas), a plant of a Brassica species other than canola such as Brassica
   carinataor Brassicajuncea, a flax plant or an Arabidopsis plant.
           In an embodiment, the process comprises the step of extracting the oil comprises
   crushing the oilseed. The process may further comprise purifying the oil, such as by
   degumming, decolourising, or deodorising the oil.
35         In a further embodiment, at least about 5%, or preferably at least about 7%, or
   more preferably at least about 10%, or even more preferably at least about 12%, or

                                                  3
   most preferably at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in the extractable oil in the
   oilseed, vegetative plant tissue or cells is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof. In
   an embodiment, at least about 50%, preferably at least about 75%, more preferably at
   least about 90% of the DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in the extractable lipid
 5 from the oilseed, vegetative plant tissue or cells is esterified in the form of
   triacylglycerols. Each combination of these figures is envisaged.
           In another embodiment, about 3% to about 15%, about 3% to 10%, or about 3%
   to about 7.5% of the total fatty acid in the extractable oil in the oilseed, vegetative plant
   tissue or cells is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof.
10         In a further embodiment, the ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid
   derivative thereof in the extractable oil in the oilseed, vegetative plant tissue or cells is
   less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more preferably less than about
   1:1.
           In an embodiment, step i) comprises obtaining at least about 100, or at least
15 about 1000, or at least about 10000, seeds, or pieces of vegetative tissue from at least
   about 100, or at least about 1000, or at least about 10000, plants, which on average
   comprise at least about 3% DHS as a percentage of the total fatty acids in the
   extractable oil in the oilseeds or vegetative plant tissues.
           In a further embodiment, there is no detectable fatty acid derivative of DHS
20 present in the extractable oil, such as sterculic acid and/or malvalic acid.
           Also provided is a recombinant plant cell, algal cell or fungal cell comprising an
   exogenous polynucleotide encoding a cyclopropane fatty acid synthetase (CPFAS),
   wherein extractable oil in the cell contains dihydrosterculic acid (DHS) and/or a fatty
   acid derivative thereof, and wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to one or
25 more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the
   cell, and wherein the cell has one or more of the following features,
           i) at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least about
   10%, or at least about 12%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in the
   extractable oil in the cell is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
30         ii) the CPFAS converts oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion
   efficiency of at least about 45%, or at least about 50%, or at least about 55%,
           iii) the ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in the
   extractable oil in the cell is less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more
   preferably less than about 1:1, or
35         iv) the CPFAS comprises amino acids having a sequence as provided in any one
   of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28, a biologically active fragment thereof, or an amino acid

                                               4
   sequence which is at least 30% identical to any one or more of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to
   28, wherein the CPFAS is no longer than about 600 amino acids, more preferably no
   longer than 500 amino acids, in length.
           Other features above relating the a process of the invention also apply to the
 5 recombinant cell of the invention.
           In a preferred embodiment, the cell at least comprises features i) and/or iv). In a
   further embodiment, the cell comprises all four of features i), ii), iii) and iv). In another
   embodiment, the cell at least comprises feature iv). In a further embodiment, the cell is
   homozygous for the exogenous polynucleotide.
10         In an embodiment, a corresponding cell lacking the exogenous polynucleotide
   does not produce DHS.
           In an embodiment, the CPFAS converts oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a
   conversion efficiency of about 45% to about 90%, about 45% to about 70%, about 45%
   to about 60%, about 55% to about 90%, or about 55% to about 70%.
15         In a preferred     embodiment,    the cell    further comprises       an exogenous
   polynucleotide encoding a silencing suppressor, wherein the polynucleotide is operably
   linked to one or more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the
   polynucleotide in the cell.
           In a further preferred embodiment, the cell further comprises an exogenous
20 polynucleotide encoding an enzyme having fatty acid acyltransferase activity such as
   an diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) and/or monoacylglycerol (MGAT) activity,
   and wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more promoters that are
   capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the cell.
           In yet a further preferred embodiment, the cell further comprises an exogenous
25 polynucleotide encoding a transcription factor polypeptide that increases the expression
   of one or more glycolytic or fatty acid biosynthetic genes in the cell such as a Wrinkled
   1 (WRIl) transcription factor, a Leafy Cotyledon 1 (Lecl) transcription factor, a Leafy
   Cotyledon 2 (LEC2) transcription factor, a Fus3 transcription factor, an ABI3
   transcription factor, a Dof4 transcription factor, a BABY BOOM (BBM) transcription
30 factor, or a Dof 11 transcription factor, and wherein the polynucleotide is operably
   linked to one or more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the
   polynucleotide in the cell.
           In yet a further preferred embodiment, the cell further comprises an exogenous
   polynucleotide encoding an oleosin, and wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked
35 to one or more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide
   in the cell.

                                                      5
            In yet a further preferred embodiment, the cell further comprises an exogenous
   polynucleotide encoding a double stranded RNA (dsRNA) which comprises a
   nucleotide sequence which is complementary to a region of a target RNA such as a
   target RNA encoding an endogenous A12 desaturase, DHS A9 desaturase, palmitoyl
 5 ACP thioesterase such as FATB, or lipid handling enzyme, preferably a fatty acid
   acyltransferase such as an lysophosphatidyl-choline acyltransferase (LPCAT), a lipase
   such as a phospholipase D, or a fatty acid synthetase such as a long-chain acyl CoA
   synthetase (LACS), and wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more
   promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the cell.
10 The cell may comprises two or more such exogenous polynucleotides encoding
   different dsRNAs comprising sequences complementary to different target RNAs.
             In an embodiment, the cell comprises a first exogenous polynucleotide encoding
   CPFAS, preferably a truncated plant CPFAS or variant thereof, and one or more
   additional exogenous polynucleotides which encode one or more of :
15           i) an fatty acid acyltransferase such as an MGAT or DGAT, preferably a
   DGAT1,
             ii) a transcription factor polypeptide that increases the expression of one or
   more glycolytic or fatty acid biosynthetic genes in the cell such as a WRIl, LEC2 or
   BBM, preferably WRIl,
20           iii) a double stranded RNA (dsRNA) which comprises a nucleotide sequence
   which is complementary to a region of a target RNA of an endogenous lipid handling
   enzyme, preferably a fatty acid acyltransferase such as an LPCAT, or a lipase such as a
   phospholipase D,
             iv) a double stranded RNA (dsRNA) which comprises a nucleotide sequence
25 which is complementary to a region of a target RNA of an endogenous A12 desaturase,
             v) oleosin, or
             vi) a silencing suppressor polypeptide,
    wherein each exogenous polynucleotide is operably linked to a promoter which is
   capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the cell. In an embodiment, the
30 cell comprises i) and ii), i) to iii), i) to iv), i) to v), i) to vi), i) and iii) to vi), i) to iii) and
   vi), or i), and iv) to vi).
            In an embodiment, the cell further comprises an exogenous polynucleotide
   encoding a fatty acid elongase, and wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to
   one or more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in
35 the cell. In this embodiment, the fatty acid derivative may be elongated DHS (eDHS).

                                                 6
           In an embodiment, the cell comprises two exogenous polynucleotides encoding
   different CPFAS enzymes, wherein each polynucleotide is operably linked to one or
   more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the
   cell. Preferably, a first exogenous polynucleotide encodes a truncated plant CPFAS or
 5 variant thereof, and a second exogenous polynucleotide encodes a bacterial or fungal
   CPFAS or variant thereof.
           Examples of truncated plant CPFAS enzymes or variant thereofs include, but are
   not limited to, those comprising amino acids having a sequence as provided in any one
   of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28, a biologically active fragment thereof, or an amino acid
10 sequence which is at least 30% identical to any one or more of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to
   28, wherein the CPFAS is no longer than about 600 amino acids, more preferably no
   longer than 500 amino acids, in length.
           Examples of bacterial or fungal CPFAS enzymes or variant thereofs include, but
   are not limited to, those comprising amino acids having a sequence as provided in any
15 one of SEQ ID NOs: 51 to 58, a biologically active fragment thereof, or an amino acid
   sequence which is at least 30% identical to any one or more of SEQ ID NOs: 51 to 58.
           In a further embodiment, the cell further comprises one or more exogenous
   polynucleotides encoding a glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (GPAT), a 1-acyl
   glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (LPAAT), an acyl-CoA:lysophosphatidylcholine
20 acyltransferase (LPCAT), a phosphatidic acid phosphatase (PAP), or a combination of
   two or more thereof.
           In a preferred embodiment, the cell is a plant cell such as a seed or leaf cell. In
   an embodiment, the cell is a leaf cell.
           In an embodiment, the plant cell is a cell of an oilseed plant.
25         As the skilled person would appreciate, the oilseed, vegetative plant tissue or
   cells used in a process of the invention may have one or more features as defined above
   for a cell of the invention.
           In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of obtaining a cell of
   the invention, the method comprising
30         a) introducing into a cell an exogenous polynucleotide encoding a cyclopropane
   synthetase (CPFAS), wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more
   promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the cell,
           b) expressing the exogenous polynucleotide in the cell, and
           c) performing one or more of the following
35                i) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell, and selecting a cell
   wherein at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least about

                                                    7
   10%, or at least about 12%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in extractable
   oil in the cell is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
                    ii) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell, and selecting a cell
   wherein the CPFAS converts oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion efficiency
 5 of at least about 45%, or at least about 50%, or at least about 55%,
                    iii) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell, and selecting a cell
   wherein the ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in extractable
   oil in the cell is less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more preferably
   less than about 1:1, or
10                  iv) analysing the cell for the exogenous polynucleotide, and selecting a
   cell which comprises a CPFAS which comprises amino acids having a sequence as
   provided in any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28, a biologically active fragment
   thereof, or an amino acid sequence which is at least 30% identical to any one or more
   of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28, wherein the CPFAS is no longer than about 600 amino
15 acids, more preferably no longer than 500 amino acids, in length.
            In an embodiment, the selected cell is a cell as defined above.
            In yet a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of selecting a
   nucleic acid molecule encoding a truncated cyclopropane synthetase (CPFAS), the
   method comprising
20          i) obtaining a nucleic acid molecule operably linked to a promoter, wherein the
   nucleic acid encodes a truncated variant of a CPFAS,
            ii) introducing the nucleic acid molecule into a plant cell, algal cell or fungal cell
   in which the promoter is active;
            iii) expressing the nucleic acid molecule in the cell;
25          iv) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell; and
            v) selecting the nucleic acid molecule by selecting a cell having one or more of
   the following features,
                    a) at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least
   about 10%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in extractable oil in the cell is
30 DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
                   b) converts oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion efficiency of at
   least about 45%, or at least about 50% or at least about 55%, or
                    c) comprises a ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative
   thereof in extractable oil in the cell less about than 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1,
35 more preferably less than about 1:1.
            In an embodiment, the cell is a plant cell.

                                                   8
            In an embodiment, the CPFAS comprises an amino acid sequence which is at
   least 30% identical to any one or more of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28. Preferably, the
   CPFAS is no longer than about 600 amino acids, more preferably no longer than 500
   amino acids, in length.
 5          Also provided is a transgenic plant, or part thereof, comprising a cell of the
   invention.
            In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of producing a
   transgenic plant of the invention or a part therefrom such as seed or leaf, the method
   comprising the steps of
10          i) introducing an exogenous polynucleotide encoding the CPFAS into a cell of a
   plant,
            ii) regenerating a transgenic plant from the cell, and
            iii) optionally obtaining seed from the plant, a part of the plant and/or producing
   one or more progeny plants from the transgenic plant,
15 thereby producing the transgenic plant.
            In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of producing a
   transgenic plant of the invention, the method comprising the steps of
            i) crossing two parental plants, wherein at least one is a transgenic plant of the
   invention,
20          ii) screening one or more progeny plants from the cross for the presence or
   absence of the exogenous polynucleotide, and
            iii) selecting a progeny plant which comprises the exogenous polynucleotide,
   thereby producing the transgenic plant.
            In an embodiment, step iii) comprises analysing the phenotype of the plant, or
25 one or more progeny plants thereof, for one or more of the following features,
            a) at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least about
   10%, or at least about 12%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in extractable
   oil in the cell is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
            b) conversion of oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion efficiency of at
30 least about 45%, or at least about 50%, or at least about 55%, or
            c) a ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in extractable
   oil in the cell of less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more preferably
   less than about 1:1.
            Also provided is a transgenic plant produced using a method of the invention.
35 In an embodiment, the plant is homozygous for the exogenous polynucleotide which is
   integrated into the genome of the plant.

                                                 9
           In a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of producing seed,
   the method comprising;
           i) growing a plant of the invention, and
           ii) harvesting the seed from the plant.
 5         In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of producing DHS
   and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof, the method comprising culturing a cell of the
   invention and/or cultivating a plant, or part thereof, of the invention.
           In an embodiment, the method further comprises extracting DHS and/or a fatty
   acid derivative thereof, from the cell and/or the plant or part thereof.
10         In another aspect, the present invention provides a product comprising or
   produced from DHS or a fatty acid derivative thereof produced from a cell of the
   invention and/or a plant, or part thereof, of the invention.
           In yet a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of producing a
   fatty acid with a methyl group, the process comprising converting the cyclo-propyl
15 group of DHS, or a fatty acid derivative thereof comprising a cyclo-propyl group,
   produced using the method of the invention, to a methyl group.
           In an embodiment, the cyclo-propyl group is converted to a methyl group using
   hydrogenation.
           In an embodiment, the fatty acid with a methyl group is isostearic acid having a
20 methyl group attached at C9 or C1O.
           In a further aspect, the present invention provides a product comprising or
   produced from a fatty acid with a methyl group produced using the method of the
   invention.
           In an embodiment, the product is a lubricant and/or used in cosmetics.
25         Also provided is the use of a cell of the invention and/or a plant, or part thereof,
   of the invention to manufacture an industrial product.
           In a further aspect, the present invention provides DHS and/or a fatty acid
   derivative thereof produced by, or obtained from, a cell of the invention, a plant, or part
   thereof, of the invention or using a method of the invention.
30         In another aspect, the present invention provides a methylated fatty acid
   produced using a method of the invention.
           In a further aspect, the present invention provides a composition comprising one
   or more of the cell of the invention, the plant or part thereof of the invention, the DHS
   and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof of the invention, and the methylated fatty acid of
35 the invention.

                                                 10
            Any embodiment herein shall be taken to apply mutatis mutandis to any other
   embodiment unless specifically stated otherwise.
            The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments
   described herein, which are intended for the purpose of exemplification only.
 5 Functionally-equivalent products, compositions and methods are clearly within the
   scope of the invention, as described herein.
            Throughout this specification, unless specifically stated otherwise or the context
   requires otherwise, reference to a single step, composition of matter, group of steps or
   group of compositions of matter shall be taken to encompass one and a plurality (i.e.
10 one or more) of those steps, compositions of matter, groups of steps or group of
   compositions of matter.
            The invention is hereinafter described by way of the following non-limiting
   Examples and with reference to the accompanying figures.
15 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
   Figure 1: V2 allows overexpression of transgenes and their efficient silencing via
   hairpin RNAi. A, Time course of GFP expression with either no co-infiltrated VSP or
   the addition of V2 or p19. Image shows one representative leaf photographed up to 7
   days post infiltration (dpi), and the image at 7 dpi is used to illustrate the labelling of
20 each infiltration zone. B, Time course of the effect of V2 or p19 on hairpin-based
   silencing of GFP. The image shows one representative leaf photographed at 5 dpi.
   Figure 2: Western blot analysis of GFP expression in leaves sampled at 4 dpi. Image
   shows one experiment from a duplicate conducted on different leaves.
25
   Figure 3: Analysis of the composition of the phosphatidylcholine (PC) fraction of
   leaves infiltrated with various combinations of V2, p19 and hpNbFAD2. Leaves were
   sampled 5 dpi and the error bars represent the standard error of the mean from 5
   independent leaves.
30
   Figure 4:     Analysis of the content and composition of leaf oils when leaves were
   infiltrated with combinations of V2, p19, hpNbFAD2, DGAT1 and oleosin. Leaves
   were samples 5 dpi and error bars represent the standard error of the mean calculated
   from 5 independent leaves.
35
   Figure 5: The enzymatic production of DHS from oleic acid.

                                               11
   Figure 6: Comparison of the production of DHS in leaf assays using either EcCPFAS
   or GhCPFAS in transient leaf assays. Leaves were harvested 4 dpi.
 5 Figure 7: Overexpression of transgenes and silencing of an endogene for improved
   fluxes of DHS into leaf oils. Leaves were harvested 4 dpi. These comparisons were
   conducted on 4 different leaves, and this figure shows results from one representative
   leaf.
10 Figure 8: 'Deep sequencing' analysis of the size and distribution of small RNA
   populations generated by a hairpin targeting the endogene NbFAD2.          The full-length
   NbFAD2 is portrayed indicating the region used to generate a 660 bp hairpin,
   hpNbFAD2. The size and distribution of the dominate classes of small RNAs on the
   forward (F) and reverse (R) strand of the NbFAD2 is illustrated below. Each track is
15 resealed to show the relatively uneven distribution of small RNAs across the target.
   Figure 9: Absolute numbers of the dominant small RNA size classes generated by
   hpNbFAD2. The relative percentage of each size class is given in the text.
20 Figure 10: DHS is accumulated in leaf oils.
   Figure 11: Fatty acid profile of leaves producing DHS in the presence or absence of
   the elongase AtFAEl. Elongation experiments were conducted on 3 different leaves,
   and the figure shows a representative fatty acid profile from a single leaf.
25
   Figure 12: The identification of eDHS using a range of GC and MS techniques. The
   upper panels show GC (FID) traces for lipid extracts from leaves infiltrated with the
   combination of genes as shown. Common and new metabolites are shown as indicated.
   Lower panels show the range of masses for metabolites first resolved on the GC, DHS
30 and eDHS. The inserts for each MS indicates the structure of DHS and eDHS.
   Figure 13: Average wt% of DHS-FAME (black columns) and C18:1-FAME (white
   columns) from total FAME on lipid extracts from N. benthamiana leaf expressing
   GhCPFAS*, V2, DGAT1 and WRIl ("base"), and additional hairpin constructs against
35 endogenous genes coding for putative lipid handling enzymes. LACS, long-chain acyl

                                               12
   CoA synthetase; PLDz, phospholipase D zeta; LPCAT, lysophosphatidylcholine
   acyltransferase. Error bars are standard deviations from at least six replicates.
   KEY TO THE SEQUENCE LISTING
 5 SEQ ID NO: 1 - amino acid sequence of tomato leaf yellow curl virus V2 protein
   SEQ ID NO: 2 - amino acid sequence of tomato bushy stunt virus P19 protein
   SEQ ID NO: 3 -       nucleotide sequence encoding tomato leaf yellow curl virus V2
   protein
   SEQ ID NO: 4 - nucleotide sequence encoding tomato bushy stunt virus P19 protein
10 SEQ ID NO: 5 - amino acid sequence of Sesmum indicum oleosin protein
   SEQ ID NO: 6 - nucleotide sequence encoding Sesmum indicum oleosin protein
   SEQ ID NO: 7 - amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis thalianaAtFAE1 protein
   SEQ ID NO: 8 - nucleotide acid sequence encoding Arabidopsis thaliana AtFAE1
   protein including 5' intron sequence
15 SEQ ID NO: 9 - amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis thalianaAtDGAT1 protein
   SEQ ID NO: 10 - nucleotide acid sequence encoding Arabidopsis thaliana AtDGAT1
   protein
   SEQ ID NO: 11 - amino acid sequence of NbFAD2 protein
   SEQ ID NO: 12 - nucleotide sequence encoding dsRNA hairpin targetting N.
20 benthamianaFAD2
   SEQ ID NOs 13 to 20 - oligonucleotide primers
   SEQ ID NO: 21 - amino acid sequence of Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-1 (truncated
   protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 22 - amino acid sequence of Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-2 (truncated
25 protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 23 - amino acid sequence of Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-3 (truncated
   protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 24 - amino acid sequence of Oryza sativa CPFAS (truncated protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 25 - amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis thaliana CPFAS (truncated
30 protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 26 - amino acid sequence of SterculiafoetidaCPFAS (truncated protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 27 - amino acid sequence of Medicago truncatula CPFAS (truncated
   protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 28 - amino acid sequence of Zea mays CPFAS (truncated protein)
35 SEQ ID NO: 29 - amino acid sequence of Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS- 1
   SEQ ID NO: 30 - amino acid sequence of Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-2

                                          13
   SEQ ID NO: 31 - amino acid sequence of Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-3
   SEQ ID NO: 32 - amino acid sequence of Oryza sativa CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 33 - amino acid sequence of Arabidopsis thalianaCPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 34 - amino acid sequence of SterculiafoetidaCPFAS
 5 SEQ ID NO: 35 - amino acid sequence of Medicago truncatulaCPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 36 - amino acid sequence of Zea mays CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 37 - nucleotide sequence encoding Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-1
   (truncated protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 38 - nucleotide sequence encoding Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-2
10 (truncated protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 39 - nucleotide sequence encoding Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-3
   (truncated protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 40 - nucleotide sequence encoding Oryza sativa CPFAS (truncated
   protein)
15 SEQ ID NO: 41 - nucleotide sequence encoding Arabidopsis thaliana CPFAS
   (truncated protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 42 - nucleotide sequence encoding Sterculia foetida CPFAS (truncated
   protein)
   SEQ ID NO: 43 - nucleotide sequence encoding Zea mays CPFAS (truncated protein)
20 SEQ ID NO: 44 - nucleotide sequence encoding Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-1
   SEQ ID NO: 45 - nucleotide sequence encoding Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-2
   SEQ ID NO: 46 - nucleotide sequence encoding Gossypium hirsutum CPFAS-3
   SEQ ID NO: 47 - nucleotide sequence encoding Oryza sativa CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 48 - nucleotide sequence encoding Arabidopsis thalianaCPFAS
25 SEQ ID NO: 49 - nucleotide sequence encoding SterculiafoetidaCPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 50 - nucleotide sequence encoding Zea mays CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 51 - amino acid sequence of AspergillusfumigatusCPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 52 - amino acid sequence of Escherichiacoli CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 53 - amino acid sequence of Salmonella enterica CPFAS
30 SEQ ID NO: 54 - amino acid sequence of Leishmania infantum CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 55 - amino acid sequence of Synechoccus species CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 56 - amino acid sequence of Neurospora crassa CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 57 - amino acid sequence of Magnaporthegrisea CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 58 - amino acid sequence of Coprinopsis cinerea CPFAS
35 SEQ ID NO: 59 - nucleotide sequence encoding AspergillusfumigatusCPFAS

                                             14
   SEQ ID NO: 60 - codon optimized E. Coli CPFAS open reading frame for plant
   expression
   SEQ ID NO: 61 - nucleotide sequence encoding Salmonella enterica CPFAS
   SEQ ID NO: 62 - nucleotide sequence encoding Leishmania infantum CPFAS
 5 SEQ ID NO: 63 - Cymbiduium ringspot tombus virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 64 - Pelargonium necrotic spot virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 65 - Havel river tombus virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 66 - Cucumber necrosis virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 67 - Grapevine Algerian latent virus p19 like silencing suppressor
10 SEQ ID NO: 68 - Pear latent virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 69 - Lisianthus necrotic virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 70 - Lettuce necrotic stunt virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 71 - Artichoke Mottled Crinkle virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 72 - Carnation Italian ringspot virus p19 like silencing suppressor
15 SEQ ID NO: 73 - Maize necrotic steak virus virus p19 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 74 - Watermelon chlorotic stunt virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 75 - Okra yellow wrinkle virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 76 - Okra leaf curl virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 77 - Tomato leaf curl Togo virus V2 like silencing suppressor
20 SEQ ID NO: 78 - Ageratum leaf curl Cameroon virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 79 -     East African cassava mosaic Malawi virus V2 like silencing
   suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 80 - South African cassava mosaic virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 81 - Tomato leaf curl Madagascar virus V2 like silencing suppressor
25 SEQ ID NO: 82 - Tomato leaf curl Zimbabwe virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 83 - Tomato begomovirus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 84 - Tomato leaf curl Namakely virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 85 - Pepper yellow vein Mali virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO: 86 - Tomato leaf curl Sudan virus V2 like silencing suppressor
30 SEQ ID NO: 87 - Tomato leaf curl Oman virus V2 like silencing suppressor
   SEQ ID NO's 88 to 90 - conserved motifs of DGATs and/or MGATs
   SEQ ID NO 91 - open reading frame encoding N. benthamiana long-chain acyl CoA
   synthetase 4
   SEQ ID NO 92 - N. benthamianalong-chain acyl CoA synthetase 4
35 SEQ ID NO 93 - open reading frame encoding N. benthamiana long-chain acyl CoA
   synthetase 7

                                              15
   SEQ ID NO 94 - N. benthamianalong-chain acyl CoA synthetase 7
   SEQ ID NO 95 - open reading frame encoding N. benthamiana phospholipase Dzl.
   SEQ ID NO 96 - N. benthamianaphospholipase Dzl
   SEQ ID NO 97 - open reading frame encoding N. benthamiana phospholipase Dz2.
 5 SEQ ID NO 98 - N. benthamianaphospholipase Dz2
   SEQ ID NO 99 - open reading frame encoding N. benthamiana lysophosphatidyl
   choline acyltransferase 1
   SEQ ID NO 100 - N. benthamianalysophosphatidyl-choline acyltransferase 1
   SEQ ID NO:101 - nucleotide sequence encoding dsRNA hairpin targetting N.
10 benthamiana long-chain acyl CoA synthetase 4
   SEQ ID NO: 102 - nucleotide sequence encoding dsRNA hairpin targetting N.
   benthamiana long-chain acyl CoA synthetase 7
   SEQ ID NO: 103 - nucleotide sequence encoding dsRNA hairpin targetting N.
   benthamiana phospholipase Dzl
15 SEQ ID NO:104 - nucleotide sequence encoding dsRNA hairpin targetting N.
   benthamiana phospholipase Dz2
   SEQ ID NO:105 - nucleotide sequence encoding dsRNA hairpin targetting N.
   benthamiana lysophosphatidyl-choline acyltransferase 1
20 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   General Techniques and Definitions
           Unless specifically defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used
   herein shall be taken to have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of
   ordinary skill in the art (e.g., in cell culture, molecular genetics, immunology,
25 immunohistochemistry, protein chemistry, and biochemistry).
           Unless otherwise indicated, the recombinant protein, cell culture, and
   immunological techniques utilized in the present invention are standard procedures,
   well known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques are described and explained
   throughout the literature in sources such as, J. Perbal, A Practical Guide to Molecular
30 Cloning, John Wiley and Sons (1984), J. Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A
   Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory Press (1989), T.A. Brown
   (editor), Essential Molecular Biology: A Practical Approach, Volumes 1 and 2, IRL
   Press (1991), D.M. Glover and B.D. Hames (editors), DNA Cloning: A Practical
   Approach, Volumes 1-4, IRL Press (1995 and 1996), and F.M. Ausubel et al. (editors),
35 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Pub. Associates and Wiley
   Interscience (1988, including all updates until present), Ed Harlow and David Lane

                                                   16
   (editors) Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbour Laboratory, (1988),
   and J.E. Coligan et al. (editors) Current Protocols in Immunology, John Wiley & Sons
   (including all updates until present).
           The term "and/or", e.g., "X and/or Y" shall be understood to mean either "X and
 5 Y" or "X or Y" and shall be taken to provide explicit support for both meanings or for
   either meaning.
           As used herein, the term about, unless stated to the contrary, refers to +/- 20%,
   more preferably +/- 10%, more preferably +/- 5%, more preferably +/- 2%, more
   preferably +/- 1%, of the designated value.
10         Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of
   any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
           The term "exogenous" in the context of a polynucleotide or polypeptide refers to
15 the polynucleotide or polypeptide when present in a cell in an altered amount compared
   to its native state. In one embodiment, the cell is a cell that does not naturally comprise
   the polynucleotide or polypeptide.              In another embodiment, the exogenous
   polynucleotide or polypeptide is from a different genus. In another embodiment, the
   exogenous polynucleotide or polypeptide is from a different species.                   In one
20 embodiment the exogenous polynucleotide or polypeptide is expressed in a host
   organism or cell and the exogenous polynucleotide or polypeptide is from a different
   species or genus.
            The term "corresponding" refers to a cell, or plant or part thereof that has the
   same or similar genetic background as a cell, or plant or part thereof of the invention
25 but that has not been modified as described herein (for example, the cell, or plant or
   part thereof lacks an exogenous polynucleotide encoding a CPFAS). A corresponding
   cell or, plant or part thereof can be used as a control to compare, for example, the
   amount of DHS and/or derivative thereof produced with a cell, or plant or part thereof
   modified as described herein. A person skilled in the art is able to readily determine an
30 appropriate "corresponding" cell, plant or part thereof for such a comparison.
           As used herein, the term "seedoil" refers to a composition obtained from the
   seed/grain of a plant which comprises at least 60% (w/w) lipid, or obtainable from the
   seed/grain if the seedoil is still present in the seed/grain. That is, seedoil of, or obtained
   using, the invention includes seedoil which is present in the seed/grain or portion
35 thereof, as well as seedoil which has been extracted from the seed/grain. The seedoil is
   preferably extracted seedoil. Seedoil is typically a liquid at room temperature.

                                               17
   Preferably, the total fatty acid (TFA) content in the seedoil predominantly (>50%)
   comprises fatty acids that are at least 16 carbons in length. More preferably, at least
   50% of the total fatty acids in the seedoil are C18 fatty acids.       The fatty acids are
   typically in an esterified form such as for example, TAG, DAG, acyl-CoA or
 5 phospholipid. Unless otherwise stated, the fatty acids may be free fatty acids and/or in
   an esterified form. In an embodiment, at least 50%, more preferably at least 70%, more
   preferably at least 80%, more preferably at least 90%, more preferably at least 91%,
   more preferably at least 92%, more preferably at least 93%, more preferably at least
   94%, more preferably at least 95%, more preferably at least 96%, more preferably at
10 least 97%, more preferably at least 98%, more preferably at least 99% of the fatty acids
   in seedoil of the invention can be found as TAG. In an embodiment, seedoil of the
   invention is "substantially purified" or "purified" oil that has been separated from one
   or more other lipids, nucleic acids, polypeptides, or other contaminating molecules with
   which it is associated in the seed or in a crude extract.         It is preferred that the
15 substantially purified seedoil is at least 60% free, more preferably at least 75% free,
   and more preferably, at least 90% free from other components with which it is
   associated in the seed or extract. Seedoil of the invention may further comprise non
   fatty acid molecules such as, but not limited to, sterols. In an embodiment, the seedoil
   is canola oil (Brassicanapus, Brassica rapa ssp.), mustard oil (Brassicajuncea), other
20 Brassica    oil (e.g., Brassica napobrassica, Brassica camelina), sunflower             oil
   (Helianthus annus), linseed oil (Linum usitatissimum), soybean oil (Glycine max),
   safflower oil (Carthamus tinctorius), corn oil (Zea mays), tobacco oil (Nicotiana
   tabacum), peanut oil (Arachis hypogaea), palm oil (Elaeis guineensis), cottonseed oil
   (Gossypium hirsutum), coconut oil (Cocos nucifera), avocado oil (Persea americana),
25 olive oil (Olea europaea), cashew oil (Anacardium occidentale), macadamia oil
   (Macadamiaintergrifolia), almond oil (Prunusamygdalus), oat seed oil (Avena sativa),
   rice oil (Oryza sativa or Oryza glaberrima), or Arabidopsis seed oil (Arabidopsis
   thaliana). Seedoil may be extracted from seed/grain by any method known in the art.
   This typically involves extraction with nonpolar solvents such as diethyl ether,
30 petroleum ether, chloroform/methanol or butanol mixtures, generally associated with
   first crushing of the seeds.    Lipids associated with the starch in the grain may be
   extracted with water-saturated butanol. The seedoil may be "de-gummed" by methods
   known in the art to remove polysaccharides or treated in other ways to remove
   contaminants or improve purity, stability, or colour. The TAGs and other esters in the
35 seedoil may be hydrolysed to release free fatty acids, or the seedoil hydrogenated,
   treated chemically, or enzymatically as known in the art.

                                                 18
           As used herein, the term "fatty acid" refers to a carboxylic acid with a long
   aliphatic tail typically of at least 18 carbon atoms in length. Most naturally occurring
   fatty acids have an even number of carbon atoms because their biosynthesis involves
   acetate which has two carbon atoms. The fatty acids may be in a free state (non
 5 esterified) or in an esterified form, such as part of a TAG, DAG, MAG, acyl-CoA (thio
   ester) bound, or other covalently bound form. When covalently bound in an esterified
   form, the fatty acid is referred to herein as an "acyl" group. The fatty acid may be
   esterified    as     a phospholipid        such     as   a phosphatidylcholine      (PC),
   phosphatidylethanolamine,               phosphatidylserine,        phosphatidylglycerol,
10 phosphatidylinositol, or diphosphatidylglycerol. Saturated fatty acids do not contain
   any double bonds or other functional groups along the chain. The term "saturated"
   refers to hydrogen, in that all carbons (apart from the carboxylic acid [-COOH] group)
   contain as many hydrogens as possible. In other words, the omega (o) end contains 3
   hydrogens (CH3-) and each carbon within the chain contains 2 hydrogens (-CH2-).
15 Unsaturated fatty acids are of similar form to saturated fatty acids, except that one or
   more alkene functional groups exist along the chain, with each alkene substituting a
   singly-bonded "-CH2-CH2-" part of the chain with a doubly-bonded "-CH=CH-"
   portion (that is, a carbon double bonded to another carbon). The two next carbon atoms
   in the chain that are bound to either side of the double bond can occur in a cis or trans
20 configuration.
            "Monoacylglyceride" or "MAG" is glyceride in which the glycerol is esterified
   with one fatty acid. As used herein, MAG comprises a hydroxyl group at an sn-1/3
   (also referred to herein as sn-1 MAG or 1-MAG or 1/3-MAG) or sn-2 position (also
   referred to herein as 2-MAG), and therefore MAG does not include phosphorylated
25 molecules such as PA or PC. MAG is thus a component of neutral lipids in a cell.
            "Diacylglyceride" or "DAG" is glyceride in which the glycerol is esterified with
   two fatty acids. As used herein, DAG comprises a hydroxyl group at a sn-1,3 or sn
   1,2/2,3 position, and therefore DAG does not include phosphorylated molecules such as
   PA or PC. DAG is thus a component of neutral lipids in a cell. In the Kennedy
30 pathway of DAG synthesis, the precursor sn-glycerol-3-phosphate (G-3-P) is esterified
   to two acyl groups, each coming from a fatty acid coenzyme A ester, in a first reaction
   catalysed by a glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (GPAT) at position sn-1 to form
   LysoPA, followed by a second acylation at position sn-2 catalysed by a
   lysophosphatidic acid acyltransferase (LPAAT) to form phosphatidic acid (PA). This
35 intermediate is then de-phosphorylated to form DAG. In an alternative anabolic
   pathway, DAG may be formed by the acylation of either sn-I MAG or preferably sn-2

                                               19
   MAG, catalysed by MGAT. DAG may also be formed from TAG by removal of an
   acyl group by a lipase, or from PC essentially by removal of a choline headgroup by
   any of the enzymes CPT, PDCT or PLC.
           "Triacylglyceride" or "TAG" is glyceride in which the glycerol is esterified with
 5 three fatty acids. In the Kennedy pathway of TAG synthesis, DAG is formed as
   described above, and then a third acyl group is esterified to the glycerol backbone by
   the activity of DGAT. Alternative pathways for formation of TAG include one
   catalysed by the enzyme PDAT and the MGAT pathway (WO 2012/000026).
           As used herein, the term "acyltransferase" refers to a protein which is capable of
10 transferring an acyl group from acyl-CoA onto a substrate and includes MGATs,
   GPATs and DGATs.
           As used herein, the term "monoacylglycerol acyltransferase" or "MGAT" refers
   to a protein which transfers a fatty acyl group from acyl-CoA to a MAG substrate to
   produce DAG. Thus, the term "monoacylglycerol acyltransferase activity" at least
15 refers to the transfer of an acyl group from acyl-CoA to MAG to produce DAG.
   MGAT is best known for its role in fat absorption in the intestine of mammals, where
   the fatty acids and sn-2 MAG generated from the digestion of dietary fat are
   resynthesized into TAG in enterocytes for chylomicron synthesis and secretion.
   MGAT catalyzes the first step of this process, in which the acyl group from fatty acyl
20 CoA, formed from fatty acids and CoA, and sn-2 MAG are covalently joined. The
   term "MGAT" as used herein includes enzymes that act on sn-1/3 MAG and/or sn-2
   MAG substrates to form sn-1,3 DAG and/or sn-1,2/2,3-DAG, respectively. In a
   preferred embodiment, the MGAT has a preference for sn-2 MAG substrate relative to
   sn-i MAG, or substantially uses only sn-2 MAG as substrate (examples include
25 MGATs described in Cao et al., 2003 (specificity of mouse MGAT1 for sn2-18:1
   MAG > sn 1/3-18: 1-MAG); Yen and Farese, 2003 (general activities of mouse MGAT1
   and human MGAT2 are higher on 2-MAG than on 1-MAG acyl-acceptor substrates;
   and Cheng et al., 2003 (activity of human MGAT3 on 2-MAGs is much higher than on
   1/3-MAG substrates).
30         As used herein, MGAT does not include enzymes which transfer an acyl group
   preferentially to LysoPA relative to MAG, such enzymes are known as LPAATs. That
   is, a MGAT preferentially uses non-phosphorylated monoacyl substrates, even though
   they may have low catalytic activity on LysoPA. A preferred MGAT does not have
   detectable activity in acylating LysoPA. As shown herein, a MGAT (i.e., M. musculus
35 MGAT2) may also have DGAT function but predominantly functions as a MGAT, i.e.,

                                               20
   it has greater catalytic activity as a MGAT than as a DGAT when the enzyme activity
   is expressed in units of nmoles product/min/mg protein (also see Yen et al., 2002).
           There are three known classes of MGAT, referred to as, MGAT1, MGAT2 and
   MGAT3, respectively. Homologs of the human MGAT1 gene (AF384163) are present
 5 (i.e. sequences are known) at least in chimpanzee, dog, cow, mouse, rat, zebrafish,
   Caenorhabditis elegans, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Saccharomyces cerevisiae,
   Kluyveromyces lactis, Eremothecium gossypii, Magnaporthe grisea, and Neurospora
   crassa. Homologs of the human MGAT2 gene (AY157608) are present at least in
   chimpanzee, dog, cow, mouse, rat, chicken, zebrafish, fruit fly, and mosquito.
10 Homologs of the human MGAT3 gene (AY229854) are present at least in chimpanzee,
   dog, cow, and zebrafish.      However, homologs from other organisms can be readily
   identified by methods known in the art for identifying homologous sequences.
           Examples of MGAT1 polypeptides include proteins encoded by MGAT1 genes
   from Homo sapiens (AF384163),           Mus musculus (AF384162), Pan troglodytes
15 (XM_001166055,       XM_0526044.2), Canis familiaris (XM_545667.2),          Bos taurus
   (NM_001001153.2),       Rattus norvegicus (NM_001108803.1),      Danio rerio MGAT1
   (NM_001122623.1),         Caenorhabditis elegans      (NM_073012.4,     NM_182380.5,
   NM_065258.3, NM_075068.3, NM_072248.3), Kluyveromyces lactis (XM_455588.1),
   Ashbya gossypii (NM_208895.1),          Magnaporthe oryzae (XM_368741.1),          Ciona
20 intestinalispredicted (XM_002120843.1). Examples of MGAT2 polypeptides include
   proteins encoded by MGAT2 genes from Homo sapiens (AY157608), Mus musculus
   (AY157609), Pan troglodytes (XM_522112.2), Canis familiaris (XM_542304.1), Bos
   taurus (NM_001099136.1), Rattus norvegicus, Gallus gallus (XM_424082.2), Danio
   rerio (NM_001006083.1), Drosophila melanogaster (NM_136474.2, NM_136473.2,
25 NM_136475.2),      Anopheles gambiae (XM 001688709.1,         XM_315985),      Tribolium
   castaneum (XM_970053.1).           Examples of MGAT3 polypeptides include proteins
   encoded by MGAT3 genes from Homo sapiens (AY229854), Pan troglodytes
   (XM_001154107.1,          XM_001154171.1,       XM_527842.2),      Canis      familiaris
   (XM_845212.1), Bos taurus (XM_870406.4), Danio rerio (XM_688413.4).
30         As used herein "MGAT pathway" refers to an anabolic pathway, different to the
   Kennedy pathway for the formation of TAG, in which DAG is formed by the acylation
   of either sn-i MAG or preferably sn-2 MAG, catalysed by MGAT. The DAG may
   subsequently be used to form TAG or other lipids
           As used herein, the term "diacylglycerol acyltransferase" (DGAT) refers to a
35 protein which transfers a fatty acyl group from acyl-CoA to a DAG substrate to
   produce TAG. Thus, the term "diacylglycerol acyltransferase activity" refers to the

                                              21
   transfer of an acyl group from acyl-CoA to DAG to produce TAG. A DGAT may also
   have MGAT function but predominantly functions as a DGAT, i.e., it has greater
   catalytic activity as a DGAT than as a MGAT when the enzyme activity is expressed in
   units of nmoles product/min/mg protein (see for example, Yen et al., 2005).
 5         There are three known types of DGAT, referred to as DGAT1, DGAT2 and
   DGAT3,      respectively.   DGAT1 polypeptides typically have 10 transmembrane
   domains, DGAT2 polypeptides typically have 2 transmembrane domains, whilst
   DGAT3 polypeptides typically have none and are thought to be soluble in the
   cytoplasm, not integrated into membranes. Examples of DGAT1 polypeptides include
10 proteins encoded by DGAT1 genes from Aspergillus fumigatus (Accession No.
   XP_755172), Arabidopsis thaliana (CAB44774), Ricinus communis (AAR11479),
   Vernicia fordii (ABC94472),         Vernonia galamensis (ABV21945,        ABV21946),
   Euonymus      alatus (AAV31083),       Caenorhabditis elegans (AAF82410), Rattus
   norvegicus (NP_445889), Homo sapiens (NP_036211), as well as variants and/or
15 mutants thereof.      Examples of DGAT2 polypeptides include proteins encoded by
   DGAT2      genes    from Arabidopsis thaliana (NP_566952.1),        Ricinus communis
   (AAY16324.1),         Vernicia  fordii    (ABC94474. 1),   Mortierella      ramanniana
   (AAK84179.1), Homo sapiens (Q96PD7.2, Q58HT5.1), Bos taurus (Q70VZ8.1), Mus
   musculus (AAK84175.1), as well as variants and/or mutants thereof.
20         Examples of DGAT3 polypeptides include proteins encoded by DGAT3 genes
   from peanut (Arachis hypogaea, Saha, et al., 2006), as well as variants and/or mutants
   thereof. A DGAT has little or no detectable MGAT activity, for example, less than 300
   pmol/min/mg protein, preferably less than 200 pmol/min/mg protein, more preferably
   100 pmol/min/mg protein.
25         DGAT2 but not DGAT1 shares high sequence homology with the MGAT
   enzymes, suggesting that DGAT2 and MGAT genes likely share a common genetic
   origin. Although multiple isoforms are involved in catalysing the same step in TAG
   synthesis, they may play distinct functional roles, as suggested by differential tissue
   distribution and subcellular localization of the DGAT/MGAT family of enzymes. In
30 mammals, MGAT1 is mainly expressed in stomach, kidney, adipose tissue, whilst
   MGAT2 and MGAT3 show highest expression in the small intestine. In mammals,
   DGAT1 is ubiquitously expressed in many tissues, with highest expression in small
   intestine, whilst DGAT2 is most abundant in liver.       MGAT3 only exists in higher
   mammals and humans, but not in rodents from bioinformatic analysis. MGAT3 shares
35 higher sequence homology to DGAT2 than MGAT1 and MGAT3. MGAT3 exhibits
   significantly higher DGAT activity than MGAT1 and MGAT2 enzymes (MGAT3 >

                                               22
   MGAT1 > MGAT2) when either MAGs or DAGs were used as substrates, suggesting
   MGAT3 functions as a putative TAG synthase.
           Both MGAT1 and MGAT2 belong to the same class of acyltransferases as
   DGAT2.       Some of the motifs that have been shown to be important for DGAT2
 5 catalytic activity in some DGAT2s are also conserved in MGAT acyltransferases. Of
   particular interest is a putative neutral lipid-binding domain with the concensus
   sequence FLXLXXXN (SEQ ID NO: 88) where each X is independently any amino
   acid other than proline, and N is any nonpolar amino acid, located within the N
   terminal    transmembrane    region  followed    by   a   putative glycerol/phospholipid
10 acyltransferase domain. The FLXLXXXN motif is found in the mouse DGAT2 (amino
   acids 81-88) and MGAT1/2 but not in yeast or plant DGAT2s.             It is important for
   activity of the mouse DGAT2.        Other DGAT2 and/or MGAT1/2 sequence motifs
   include:
            1.      A highly conserved YFP tripeptide in most DGAT2 polypeptides and
15 also in MGAT1 and MGAT2, for example, present as amino acids 139-141 in mouse
   DGAT2.        Mutating this motif within the yeast DGAT2 with non-conservative
   substitutions rendered the enzyme non-functional.
           2.       HPHG tetrapeptide (SEQ ID NO: 89), highly conserved in MGATs as
   well as in DGAT2 sequences from animals and fungi, for example, present as amino
20 acids 161-164 in mouse DGAT2, and important for catalytic activity at least in yeast
   and mouse DGAT2. Plant DGAT2 acyltransferases have a EPHS conserved sequence
   instead, so conservative changes to the first and fourth amino acids can be tolerated.
           3.       A longer conserved motif which is part of the putative glycerol
   phospholipid        domain.           An       example       of     this      motif     is
25 RXGFX(K/R)XAXXXGXXX(L/V)VPXXXFG(E/Q)                      (SEQ ID NO:90),       which is
   present as amino acids 304-327 in mouse DGAT2.            This motif is less conserved in
   amino acid sequence than the others, as would be expected from its length, but
   homologs can be recognised by motif searching. The spacing may vary between the
   more conserved amino acids, i.e., there may be additional X amino acids within the
30 motif, or less X amino acids compared to the sequence above.
           As used herein, the term "Oleosin" refers to an amphipathic protein present in
   the membrane of oil bodies in the storage tissues of seeds (see, for example, Huang,
   1996; Lin et al., 2005; Capuano et al., 2007; Liu et al., 2009; Shimada and Hara
   Nishimura, 2010).       This term encompasses caleosins which bind calcium, and
35 steroleosins which bind sterols. However, generally a large proportion of the oleosins
   of oil bodies will not be caleosins and/or steroleosins. Plant seeds accumulate TAG in

                                               23
   subcellular structures called oil bodies.     These organelles consist of a TAG core
   surround by a phospholipid monolayer containing several embedded proteins including
   oleosins, caleosins and steroleosins (Jolivet et al., 2004). Oleosins represent the most
   abundant protein in the membrane of oil bodies.
 5         Oleosins are of low Mr (15-26,000).   Within each seed species, there are usually
   two or more oleosins of different Mr.      Each oleosin molecule contains a relatively
   hydrophilic N-terminal domain (for example, about 48 amino acid residues), a central
   totally hydrophobic domain (for example, of about 70-80 amino acid residues) which is
   particularly rich in aliphatic amino acids such as alanine, glycine, leucine, isoleucine
10 and valine, and an amphipathic ct-helical domain (for example, of about 33 amino acid
   residues) at or near the C-terminus. Generally, the central stretch of the hydrophobic
   residues is inserted into the lipid core and the amphiphatic N-terminal and/or
   amphiphatic C-terminal are located at the surface of the oil bodies, with positively
   charged residues embedded in a phospholipid monolayer and the negatively charged
15 ones exposed to the exterior. A substantial number of oleosin protein sequences, and
   nucleotide sequences encoding therefor, are known from a large number of different
   plant species.   Examples include, but are not limited to, oleosins from Arabidposis,
   canola, corn, rice, peanut, castor, soybean, flax, grape, cabbage, cotton, sunflower,
   sorghum and barley.
20         As used herein, the term "desaturase" refers to an enzyme which is capable of
   introducing a carbon-carbon double bond into the acyl group of a fatty acid substrate
   which is typically in an esterified form such as, for example, fatty acid CoA esters. The
   acyl group may be esterified to a phospholipid such as phosphatidylcholine (PC), or to
   acyl carrier protein (ACP), or in a preferred embodiment to CoA.              Desaturases
25 generally may be categorized into three groups accordingly. In one embodiment, the
   desaturase is a front-end desaturase.
           As used herein, the term "A12 desaturase" refers to a protein which performs a
   desaturase reaction converting oleic acid to linoleic acid.        Thus, the term " A12
   desaturase activity" refers to the conversion of oleic acid to linoleic acid. These fatty
30 acids may be in an esterified form, such as, for example, as part of a phospholipid.
           As used herein, the term "palmitoyl-ACP thioesterase" refers to a protein which
   hydrolyses palmitoyl-ACP to produce free palmitic acid.       Thus, the term " palmitoyl
   ACP thioesterase activity" refers to the hydrolysis of palmitoyl-ACP to produce free
   palmitic acid. An example of a palmitoyl-ACP thioesterase is FatB.
35         As used herein, the term "lipid handling enzyme" refers to a protein involved in
   the biosynthesis or metabolism to TAG. Considering the present application relates to

                                                24
   the production of DHS, the skilled person can readily test candidate lipid handling
   enzymes to ensure they are useful for the invention.          Examples of lipid handling
   enzymes include, but are not limited to, fatty acid acyltransferase such as an
   lysophosphatidyl-choline acyltransferase (LPCAT), a lipase such as a phospholipase D,
 5 or a fatty acid synthetase such as a long-chain acyl CoA synthetase (LACS). Such
   types of enzymes are well known in the art.
           As used herein, the term "acyl-CoA:lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase"
   (EC 2.3.1.23; LPCAT) refers to a protein which reversibly catalyzes the acyl-CoA
   dependent acylation of lysophophatidylcholine to produce phosphatidylcholine and
10 CoA.     Thus, the term "acyl-CoA:lysophosphatidylcholine         acyltransferase activity"
   refers   to   the    reversible  acylation    of    lysophophatidylcholine     to   produce
   phosphatidylcholine and CoA.
           As used herein, the term "phospholipase D" (PLD) refers to a protein which
   hydrolyzes phosphatidylcholine to produce phosphatidic acid and a choline headgroup.
15 Thus,    the   term    "phospholipase    D    activity"  refers  to   the   hydrolysis    of
   phosphatidylcholine to produce phosphatidic acid and a choline headgroup.
           As used herein, the term "long-chain acyl CoA synthetase" (LACS) refers to a
   ligase family that activates the breakdown of complex fatty acids.          LACS plays a
   crucial role in intermediary metabolism by catalyzing the formation of fatty acyl-CoA
20 by a two-step process proceeding through an adenylated intermediate. It catalyzes the
   pre-step reaction for p-oxidation of fatty acids or can be incorporated in phospholipids.
           As used herein, the term "Wrinkled 1" or "WRIl" or "WRL1" refers to a
   transcription factor of the AP2/ERWEBP class which regulates the expression of
   several enzymes involved in glycolysis and de novo fatty acid biosynthesis. WRIl has
25 two plant-specific (AP2/EREB) DNA-binding domains. WRIl in at least Arabidopsis
   also regulates the breakdown of sucrose via glycolysis thereby regulating the supply of
   precursors for fatty acid biosynthesis. In other words, it controls the carbon flow from
   the photosynthate to storage lipids. wri] mutants have wrinkled seed phenotype, due to
   a defect in the incorporation of sucrose and glucose into TAGs.
30         Examples of genes which are trancribed by WRIl include, but are not limited to,
   one or more, preferably all, of pyruvate kinase (At5g52920, At3g22960), pyruvate
   dehydrogenase      (PDH)    Elalpha   subunit    (At1g01090),    acetyl-CoA     carboxylase
   (ACCase), BCCP2 subunit (At5g15530), enoyl-ACP reductase (At2g05990; EAR),
   phosphoglycerate mutase (At1g22170), cytosolic fructokinase, and cytosolic
35 phosphoglycerate mutase, sucrose synthase (SuSy) (see, for example, Liu et al., 2010b;
   Baud et al., 2007; Ruuska et al., 2002).

                                               25
           As used herein, the term "Leafy Cotyledon 2" or "LEC2" refers to a B3 domain
   transcription factor which participates in zygotic and in somatic embryogenesis.       Its
   ectopic expression facilitates     the embryogenesis     from vegetative plant tissues
   (Alemanno et al., 2008). LEC2 also comprises a DNA binding region found thus far
 5 only in plant proteins.       Examples of LEC2 polypeptides include proteins from
   Arabidopsis thaliana (NP_564304.1), Medicago truncatula (CAA42938.1)                  and
   Brassicanapus (ADO16343.1).
           As used herein, the term "BABY BOOM" or "BBM" refers an AP2/ERF
   transcription factor that induces regeneration under culture conditions that normally do
10 not support regeneration in wild-type plants.     Ectopic expression of Brassica napus
   BBM (BnBBM) genes in B. napus and Arabidopsis induces spontaneous somatic
   embryogenesis and organogenesis from seedlings grown on hormone-free basal
   medium (Boutilier et al., 2002). In tobacco, ectopic BBM expression is sufficient to
   induce adventitious shoot and root regeneration on basal medium, but exogenous
15 cytokinin is required for somatic embryo (SE) formation (Srinivasan et al., 2007).
   Examples     of BBM polypeptides        include   proteins  from Arabidopsis thaliana
   (NP_197245.2) and Medicago truncatula(AAW82334. 1).
   Dihydrosterculic acid (DHS)
20         The production of DHS from oleic acid is shown in Figure 5. This reaction can
   be achieved by the use of a cyclopropane fatty acid synthetase.
           The term "cyclopropane fatty acid         synthetase" (CPFAS),     "cyclopropane
   synthase" or variants thereof refers to a polypeptide with the capacity to synthesize a
   fatty acid containing a cyclopropane ring. The basic reaction involves the addition of a
25 methylene group across a double bond of a fatty acid. Thus, the polypeptide catalyzes
   the addition of a methylene group across the unsaturated center of an unsaturated fatty
   acid, and includes the addition of a methylene group across a double bond of an acyl
   group. The fatty acyl group may be esterified to a phospholipid; such phospholipid
   substrates      include      phosphatidylcholine,     phosphatidylethanolamine,       and
30 phosphatidylglycerol. A "plant CPFAS" is an enzyme originally obtained from a plant
   source; the enzyme may be modified where such modifications include but are not
   limited to truncation, amino acid deletions, additions, substitutions, and glycosylation,
   and where the resulting modified enzyme possesses CPFAS activity. In a particularly
   preferred embodiment, a modified plant CPFAS is truncated at the N-terminal end
35 when compared to a naturally occurring enzyme.

                                                26
           At least some DHS may be converted in the cell to a fatty acid derivative.
   Alternatively, or in addition, the DHS may be converted to a fatty acid derivative
   following/during extraction from the cell, oilseed or vegetative plant tissue.
           Preferably, the fatty acid derivative comprises a cyclo-propyl group (3
 5 membered ring) or is a branched chain fatty acid having a methyl group as the branch.
           In one embodiment, the derivative comprises 2, 4 or 6 more carbons in the acyl
   chain when compared to DHS, such as eDHS described in Example 6.
           In another embodiment, the cyclo-propyl group or a methyl group is a mid-chain
   group such as isostearic acid with the methyl group attached to C9 or C1O.
10         Some DHA fatty acid derivatives, such as sterculic acid and/or malvalic acid,
   have undesirable characteristics. Thus, in an embodiment, the oilseed, vegetative plant
   tissue or cells comprise less than about 10%, or less than about 5%, or less than about
   3%, less than about 1%, or less than about 0.5% sterculic acid and/or malvalic acid,
   preferably the sum of the sterculic and malvalic acids is less than 0.5% of the total fatty
15 acids in the extractable oil of the oilseed, vegetative plant tissue or cells. When using
   cells which naturally produce sterculic acid and/or malvalic acid, such as cotton cells,
   the levels of these derivatives can be reduced by downregulating the production of the
   enzymes directly or indirectly involved in the conversion DHS to these derivatives such
   as DHS A9 desaturase using, for example, RNA silencing.
20         A particularly useful DHA fatty acid derivative is isostearic acid (ISA) with a
   methyl group attached to C9 or C10 which has a rare combination of high oxidative
   stability and low melting point thus imparting valuable properties to industrial oils
   including increased lubricity, stability and the preferred melting properties that make it
   useful for cosmetic uses (WO 99/18217).          DHS produced using a method of the
25 invention can readily be converted to ISA using techniques known in the art such as
   hydrogenation.
           Hydrogenation of an unsaturated fatty acid such as DHS refers to the addition of
   hydrogen atoms to the acid, causing cyclo-groups to become single ones, as carbon
   atoms acquire new hydrogen partners.          Full hydrogenation results in a molecule
30 containing the maximum amount of hydrogen (in other words, the conversion of an
   unsaturated fatty acid into a saturated one).        Partial hydrogenation results in the
   addition of hydrogen atoms at some of the empty positions, with a corresponding
   reduction in the number of cyclo-groups. Examples of procedures of hydrogenation are
   described in Kai (1982), US 4,321,210 and US 3,201431.
35

                                                27
   Polypeptides
           The terms "polypeptide" and "protein" are generally used interchangeably.
           A polypeptide or class of polypeptides may be defined by the extent of identity
   (% identity) of its amino acid sequence to a reference amino acid sequence, or by
 5 having a greater % identity to one reference amino acid sequence than to another. The
   % identity of a polypeptide to a reference amino acid sequence is typically determined
   by GAP analysis (Needleman and Wunsch, 1970; GCG program) with parameters of a
   gap creation penalty = 5, and a gap extension penalty = 0.3. The query sequence is at
   least 100 amino acids in length and the GAP analysis aligns the two sequences over a
10 region of at least 100 amino acids. Even more preferably, the query sequence is at least
   250 amino acids in length and the GAP analysis aligns the two sequences over a region
   of at least 250 amino acids.      Even more preferably, the GAP analysis aligns two
   sequences over their entire length. The polypeptide or class of polypeptides may have
   the same enzymatic activity as, or a different activity than, or lack the activity of, the
15 reference polypeptide. Preferably, the polypeptide has an enzymatic activity of at least
   10% of the activity of the reference polypeptide.
           As used herein a "biologically active fragment" is a portion of a polypeptide of
   the invention which maintains a defined activity of a full-length reference polypeptide
   for example, CPFAS activity. Biologically active fragments as used herein exclude the
20 full-length polypeptide. Biologically active fragments can be any size portion as long
   as they maintain the defined activity.      Preferably, the biologically active fragment
   maintains at least 10% of the activity of the full length polypeptide.
           With regard to a defined polypeptide or enzyme, it will be appreciated that %
   identity   figures higher than those provided         herein   will encompass   preferred
25 embodiments. Thus, where applicable, in light of the minimum % identity figures, it is
   preferred that the polypeptide/enzyme comprises an amino acid sequence which is at
   least 40%, more preferably at least 50%, more preferably at least 60%, more preferably
   at least 65%, more preferably at least 70%, more preferably at least 75%, more
   preferably at least 80%, more preferably at least 85%, more preferably at least 90%,
30 more preferably at least 91%, more preferably at least 92%, more preferably at least
   93%, more preferably at least 94%, more preferably at least 95%, more preferably at
   least 96%, more preferably at least 97%, more preferably at least 98%, more preferably
   at least 99%, more preferably at least 99.1%, more preferably at least 99.2%, more
   preferably at least 99.3%, more preferably at least 99.4%, more preferably at least
35 99.5%, more preferably at least 99.6%, more preferably at least 99.7%, more preferably

                                                 28
   at least 99.8%, and even more preferably at least 99.9% identical to the relevant
   nominated SEQ ID NO.
           Amino acid sequence mutants of the polypeptides defined herein can be
   prepared by introducing appropriate nucleotide changes into a nucleic acid defined
 5 herein, or by in vitro synthesis of the desired polypeptide. Such mutants include for
   example, deletions, insertions, or substitutions of residues within the amino acid
   sequence.    A combination of deletions, insertions and substitutions can be made to
   arrive at the final construct, provided that the final polypeptide product possesses the
   desired characteristics.
10         Mutant (altered) polypeptides can be prepared using any technique known in the
   art, for example, using directed evolution or rationale design strategies (see below).
   Products derived from mutated/altered DNA can readily be screened using techniques
   described herein to determine if they possess CPFAS activity.
           In designing amino acid sequence mutants, the location of the mutation site and
15 the nature of the mutation will depend on characteristic(s) to be modified. The sites for
   mutation can be modified individually or in series for example, by (1) substituting first
   with conservative amino acid choices and then with more radical selections depending
   upon the results achieved, (2) deleting the target residue, or (3) inserting other residues
   adjacent to the located site.
20         Amino acid sequence deletions generally range from about 1 to 15 residues,
   more preferably about 1 to 10 residues and typically about 1 to 5 contiguous residues.
           Substitution mutants have at least one amino acid residue in the polypeptide
   removed and a different residue inserted in its place. The sites of greatest interest for
   substitutional mutagenesis include sites identified as the active site(s). Other sites of
25 interest are those in which particular residues obtained from various strains or species
   are identical.   These positions may be important for biological activity. These sites,
   especially those falling within a sequence of at least three other identically conserved
   sites, are preferably substituted in a relatively conservative manner. Such conservative
   substitutions are shown in Table 1 under the heading of "exemplary substitutions".
30         In a preferred embodiment a mutant/variant polypeptide has only, or not more
   than, one or two or three or four conservative amino acid changes when compared to a
   naturally occurring polypeptide.       Details of conservative amino acid changes are
   provided in Table 1. As the skilled person would be aware, such minor changes can
   reasonably be predicted not to alter the activity of the polypeptide when expressed in a
35 recombinant cell.

                                               29
   Table 1.       Exemplary substitutions.
               Original                           Exemplary
               Residue                            Substitutions
               Ala (A)                            val; leu; ile; gly
               Arg (R)                            lys
               Asn (N)                            gln; his
               Asp (D)                            glu
               Cys (C)                            ser
               Gln (Q)                            asn; his
               Glu (E)                            asp
               Gly (G)                           pro, ala
               His (H)                            asn; gln
               Ile (I)                            leu; val; ala
               Leu (L)                            ile; val; met; ala; phe
               Lys (K)                            arg
               Met (M)                            leu; phe
               Phe (F)                            leu; val; ala
               Pro (P)                            gly
               Ser (S)                            thr
               Thr (T)                            ser
               Trp (W)                            tyr
               Tyr (Y)                            trp; phe
               Val (V)                            ile; leu; met; phe, ala
 5 Directed Evolution
       In directed evolution, random mutagenesis is applied to a protein, and a selection
   regime is used to pick out variants that have the desired qualities, for example,
   increased CPFAS activity. Further rounds of mutation and selection are then applied.
   A typical directed evolution strategy involves three steps:
10     1) Diversification: The gene encoding the protein of interest is mutated and/or
   recombined at random to create a large library of gene variants. Variant gene libraries
   can be constructed through error prone PCR (see, for example, Cadwell and Joyce,

                                               30
   1992), from pools of DNaseJ digested fragments prepared from parental templates
   (Stemmer, 1994a; Stemmer, 1994b; Crameri et al., 1998; Coco et al., 2001) from
   degenerate oligonucleotides (Ness et al., 2002, Coco, 2002) or from mixtures of both,
   or even from undigested parental templates (Zhao et al., 1998; Eggert et al., 2005;
 5 J6z6quek et al., 2008) and are usually assembled through PCR. Libraries can also be
   made from parental sequences recombined in vivo or in vitro by either homologous or
   non-homologous recombination (Ostermeier et al., 1999; Volkov et al., 1999; Sieber et
   al., 2001). Variant gene libraries can also be constructed by sub-cloning a gene of
   interest into a suitable vector, transforming the vector into a "mutator" strain such as
10 the E. coli XL-1 red (Stratagene) and propagating the transformed bacteria for a
   suitable number of generations. Variant gene libraries can also be constructed by
   subjecting the gene of interest to DNA shuffling (i.e., in vitro homologous
   recombination of pools of selected mutant genes by random fragmentation and
   reassembly) as broadly described by Harayama (1998).
15      2) Selection: The library is tested for the presence of mutants (variants)
   possessing the desired property using a screen or selection. Screens enable the
   identification and isolation of high-performing mutants by hand, while selections
   automatically eliminate all nonfunctional mutants. A screen may involve screening for
   the presence of known conserved amino acid motifs. Alternatively, or in addition, a
20 screen may involve expressing the mutated polynucleotide in a host organsim or part
   thereof and assaying the level of CPFAS activity by, for example, quantifying the level
   of resultant product in lipid extracted from the organism or part thereof, and
   determining the level of product in the extracted lipid from the organsim or part thereof
   relative to a corresponding organism or part thereof lacking the mutated polynucleotide
25 and optionally, expressing the parent (unmutated) polynucleotide. Alternatively, the
   screen may involve feeding the organism or part thereof labelled substrate and
   determining the level of substrate or product in the organsim or part thereof relative to a
   corresponding organism or part thereof lacking the mutated polynucleotide and
   optionally, expressing the parent (unmutated) polynucleotide.
30      3) Amplification: The variants identified in the selection or screen are replicated
   many fold, enabling researchers to sequence their DNA in order to understand what
   mutations have occurred.
        Together, these three steps are termed a "round" of directed evolution. Most
   experiments will entail more than one round. In these experiments, the "winners" of
35 the previous round are diversified in the next round to create a new library. At the end

                                                 31
   of the experiment, all evolved protein or polynucleotide mutants are characterized
   using biochemical methods.
   RationalDesign
 5          A protein can be designed rationally, on the basis of known information about
   protein structure and folding. This can be accomplished by design from scratch (de
   novo design) or by redesign based on native scaffolds (see, for example, Hallinga,
   1997; and Lu and Berry, Protein Structure Design and Engineering, Handbook of
   Proteins 2, 1153-1157 (2007)). Protein design typically involves identifying sequences
10 that fold into a given or target structure and can be accomplished using computer
   models. Computational protein design algorithms search the sequence-conformation
   space for sequences that are low in energy when folded to the target structure.
   Computational protein design algorithms use models of protein energetics to evaluate
   how mutations would affect a protein's structure and function. These energy functions
15 typically include a combination of molecular mechanics, statistical (i.e. knowledge
   based), and other empirical terms.          Suitable available software includes IPRO
   (Interative Protein Redesign and Optimization), EGAD (A Genetic Algorithm for
   Protein Design), Rosetta Design, Sharpen, and Abalone.
20         Also included within the scope of the invention are polypeptides defined herein
   which are differentially modified during or after synthesis for example, by
   biotinylation, benzylation, glycosylation, acetylation, phosphorylation, amidation,
   derivatization by known protecting/blocking groups, proteolytic cleavage, linkage to an
   antibody molecule or other cellular ligand, etc. These modifications may serve to
25 increase the stability and/or bioactivity of the polypeptide of the invention.
           Polypeptides as described herein may be expressed as a fusion to at least one
   other polypeptide. In a preferred embodiment, the at least one other polypeptide is
   selected from the group consisting of: a polypeptide that enhances the stability of the
   fusion protein, and a polypeptide that assists in the purification of the fusion protein.
30
   Polynucleotides
           The terms "polynucleotide", and "nucleic acid" are used interchangeably. They
   refer to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length, either deoxyribonucleotides or
   ribonucleotides, or analogs thereof. A polynucleotide of the invention may be of
35 genomic, cDNA, semisynthetic, or synthetic origin, double-stranded or single-stranded
   and by virtue of its origin or manipulation: (1) is not associated with all or a portion of

                                               32
   a polynucleotide with which it is associated in nature, (2) is linked to a polynucleotide
   other than that to which it is linked in nature, or (3) does not occur in nature. The
   following are non-limiting examples of polynucleotides: coding or non-coding regions
   of a gene or gene fragment, loci (locus) defined from linkage analysis, exons, introns,
 5 messenger RNA (mRNA), transfer RNA (tRNA), ribosomal RNA (rRNA), ribozymes,
   cDNA, recombinant polynucleotides, branched polynucleotides, plasmids, vectors,
   isolated DNA of any sequence, isolated RNA of any sequence, chimeric DNA of any
   sequence, nucleic acid probes, and primers. A polynucleotide may comprise modified
   nucleotides such as methylated nucleotides and nucleotide analogs.             If present,
10 modifications to the nucleotide structure may be imparted before or after assembly of
   the polymer.     The sequence of nucleotides may be interrupted by non-nucleotide
   components.    A polynucleotide may be further modified after polymerization such as
   by conjugation with a labeling component.
           As used herein, the term "gene" is to be taken in its broadest context and
15 includes the deoxyribonucleotide sequences comprising the transcribed region and, if
   translated, the protein coding region, of a structural gene and including sequences
   located adjacent to the coding region on both the 5' and 3' ends for a distance of at least
   about 2 kb on either end and which are involved in expression of the gene. In this
   regard, the gene includes control signals such as promoters, enhancers, termination
20 and/or polyadenylation signals that are naturally associated with a given gene, or
   heterologous control signals, in which case, the gene is referred to as a "chimeric gene".
   The sequences which are located 5' of the protein coding region and which are present
   on the mRNA are referred to as 5' non-translated sequences. The sequences which are
   located 3' or downstream of the protein coding region and which are present on the
25 mRNA are referred to as 3' non-translated sequences. The term "gene" encompasses
   both cDNA and genomic forms of a gene. A genomic form or clone of a gene contains
   the coding region which may be interrupted with non-coding sequences termed
   "introns", "intervening regions", or "intervening sequences." Introns are segments of a
   gene which are transcribed into nuclear RNA (nRNA). Introns may contain regulatory
30 elements such as enhancers. Introns are removed or "spliced out" from the nuclear or
   primary transcript; introns therefore are absent in the mRNA transcript. The mRNA
   functions during translation to specify the sequence or order of amino acids in a nascent
   polypeptide. The term "gene" includes a synthetic or fusion molecule encoding all or
   part of the proteins of the invention described herein and a complementary nucleotide
35 sequence to any one of the above.

                                                 33
           As used herein, "chimeric DNA" refers to any DNA molecule that is not
   naturally found in nature; also referred to herein as a "DNA construct". Typically,
   chimeric DNA comprises regulatory and transcribed or protein coding sequences that
   are not naturally found together in nature. Accordingly, chimeric DNA may comprise
 5 regulatory sequences and coding sequences that are derived from different sources, or
   regulatory sequences and coding sequences derived from the same source, but arranged
   in a manner different than that found in nature. The open reading frame may or may
   not be linked to its natural upstream and downstream regulatory elements. The open
   reading frame may be incorporated into, for example, the plant genome, in a non
10 natural location, or in a replicon or vector where it is not naturally found such as a
   bacterial plasmid or a viral vector. The term "chimeric DNA" is not limited to DNA
   molecules which are replicable in a host, but includes DNA capable of being ligated
   into a replicon by, for example, specific adaptor sequences.
           A "transgene" is a gene that has been introduced into the genome by a
15 transformation procedure.        The terms "genetically modified", "transgenic" and
   variations thereof include introducing a gene into a cell by transformation or
   transduction, mutating a gene in a cell and genetically altering or modulating the
   regulation of a gene in a cell, or the progeny of any cell modified as described above.
           A "genomic region" as used herein refers to a position within the genome where
20 a transgene, or group of transgenes (also referred to herein as a cluster), have been
   inserted into a cell, or predecessor thereof. Such regions only comprise nucleotides that
   have been incorporated by the intervention of man such as by methods described
   herein.
           A "recombinant polynucleotide" of the invention refers to a nucleic acid
25 molecule which has been constructed or modified by artificial recombinant methods.
   The recombinant polynucleotide may be present in a cell in an altered amount or
   expressed at an altered rate (e.g., in the case of mRNA) compared to its native state. In
   one embodiment, the polynucleotide is introduced into a cell that does not naturally
   comprise the polynucleotide. Typically an exogenous DNA is used as a template for
30 transcription of mRNA which is then translated into a continuous sequence of amino
   acid residues coding for a polypeptide of the invention within the transformed cell. In
   another embodiment, the polynucleotide is endogenous to the cell and its expression is
   altered by recombinant means, for example, an exogenous control sequence is
   introduced upstream of an endogenous gene of interest to enable the transformed cell to
35 express the polypeptide encoded by the gene.

                                                 34
           A recombinant polynucleotide of the invention includes polynucleotides which
   have not been separated from other components of the cell-based or cell-free
   expression system, in which it is present, and polynucleotides produced in said cell
   based or cell-free systems which are subsequently purified away from at least some
 5 other components.      The polynucleotide can be a contiguous stretch of nucleotides
   existing in nature, or comprise two or more contiguous stretches of nucleotides from
   different sources (naturally occurring and/or synthetic) joined to form a single
   polynucleotide.     Typically, such chimeric polynucleotides comprise at least an open
   reading frame encoding a polypeptide of the invention operably linked to a promoter
10 suitable of driving transcription of the open reading frame in a cell of interest.
           In one embodiment, a cell of the invention comprises, a first exogenous
   polynucleotide encodes a truncated plant CPFAS or variant thereof, and a second
   exogenous polynucleotide encodes a bacterial or fungal CPFAS or variant thereof.
           Examples of polynucleotides encoding truncated plant CPFAS enzymes or
15 variant thereofs include, but are not limited to, those comprising
           i) a sequence of nucleotides selected from any one of SEQ ID NOs: 37 to 43,
           ii) a sequence of nucleotides which are at least 30% identical to one or more of
   the sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 37 to 43, and/or
           iii) a sequence which hybridises to i) and/or ii) under stringent conditions,
20 preferably wherein the encoded CPFAS is no longer than about 600 amino acids, more
   preferably no longer than 500 amino acids, in length.
           Examples of polynucleotides encoding bacterial or fungal CPFAS enzymes or
   variant thereofs include, but are not limited to, those comprising
           i) a sequence of nucleotides selected from any one of SEQ ID NOs: 59 to 62,
25         ii) a sequence of nucleotides which are at least 30% identical to one or more of
   the sequences set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 59 to 62, and/or
           iii) a sequence which hybridises to i) and/or ii) under stringent conditions.
           If the cell is a plant cell, preferably the polynucleotide is optimized for plant
   expression using rountine techniques such as those used to produce SEQ ID NO: 60.
30         With regard to the defined polynucleotides, it will be appreciated that % identity
   figures higher than those provided above will encompass preferred embodiments.
   Thus, where applicable, in light of the minimum % identity figures, it is preferred that
   the polynucleotide comprises a polynucleotide sequence which is at least 40%, more
   preferably at least 50%, more preferably at least 60%, more preferably at least 65%,
35 more preferably at least 70%, more preferably at least 75%, more preferably at least
   80%, more preferably at least 85%, more preferably at least 90%, more preferably at

                                                35
   least 91%, more preferably at least 92%, more preferably at least 93%, more preferably
   at least 94%, more preferably at least 95%, more preferably at least 96%, more
   preferably at least 97%, more preferably at least 98%, more preferably at least 99%,
   more preferably at least 99.1%, more preferably at least 99.2%, more preferably at least
 5 99.3%, more preferably at least 99.4%, more preferably at least 99.5%, more preferably
   at least 99.6%, more preferably at least 99.7%, more preferably at least 99.8%, and
   even more preferably at least 99.9% identical to the relevant nominated SEQ ID NO.
           A polynucleotide of, or useful for, the present invention may selectively
   hybridise, under stringent conditions, to a polynucleotide defined herein. As used
10 herein, stringent conditions are those that: (1) employ during hybridisation a denaturing
   agent such as formamide, for example, 50% (v/v) formamide with 0.1% (w/v) bovine
   serum albumin, 0.1% Ficoll, 0.1% polyvinylpyrrolidone, 50 mM sodium phosphate
   buffer at pH 6.5 with 750 mM NaCl, 75 mM sodium citrate at 420 C; or (2) employ 50%
   formamide, 5 x SSC (0.75 M NaCl, 0.075 M sodium citrate), 50 mM sodium phosphate
15 (pH 6.8), 0.1% sodium pyrophosphate, 5 x Denhardt's solution, sonicated salmon sperm
   DNA (50 g/ml), 0.1% SDS and 10% dextran sulfate at 420 C in 0.2 x SSC and 0.1%
   SDS, and/or (3) employ low ionic strength and high temperature for washing, for
   example, 0.015 M NaC1/0.0015 M sodium citrate/0.1% SDS at 500 C.
           Polynucleotides of the invention may possess, when compared to naturally
20 occurring molecules, one or more mutations which are deletions, insertions, or
   substitutions of nucleotide residues. Polynucleotides which have mutations relative to
   a reference sequence can be either naturally occurring (that is to say, isolated from a
   natural source) or synthetic (for example, by performing site-directed mutagenesis or
   DNA shuffling on the nucleic acid as described above).
25
   Polynucleotide for Reducing Expression Levels of Endogenous Proteins
           In one embodiment, the cell comprises an introduced mutation or an exogenous
   polynucleotide which down-regulates the production and/or activity of an endogenous
   enzyme (for example, a A12 desaturase), typically which results in an increased
30 production of DHS when compared to a corresponding cell lacking the introduced
   mutation or exogenous polynucleotide. Examples of such polynucleotides include an
   antisense polynucleotide, a sense polynucleotide, a catalytic polynucleotide, a
   microRNA, a polynucleotide which encodes a polypeptide which binds the endogenous
   enzyme and a double stranded RNA.
35

                                               36
   RNA Interference
           RNA interference (RNAi) is particularly useful for specifically inhibiting the
   production of a particular protein. This technology relies on the presence of dsRNA
   molecules that contain a sequence that is essentially identical to the mRNA of the gene
 5 of interest or part thereof. Conveniently, the dsRNA can be produced from a single
   promoter in a recombinant vector or host cell, where the sense and anti-sense sequences
   are flanked by an unrelated sequence which enables the sense and anti-sense sequences
   to hybridize to form the dsRNA molecule with an unrelated sequence forming a loop
   structure, although a sequence with identity to the target RNA or its complement can
10 form the loop structure. Typically, the dsRNA is encoded by a double-stranded DNA
   construct which has sense and antisense sequences in an inverted repeat structure,
   arranged as an interrupted palindrome, where the repeated sequences are transcribed to
   produce the hybridising sequences in the dsRNA molecule, and the interrupt sequence
   is transcribed to form the loop in the dsRNA molecule. The design and production of
15 suitable dsRNA molecules is well within the capacity of a person skilled in the art,
   particularly considering Waterhouse et al. (1998), Smith et al. (2000), WO 99/32619,
   WO 99/53050, WO 99/49029, and WO 01/34815.
           In one example, a DNA is introduced that directs the synthesis of an at least
   partly double stranded RNA product(s) with homology, preferably at least 19
20 consecutive nucleotides complementary to a region of, a target RNA, to be inactivated.
   The DNA therefore comprises both sense and antisense sequences that, when
   transcribed into RNA, can hybridize to form the double stranded RNA region. In one
   embodiment of the invention, the sense and antisense sequences are separated by a
   spacer region that comprises an intron which, when transcribed into RNA, is spliced
25 out. This arrangement has been shown to result in a higher efficiency of gene
   silencing. The double stranded region may comprise one or two RNA molecules,
   transcribed from either one DNA region or two. The presence of the double stranded
   molecule is thought to trigger a response from an endogenous system that destroys both
   the double stranded RNA and also the homologous RNA transcript from the target
30 gene, efficiently reducing or eliminating the activity of the target gene.
           The length of the sense and antisense sequences that hybridize should each be at
   least 19 contiguous nucleotides. The full-length sequence corresponding to the entire
   gene transcript may be used. The degree of identity of the sense and antisense
   sequences to the targeted transcript should be at least 85%, at least 90%, or at least 95
35 100%. The RNA molecule may of course comprise unrelated sequences which may
   function to stabilize the molecule. The RNA molecule may be expressed under the

                                               37
   control of a RNA polymerase II or RNA polymerase III promoter. Examples of the
   latter include tRNA or snRNA promoters.
           Preferred small interfering RNA ("siRNA") molecules comprise a nucleotide
   sequence that is identical to about 19-21 contiguous nucleotides of the target mRNA.
 5 Preferably, the siRNA sequence commences with the dinucleotide AA, comprises a
   GC-content of about 30-70% (preferably, 30-60%, more preferably 40-60% and more
   preferably about 45%-55%), and does not have a high percentage identity to any
   nucleotide sequence other than the target in the genome of the organism in which it is
   to be introduced, for example, as determined by standard BLAST search.
10
   microRNA
           MicroRNAs (abbreviated miRNAs) are generally 19-25 nucleotides (commonly
   about 20-24 nucleotides in plants) non-coding RNA molecules that are derived from
   larger precursors that form imperfect stem-loop structures.
15         miRNAs bind to complementary           sequences   on target messenger RNA
   transcripts (mRNAs), usually resulting in translational repression or target degradation
   and gene silencing.
           In plant cells, miRNA precursor molecules are believed to be largely processed
   in the nucleus.    The pri-miRNA (containing one or more local double-stranded or
20 "hairpin" regions as well as the usual 5' "cap" and polyadenylated tail of an mRNA) is
   processed to a shorter miRNA precursor molecule that also includes a stem-loop or
   fold-back structure and is termed the "pre-miRNA".       In plants, the pre-miRNAs are
   cleaved by distinct DICER-like (DCL) enzymes, in particular DCL-1,              yielding
   miRNA:miRNA* duplexes. Prior to transport out of the nucleus, these duplexes are
25 methylated. In contrast, hairpin RNA molecules having longer dsRNA regions are
   processed in particular by DCL-3 and DCL-4. Most mammalian cells have only a
   single DICER polypeptide which cleaves multiple dsRNA structures.
           In the cytoplasm, the miRNA strand from the miRNA:miRNA duplex is
   selectively incorporated into an active RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) for
30 target recognition.     The RISC-complexes contain a particular subset of Argonaute
   proteins that exert sequence-specific gene repression (see, for example, Millar and
   Waterhouse, 2005; Pasquinelli et al., 2005; Almeida and Allshire, 2005).
   Cosuppression
35         Genes can suppress the expression of related endogenous genes and/or
   transgenes already present in the genome, a phenomenon termed homology-dependent

                                                38
   gene silencing. Most of the instances of homology dependent gene silencing fall into
   two classes - those that function at the level of transcription of the transgene, and those
   that operate post-transcriptionally.
           Post-transcriptional homology-dependent gene silencing (i.e., cosuppression)
 5 describes the loss of expression of a transgene and related endogenous or viral genes in
   transgenic plants. Cosuppression often, but not always, occurs when transgene
   transcripts are abundant, and it is generally thought to be triggered at the level of
   mRNA processing, localization, and/or degradation. Several models exist to explain
   how cosuppression works (see in Taylor, 1997).
10         One model, the "quantitative" or "RNA threshold" model, proposes that cells
   can cope with the accumulation of large amounts of transgene transcripts, but only up
   to a point. Once that critical threshold has been crossed, the sequence-dependent
   degradation of both transgene and related endogenous gene transcripts is initiated. It
   has been proposed that this mode of cosuppression may be triggered following the
15 synthesis of copy RNA (cRNA) molecules by reverse transcription of the excess
   transgene mRNA, presumably by endogenous RNA-dependent RNA polymerases.
   These cRNAs may hybridize with transgene and endogenous mRNAs, the unusual
   hybrids targeting homologous transcripts for degradation. However, this model does
   not account for reports suggesting that cosuppression can apparently occur in the
20 absence of transgene transcription and/or without the detectable accumulation of
   transgene transcripts.
           To account for these data, a second model, the "qualitative" or "aberrant RNA"
   model, proposes that interactions between transgene RNA and DNA and/or between
   endogenous and introduced DNAs lead to the methylation of transcribed regions of the
25 genes. The methylated genes are proposed to produce RNAs that are in some way
   aberrant, their anomalous features triggering the specific degradation of all related
   transcripts. Such aberrant RNAs may be produced by complex transgene loci,
   particularly those that contain inverted repeats.
           A third model proposes that intermolecular base pairing between transcripts,
30 rather than cRNA-mRNA hybrids generated through the action of an RNA-dependent
   RNA polymerase, may trigger cosuppression. Such base pairing may become more
   common as transcript levels rise, the putative double-stranded regions triggering the
   targeted degradation of homologous transcripts.              A similar model proposes
   intramolecular base pairing instead of intermolecular base pairing between transcripts.
35         Cosuppression involves introducing an extra copy of a gene or a fragment
   thereof into a plant in the sense orientation with respect to a promoter for its

                                                39
   expression. A skilled person would appreciate that the size of the sense fragment, its
   correspondence to target gene regions, and its degree of sequence identity to the target
   gene can vary. In some instances, the additional copy of the gene sequence interferes
   with the expression of the target plant gene. Reference is made to WO 97/20936 and
 5 EP 0465572 for methods of implementing co-suppression approaches.
   Expression Vector
           As used herein, an "expression vector" is a DNA or RNA vector that is capable
   of transforming a host cell and of effecting expression of one or more specified
10 polynucleotides. Preferably, the expression vector is also capable of replicating within
   the host cell. Expression vectors are typically viruses or plasmids. Expression vectors
   of the present invention include any vectors that function (i.e., direct gene expression)
   in host cells of the present invention, including in fungal, algal, and plant cells.
           As used herein, "operably linked" refers to a functional relationship between two
15 or more nucleic acid (e.g., DNA) segments. Typically, it refers to the functional
   relationship of transcriptional regulatory element (promoter) to a transcribed sequence.
   For example, a promoter is operably linked to a coding sequence of a polynucleotide
   defined herein, if it stimulates or modulates the transcription of the coding sequence in
   an appropriate cell. Generally, promoter transcriptional regulatory elements that are
20 operably linked to a transcribed sequence are physically contiguous to the transcribed
   sequence, i.e., they are cis-acting. However, some transcriptional regulatory elements
   such as enhancers, need not be physically contiguous or located in close proximity to
   the coding sequences whose transcription they enhance.
           Expression vectors of the present invention contain regulatory sequences such as
25 transcription control sequences, translation control sequences, origins of replication,
   and other regulatory sequences that are compatible with the host cell and that control
   the expression of polynucleotides of the present invention. In particular, expression
   vectors of the present invention include transcription control sequences. Transcription
   control sequences are sequences which control the initiation, elongation, and
30 termination of transcription. Particularly important transcription control sequences are
   those which control transcription initiation such as promoter, enhancer, operator and
   repressor sequences. Suitable transcription control sequences include any transcription
   control sequence that can function in at least one of the recombinant cells of the present
   invention. The choice of the regulatory sequences used depends on the target organism
35 such as a plant and/or target organ or tissue of interest. Such regulatory sequences may
   be obtained from any eukaryotic organism such as plants or plant viruses, or may be

                                                 40
   chemically synthesized. A variety of such transcription control sequences are known to
   those skilled in the art.      Particularly preferred transcription control sequences are
   promoters active in directing transcription in plants, either constitutively or stage and/or
   tissue specific, depending on the use of the plant or part(s) thereof.
 5          A number of vectors suitable for stable transfection of plant cells or for the
   establishment of transgenic plants have been described in for example, Pouwels et al.,
   Cloning Vectors: A Laboratory Manual, 1985, supp. 1987, Weissbach and Weissbach,
   Methods for Plant Molecular Biology, Academic Press, 1989, and Gelvin et al., Plant
   Molecular Biology Manual, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1990.                Typically, plant
10 expression vectors include for example, one or more cloned plant genes under the
   transcriptional control of 5' and 3' regulatory sequences and a dominant selectable
   marker. Such plant expression vectors also can contain a promoter regulatory region
   (e.g., a regulatory region controlling inducible or constitutive, environmentally- or
   developmentally-regulated,      or cell- or tissue-specific expression), a transcription
15 initiation start site, a ribosome binding site, an RNA processing signal, a transcription
   termination site, and/or a polyadenylation signal.
            A number of constitutive promoters that are active in plant cells have been
   described. Suitable promoters for constitutive expression in plants include, but are not
   limited to, the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter, the Figwort mosaic
20 virus (FMV) 35S, the sugarcane bacilliform virus promoter, the commelina yellow
   mottle virus promoter, the light-inducible promoter from the small subunit of the
   ribulose-1,5-bis-phosphate carboxylase, the rice cytosolic triosephosphate isomerase
   promoter, the adenine phosphoribosyltransferase promoter of Arabidopsis, the rice
   actin 1 gene promoter, the mannopine synthase and octopine synthase promoters, the
25 Adh promoter, the sucrose synthase promoter, the R gene complex promoter, and the
   chlorophyll a/p binding protein gene promoter. These promoters have been used to
   create DNA vectors that have been expressed in plants, see for example, WO 84/02913.
   All of these promoters have been used to create various types of plant-expressible
   recombinant DNA vectors.
30          For the purpose of expression in source tissues of the plant such as the leaf,
   seed, root or stem, it is preferred that the promoters utilized in the present invention
   have relatively high expression in these specific tissues. For this purpose, one may
   choose from a number of promoters for genes with tissue- or cell-specific, or -enhanced
   expression.     Examples of such promoters reported in the literature include, the
35 chloroplast glutamine synthetase GS2 promoter from pea, the chloroplast fructose-1,6
   biphosphatase promoter from wheat, the nuclear photosynthetic ST-LS 1 promoter from

                                               41
   potato, the serine/threonine kinase promoter and the glucoamylase (CHS) promoter
   from Arabidopsis thaliana. Also reported to be active in photosynthetically active
   tissues are the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase promoter from eastern larch
   (Larix laricina), the promoter for the Cab gene, Cab6, from pine, the promoter for the
 5 Cab-i gene from wheat, the promoter for the Cab-i gene from spinach, the promoter
   for the Cab iR gene from rice, the pyruvate, orthophosphate dikinase (PPDK) promoter
   from Zea mays, the promoter for the tobacco Lhcbl*2 gene, the Arabidopsis thaliana
   Suc2 sucrose-H      symporter promoter, and the promoter for the thylakoid membrane
   protein genes from spinach (PsaD, PsaF, PsaE, PC, FNR, AtpC, AtpD, Cab, RbcS).
10 Other promoters for the chlorophyll a/p-binding proteins may also be utilized in the
   present invention such as the promoters for LhcB gene and PsbP gene from white
   mustard (Sinapis alba).
           A variety    of plant gene promoters       that are regulated in response        to
   environmental, hormonal, chemical, and/or developmental signals, also can be used for
15 expression of RNA-binding protein genes in plant cells, including promoters regulated
   by (1) heat, (2) light (e.g., pea RbcS-3A promoter, maize RbcS promoter), (3)
   hormones such as abscisic acid, (4) wounding (e.g., WunI), or (5) chemicals such as
   methyl jasmonate, salicylic acid, steroid hormones, alcohol, Safeners (WO 97/06269),
   or it may also be advantageous to employ (6) organ-specific promoters.
20         For the purpose of expression in sink tissues of the plant such as the tuber of the
   potato plant, the fruit of tomato, or the seed of soybean, canola, cotton, Zea mays,
   wheat, rice, and barley, it is preferred that the promoters utilized in the present
   invention have relatively high expression in these specific tissues.         A number of
   promoters for genes with tuber-specific or -enhanced expression are known, including
25 the class I patatin promoter, the promoter for the potato tuber ADPGPP genes, both the
   large and small subunits, the sucrose synthase promoter, the promoter for the major
   tuber proteins, including the 22 kD protein complexes and proteinase inhibitors, the
   promoter for the granule bound starch synthase gene (GBSS), and other class I and II
   patatins promoters.    Other promoters can also be used to express a protein in specific
30 tissues such as seeds or fruits. The promoter for    p-conglycinin  or other seed-specific
   promoters such as the napin, zein, lining and phaseolin promoters, can be used. Root
   specific promoters may also be used. An example of such a promoter is the promoter
   for the acid chitinase gene. Expression in root tissue could also be accomplished by
   utilizing the root specific subdomains of the CaMV 35S promoter that have been
35 identified.

                                              42
           In one embodiment, the promoter directs expression in tissues and organs in
   which lipid biosynthesis take place.     Such promoters act in seed development at a
   suitable time for modifying lipid composition in seeds.
           In one embodiment, especially for the expression of a silencing suppressor, the
 5 promoter is a plant storage organ specific promoter. As used herein, the term "plant
   storage organ specific promoter" refers to a promoter that preferentially, when
   compared to other plant tissues, directs gene transcription in a storage organ of a plant.
   Preferably, the promoter only directs expression of a gene of interest in the storage
   organ, and/or expression of the gene of interest in other parts of the plant such as leaves
10 is not detectable by Northern blot analysis and/or RT-PCR. Typically, the promoter
   drives expression of genes during growth and development of the storage organ, in
   particular during the phase of synthesis and accumulation of storage compounds in the
   storage organ. Such promoters may drive gene expression in the entire plant storage
   organ or only part thereof such as the seedcoat, embryo or cotyledon(s) in seeds of
15 dicotyledonous     plants  or   the  endosperm     or   aleurone     layer  of   seeds   of
   monocotyledonous plants.       In one embodiment, the plant storage organ specific
   promoter is a seed specific promoter. In a more preferred embodiment, the promoter
   preferentially directs expression in the cotyledons of a dicotyledonous plant or in the
   endosperm of a monocotyledonous plant, relative to expression in the embryo of the
20 seed or relative to other organs in the plant such as leaves. Preferred promoters for
   seed-specific expression include: 1) promoters from genes encoding enzymes involved
   in lipid biosynthesis and accumulation in seeds such as desaturases and elongases, 2)
   promoters from genes encoding seed storage proteins, and 3) promoters from genes
   encoding enzymes involved in carbohydrate biosynthesis and accumulation in seeds.
25 Seed specific promoters which are suitable are, the oilseed rape napin gene promoter
   (US 5,608,152), the Vicia faba USP promoter (Baumlein et al., 1991), the Arabidopsis
   oleosin promoter (WO 98/45461), the Phaseolus vulgaris phaseolin promoter (US
   5,504,200), the Brassica Bce4 promoter (WO 91/13980), or the legumin B4 promoter
   (Baumlein et al., 1992), and promoters which lead to the seed-specific expression in
30 monocots such as maize, barley, wheat, rye, rice and the like. Notable promoters which
   are suitable are the barley lpt2 or lptl gene promoter (WO 95/15389 and WO
   95/23230), or the promoters described in WO 99/16890 (promoters from the barley
   hordein gene, the rice glutelin gene, the rice oryzin gene, the rice prolamin gene, the
   wheat gliadin gene, the wheat glutelin gene, the maize zein gene, the oat glutelin gene,
35 the sorghum kasirin gene, the rye secalin gene). Other promoters include those
   described by Broun et al. (1998), Potenza et al. (2004), US 20070192902 and US

                                                   43
   20030159173.         In an embodiment, the seed specific promoter is preferentially
   expressed in defined parts of the seed such as the cotyledon(s) or the endosperm.
   Examples of cotyledon specific promoters include, but are not limited to, the FP1
   promoter (Ellerstrom et al., 1996), the pea legumin promoter (Perrin et al., 2000), and
 5 the bean phytohemagglutnin promoter (Perrin et al., 2000). Examples of endosperm
   specific promoters include, but are not limited to, the maize zein-1 promoter
   (Chikwamba et al., 2003), the rice glutelin-1 promoter (Yang et al., 2003), the barley
   D-hordein promoter (Horvath et al., 2000) and wheat HMW glutenin promoters
   (Alvarez et al., 2000).      In a further embodiment, the seed specific promoter is not
10 expressed, or is only expressed at a low level, in the embryo and/or after the seed
   germinates.
           In another embodiment, the plant storage organ specific promoter is a tuber
   specific promoter. Examples include, but are not limited to, the potato patatin B33,
   PAT21 and GBSS promoters, as well as the sweet potato sporamin promoter (for
15 review, see Potenza et al., 2004).        In a preferred embodiment, the promoter directs
   expression preferentially in the pith of the tuber, relative to the outer layers (skin, bark)
   or the embryo of the tuber.
           In another embodiment, the plant storage organ specific promoter is a fruit
   specific    promoter.      Examples      include, but are     not limited   to, the   tomato
20 polygalacturonase, E8 and Pds promoters, as well as the apple ACC oxidase promoter
   (for review, see Potenza et al., 2004).           In a preferred embodiment, the promoter
   preferentially directs expression in the edible parts of the fruit, for example the pith of
   the fruit, relative to the skin of the fruit or the seeds within the fruit.
           When there are multiple promoters present, each promoter may independently
25 be the same or different.
           The 5' non-translated leader sequence can be derived from the promoter selected
   to express the heterologous gene sequence               of the polynucleotide, or may be
   heterologous with respect to the coding region of the enzyme to be produced, and can
   be specifically modified if desired so as to increase translation of mRNA. For a review
30 of optimizing expression of transgenes, see Koziel et al. (1996). The 5' non-translated
   regions can also be obtained from plant viral RNAs (Tobacco mosaic virus, Tobacco
   etch virus, Maize dwarf mosaic virus, Alfalfa mosaic virus, among others) from
   suitable eukaryotic genes, plant genes (wheat and maize chlorophyll a/b binding protein
   gene leader), or from a synthetic gene sequence. The present invention is not limited to
35 constructs wherein the non-translated region is derived from the 5' non-translated
   sequence that accompanies the promoter sequence. The leader sequence could also be

                                               44
   derived from an unrelated promoter or coding sequence.        Leader sequences useful in
   context of the present invention comprise the maize Hsp70 leader (US 5,362,865 and
   US 5,859,347), and the TMV omega element.
           The termination of transcription is accomplished by a 3' non-translated DNA
 5 sequence operably linked in the expression vector to the polynucleotide of interest.
   The    3' non-translated    region   of a   recombinant     DNA     molecule   contains  a
   polyadenylation signal that functions in plants to cause the addition of adenylate
   nucleotides to the 3' end of the RNA. The 3' non-translated region can be obtained
   from various genes that are expressed in, for example, plant cells.          The nopaline
10 synthase 3' untranslated region, the 3' untranslated region from pea small subunit
   Rubisco gene, the 3' untranslated region from soybean 7S seed storage protein gene are
   commonly used in this capacity. The 3' transcribed, non-translated regions containing
   the polyadenylate signal of Agrobacterium tumor-inducing (Ti) plasmid genes are also
   suitable.
15         Recombinant DNA technologies can be used to improve expression of a
   transformed polynucleotide by manipulating for example, the number of copies of the
   polynucleotide within a host cell, the efficiency with which those polynucleotides are
   transcribed, the efficiency with which the resultant transcripts are translated, and the
   efficiency of post-translational modifications.      Recombinant techniques useful for
20 increasing the expression of polynucleotides defined herein include, but are not limited
   to, operatively linking the polynucleotide to a high-copy number plasmid, integration of
   the polynucleotide molecule into one or more host cell chromosomes, addition of
   vector stability sequences to the plasmid, substitutions or modifications of transcription
   control signals (e.g., promoters, operators, enhancers), substitutions or modifications of
25 translational control signals (e.g., ribosome binding sites, Shine-Dalgarno sequences),
   modification of the polynucleotide to correspond to the codon usage of the host cell,
   and the deletion of sequences that destabilize transcripts.
           Recombinant vectors may also contain: (a) one or more secretory signals which
   encode signal peptide sequences, to enable an expressed polypeptide defined herein to
30 be secreted from the cell that produces the polypeptide, or which provide for
   localisation of the expressed polypeptide, for example, for retention of the polypeptide
   in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in the cell, or transfer into a plastid, and/or (b)
   contain fusion sequences which lead to the expression of nucleic acid molecules as
   fusion proteins.    Examples of suitable signal segments include any signal segment
35 capable of directing the secretion or localisation of a polypeptide defined herein.
   Preferred signal segments include, but are not limited to, Nicotiana nectarin signal

                                                 45
   peptide (US 5,939,288), tobacco extensin signal, or the soy oleosin oil body binding
   protein signal. Recombinant vectors may also include intervening and/or untranslated
   sequences surrounding and/or within the nucleic acid sequence of a polynucleotide
   defined herein.
 5          To facilitate identification of transformants, the recombinant vector desirably
   comprises a selectable or screenable marker gene as, or in addition to, the nucleic acid
   sequence of a polynucleotide defined herein. By "marker gene" is meant a gene that
   imparts a distinct phenotype to cells expressing the marker gene and thus, allows such
   transformed cells to be distinguished from cells that do not have the marker.             A
10 selectable marker gene confers a trait for which one can "select" based on resistance to
   a selective agent (e.g., a herbicide, antibiotic, radiation, heat, or other treatment
   damaging to untransformed cells). A screenable marker gene (or reporter gene) confers
   a trait that one can identify through observation or testing, that is, by "screening" (e.g.,
   j-glucuronidase, luciferase, GFP or other enzyme activity not present in untransformed
15 cells).   The marker gene and the nucleotide sequence of interest do not have to be
   linked, since co-transformation of unlinked genes as for example, described in US
   4,399,216, is also an efficient process in for example, plant transformation. The actual
   choice of a marker is not crucial as long as it is functional (i.e., selective) in
   combination with the cells of choice such as a plant cell.
20          Exemplary selectable markers for selection of plant transformants include, but
   are not limited to, a hyg gene which encodes hygromycin B resistance; a neomycin
   phosphotransferase (nptII) gene conferring resistance to kanamycin, paromomycin,
   G418; a glutathione-S-transferase        gene from rat liver conferring       resistance to
   glutathione derived herbicides as for example, described in EP 256223; a glutamine
25 synthetase gene conferring, upon overexpression, resistance to glutamine synthetase
   inhibitors such as phosphinothricin as for example, described in WO 87/05327; an
   acetyltransferase gene from Streptomyces viridochromogenes conferring resistance to
   the selective agent phosphinothricin as for example, described in EP 275957; a gene
   encoding a 5-enolshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) conferring tolerance to N
30 phosphonomethylglycine as for example, described by Hinchee et al. (1988); a bar
   gene conferring resistance against bialaphos as for example, described in W091/02071;
   a nitrilase gene such as bxn from Klebsiella ozaenae which confers resistance to
   bromoxynil (Stalker et al., 1988); a dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) gene conferring
   resistance to methotrexate (Thillet et al., 1988); a mutant acetolactate synthase gene
35 (ALS) which confers resistance to imidazolinone, sulfonylurea, or other ALS-inhibiting
   chemicals (EP 154,204); a mutated anthranilate synthase gene that confers resistance to

                                                46
   5-methyl tryptophan; or a dalapon dehalogenase gene that confers resistance to the
   herbicide.
            Preferred screenable markers include, but are not limited to, a uidA gene
   encoding a p-glucuronidase (GUS) enzyme for which various chromogenic substrates
 5 are known; a p-galactosidase gene encoding an enzyme for which chromogenic
   substrates are known; an aequorin gene (Prasher et al., 1985) which may be employed
   in calcium-sensitive bioluminescence detection; a green fluorescent protein gene
   (Niedz et al., 1995) or derivatives thereof; or a luciferase (luc) gene (Ow et al., 1986)
   which allows for bioluminescence detection.        By "reporter molecule" it is meant a
10 molecule that, by its chemical nature, provides an analytically identifiable signal that
   facilitates determination of promoter activity by reference to protein product.
            Preferably, the recombinant vector is stably incorporated into the genome of the
   cell such as the plant cell.      Accordingly, the recombinant vector may comprise
   appropriate elements which allow the vector to be incorporated into the genome, or into
15 a chromosome of the cell.
   Transfer Nucleic Acids
            Transfer nucleic acids can be used to deliver an exogenous polynucleotide to a
   cell and comprise one, preferably two, border sequences and a polynucleotide of
20 interest.   The transfer nucleic acid may or may not encode a selectable marker.
   Preferably, the transfer nucleic acid forms part of a binary vector in a bacterium, where
   the binary vector further comprises elements which allow replication of the vector in
   the bacterium, selection, or maintenance of bacterial cells containing the binary vector.
   Upon transfer to a eukaryotic cell, the transfer nucleic acid component of the binary
25 vector is capable of integration into the genome of the eukaryotic cell.
            As used herein, the term "extrachromosomal transfer nucleic acid" refers to a
   nucleic acid molecule that is capable of being transferred from a bacterium such as
   Agrobacterium sp., to a eukaryotic cell such as a plant leaf cell. An extrachromosomal
   transfer nucleic acid is a genetic element that is well-known as an element capable of
30 being transferred, with the subsequent integration of a nucleotide sequence contained
   within its borders into the genome of the recipient cell.      In this respect, a transfer
   nucleic acid is flanked, typically, by two "border" sequences, although in some
   instances a single border at one end can be used and the second end of the transferred
   nucleic acid is generated randomly in the transfer process. A polynucleotide of interest
35 is typically positioned between the left border-like sequence and the right border-like
   sequence of a transfer nucleic acid. The polynucleotide contained within the transfer

                                                47
   nucleic acid may be operably linked to a variety of different promoter and terminator
   regulatory elements that facilitate its expression, that is, transcription and/or translation
   of the polynucleotide.      Transfer DNAs (T-DNAs) from Agrobacterium sp. such as
   Agrobacterium       tumefaciens     or Agrobacterium       rhizogenes,    and   man    made
 5 variants/mutants thereof are probably the best characterized examples of transfer
   nucleic acids.    Another example is P-DNA ("plant-DNA") which comprises T-DNA
   border-like sequences from plants.
           As used herein, "T-DNA" refers to, for example, T-DNA of an Agrobacterium
   tumefaciens Ti plasmid or from an Agrobacterium rhizogenes Ri plasmid, or man made
10 variants thereof which function as T-DNA.        The T-DNA may comprise an entire T
   DNA including both right and left border sequences, but need only comprise the
   minimal sequences required in cis for transfer, that is, the right and T-DNA border
   sequence. The T-DNAs of the invention have inserted into them, anywhere between
   the right and left border sequences (if present), the polynucleotide of interest flanked by
15 target sites for a site-specific recombinase. The sequences encoding factors required in
   trans for transfer of the T-DNA into a plant cell such as vir genes, may be inserted into
   the T-DNA, or may be present on the same replicon as the T-DNA, or preferably are in
   trans on a compatible replicon in the Agrobacterium host.               Such "binary vector
   systems" are well known in the art.
20         As used herein, "P-DNA" refers to a transfer nucleic acid isolated from a plant
   genome, or man made variants/mutants thereof, and comprises at each end, or at only
   one end, a T-DNA border-like sequence. The border-like sequence preferably shares at
   least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 75%, at least 80%, at least 90% or at least
   95%, but less than 100% sequence identity, with a T-DNA border sequence from an
25 Agrobacterium sp. such as Agrobacterium tumefaciens or Agrobacterium rhizogenes.
   Thus, P-DNAs can be used instead of T-DNAs to transfer a nucleotide sequence
   contained within the P-DNA from, for example Agrobacterium,to another cell. The P
   DNA, before insertion of the exogenous polynucleotide which is to be transferred, may
   be modified to facilitate cloning and should preferably not encode any proteins. The P
30 DNA is characterized in that it contains, at least a right border sequence and preferably
   also a left border sequence.
           As used herein, a "border" sequence of a transfer nucleic acid can be isolated
   from a selected organism such as a plant or bacterium, or be a man made
   variant/mutant thereof. The border sequence promotes and facilitates the transfer of the
35 polynucleotide to which it is linked and may facilitate its integration in the recipient
   cell genome. In an embodiment, a border-sequence is between 5-100 base pairs (bp) in

                                                 48
   length, 10-80 bp in length, 15-75 bp in length, 15-60 bp in length, 15-50 bp in length,
   15-40 bp in length, 15-30 bp in length, 16-30 bp in length, 20-30 bp in length, 21-30 bp
   in length, 22-30 bp in length, 23-30 bp in length, 24-30 bp in length, 25-30 bp in
   length, or 26-30 bp in length. Border sequences from T-DNA from Agrobacterium sp.
 5 are well known in the art and include those described in Lacroix et al. (2008), Tzfira
   and Citovsky (2006) and Glevin (2003).
           Whilst traditionally only Agrobacterium sp. have been used to transfer genes to
   plants   cells,  there  are   now    a large    number   of systems     which   have   been
   identified/developed which act in a similar manner to Agrobacterium sp. Several non
10 Agrobacterium species have recently been genetically modified to be competent for
   gene transfer (Chung et al., 2006; Broothaerts et al., 2005). These include Rhizobium
   sp. NGR234, Sinorhizobium meliloti and Mezorhizobium loti. The bacteria are made
   competent for gene transfer by providing the bacteria with the machinery needed for
   the transformation process, that is,         a set of virulence    genes encoded by an
15 Agrobacterium Ti-plasmid and the T-DNA segment residing on a separate, small
   binary plasmid. Bacteria engineered in this way are capable of transforming different
   plant tissues (leaf disks, calli and oval tissue), monocots or dicots, and various different
   plant species (e.g., tobacco, rice).
           Direct transfer of eukaryotic expression plasmids from bacteria to eukaryotic
20 hosts was first achieved several decades ago by the fusion of mammalian cells and
   protoplasts of plasmid-carrying Escherichia coli (Schaffner, 1980).         Since then, the
   number of bacteria capable of delivering genes into mammalian cells has steadily
   increased (Weiss, 2003; Sizemore et al., 1995; Courvalin et al., 1995; Powell et al.,
   1996).
25         Attenuated Shigella flexneri, Salmonella typhimurium or E. coli that had been
   rendered invasive by the virulence plasmid (pWR100) of S. flexneri have been shown
   to be able to transfer expression plasmids after invasion of host cells and intracellular
   death due to metabolic attenuation.       Mucosal application, either nasally or orally, of
   such recombinant Shigella or Salmonella induced immune responses against the
30 antigen that was encoded by the expression plasmids.          In the meantime, the list of
   bacteria that was shown to be able to transfer expression plasmids to mammalian host
   cells in vitro and in vivo has been more then doubled and has been documented for S.
   typhi, S. choleraesuis, Listeria monocytogenes, Yersinia pseudotuberculosis, and Y.
   enterocolitica (Fennelly et al., 1999; Shiau et al., 2001; Dietrich et al., 1998; Hense et
35 al., 2001; Al-Mariri et al., 2002).

                                                 49
            In general, it could be assumed that all bacteria that are able to enter the cytosol
   of the host cell (like S. flexneri or L. monocytogenes) and lyse within this cellular
   compartment, should be able to transfer DNA. This is known as 'abortive' or 'suicidal'
   invasion as the bacteria have to lyse for the DNA transfer to occur (Grillot-Courvalin et
 5 al., 1999). In addition, even many of the bacteria that remain in the phagocytic vacuole
   (like S. typhimurium) may also be able to do so. Thus, recombinant laboratory strains
   of E. coli that have been engineered to be invasive but are unable of phagosomal
   escape, could deliver their plasmid load to the nucleus of the infected mammalian cell
   nevertheless (Grillot-Courvalin et al., 1998). Furthermore, Agrobacterium tumefaciens
10 has recently also been shown to introduce transgenes into mammalian cells (Kunik et
   al., 2001).
            As used herein, the terms "transfection", "transformation" and variations thereof
   are generally used interchangeably.       "Transfected" or "transformed" cells may have
   been manipulated to introduce the polynucleotide(s) of interest, or may be progeny
15 cells derived therefrom.
   Recombinant Cells
            The invention also provides a recombinant cell, for example, a recombinant
   plant cell, which is a host cell transformed with one or more polynucleotides or vectors
20 defined herein, or combination thereof.           The term "recombinant cell" is used
   interchangeably with the term "transgenic cell" herein. Suitable cells of the invention
   include any cell that can be transformed with a polynucleotide or recombinant vector of
   the invention, encoding for example, a polypeptide or enzyme described herein. The
   cell is preferably a cell which is thereby capable of being used for producing lipid. The
25 recombinant cell may be a cell in culture, a cell in vitro, or in an organism such as for
   example, a plant, or in an organ such as, for example, a seed or a leaf. Preferably, the
   cell is in a plant, more preferably in the seed of a plant.
            Host cells into which the polynucleotide(s) are introduced can be either
   untransformed cells or cells that are already transformed with at least one nucleic acid.
30 Such nucleic acids may be related to lipid synthesis, or unrelated. Host cells of the
   present invention either can be endogenously (i.e., naturally) capable of producing
   polypeptide(s) defined herein, in which case the recombinant cell derived therefrom has
   an enhanced capability of producing the polypeptide(s), or can be capable of producing
   said polypeptide(s) only after being transformed with at least one polynucleotide of the
35 invention.    In an embodiment, a recombinant cell of the invention has an enhanced
   capacity to produce non-polar lipid.

                                                 50
           Host cells of the present invention can be any cell capable of producing at least
   one protein described herein, and include fungal (including yeast), and plant cells. The
   cells may be prokaryotic or eukaryotic. Preferred host cells are yeast, algal and plant
   cells. In a preferred embodiment, the plant cell is a seed cell, in particular, a cell in a
 5 cotyledon or endosperm of a seed. Examples of algal cells useful as host cells of the
   present invention include, for example, Chlamydomonas sp. (for example,
   Chlamydomonas reinhardtii), Dunaliella sp., Haematococcus sp., Chlorella sp.,
   Thraustochytrium sp., Schizochytrium sp., and Volvox sp.
           Host cells for expression of the instant nucleic acids may include microbial
10 hosts that grow on a variety of feedstocks, including simple or complex carbohydrates,
   organic acids and alcohols and/or hydrocarbons over a wide range of temperature and
   pH values. Preferred microbial hosts are oleaginous organisms that are naturally
   capable of non-polar lipid synthesis.
           The host cells may be of an organism suitable for a fermentation process, such
15 as, for example, Yarrowia lipolytica or other yeasts.
   Transgenic Plants
           The invention also provides a plant comprising an exogenous polynucleotide or
   polypeptide of the invention, a cell of the invention, a vector of the invention, or a
20 combination thereof. The term "plant" refers to whole plants, whilst the term "part
   thereof" refers to plant organs (e.g., leaves, stems, roots, flowers, fruits), single cells
   (e.g., pollen), seed, seed parts such as an embryo, endosperm, scutellum or seed coat,
   plant tissue such as vascular tissue, plant cells and progeny of the same. As used
   herein, plant parts comprise plant cells.
25          As used herein, the term "plant" is used in it broadest sense. It includes, but is
   not limited to, any species of grass, ornamental or decorative plant, crop or cereal (e.g.,
   oilseed, maize, soybean), fodder or forage, fruit or vegetable plant, herb plant, woody
   plant, flower plant, or tree. It is not meant to limit a plant to any particular structure. It
   also refers to a unicellular plant (e.g., microalga). The term "part thereof" in reference
30 to a plant refers to a plant cell and progeny of same, a plurality of plant cells that are
   largely differentiated into a colony (e.g., volvox), a structure that is present at any stage
   of a plant's development, or a plant tissue. Such structures include, but are not limited
   to, leaves, stems, flowers, fruits, nuts, roots, seed, seed coat, embryos. The term "plant
   tissue" includes differentiated and undifferentiated tissues of plants including those
35 present in leaves, stems, flowers, fruits, nuts, roots, seed, for example, embryonic
   tissue, endosperm, dermal tissue (e.g., epidermis, periderm), vascular tissue (e.g.,

                                                51
   xylem, phloem), or ground tissue (comprising parenchyma, collenchyma, and/or
   sclerenchyma cells), as well as cells in culture (e.g., single cells, protoplasts, callus,
   embryos, etc.). Plant tissue may be in planta, in organ culture, tissue culture, or cell
   culture.
 5         A "transgenic plant", "genetically modified plant" or variations thereof refers to
   a plant that contains a transgene not found in a wild-type plant of the same species,
   variety or cultivar. Transgenic plants as defined in the context of the present invention
   include plants and their progeny which have been genetically modified using
   recombinant techniques to cause production of at least one polypeptide defined herein
10 in the desired plant or part thereof. Transgenic plant parts have a corresponding
   meaning.
           The terms "seed" and "grain" are used interchangeably herein. "Grain" refers to
   mature grain such as harvested grain or grain which is still on a plant but ready for
   harvesting, but can also refer to grain after imbibition or germination, according to the
15 context. Mature grain commonly has a moisture content of less than about 18-20%.
   "Developing seed" as used herein refers to a seed prior to maturity, typically found in
   the reproductive structures of the plant after fertilisation or anthesis, but can also refer
   to such seeds prior to maturity which are isolated from a plant.
           As used herein, the term "plant storage organ" refers to a part of a plant
20 specialized to store energy in the form of for example, proteins, carbohydrates, lipid.
   Examples of plant storage organs are seed, fruit, tuberous roots, and tubers. A
   preferred plant storage organ of the invention is seed.
           As used herein, the term "vegetative tissue" or "vegetative plant part" or variants
   thereof is any plant tissue, organ or part that does not include the organs for sexual
25 reproduction of plants or the seed bearing organs or the closely associated tissues or
   organs such as flowers, fruits and seeds. Vegetative tissues and parts include at least
   plant leaves, stems (including bolts and tillers but excluding the heads), tubers and
   roots, but excludes flowers, pollen, seed including the seed coat, embryo and
   endosperm, fruit including mesocarp tissue, seed-bearing pods and seed-bearing heads.
30 In one embodiment, the vegetative part of the plant is an aerial plant part. In another or
   further embodiment, the vegetative plant part is a green part such as a leaf or stem.
   Vegetative parts include those parts principally involved in providing or supporting the
   photosynthetic capacity of the plant or related function, or anchoring the plant.
           As used herein, the term "phenotypically normal" refers to a genetically
35 modified plant or part thereof, particularly a storage organ such as a seed, tuber or fruit
   of the invention not having a significantly reduced ability to grow and reproduce when

                                               52
   compared to an unmodified plant or part thereof. In an embodiment, the genetically
   modified plant or part thereof which is phenotypically normal comprises a recombinant
   polynucleotide encoding a silencing suppressor operably linked to a plant storage organ
   specific promoter and has an ability to grow or reproduce which is essentially the same
 5 as a corresponding plant or part thereof not comprising said polynucleotide.
   Preferably, the biomass, growth rate, germination rate, storage organ size, seed size
   and/or the number of viable seeds produced is not less than 90% of that of a plant
   lacking said recombinant polynucleotide when grown under identical conditions. This
   term does not encompass features of the plant which may be different to the wild-type
10 plant but which do not effect the usefulness of the plant for commercial purposes such
   as, for example, a ballerina phenotype of seedling leaves.
           Plants provided by or contemplated for use in the practice of the present
   invention include both monocotyledons and dicotyledons. In preferred embodiments,
   the plants of the present invention are crop plants (for example, cereals and pulses,
15 maize, wheat, potatoes, tapioca, rice, sorghum, millet, cassava, barley, or pea), or other
   legumes.    The plants may be grown for production of edible roots, tubers, leaves,
   stems, flowers or fruits. The plants may be vegetable or ornamental plants. The plants
   of the invention may be: corn (Zea mays), canola (Brassicanapus, Brassica rapa ssp.),
   other Brassicas such as, for example, rutabaga (Brassica napobrassica), mustard
20 (Brassica juncea), Ethiopian       mustard    (Brassica carinata), crambe (Crambe
   abyssinica), camelina (Camelina sativa), sugarbeet (Beta vulgaris), clover (Trifolium
   sp.), flax (Linum usitatissimum), alfalfa (Medicago sativa), rice (Oryza sativa), rye
   (Secale cerale), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Sorghum vulgare), sunflower (Helianthus
   annus), wheat (Tritium aestivum), soybean (Glycine max), tobacco (Nicotiana
25 tabacum), potato (Solanum tuberosum), peanuts (Arachis hypogaea), cotton
   (Gossypium hirsutum), sweet potato (Lopmoea batatus), cassava (Manihot esculenta),
   coffee (Cofea spp.), coconut (Cocos nucifera), pineapple (Anana comosus), citris tree
   (Citrus spp.), cocoa (Theobroma cacao), tea (Camellia senensis), banana (Musa spp.),
   avocado (Persea americana), fig (Ficus casica), guava (Psidium guajava), mango
30 (Mangifer indica), olive       (Olea europaea), papaya (Carica papaya), cashew
   (Anacardium occidentale), macadamia (Macadamia intergrifolia), almond (Prunus
   amygdalus), jatropha (Jatropha curcas), lupins, Eucalypts, palm, nut sage, pongamia,
   oats, or barley.
            Other preferred plants include C4 grasses such as Andropogon gerardi,
35 Bouteloua curtipendula, B.       gracilis, Buchloe dactyloides, Panicum virgatum,
   Schizachyrium scoparium, Miscanthus species for example, Miscanthus x giganteus

                                                 53
   and Miscanthus sinensis, Sorghastrum nutans, Sporobolus cryptandrus, Switchgrass
   (Panicum virgatum), sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum), Brachyaria;C3 grasses such
   as Elymus canadensis, the legumes Lespedeza capitata and Petalostemum villosum, the
   forb Aster azureus; and woody plants such as Quercus ellipsoidalis and Q.
 5 macrocarpa.
           In a preferred embodiment, the plant is an angiosperm.
           In an embodiment, the plant is an oilseed plant, preferably an oilseed crop plant.
   As used herein, an "oilseed plant" is a plant species used for the commercial production
   of lipid from the seeds of the plant. The oilseed plant may be oil-seed rape (such as
10 canola), maize, sunflower, safflower, soybean, sorghum, flax (linseed) or sugar beet.
   Furthermore, the oilseed plant may be other Brassicas, cotton, peanut, poppy, rutabaga,
   mustard, castor bean, sesame, safflower, or nut producing plants. The plant may
   produce high levels of lipid in its fruit such as olive, oil palm or coconut. Horticultural
   plants to which the present invention may be applied are lettuce, endive, or vegetable
15 Brassicas including cabbage, broccoli, or cauliflower. The present invention may be
   applied in tobacco, cucurbits, carrot, strawberry, tomato, or pepper.
           In a preferred embodiment, the transgenic plant is homozygous for each and
   every gene that has been introduced (transgene) so that its progeny do not segregate for
   the desired phenotype. The transgenic plant may also be heterozygous for the
20 introduced transgene(s), preferably uniformly heterozygous for the transgene such as
   for example, in F1 progeny which have been grown from hybrid seed. Such plants may
   provide advantages such as hybrid vigour, well known in the art.
           Where relevant, the transgenic plants may also comprise additional transgenes
   encoding enzymes involved in the production of non-polar lipid such as, but not limited
25 to LPAAT, LPCAT, PAP, or a phospholipid:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (PDAT1,
   PDAT2 or PDAT3; see for example, Ghosal et al., 2007) , or a combination of two or
   more thereof. The transgenic plants of the invention may also express oleosin from an
   exogenous polynucleotide.
30 Transformationof plants
           Transgenic plants can be produced using techniques known in the art, such as
   those generally described in Slater et al., Plant Biotechnology - The Genetic
   Manipulation of Plants, Oxford University Press (2003), and Christou and Klee,
   Handbook of Plant Biotechnology, John Wiley and Sons (2004).
35         As used herein, the terms "stably transforming", "stably transformed" and
   variations thereof refer to the integration of the polynucleotide into the genome of the

                                                54
   cell such that they are transferred to progeny cells during cell division without the need
   for positively selecting for their presence. Stable transformants, or progeny thereof,
   can be selected by any means known in the art such as Southern blots on chromosomal
   DNA, or in situ hybridization of genomic DNA.
 5         Agrobacterium-mediatedtransfer is a widely applicable system for introducing
   genes into plant cells because DNA can be introduced into cells in whole plant tissues,
   plant organs, or explants in tissue culture, for either transient expression, or for stable
   integration of the DNA in the plant cell genome. The use of Agrobacterium-mediated
   plant integrating vectors to introduce DNA into plant cells is well known in the art (see
10 for example, US 5177010, US 5104310, US 5004863, or US 5159135). The region of
   DNA to be transferred is defined by the border sequences, and the intervening DNA (T
   DNA) is usually inserted into the plant genome. Further, the integration of the T-DNA
   is a relatively precise process resulting in few rearrangements. In those plant varieties
   where Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation is efficient, it is the method of choice
15 because of the facile and defined nature of the gene transfer. Preferred Agrobacterium
   transformation vectors are capable of replication in E. coli as well as Agrobacterium,
   allowing for convenient manipulations as described (Klee et al., In: Plant DNA
   Infectious Agents, Hohn and Schell, eds., Springer-Verlag, New York, pp. 179-203
   (1985)).
20         Acceleration methods that may be used include for example, microprojectile
   bombardment and the like.        One example of a method for delivering transforming
   nucleic acid molecules to plant cells is microprojectile bombardment. This method has
   been reviewed by Yang et al., Particle Bombardment Technology for Gene Transfer,
   Oxford Press, Oxford, England (1994). Non-biological particles (microprojectiles) that
25 may be coated with nucleic acids and delivered into cells by a propelling force.
   Exemplary particles include those comprised of tungsten, gold, platinum, and the like.
   A particular advantage of microprojectile bombardment, in addition to it being an
   effective means of reproducibly transforming monocots, is that neither the isolation of
   protoplasts, nor the susceptibility of Agrobacterium infection are required.            An
30 illustrative embodiment of a method for delivering DNA into Zea mays cells by
   acceleration is a biolistics ax-particle delivery system, that can be used to propel
   particles coated with DNA through a screen such as a stainless steel or Nytex screen,
   onto a filter surface covered with corn cells cultured in suspension. A particle delivery
   system suitable for use with the present invention is the helium acceleration PDS
35 1000/He gun available from Bio-Rad Laboratories.

                                               55
           For the bombardment, cells in suspension may be concentrated on filters. Filters
   containing the cells to be bombarded are positioned at an appropriate distance below
   the microprojectile stopping plate. If desired, one or more screens are also positioned
   between the gun and the cells to be bombarded.
 5         Alternatively, immature embryos or other target cells may be arranged on solid
   culture medium. The cells to be bombarded are positioned at an appropriate distance
   below the microprojectile stopping plate. If desired, one or more screens are also
   positioned between the acceleration device and the cells to be bombarded. Through the
   use of techniques set forth herein, one may obtain up to 1000 or more foci of cells
10 transiently expressing a marker gene. The number of cells in a focus that express the
   gene product 48 hours post-bombardment often range from one to ten and average one
   to three.
           In bombardment transformation, one may optimize the pre-bombardment
   culturing conditions and the bombardment parameters to yield the maximum numbers
15 of stable transformants. Both the physical and biological parameters for bombardment
   are important in this technology. Physical factors are those that involve manipulating
   the DNA/microprojectile precipitate or those that affect the flight and velocity of either
   the macro- or microprojectiles. Biological factors include all steps involved in
   manipulation of cells before and immediately after bombardment, the osmotic
20 adjustment of target cells to help alleviate the trauma associated with bombardment,
   and also the nature of the transforming DNA such as linearized DNA or intact
   supercoiled plasmids. It is believed that pre-bombardment manipulations are especially
   important for successful transformation of immature embryos.
           In another alternative embodiment, plastids can be stably transformed. Methods
25 disclosed for plastid transformation in higher plants include particle gun delivery of
   DNA containing a selectable marker and targeting of the DNA to the plastid genome
   through homologous recombination (US 5,451,513, US 5,545,818, US 5,877,402, US
   5,932479, and WO 99/05265).
           Accordingly, it is contemplated that one may wish to adjust various aspects of
30 the bombardment parameters in small scale studies to fully optimize the conditions.
   One may particularly wish to adjust physical parameters such as gap distance, flight
   distance, tissue distance, and helium pressure. One may also minimize the trauma
   reduction factors by modifying conditions that influence the physiological state of the
   recipient cells and that may therefore influence transformation and integration
35 efficiencies. For example, the osmotic state, tissue hydration and the subculture stage,
   or cell cycle of the recipient cells, may be adjusted for optimum transformation. The

                                               56
   execution of other routine adjustments will be known to those of skill in the art in light
   of the present disclosure.
           Transformation of plant protoplasts can be achieved using methods based on
   calcium phosphate precipitation, polyethylene glycol treatment, electroporation, and
 5 combinations of these treatments. Application of these systems to different plant
   varieties depends upon the ability to regenerate that particular plant strain from
   protoplasts. Illustrative methods for the regeneration of cereals from protoplasts are
   described (Fujimura et al., 1985; Toriyama et al., 1986; Abdullah et al., 1986).
           Other methods of cell transformation can also be used and include but are not
10 limited to the introduction of DNA into plants by direct DNA transfer into pollen, by
   direct injection of DNA into reproductive organs of a plant, or by direct injection of
   DNA into the cells of immature embryos followed by the rehydration of desiccated
   embryos.
           The regeneration, development, and cultivation of plants from single plant
15 protoplast transformants or from various transformed explants is well known in the art
   (Weissbach et al., In: Methods for Plant Molecular Biology, Academic Press, San
   Diego, Calif., (1988)). This regeneration and growth process typically includes the
   steps of selection of transformed cells, culturing those individualized cells through the
   usual stages of embryonic development through the rooted plantlet stage. Transgenic
20 embryos and seeds are similarly regenerated. The resulting transgenic rooted shoots
   are thereafter planted in an appropriate plant growth medium such as soil.
           The development or regeneration of plants containing the foreign, exogenous
   gene is well known in the art. Preferably, the regenerated plants are self-pollinated to
   provide homozygous transgenic plants.            Otherwise, pollen obtained from the
25 regenerated plants is crossed to seed-grown plants of agronomically important lines.
   Conversely, pollen from plants of these important lines is used to pollinate regenerated
   plants. A transgenic plant of the present invention containing a desired polynucleotide
   is cultivated using methods well known to one skilled in the art.
           Methods for transforming dicots, primarily by use of Agrobacterium
30 tumefaciens, and obtaining transgenic plants have been published for cotton (US
   5,004,863, US 5,159,135, US 5,518,908), soybean (US 5,569,834, US 5,416,011),
   Brassica (US 5,463,174), peanut (Cheng et al., 1996), and pea (Grant et al., 1995).
           Methods for transformation of cereal plants such as wheat and barley for
   introducing genetic variation into the plant by introduction of an exogenous nucleic
35 acid and for regeneration of plants from protoplasts or immature plant embryos are well
   known in the art, see for example, CA 2,092,588, AU 61781/94, AU 667939, US

                                                57
   6,100,447, PCT/US97/10621, US 5,589,617, US 6,541,257, and other methods are set
   out in WO 99/14314. Preferably, transgenic wheat or barley plants are produced by
   Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation procedures. Vectors carrying the
   desired polynucleotide may be introduced into regenerable wheat cells of tissue
 5 cultured plants or explants, or suitable plant systems such as protoplasts.
           The regenerable wheat cells are preferably from the scutellum of immature
   embryos, mature embryos, callus derived from these, or the meristematic tissue.
           To confirm the presence of the transgenes in transgenic cells and plants, a
   polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification or Southern blot analysis can be
10 performed using methods known to those skilled in the art. Expression products of the
   transgenes can be detected in any of a variety of ways, depending upon the nature of
   the product, and include Western blot and enzyme assay. One particularly useful way
   to quantitate protein expression and to detect replication in different plant tissues is to
   use a reporter gene such as GUS. Once transgenic plants have been obtained, they may
15 be grown to produce plant tissues or parts having the desired phenotype. The plant
   tissue or plant parts, may be harvested, and/or the seed collected. The seed may serve
   as a source for growing additional plants with tissues or parts having the desired
   characteristics.
           A transgenic plant formed using Agrobacteriumor other transformation methods
20 typically contains a single genetic locus on one chromosome. Such transgenic plants
   can be referred to as being hemizygous for the added gene(s).        More preferred is a
   transgenic plant that is homozygous for the added gene(s), that is, a transgenic plant
   that contains two added genes, one gene at the same locus on each chromosome of a
   chromosome pair. A homozygous transgenic plant can be obtained by self-fertilising a
25 hemizygous transgenic plant, germinating some of the seed produced and analyzing the
   resulting plants for the gene of interest.
           It is also to be understood that two different transgenic plants that contain two
   independently segregating exogenous genes or loci can also be crossed (mated) to
   produce offspring that contain both sets of genes or loci. Selfing of appropriate F1
30 progeny can produce plants that are homozygous for both exogenous genes or loci.
   Back-crossing to a parental plant and out-crossing with a non-transgenic plant are also
   contemplated, as is vegetative propagation.      Descriptions of other breeding methods
   that are commonly used for different traits and crops can be found in Fehr, In: Breeding
   Methods for Cultivar Development, Wilcox J. ed., American Society of Agronomy,
35 Madison Wis. (1987).

                                                58
   Enhancing Exogenous RNA Levels and Stabilized Expression
           Post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) is a nucleotide sequence-specific
   defense mechanism that can target both cellular and viral mRNAs for degradation.
   PTGS occurs in plants or fungi stably or transiently transformed with a recombinant
 5 polynucleotide(s) and results in the reduced accumulation of RNA molecules with
   sequence similarity to the introduced polynucleotide.
           RNA molecule levels can be increased, and/or RNA molecule levels stabilized
   over numerous generations, by limiting the expression of a silencing suppressor in a
   storage organ of a plant or part thereof. As used herein, a "silencing suppressor" is any
10 polynucleotide or polypeptide that can be expressed in a plant cell that enhances the
   level of expression product from a different transgene in the plant cell, particularly,
   over repeated generations from the initially transformed plant. In an embodiment, the
   silencing suppressor is a viral silencing suppressor or mutant thereof. A large number
   of viral silencing suppressors are known in the art and include, but are not limited to
15 P19, V2, P38, Pe-Po and RPV-PO. Examples of suitable viral silencing suppressors
   include those described in WO 2010/057246. A silencing suppressor may be stably
   expressed in a plant or part thereof of the present invention.
           As used herein, the term "stably expressed" or variations thereof refers to the
   level of the RNA molecule being essentially the same or higher in progeny plants over
20 repeated generations, for example, at least three, at least five, or at least ten generations,
   when compared to corresponding plants lacking the exogenous polynucleotide
   encoding the silencing suppressor. However, this term(s) does not exclude the
   possibility that over repeated generations there is some loss of levels of the RNA
   molecule when compared to a previous generation, for example, not less than a 10%
25 loss per generation.
           The suppressor can be selected from any source e.g. plant, viral, mammal, etc.
   The suppressor may be, for example:
           flock house virus B2,
           pothos latent virus P14,
30         pothos latent virus AC2,
           African cassava mosaic virus AC4,
           bhendi yellow vein mosaic disease C2,
           bhendi yellow vein mosaic disease C4,
           bhendi yellow vein mosaic disease PfC1,
35         tomato chlorosis virus p22,
           tomato chlorosis virus CP,

                                         59
   tomato   chlorosis virus CPm,
   tomato   golden mosaic virus AL2,
   tomato   leaf curl Java virus PC1,
   tomato   yellow leaf curl virus V2,
 5 tomato yellow leaf curl virus-China C2,
   tomato yellow leaf curl China virus Y1O isolate fC1,
   tomato yellow leaf curl Israeli isolate V2,
   mungbean yellow mosaic virus-Vigna AC2,
   hibiscus chlorotic ringspot virus CP,
10 turnip crinkle virus P38,
   turnip crinkle virus CP,
   cauliflower mosaic virus P6,
   beet yellows virus p21,
   citrus tristeza virus p20,
15 citrus tristeza virus p23,
   citrus tristeza virus CP,
   cowpea mosaic virus SCP,
   sweet potato chlorotic stunt virus p22,
   cucumber mosaic virus 2b,
20 tomato aspermy virus HC-Pro,
   beet curly top virus L2,
   soil borne wheat mosaic virus 19K,
   barley stripe mosaic virus Gammab,
   poa semilatent virus Gammab,
25 peanut clump pecluvirus P15,
   rice dwarf virus Pns10,
   curubit aphid borne yellows virus PO,
   beet western yellows virus PO,
   potato virus X P25,
30 cucumber vein yellowing virus Plb,
   plum pox virus HC-Pro,
   sugarcane mosaic virus HC-Pro,
   potato virus Y strain HC-Pro,
   tobacco etch virus Pl/HC-Pro,
35 turnip mosaic virus Pl/HC-Pro,
   cocksfoot mottle virus P1,

                                                  60
           cocksfoot mottle virus-Norwegian isolate P1,
           rice yellow mottle virus P1,
           rice yellow mottle virus-Nigerian isolate P1,
           rice hoja blanca virus NS3,
 5         rice stripe virus NS3,
           crucifer infecting tobacco mosaic virus 126K,
           crucifer infecting tobacco mosaic virus p122,
           tobacco mosaic virus p122,
           tobacco mosaic virus 126,
10         tobacco mosaic virus 130K,
           tobacco rattle virus 16K,
           tomato bushy stunt virus P19,
           tomato spotted wilt virus NSs,
           apple chlorotic leaf spot virus P50,
15         grapevine virus A plO,
           grapevine leafroll associated virus-2 homolog of BYV p21,
   as well as variants/mutants thereof. The list above provides the virus from which the
   suppressor can be obtained and the protein (e.g., B2, P14, etc.), or coding region
   designation for the suppressor from each particular virus.
20         Multiple copies of a suppressor may be used. Different suppressors may be
   used together (e. g., in tandem).
           Essentially any RNA molecule which is desirable to be expressed in a plant
   storage organ can be co-expressed with the silencing suppressor. The RNA molecule
   may influence an agronomic trait, insect resistance, disease resistance, herbicide
25 resistance, sterility, grain characteristics, and the like. The encoded polypeptides may
   be involved in metabolism of lipid, starch, carbohydrates, nutrients, etc., or may be
   responsible for the synthesis of proteins, peptides, lipids, waxes, starches, sugars,
   carbohydrates, flavors, odors, toxins, carotenoids, hormones, polymers, flavonoids,
   storage proteins, phenolic acids, alkaloids, lignins, tannins, celluloses, glycoproteins,
30 glycolipids, etc.
           In a particular example, the plants produced increased levels of enzymes for
   lipid production in plants such as Brassicas, for example oilseed rape or sunflower,
   safflower, flax, cotton, soybean or maize.
35

                                                61
   Production of Non-Polar Lipids Comprising DHS or Fatty Acid Derivatives Thereof
            Techniques that are routinely practiced in the art can be used to extract, process,
   purify and analyze the non-polar lipids produced by cells, organisms or parts thereof of
   the instant invention. Such techniques are described and explained throughout the
 5 literature in sources such as, Fereidoon Shahidi, Current Protocols in Food Analytical
   Chemistry, John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (2001) D1.1.1-D1.1.11, and Perez-Vich et al.
   (1998).
   Productionof seedoil
10         Typically, plant seeds are cooked, pressed, and/or extracted to produce crude
   seedoil, which is then degummed, refined, bleached, and deodorized. Generally,
   techniques for crushing seed are known in the art. For example, oilseeds can be
   tempered by spraying them with water to raise the moisture content to, for example,
   8.5%, and flaked using a smooth roller with a gap setting of 0.23 to 0.27 mm.
15 Depending on the type of seed, water may not be added prior to crushing. Application
   of heat deactivates enzymes, facilitates further cell rupturing, coalesces the lipid
   droplets, and agglomerates protein particles, all of which facilitate the extraction
   process.
           The majority of the seedoil is released by passage through a screw press. Cakes
20 expelled from the screw press are then solvent extracted for example, with hexane,
   using a heat traced column. Alternatively, crude seedoil produced by the pressing
   operation can be passed through a settling tank with a slotted wire drainage top to
   remove the solids that are expressed with the seedoil during the pressing operation.
   The clarified seedoil can be passed through a plate and frame filter to remove any
25 remaining fine solid particles. If desired, the seedoil recovered from the extraction
   process can be combined with the clarified seedoil to produce a blended crude seedoil.
           Once the solvent is stripped from the crude seedoil, the pressed and extracted
   portions are combined and subjected to normal lipid processing procedures (i.e.,
   degumming, caustic refining, bleaching, and deodorization). Degumming can be
30 performed by addition of concentrated phosphoric acid to the crude seedoil to convert
   non-hydratable phosphatides to a hydratable form, and to chelate minor metals that are
   present. Gum is separated from the seedoil by centrifugation. The seedoil can be
   refined by addition of a sufficient amount of a sodium hydroxide solution to titrate all
   of the fatty acids and removing the soaps thus formed.
35         Deodorization can be performed by heating the seedoil to 260'C under vacuum,
   and slowly introducing steam into the seedoil at a rate of about 0.1 ml/minute/100 ml of

                                                62
   seedoil.   After about 30 minutes of sparging, the seedoil is allowed to cool under
   vacuum. The seedoil is typically transferred to a glass container and flushed with argon
   before being stored under refrigeration. If the amount of seedoil is limited, the seedoil
   can be placed under vacuum for example, in a Parr reactor and heated to 260'C for the
 5 same length of time that it would have been deodorized. This treatment improves the
   colour of the seedoil and removes a majority of the volatile substances.
   Degumming
           Degumming is an early step in the refining of oils and its primary purpose is the
10 removal of most of the phospholipids from the oil, which may be present as
   approximately 1-2% of the total extracted lipid. Addition of -2% of water, typically
   containing phosphoric acid, at 70-80'C to the crude oil results in the separation of most
   of the phospholipids accompanied by trace metals and pigments. The insoluble material
   that is removed is mainly a mixture of phospholipids and triacylglycerols and is also
15 known as lecithin. Degumming can be performed by addition of concentrated
   phosphoric acid to the crude oil to convert non-hydratable phosphatides to a hydratable
   form, and to chelate minor metals that are present. Gum is separated from the oil by
   centrifugation.
20 Alkali refining
           Alkali refining is one of the refining processes for treating crude oil, sometimes
   also referred to as neutralization. It usually follows degumming and precedes
   bleaching. Following degumming, the oil can treated by the addition of a sufficient
   amount of an alkali solution to titrate all of the fatty acids and phosphoric acids, and
25 removing the soaps thus formed. Suitable alkaline materials include sodium hydroxide,
   potassium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, lithium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide,
   calcium carbonate and ammonium hydroxide. This process is typically carried out at
   room temperature and removes the free fatty acid fraction. Soap is removed by
   centrifugation or by extraction into a solvent for the soap, and the neutralised oil is
30 washed with water. If required, any excess alkali in the oil may be neutralized with a
   suitable acid such as hydrochloric acid or sulphuric acid.
   Bleaching
           Bleaching is a refining process in which oils are heated at 90-120'C for 10-30
35 minutes in the presence of a bleaching earth (0.2-2.0%) and in the absence of oxygen
   by operating with nitrogen or steam or in a vacuum. This step in oil processing is

                                                 63
   designed to remove unwanted pigments (carotenoids, chlorophyll, gossypol etc), and
   the process also removes oxidation products, trace metals, sulphur compounds and
   traces of soap.
 5 Deodorization
            Deodorization is a treatment of oils and fats at a high temperature (200-260'C)
   and low pressure (0.1-1 mm Hg). This is typically achieved by introducing steam into
   the oil at a rate of about 0.1 ml/minute/100 ml of oil. After about 30 minutes of
   sparging, the oil is allowed to cool under vacuum. The oil is typically transferred to a
10 glass container and flushed with argon before being stored under refrigeration. This
   treatment improves the colour of the oil and removes a majority of the volatile
   substances or odorous compounds including any remaining free fatty acids,
   monoacylglycerols and oxidation products.
15 Winterisation
            Winterization is a process sometimes used in commercial production of oils for
   the separation of oils and fats into solid (stearin) and liquid (olein) fractions by
   crystallization at sub-ambient temperatures. It was applied originally to cottonseed oil
   to produce a solid-free product. It is typically used to decrease the saturated fatty acid
20 content of oils.
   Transesterification
            Transesterification is a process that exchanges the fatty acids within and
   between TAGs, initially by releasing fatty acids from the TAGs either as free fatty
25 acids or as fatty acid esters, usually fatty acid ethyl esters. When combined with a
   fractionation process, transesterification can be used to modify the fatty acid
   composition of lipids (Marangoni et al., 1995). Transesterification can use either
   chemical or enzymatic means, the latter using lipases which may be position-specific
   (sn-1/3 or sn-2 specific) for the fatty acid on the TAG, or having a preference for some
30 fatty acids over others (Speranza et al, 2012). The fatty acid fractionation to increase
   the concentration of LC-PUFA in an oil can be achieved by any of the methods known
   in the art, such as, for example, freezing crystallization, complex formation using urea,
   molecular distillation, supercritical fluid extraction and silver ion complexing. Complex
   formation with urea is a preferred method for its simplicity and efficiency in reducing
35 the level of saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids in the oil (Gamez et al., 2003).
   Initially, the TAGs of the oil are split into their constituent fatty acids, often in the form

                                                 64
   of fatty acid esters, by hydrolysis or by lipases and these free fatty acids or fatty acid
   esters are then mixed with an ethanolic solution of urea for complex formation. The
   saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids easily complex with urea and crystallize out
   on cooling and may subsequently be removed by filtration. The non-urea complexed
 5 fraction is thereby enriched with LC-PUFA.
   Plant biomass for the production of lipid
           Parts of plants involved in photosynthesis (e.g., and stems and leaves of higher
   plants and aquatic plants such as algae) can also be used to produce lipid. Independent
10 of the type of plant, there are several methods for extracting lipids from green biomass.
   One way is physical extraction, which often does not use solvent extraction.        It is a
   "traditional" way using several different types of mechanical extraction.         Expeller
   pressed extraction is a common type, as are the screw press and ram press extraction
   methods. The amount of lipid extracted using these methods varies widely, depending
15 upon the plant material and the mechanical process employed. Mechanical extraction is
   typically less efficient than solvent extraction described below.
           In solvent extraction, an organic solvent (e.g., hexane) is mixed with at least the
   genetically modified plant green biomass, preferably after the green biomass is dried
   and ground. Of course, other parts of the plant besides the green biomass (e.g., lipid
20 containing seeds) can be ground and mixed in as well. The solvent dissolves the lipid
   in the biomass and the like, which solution is then separated from the biomass by
   mechanical action (e.g., with the pressing processes above). This separation step can
   also be performed by filtration (e.g., with a filter press or similar device) or
   centrifugation etc. The organic solvent can then be separated from the non-polar lipid
25 (e.g., by distillation). This second separation step yields non-polar lipid from the plant
   and can yield a re-usable solvent if one employs conventional vapor recovery.
   Productionof algae
           Algaculture is a form of aquaculture involving the farming of species of algae
30 (including microalgae, also referred to as phytoplankton, microphytes, or planktonic
   algae, and macroalgae, commonly known as seaweed). Species of algae useful in the
   present    invention    include,  for  example,    Chlamydomonas sp.       (for  example,
   Chlamydomonas reinhardtii), Dunaliella sp., Haematococcus sp., Chlorella sp.,
   Thraustochytrium sp., Schizochytrium sp., and Volvox sp.
35         Mono or mixed algal cultures can be cultured in open-ponds (such as raceway
   type ponds and lakes) or photobioreactors.

                                                65
           Algae can be harvested using microscreens, by centrifugation, by flocculation
   (using for example, chitosan, alum and ferric chloride) and by froth flotation.
   Interrupting the carbon dioxide supply can cause algae to flocculate on its own, which
   is called "autoflocculation". In froth flotation, the cultivator aerates the water into a
 5 froth, and then skims the algae from the top. Ultrasound and other harvesting methods
   are currently under development.
           Lipid may be separated from the algae by mechanical crushing. When algae is
   dried it retains its lipid content, which can then be "pressed" out with an oil press.
   Since different strains of algae vary widely in their physical attributes, various press
10 configurations (screw, expeller, piston, etc.) work better for specific algae types.
           Osmotic shock is sometimes used to release cellular components such as lipid
   from algae. Osmotic shock is a sudden reduction in osmotic pressure and can cause
   cells in a solution to rupture.
           Ultrasonic extraction can accelerate extraction processes, in particular enzymatic
15 extraction processes employed to extract lipid from algae. Ultrasonic waves are used to
   create cavitation bubbles in a solvent material. When these bubbles collapse near the
   cell walls, the resulting shock waves and liquid jets cause those cells walls to break and
   release their contents into a solvent.
           Chemical solvents (for example, hexane, benzene, petroleum ether) are often
20 used in the extraction of lipids from algae. Soxhlet extraction can be used to extract
   lipids from algae through repeated washing, or percolation, with an organic solvent
   under reflux in a special glassware.
           Enzymatic extraction may be used to extract lipids from algae. Enzymatic
   extraction uses enzymes to degrade the cell walls with water acting as the solvent. The
25 enzymatic extraction can be supported by ultrasonication.
           Supercritical CO 2 can also be used as a solvent. In this method, CO 2 is liquefied
   under pressure and heated to the point that it becomes supercritical (having properties
   of both a liquid and a gas), allowing it to act as a solvent.
30 Fermentationprocessesfor lipid production
           As used herein, the term the "fermentation process" refers to any fermentation
   process or any process comprising a fermentation step. A fermentation process
   includes, without limitation, fermentation processes used to produce alcohols (e.g.,
   ethanol, methanol, butanol), organic acids (e.g., citric acid, acetic acid, itaconic acid,
35 lactic acid, gluconic acid), ketones (e.g., acetone), amino acids (e.g., glutamic acid),
   gases (e.g., H2 and CO2 ), antibiotics (e.g., penicillin and tetracycline), enzymes,

                                               66
   vitamins (e.g., riboflavin, beta-carotene), and hormones. Fermentation processes also
   include fermentation processes used in the consumable alcohol industry (e.g., beer and
   wine), dairy industry (e.g., fermented dairy products), leather industry and tobacco
   industry. Preferred fermentation processes include alcohol fermentation processes, as
 5 are well known in the art. Preferred fermentation processes are anaerobic fermentation
   processes, as are well known in the art. Suitable fermenting cells, typically
   microorganisms that are able to ferment, that is, convert, sugars such as glucose or
   maltose, directly or indirectly into the desired fermentation product. Examples of
   fermenting microorganisms include fungal organisms such as yeast, preferably an
10 oleaginous organism. As used herein, an "oleaginous organism" is one which
   accumulates at least 25% of its dry weight as triglycerides. As used herein, "yeast"
   includes     Saccharomyces spp.,        Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces
   carlbergensis, Candida spp., Kluveromyces spp., Pichia spp., Hansenula spp.,
   Trichoderma spp., Lipomyces starkey, and Yarrowia lipolytica. Preferred yeast include
15 Yarrowia lipolytica or other oleaginous yeasts and strains of the Saccharomyces spp.,
   and in particular, Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
           The transgenic microorganism is preferably grown under conditions that
   optimize activity of CPFAS genes, fatty acid biosynthetic genes and acyltransferase
   genes. This leads to production of the greatest and the most economical yield of lipid.
20 In general, media conditions that may be optimized include the type and amount of
   carbon source, the type and amount of nitrogen source, the carbon-to-nitrogen ratio, the
   oxygen level, growth temperature, pH, length of the biomass production phase, length
   of the lipid accumulation phase and the time of cell harvest.
            Fermentation media must contain a suitable carbon source. Suitable carbon
25 sources may include, but are not limited to: monosaccharides (e.g., glucose, fructose),
   disaccharides (e.g., lactose, sucrose), oligosaccharides, polysaccharides (e.g., starch,
   cellulose or mixtures thereof), sugar alcohols (e.g., glycerol) or mixtures from
   renewable feedstocks (e.g., cheese whey permeate, comsteep liquor, sugar beet
   molasses, barley malt). Additionally, carbon sources may include alkanes, fatty acids,
30 esters of fatty acids, monoglycerides, diglycerides, triglycerides, phospholipids and
   various commercial sources of fatty acids including vegetable oils (e.g., soybean oil)
   and animal fats. Additionally, the carbon substrate may include one-carbon substrates
   (e.g., carbon dioxide, methanol, formaldehyde, formate, carbon-containing amines) for
   which metabolic conversion into key biochemical intermediates has been demonstrated.
35 Hence it is contemplated that the source of carbon utilized in the present invention may
   encompass a wide variety of carbon-containing substrates and will only be limited by

                                                 67
   the choice of the host microorganism.       Although all of the above mentioned carbon
   substrates and mixtures thereof are expected to be suitable in the present invention,
   preferred carbon substrates are sugars and/or fatty acids. Most preferred is glucose
   and/or fatty acids containing between 10-22 carbons.
 5         Nitrogen may be supplied from an inorganic (e.g., (NH 4 )2 SO 4) or organic
   source (e.g., urea, glutamate). In addition to appropriate carbon and nitrogen sources,
   the fermentation media may also contain suitable minerals, salts, cofactors, buffers,
   vitamins and other components known to those skilled in the art suitable for the growth
   of the microorganism and promotion of the enzymatic pathways necessary for lipid
10 production.
           A suitable pH range for the fermentation is typically between about pH 4.0 to
   pH 8.0, wherein pH 5.5 to pH 7.0 is preferred as the range for the initial growth
   conditions. The fermentation may be conducted under aerobic or anaerobic conditions,
   wherein microaerobic conditions are preferred.
15         Typically, accumulation of high levels of lipid in the cells of oleaginous
   microorganisms requires a two-stage process, since the metabolic state must be
   "balanced" between growth and synthesis/storage of fats. Thus, most preferably, a two
   stage fermentation process is necessary for the production of lipids in microorganisms.
   In this approach, the first stage of the fermentation is dedicated to the generation and
20 accumulation of cell mass and is characterized by rapid cell growth and cell division.
   In the second stage of the fermentation, it is preferable to establish conditions of
   nitrogen deprivation in the culture to promote high levels of lipid accumulation. The
   effect of this nitrogen deprivation is to reduce the effective concentration of AMP in
   the cells, thereby reducing the activity of the NAD-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase
25 of mitochondria. When this occurs, citric acid will accumulate, thus forming abundant
   pools of acetyl-CoA in the cytoplasm and priming fatty acid synthesis.         Thus, this
   phase is characterized by the cessation of cell division followed by the synthesis of
   fatty acids and accumulation of TAGs.
           Although cells are typically grown at about 30'C, some studies have shown
30 increased synthesis of unsaturated fatty acids at lower temperatures. Based on process
   economics, this temperature shift should likely occur after the first phase of the two
   stage fermentation, when the bulk of the microorganism's growth has occurred.
           It is contemplated that a variety of fermentation process designs may be applied,
   where commercial production of lipids using the instant nucleic acids is desired. For
35 example, commercial production of lipid from a recombinant microbial host may be
   produced by a batch, fed-batch or continuous fermentation process.

                                               68
            A batch fermentation process is a closed system wherein the media composition
   is set at the beginning of the process and not subject to further additions beyond those
   required for maintenance of pH and oxygen level during the process. Thus, at the
   beginning of the culturing process the media is inoculated with the desired organism
 5 and growth or metabolic activity is permitted to occur without adding additional
   substrates (i.e., carbon and nitrogen sources) to the medium. In batch processes the
   metabolite and biomass compositions of the system change constantly up to the time
   the culture is terminated. In a typical batch process, cells moderate through a static lag
   phase to a high-growth log phase and finally to a stationary phase, wherein the growth
10 rate is diminished or halted. Left untreated, cells in the stationary phase will eventually
   die. A variation of the standard batch process is the fed-batch process, wherein the
   substrate is continually added to the fermentor over the course of the fermentation
   process. A fed-batch process is also suitable in the present invention. Fed-batch
   processes are useful when catabolite repression is apt to inhibit the metabolism of the
15 cells or where it is desirable to have limited amounts of substrate in the media at any
   one time. Measurement of the substrate concentration in fed-batch systems is difficult
   and therefore may be estimated on the basis of the changes of measurable factors such
   as pH, dissolved oxygen and the partial pressure of waste gases (e.g., C0 2). Batch and
   fed-batch culturing methods are common and well known in the art and examples may
20 be found in Brock, In Biotechnology: A Textbook of Industrial Microbiology, 2nd ed.,
   Sinauer Associates, Sunderland, Mass., (1989); or Deshpande and Mukund (1992).
            Commercial production of lipid using the instant cells may also be
   accomplished by a continuous fermentation process, wherein a defined media is
   continuously added to a bioreactor while an equal amount of culture volume is removed
25 simultaneously for product recovery. Continuous cultures generally maintain the cells
   in the log phase of growth at a constant cell density. Continuous or semi-continuous
   culture methods permit the modulation of one factor or any number of factors that
   affect cell growth or end product concentration. For example, one approach may limit
   the carbon source and allow all other parameters to moderate metabolism. In other
30 systems, a number of factors affecting growth may be altered continuously while the
   cell concentration, measured by media turbidity, is kept constant. Continuous systems
   strive to maintain steady state growth and thus the cell growth rate must be balanced
   against cell loss due to media being drawn off the culture. Methods of modulating
   nutrients and growth factors for continuous culture processes, as well as techniques for
35 maximizing the rate of product formation, are well known in the art of industrial
   microbiology and a variety of methods are detailed by Brock, supra.

                                                 69
            Fatty acids, including PUFAs, may be found in the host microorganism as free
   fatty acids or in esterified forms such as acylglycerols, phospholipids, sulfolipids or
   glycolipids, and may be extracted from the host cell through a variety of means well
   known in the art.
 5          In general, means for the purification of fatty acids, including PUFAs, may
   include extraction with organic solvents, sonication, supercritical fluid extraction (e.g.,
   using carbon dioxide), saponification and physical means such as presses, or
   combinations thereof. Of particular interest is extraction with methanol and chloroform
   in the presence of water (Bligh and Dyer, 1959). Where desirable, the aqueous layer
10 can be acidified to protonate negatively-charged moieties and thereby increase
   partitioning of desired products into the organic layer. After extraction, the organic
   solvents can be removed by evaporation under a stream of nitrogen. When isolated in
   conjugated forms, the products may be enzymatically or chemically cleaved to release
   the free fatty acid or a less complex conjugate of interest, and can then be subject to
15 further manipulations to produce a desired end product. Desirably, conjugated forms of
   fatty acids are cleaved with potassium hydroxide.
            If further purification is necessary, standard methods can be employed. Such
   methods may include extraction, treatment with urea, fractional crystallization, HPLC,
   fractional distillation, silica gel chromatography, high-speed centrifugation or
20 distillation, or combinations of these techniques. Protection of reactive groups such as
   the acid or alkenyl groups, may be done at any step through known techniques (e.g.,
   alkylation, iodination). Methods used include methylation of the fatty acids to produce
   methyl esters. Similarly, protecting groups may be removed at any step. Desirably,
   purification of fractions containing GLA, STA, ARA, DHA and EPA may be
25 accomplished by treatment with urea and/or fractional distillation.
   EXAMPLES
   Example 1. General materials and methods
   Expression of genes in plant cells in a transient expression system
30          Genes were expressed in plant cells using a transient expression system
   essentially as described by Voinnet et al. (2003) and Wood et al. (2009). Chimeric
   binary vectors, 35S:pl9 and 35S:V2, for expression of the p19 and V2 viral silencing
   suppressors, respectively, were separately introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens
   strain GV3101:mp90. All other binary vectors containing a coding region to be
35 expressed by a promoter, such as the strong constitutive CaMV 35S promoter, were
   introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGLI. The recombinant cells were

                                               70
   grown to stationary phase at 28'C in LB broth supplemented with 50 mg/L rifampicin
   and either 50 mg/L kanamycin or 80 mg/L spectinomycin according to the selectable
   marker gene on the binary vector. Acetosyringone (100 pM) was added to the bacterial
   cultures and growth continued a further 2 hours for the induction of virulence factors.
 5 The bacteria were pelleted by centrifugation at 3000 g for 5 min at room temperature
   before being resuspended to OD600 = 2.0 in infiltration buffer containing 10 mM MES
   pH 5.7, 10 mM MgCl 2 and 100 pM acetosyringone. The cells were then incubated at
   28'C with shaking for another 30 minutes and a volume of each culture required to
   reach a final concentration of OD600 = 0.3 added to a fresh tube.          Mixed cultures
10 comprising genes to be expressed included either of the 35S:p19 or 35S:V2 constructs
   in Agrobacterium unless otherwise stated. The final volume was made up with the
   infiltration buffer.
            Leaves were then infiltrated with the culture mixture and the plants were
   typically grown for a further three to five days after infiltration before leaf discs were
15 recovered for total lipid isolation. Time courses of GFP expression were conducted on
   the intact leaves from the first day after infiltration through to 7 days post-infiltration
   (dpi). N. benthamiana plants were grown in growth cabinets under a constant 24 0 C with
   a 14/10 light/dark cycle with a light intensity of approximately 200 lux using Osram
   'Soft White' fluorescent lighting placed directly over plants. Typically, 6 week old
20 plants were used for experiments and true leaves that were nearly fully-expanded were
   infiltrated. All non-infiltrated leaves were removed by post infiltration to avoid
   shading.
   Lipid analysis
25 Total lipid isolation andfractionation
            Tissue samples were freeze-dried, weighed and total lipids extracted from
   samples of approximately 30 mg dry weight as described by Bligh and Dyer (1959).
   When required, TAG fractions were separated from other lipid components using a 2
   phase thin-layer chromatography (TLC) system on pre-coated silica gel plates (Silica
30 gel 60, Merck). An extracted lipid sample equivalent to 10 mg dry weight of leaf tissue
   was chromatographed in a first phase with hexane/diethyl ether (98/2 v/v) to remove
   non-polar waxes and then in a second phase using hexane/diethyl ether/acetic acid
   (70/30/1 v/v/v). When required, polar lipids were separated from non-polar lipids in
   lipid samples extracted from an equivalent of 5 mg dry weight of leaves using two
35 dimensional TLC (Silica gel 60, Merck), using chloroform/methanol/water (65/25/4
   v/v/v) for the first direction and chloroform/methanol/NH 4 0H/ethylpropylamine

                                                71
   (130/70/10/1     v/v/v/v) for the second direction. The lipid spots, and appropriate
   standards run on the same TLC plates, were visualized by brief exposure to iodine
   vapour, collected into vials and transmethylated to produce FAME for GC analysis as
   follows.
 5
   Conversion of fatty acids to FAMEs
           For total lipid analysis, with the exception of the analysis of DHS content, lipid
   extracted from an equivalent of 10 mg of dry weight leaf material was transmethylated
   using a solution of methanol/HC1/ dichloromethane (10/1/1 v/v/v) at 80'C for 2 hr to
10 produce fatty acid methyl esters (FAME). For analysis of DHS in leaves, samples were
   transmethylated using the same reagents but with milder conditions, namely for 10
   mins at 50'C, using DHS (Larodan Chemicals) as a calibration standard. The FAME
   were extracted into hexane, concentrated to near dryness under a stream of N 2 gas and
   quickly reconstituted in hexane prior to analysis by GC.
15         DHS and eDHS were determined in total lipid samples by the following method.
   Samples were directly treated with 0.iM sodium methoxide in methanol/chloroform
   (10:1) in a sealed test tube with heating at 90'C for 60 mins to convert lipids to
   FAMEs. When cool, the solution was slightly acidified to pH 6-7 with acetic acid.
   Saline and hexane/chloroform (4:1 v/v) were added with vigorous shaking, and the
20 hexane/chloroform layer containing FAMEs was transferred to a vial for analysis.
   Capillarygas-liquidchromatography (GC)
           FAMEs were         analysed by gas chromatography        (GC) using an Agilent
   Technologies 6890N gas chromatograph (Palo Alto, California, USA) equipped with an
25 Equity T M -1 fused silica capillary column (15 m x 0.1 mm i.d., 0.1 pm film thickness),
   an FID, a split/splitless injector and an Agilent Technologies 7683 Series auto sampler
   and injector. Helium was used as the carrier gas. Samples were injected in splitless
   mode at an oven temperature of 120'C. After injection, the oven temperature was
   raised to 201'C at 100C.min-1 and then to 270'C at 50C.min-1 and held for 20 min.
30 Peaks     were     quantified    with   Agilent   Technologies    ChemStation    software
   (Rev B.03.01 (317), Palo Alto, California, USA). Peak responses were similar for the
   fatty acids of authentic Nu-Check GLC standard-411 (Nu-Check Prep Inc, MN, USA)
   which contained equal proportions of 31 different fatty acid methyl esters, including
   18:1, 18:0, 20:0 and 22:0. Slight variations of peak responses among peaks were
35 balanced by multiplying the peak areas by normalization factors of each peak. The

                                                72
   proportion of each fatty acid in total fatty acids of samples was calculated on the basis
   of individual and total peaks areas for the fatty acids.
   Analysis of FAMEs by gas chromatography- mass spectrometry
 5         Analysis of FAMEs by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry (GCMS) was
   conducted using a Varian 3800 equipped with a BPX70 capillary column (length 30 m,
   i.d. 0.32 mm, film thickness 0.25 pm, Phenomenex). Injections were made in the split
   mode using helium as the carrier gas and an initial column temperature of 60'C raised
   at 20'C.min-1 until 180'C, then raised at 2.5 C.min-1 until 190'C, then raised at
10 25 C.min-1 until 260'C and held for 2.2 min. Mass spectra were acquired under positive
   electron impact in full scan mode between 40 - 400 amu at the rate of 2 scans per
   second using a Varian 1200 Single Quadrupole mass spectrometer. The mass spectra
   corresponding to each peak in the chromatogram was automatically compared with
   spectra of pure standards. Test spectra that matched standard spectra with a high degree
15 of accuracy and eluted at the same time as an authentic standard or eluted at a plausible
   retention time, were identified. FAMEs were quantified by peak area integration using
   Varian software and assuming equivalent MS response factors on a weight basis.
   Quantification of TAG via Jatroscan
20         One pl of each leaf extract was loaded on one Chromarod-SIl for TLC-FID
   JatroscanTM (Mitsubishi Chemical Medience Corporation - Japan).          The Chromarod
   rack was then transferred into an equilibrated developing tank containing 70 ml of a
   Hexane/CHCl 3/2-Propanol/Formic       acid    (85/10.716/0.567/0.0567   v/v/v/v)  solvent
   system. After 30 min of incubation, the Chromarod rack was then dried for 3 min at
25 100 0 C and immediately scanned on an Jatroscan MK-6s TLC-FID analyser (Mitsubishi
   Chemical Medience Corporation - Japan). Peak areas of DAGE internal standard and
   TAG were integrated using SIC-48011 integration software (Version:7.0-E SIC System
   instruments Co., LTD - Japan).
           TAG quantification was carried out in two steps. First, DAGE was scanned in
30 all samples to correct the extraction yields after which concentrated TAG samples were
   selected and diluted. Next, TAG was quantified in diluted samples with a second scan
   according to the external calibration using glyceryl trilinoleate as external standard
   (Sigma-Aldrich).
35

                                               73
   Transformation of Arabidopsis thaliana
           Chimeric vectors comprising genes to be used to transform Arabidopsis were
   introduced into A. tumefaciens strain AGLI and cells from culture of the transformed
   Agrobacterium used to treat A. thaliana (ecotype Columbia) plants using the floral dip
 5 method for transformation (Clough and Bent, 1998).
   Example 2. V2 protein acts as a silencing suppressor in transient assays
   Construction of chimeric genes for expression of silencing suppressors p19 or V2
           The p19 protein from Tomato Bushy Stunt Virus (TBSV) (SEQ ID NO: 2) and
10 the V2 protein from Tomato Yellow Leaf Roll Virus (TYLRV) (SEQ ID NO: 1) have
   been characterised as viral suppressor proteins (VSP), functioning as silencing
   suppressors (Voinnet et al., 2003; Glick et al., 2008). p 1 9 binds to 21 nucleotide long
   siRNAs before they guide Argonaute-guided cleavage of homologous RNA (Ye et al.,
   2003). V2 is an another silencing suppressor that disrupts the function of the plant
15 protein SGS3, a protein thought to be involved in the production of double stranded
   RNA intermediates from ssRNA substrates (Elmayan et al., 1998; Mourrain et al.,
   2000; Beclin et al., 2002) either by directly binding to SGS3 (Glick et al., 2008) or by
   binding dsRNA intermediates that contain a 5'overhang structure and competitively
   excluding SGS3 from binding these intermediates (Fukunaga and Doudna, 2009).
20         A DNA sequence encoding p19 (SEQ ID NO: 4), based on the genome
   sequence of the Tomato Bushy Stunt Virus (Hillman et al., 1989) was chemically
   synthesised, including an NcoI site spanning the translation start ATG codon. The DNA
   sequence was amplified by PCR and inserted into the pENTR/D-TOPO vector
   (Invitrogen), producing a plasmid designated pCW087 (pENTR-p19). Gateway LR
25 clonase reactions were then used to introduce the p19 coding sequence into plant binary
   vectors under the control of either the CaMV35S promoter, generating a construct
   designated pCW195 (35S-p19), or the truncated napin promoter FP1, generating
   pCW082 (FP1-p19).      In addition, the entire FP1-p19-ocs3' expression cassette from
   pCW082 was PCR amplified with SacI flanking sites and ligated into pCW141, a plant
30 expression vector having a FP1-GFP gene as a screenable/selectable seed marker, thus
   generating a plasmid designated pCW 164 (FP1-p19 and FP1-GFP). The presence of the
   FPl-GFP gene allowed the non-destructive identification and selection of transformed
   T1 seeds in mixed null/T1 populations that resulted from the dipping techniques used to
   transform Arabidopsis.
35         A DNA sequence encoding V2 (SEQ ID NO: 3), based on the Tomato Yellow
   Leaf Curl Virus genome sequence (Glick et al., 2008), was chemically synthesised,

                                                 74
   included flanking NotI and AscI restriction sites to allow direct cloning into the
   pENTR/D-TOPO vector (Invitrogen), generating a plasmid designated pCW192
   (pENTR-V2). Gateway LR clonase reactions were used to introduce the V2 gene into
   plant binary vectors under the control of the 35S promoter (pCW197; 35S-V2) or for
 5 seed-specific expression under the control of the truncated napin promoter, FP1
   (pCW195; FP1-V2).
           The vector pUQ214 described in Brosnan et al. (2007) and comprising a 35S
   GFP gene, was used as an example of a target gene, expressing GFP under the control
   of the 35S promoter. This binary vector included a kanamycin resistance marker gene
10 that can be used for selection of transformed cells in plants if desired.
   Function of the suppressors in plant cells
           In order to confirm the function of the V2 and p19 proteins as suppressors of
   silencing    and   therefore    increasing  transgene  expression,    Agrobacterium cells
15 containing either of the 35S-driven VSP constructs were co-infiltrated together with
   Agrobacterium cells containing pUQ214 into Nicotianabenthamianaleaves as follows.
   Transformants of Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains separately harbouring each binary
   vector were grown overnight at 28'C in LB broth supplemented with antibiotics
   (50mg/L kanamycin or 80mg/L spectinomycin, dependent on the selectable marker
20 gene used) and rifampicin.          Turbid cultures were supplemented with 100 PM
   acetosyringone and grown for a further 2 hours. Cultures were centrifuged (4000xg for
   5 min at room temperature) to harvest the cells and the cell pellets gently resuspended
   in infiltration buffer (5 mM MES, 5 mM MgSO 4 , pH 5.7, 100 pM acetosyringone) to
   an optical density of about 2.0. Cell suspensions for infiltration were prepared,
25 combining different transformants as required, so that each Agrobacterium strain was
   present at an  OD600nm   of 0.3. The cell suspensions were infiltrated into the underside of
   fully-expanded leaves of 5-6 week old N. benthamiana plants using a 1 mL syringe
   without a needle, using gentle pressure. By these means, the cell suspensions entered
   primarily through the stomates and infiltrated the mesophyll cell layer of the leaves.
30 Infiltrated areas of leaves, indicated by the water-soaked region and commonly 3 to 4
   cm in diameter, were circled by a permanent marker. Plants were housed in a 24'C
   plant growth room with 14:10 light:dark cycle, where the light intensity was 400-500
                  -2 -1
   pEinsteins.m- .s at the leaf surface provided by overhead fluorescent lighting (Philips
   TLD 35S/865 'Cold Daylight'). Under these conditions, the Agrobacteria efficiently
35 transfered the T-DNAs into the N. benthamiana cells.

                                              75
            GFP expression in the leaves was measured daily from 1-7 days after the
   infiltrations by measuring the fluoresence under UV light. GFP images were captured
   on a digital SLR (Nikon D60; 55-200 mm lens) using the NightSea fluorescent light
   and filter set (NightSea, Bedford, MA, USA). Infiltrated leaves were generally left on
 5 the plant and were photographed every day from 2-7 days post infiltration, thereby a
   time-course of GFP expression could be determined for the same set of infiltrations.
   Representative fluorescence photographs are shown in Figure 1.
            The 35S:GFP construct introduced in the absence of a VSP produced a
   relatively low level of fluorescence, indicative of GFP expression, peaking after 2-3
10 days and reducing thereafter. In contrast, when the GFP construct was co-infiltrated
   with either the p19 or the V2 suppressor constructs, both the intensity and duration of
   fluorescence were greatly increased, extending to and maintained beyond more than 7
   days post infiltration. These observations indicated enhanced expression of the
   35S:GFP gene in the leaf assays in the presence of the VSPs, and confirmed their
15 function as potent suppressor proteins that inhibited the endogenous co-suppression
   pathways in the plant cells.
   Measurement of GFP expression by Western blot analysis
            GFP expression was also analysed by Western blot using a GFP specific
20 antibody as follows. lcm 2 leaf samples were removed from the infiltrated zones and
   subjected to denaturing protein extraction, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE;
   12% gel) and blotting to PVDF membrane essentially as described (Helliwell et al.,
   2006). GFP protein was detected using an anti-GFP monoclonal antibody (1:10000
   dilution, Clontech) and goat anti-mouse HRP (1:5000 dilution, Promega) according to
25 the suppliers instructions. Coomassie blue staining of high molecular proteins
   remaining in gels after the transfer to PVDF membranes was used to confirm equal
   protein loading between samples. Protein size was determined using the Pre-Stained
   PageRuler Protein Ladder (MBI-Fermentas P77 11S).
            The results of the Western blot analyses confirmed the fluorescence data,
30 confirming the function of both p19 and V2 as silencing suppressors (Figure 2).
   Example 3. RNAi gene silencing can occur simultaneously with silencing
   suppression
   Hairpin RNAi constructs targeting GFP
35          A binary construct pUQ218 (Brosnan et al., 2007), containing both a 35S-GFP
   gene and a 35S-hairpin encoding region targeted against GFP and within the same T-

                                               76
   DNA region, was used when experiments used both GFP expression and simultaneous
   GFP silencing activities in the same cell. The hairpin RNA comprised the first 380 bp
   of the GFP coding sequence, corresponding to nucleotides 1 to 380 of Accession No.
   U43284.     A hpGFP binary construct without the 35S-GFP gene was generated by
 5 removing the 35S-GFP component via a NheI-AvrII digestion/religation reaction,
   creating pCW445 (35S-hpGFP).
   Co-expression of silencing suppressors        and silencing constructs with transgene
   expression
10        The VSPs, V2 and p19, were compared in combination with GFP expression
   from the 35S-GFP gene and a hairpin targeting GFP (hpGFP) to silence the 35S-GFP
   gene, using transient assays by infiltration of the genes from Agrobacterium into N.
   benthamianaleaves. These were compared to control infiltrations without the hpGFP,
   into adjacent spots on the same leaf at the same time, to determine expression levels in
15 the absence of the hairpin RNA. Figure 1, panel B, shows representative photographs
   of the fluorescence observed from 2 to 7 days post infiltration. The combination of
   pCW195 (35S-p19) and pUQ218 (containing both GFP and hpGFP) resulted in high
   levels of GFP expression, indicating that p19 effectively suppressed silencing by the
   hairpin RNA of the GFP transgene.       In contrast, combinations of V2, 35S-GFP and
20 hpGFP resulted in a near-total silencing of GFP. Complete silencing of GFP was
   achieved with hpGFP in the absence of any VSP.
          Experiments using pUQ218 generated equivalent results for GFP expression
   compared to the combination of separate vectors pUQ214 (35S-GFP) and pCW557
   (35S-hpGFP). This indicated that the hairpin RNA construct was efficiently introduced
25 into cells via Agrobacterium in the experiments described above, and that it was not
   necessary to link the target gene and the silencing gene on a single construct in the
   transient leaf assays.
          Western blots of GFP protein levels (Figure 2) using a specific antibody as in
   Example 2 confirmed that the co-introduction of p19 suppressed the silencing activity
30 of hpGFP, thereby allowing strong GFP expression. In contrast, only a low level of
   GFP expression was detected when the combination of V2, GFP and hpGFP was
   introduced. This great difference between p19 and V2 with respect to suppressing the
   function of a hairpin RNA indicated that V2 may allow strong over-expression of
   transgenes simultaneously with hairpin-based RNAi strategies in the same cell.
35

                                               77
   Example 4.        Silencing of an endogenous gene in the presence of silencing
   suppressors
            In order to test whether an endogenous gene could be silenced simultaneously
   with expression of a silencing suppressor, a hairpin RNA construct was designed and
 5 made which would silence a FAD2 gene in N. benthamiana plants (NbFAD2) (SEQ ID
   NO: 11). FAD2 is a membrane-bound enzyme located on the endoplasmic reticulum
   (ER) which desaturates 18:1 esterified on phosphatidylcholine (18:1-PC) to form 18:2
   PC. Activity of FAD2 can readily be assayed by analysing the fatty acid composition of
   lipid in the plant tissues and determining the ratio of 18:1 (oleic acid) to 18:2 (linoleic
10 acid) in the total fatty acid. FAD2 is active in leaves of N. benthamiana as in other
   plants, resulting in low levels of 18:1-PC in the leaves. As 18:1-PC is an important
   metabolite for a range of alternative fatty acids metabolic pathways, a chimeric gene
   was made which included an inverted repeat of a 660 basepair region of NbFAD2 (SEQ
   ID NO: 12), corresponding to central portion of the endogenous 1151 bp transcript, to
15 silence NbFAD2 as follows.
   Construction of hairpin construct targeting NbFAD2
            A 660 bp fragment of NbFAD2 was generated by RT-PCR from leaf total RNA
   using primers designed against conserved regions of a Nicotianum tabacum FAD2
20 sequence in the Solgenomics database (SGN-U427167),              namely forward primer
   NbFAD2F1 5'-TCATTGCGCACGAATGTGGCCACCAT-3' (+451 bp co-ordinates)
   (SEQ         ID     NO:      13)     and     reverse      primer      NbFAD2R1          5'
   CGAGAACAGATGGTGCACGACG-3'                  (+1112 bp co-ordinates) (SEQ ID NO: 14).
   Total RNA was isolated from young N. benthamiana leaves using a Trizol-based
25 method (Invitrogen and associated literature). A Platinum Taq One-Step RT-PCR
   reaction (Invitrogen) was performed using the cycling conditions of 50'C(10 min),
   94'C(2 min) and 30 cycles of 50'C (30 s)/72 0 C(60 s)/92 0 C(30s) and a final 72'C (2
   min). The NbFAD2 gene fragment was subsequently ligated into pENTRI1                   and
   recombined using standard Gateway procedures into the pHellsgate8 vector (Helliwell
30 et al., 2002) to generate the plasmid designated pFNO33. This construct had an inverted
   repeat of the 660bp fragment under the control of the 35S promoter, thereby producing,
   upon transcription, a RNA hairpin directed against NbFAD2, hereafter named
   hpNbFAD2.
            hpNbFAD2 was transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGLI and
35 infiltrated into N. benthamiana leaves in combination with Agrobacteria containing the
   35S:V2 or 35S:pl9 constructs. Five days post infiltration, infiltrated zones from leaves

                                                78
   were sampled, total lipid extracted and the PC fraction analysed. The fatty acid analysis
   of the PC fraction of leaves infiltrated with combinations of hpNbFAD2 and V2
   showed a substantial increase in the 18:1-PC content from 9% 18:1-PC to 39% 18:1-PC
   (Figure 3). These percentages were based on the observed amounts of 18:1, 18:2 and
 5 18:3 found on the PC fraction and expressed as a percentage of the sum of these three
   fatty acids. In comparison, the combination of p19 and hpNbFAD2 resulted in partial
   silencing of FAD2 activity, reflected in an increase from 8% 18:1-PC to 25% 18:1-PC,
   a result indicating that hpNbFAD2 could silence the endogenous FAD2 gene to a
   moderate extent in the presence of co-expression of p19. Previous work has shown that
10 leaf cells infiltrated with a combination of Agrobacteria strains, each containing a
   separate vector, received at least one or more copies of T-DNA from each vector
   (Wood et al., 2009). This gave us confidence that the great majority of cells in the leaf
   assays described above had received and expressed both the hairpin and the suppressor
   encoding genes.
15         The increase in 18:1-PC levels was reflected in a reduction in the 18:2-PC
   content in the cells. In contrast, the 18:3-PC levels nearly the same, presumably due to
   the large amount of 18:3 generated in the FAD2-independent pathways found in the
   chloroplasts of leaves.
           To establish that the suppressor and hairpin constructs were introduced into the
20 same cells efficiently, constructs were also made and tested which co-located the genes
   within the same T-DNA constructs, thus generating single T-DNAs with 35S-p19+35S
   hpNbFAD2 and 35S-V2+35S-NbFAD2 gene combinations. The entire 35S-p19-ocs3'
   region of pCW194 was PCR amplified using the primers including MluI flanking sites,
   (underlined) namely Forward primer 5' aacgegttcgacgaattaattccaatcccaca-3' (SEQ ID
25 NO: 15) and the OCS'3 Reverse primer 5'-ACGCGTCTGCTGAGCCTCGACATGTT
   3' (SEQ ID NO: 16). The amplified fragment was ligated into the unique MluI site
   within pFNO33 to create pCW701, containing 35S-p19+35S-hpNbFAD2. Using the
   same primers, the entire 35S-V2-ocs3' region of pCW197 was PCR amplified and this
   amplicon was ligated into the unique MluI site of pFNO33 to create pCW702,
30 containing 35S-p19+35S-hpNbFAD2. These vectors having the suppressor and hairpin
   encoding genes located within the same T-DNA region were transformed into
   Agrobacterium strain AGLI and infiltrated into N. benthamianaleaves as before. Leaf
   tissues were sampled 5 dpi and the PC lipid fractions analysed for the 18:1, 18:2 and
   18:3 levels. The results were indistinguishable compared to the results obtained using
35 genes introduced on separate vectors, the inventors concluded that essentially all of the

                                               79
   transformable leaf cells in transient leaf assays received at least one copy of each T
   DNA in the infiltration mixtures.
   Simultaneous silencing of one gene while overexpressing a second gene
 5          To test whether additional genes could be over-expressed with the aid of a
   silencing suppressor while silencing the endogenous FAD2 gene, additional constructs
   were made for over-expression of genes encoding DGAT1 and oleosin in plant cells.
   All plant cells possess active lipid pathways producing lipid classes such as DAG and
   acyl-CoA (Ohlrogge and Browse, 1995), however the esterification of these substrates
10 via DGAT to produce TAG only occurs at significant levels in specialised organs, such
   oilseeds and pollen. The ectopic expression of AtDGAT1 in leaves has been shown to
   generate increased levels of oils (Bouvier-Nave et al., 2000). Previous studies have
   also shown that AtDGAT1 has some substrate specificity for 18:1 and its elongation
   product, 20:1 (Katavic et al., 1995). Oleosins are amphipathic proteins whose
15 properties position these proteins on oil/hydrophilic interfaces, thereby creating a
   coating surrounding oil droplets and forming so called 'oil bodies' in oil-generating
   tissues (Tzen et al., 1992). 'Oil bodies' are considered a long term storage organelle as
   the oleosin layer protects the TAG from catabolic processes such as TAG lipases.
   Seeds of Arabidopsis mutants lacking a functional oleosin, ole], have significantly
20 reduced 18:1 contents and this 18:1 content was restored upon ectopic expression of an
   oleosin encoding gene from sesame (Scott et al., 2010).
   Synthesis and use of constructs to overexpress DGAT1 and oleosin
            The coding region of the AtDGAT1 gene (SEQ ID NO: 10) was cloned from
25 Arabidopsis Col-0 mRNA collected from developing embryos using primers based on
   the Accession No. NG_127503. The amplicon was cloned into pENTR 11 (Invitrogen)
   and recombined via an LR clonase reaction into a 35S binary expression vector to
   create 35S-AtDGATi. The oleosin construct was used as described by Scott et al.
   (2010). This construct had a 35S promoter driving an oleosin coding region (SEQ ID
30 NO: 6) isolated from sesame, encoding the protein with the amino acid sequence of
   Accession No AF091840 (SEQ ID NO: 5), generating the construct designated 35S
   Oleosin.
            Combinations of Agrobacterial strains separately containing vectors for transfer
   of genes encoding DGAT1, oleosin and p19 or V2 and in addition hpNbFAD2 were
35 tested in N. benthamiana leaves and the oil content and fatty acid composition in the
   infiltrated tissues were analysed. Leaf samples were removed 5 dpi and freeze dried

                                               80
   overnight. Lipids were extracted from samples of about 30 mg dry weight using the
   method of Bligh and Dyer (1959). TAGs in the extracted lipids were separated from
   polar lipids using a 2-phase TLC system on pre-coated silica gel plates (Silica gel 60,
   Merck). A lipid sample equivalent to 10 mg dry weight of leaf tissue was first run with
 5 hexane/diethyl ether (98/2 by vol.) to remove very non-polar waxes and a second phase
   was run using hexane/diethyl ether/ acetic acid (70/30/1 by vol.). The lipid spots, and
   appropriate standards, were visualized by brief exposures to iodine vapour, collected
   into vials and transmethylated to produce FAME for GC analysis as described in
   Example 1. The data are shown in Figure 4.
10         Leaves infiltrated with the genes encoding V2 and both DGAT1 and Oleosin
   had an approximately 5 to 6 fold increase in the TAG content. Moreover, there was a
   doubling of the 18:1 level calculated as a percentage of the total fatty acids in the TAG
   fraction, indicating that the combination of these two genes in the presence of the
   silencing suppressor enhanced the formation (synthesis and accumulation) of leaf oils
15 with increased levels of oleic acid. The further addition of the silencing construct
   hpNbFAD2 increased the 18:1 level in the leaf oil to either 44% when using V2 or to
   35% using p19 as the VSP. This assay configuration confirmed that both V2 and p19
   allowed over-expression of transgenes, e.g. encoding AtDGAT1 and Oleosin. Although
   both silencing suppressors allowed effective simultaneous endogenous FAD2 silencing,
20 use of V2 provided a greater extent of silencing than p 1 9. From the efficiency of the
   18:1 accumulation in TAGs, these observations were consistent with the conclusion
   above that over-expression of the transgenes aided by the VSPs was occurring
   simultaneously in the same cells as the FAD2 silencing.
           In a further experiment to demonstrate that additional genes could be over
25 expressed with the aid of a silencing suppressor while simultaneously reducing
   expression of a second gene with a hairpin RNA, a construct was made to express a
   FAE1 enzyme (SEQ ID NO: 7). FAE1 is an enzyme that elongates saturated and
   monounsaturated fatty acids esterified to CoA by adding 2 carbons to the acyl chain at
   the carboxyl end of the fatty acid molecule (James et al., 1995). Previous studies have
30 shown that ectopic expression of AtFAEi resulted in production of a range of new
   elongated fatty acids, including a series of so-called very-long chain fatty acids
   (VLCFA) due to the sequential activity of AtFAE1 in cycles of elongation. The enzyme
   uses acyl-CoA substrates (Millar et al., 1998).
35

                                                81
   Synthesis of construct to express FAE1
           The coding region of AtFAE], TAIR Accession number 2139599, was
   chemically synthesised, subcloned into pGEMT-Easy and subcloned via the EcoRI
   flanking sites into the pENTR cloning vector, pCW306, to include the AttLi and AttL2
 5 sites, to generate pCW327. A catalase-1 intron, from the castor bean catalase-1 gene,
   was ligated into the unique NotI site just upstream of the AtFAE1 ORF to generate
   pCW465, pENTR-intron-AtFAE1. LR clonase reactions were used to recombine the
   intron-AtFAE1 fragment (SEQ ID NO: 8) into a 35S expression vector, generating
   pCW483 (35S-intron-AtFAE1). pCW483 was transformed into Agrobacterium strain
10 AGLI and transiently expressed in N. benthamiana leaves as above in combination
   with the other genes. A range of new elongation products were found in leaves
   expressing AtFAEl, including a significant number of VLCFA such as 20:1 (Figure
   11). Based on the known substrate specificity of AtFAEl, the inventors reasoned that
   18:1-CoA would be a preferred substrate for AtFAEl, however this substrate would
15 only be found in wild-type leaves at low levels due to the activity of NbFAD2. The
   inventors therefore combined the over-expression of AtFAE1 with hairpin based
   silencing of NbFAD2 in the presence of the silencing suppressor V2.
           These experiments demonstrated that silencing suppressors such as V2 allowed
   over-expression of transgenes and the simultaneous silencing of endogenous genes in
20 the same cell, and allowed an optimised substrate pool to be formed for metabolic
   engineering of fatty acids, e.g. 20:1 and other VLCFA.
   Example 5. Small RNA analysis of hairpin-based silencing of an endogene
           Hairpin-based RNAi constructs are known to generate populations of small
25 RNAs homologous to the hairpin, generally known as primary sRNA molecules. These
   primary sRNAs can trigger the production of secondary sRNAs that are homologous to
   regions in the target RNA outside of the hairpin-targeted region. Such sRNAs are
   mostly 21, 22 or 24 nucleotides in length, reflecting their biogenesis via a several
   pathways using different Dicer proteins. Each length may have specific functions in
30 transcriptional gene silencing (TGS) and post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS).
   With the availability of deep sequencing technologies, the inventors investigated the
   small RNA populations arising from hairpin-based gene silencing of the endogenous
   NbFAD2 gene by the hpNbFAD2 in the transient assays, as above.
35

                                               82
   Cloning of full-length open-reading frame of the NbFAD2 gene
            First of all, the full length open reading frame of the FAD2 gene from N.
   benthamiana was sequenced as follows. Genomic DNA was isolated from 20 g fresh
   weight of N. benthamiana leaves using a method that reduced chloroplastic and
 5 mitochondrial DNA contamination (Peterson et al., 1997).         High molecular weight
   DNA was randomly sheared into fragments of approximately 500 bp and ligated with
   TruSeq library adaptors to generate a gDNA library. This library was sequenced on the
   HiSeq2000 platform on a complete flowcell. High quality sequences were retained to
   generate an alignment against the 660 bp hpNbFAD2 fragment (pFN033) using
10 BowTie software. The full-length coding region of NbFAD2 was subsequently cloned
   via        high        fidelity     PCR        using     primers       Forward       5'
   TTTATGGGAGCTGGTGGTAATATGT-3'                     (SEQ ID NO: 17)      and Reverse 5'
   CCCTCAGAATTTGTTTTTGTACCAGAAA-3'                      (SEQ ID NO: 18) (start and stop
   codons underlined) and sequence verified using BigDye3.1 sequencing techniques.
15
   Small RNA analysis
            Deep sequencing methods were then used to analyse the populations of sRNA
   generated from the hairpin RNAi silencing construct, hpNbFAD2, in leaves co
   infiltrated with the construct encoding V2. Total RNA was isolated from leaves 5 dpi
20 using Trizol reagent (Invitrogen) according to the suppliers instructions. Small RNAs
   (15-40 nt size range) were purified via gel electrophoresis and analysed on an Illumina
   GAxII machine according to the manufacturers protocols.
            Small RNAs having a sequence with identity to the NbFAD2 gene were
   identified and collated. The observed predominant sRNA size classes (20-24 nt)
25 showed a non-uniform distribution across both the forward and reverse strands of the
   660 bp target sequence (Figure 8). Alignments of the small RNA reads against the full
   length NbFAD2 open-reading frame sequence indicated that all of the observed sRNAs
   with homology to NbFAD2 had identity with the region used to generate the hairpin
   construct, none to the non-targeted regions. Therefore, the inventors concluded that the
30 combination of the V2 silencing suppressor and hpNbFAD2 did not generate secondary
   sRNAs at an observable frequency. The absolute numbers of sRNA size classes showed
   that 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 nt sRNA represented 10%, 44%, 36%, 4% and 10% of all
   sRNA, respectively (Figure 9). This result confirmed that hairpins generated primary
   sRNAs against an endogenous gene and not secondary sRNAs, although an influence
35 of the V2 suppressor in this result cannot be excluded.

                                                83
    Example      6.     Engineering    a   transgenic   pathway      for   the   synthesis  of
    cyclopropanated fatty acids in leaf tissue
            Oleic acid on the PC fraction is also the starting point for alternative metabolic
    pathways, and therefore an alternative metabolic pathway which uses oleic acid as a
 5  substrate was investigated as a system to compare different VSP activities in transient
    leaf assays. Dihydrosterculic acid (DHS) was chosen as the desired product from oleic
    acid. DHS is a cyclopropanated fatty acid that is produced by cyclopropane fatty acid
    synthetases (CPFAS) using 18:1-PC as a substrate (Figure 5).        Two different CPFAS
    genes were compared (Figure 6) for their activity in leaf assays to produce DHS,
10  namely the Escherichia coli CPFAS (EcCPFAS) (SEQ ID NO: 52) and the C-terminal
    domain of the cotton CPFAS (SEQ ID NO: 21), hereinafter termed GhCPFAS*, using
    leaf assays in combination with genes encoding V2, hpNbFAD2, DGAT1 and Oleosin.
    Construction of genes to over-express        EcCPFAS      and GhCPFAS* for transient
15  expression in leaves and seeds
            A DNA sequence encoding an Escherichia coli CPFAS enzyme was chemically
    synthesised, based on Accession No. AE000261.1 from nucleotide 6129 for a length of
    1143bp (SEQ ID NO: 60). The encoded protein had the same amino acid sequence as
    the E. coli protein, but the nucleotide sequence was codon optimised with a codon bias
20  more suited to eukaryotic expression. The EcCPFAS-encoding fragment was cloned
    into the EcoRI site of pCW391, generating pCW392, a binary T-DNA construct useful
    for leaf assays (35S-EcCPFAS).
    GhCPFAS*
25          The first plant CPFAS gene to be isolated and characterised in heterologous
    expression systems, namely SfCPFAS from Sterculiafoetida,was found to possess a C
    terminal portion of the enzyme with excellent homology to known bacterial CPFAS
    enzymes and an N-terminal region with motifs with homology to FAD-binding
    oxidases (Bao et al., 2002). A study has found that SfCPFAS is unusual and different
30  to other plant fatty acid modifying enzymes by acting upon the 18:1 esterified to the
    snI position of phosphatidylcholine (PC) (Bao et al., 2003).
            The cotton CPFAS-1 gene shows some homology to the SfCPFAS gene and the
    expression of full-length GhCPFAS-1 in tobacco BY2 cell cultures likewise resulted in
    about 1% DHS (Yu et al., 2011). The expression of full-length GhCPFAS-1 in seeds of
35 fad2 fael mutant backgrounds of Arabidopsis, having elevated levels of oleic acid in
    seeds, also generated about 1% DHS (Yu et al., 2011). A comparison of the full-length

                                               84
   GhCPFAS to produce DHS and a protein truncated by the first 409 amino acids, thus
   removing the FAD-binding oxidase domain, found that removal of the first 409 amino
   acids reduced DHS production in yeast by about 70% (Yu et al., 2011). Overall, these
   results indicated that plant CPFAS enzymes were capable of producing a low level of
 5 DHS in transgenic expression systems but that the first 409 amino acids were required
   for maximal activity.      However, as described below the present inventors were
   surprised to find that in plant cells the truncated enzymes had enhanced CPFAS
   activity.
           A DNA fragment encoding the C-terminal 469 amino acids of the full-length
10 GhCPFAS-1 enzyme, starting at nucleotide position 1248 relative to the sequence in
   Accession No. AY574036 and using an internal in-frame ATG as the new start codon,
   was generated in RT-PCR reactions using total RNA isolated from cotton, to generate a
   nucleotide sequence encoding (SEQ ID NO: 37) the modified protein GhCPFAS*
   (SEQ ID NO: 21). The predicted length of the protein was 469 amino acids and
15 therefore including only the region with homology to the bacterial CPFAS gene,
   without the N-terminal region having homology to FAD-binding oxidases. The PCR
   primers used to amplify this region of GhCPFAS-1 included Spel flanking sites
   (underlined),           and          were          Forward           primer:        5'
   TTACTAGTATGGATGCTGCACATGGTATCT-3'                      (SEQ ID NO: 19) and Reverse
20 primer: 5'- TTACTAGTTCAATCATCCATGAAGGAATATGCAGAA-3'                           (SEQ ID
   NO: 20). The amplicon was inserted into the SpeI site of 35S-pORE4 to generate
   pCW618 (35S-GhCPFAS*).
           The construct was introduced into Agrobacterium and used to infiltrate N.
   benthamiana leaves in transient assays as before, in various combinations with other
25 genes. Analyses of the total lipid content of the infiltrated zones of these leaves
   indicated that GhCPFAS* efficiently produced DHS in leaves (Figure 6). The level of
   DHS produced in the presence of GhCPFAS* was approximately 7% of the total fatty
   acids in leaf lipids, with an overall pathway conversion efficiency of 47% for
   conversion of oleic acid to DHS. In comparison, EcCPFAS produced less than 1%
30 DHS in total fatty acids in leaf lipids with a conversion efficiency of 4%. GhCPFAS*
   was therefore used throughout the remainder of this study.
           In a further experiment, the production of DHS by GhCPFAS* was used to
   directly compare the efficiency of p19 or V2 to aid the simultaneous over-expression of
   the GhCPFAS* transgene and silencing of the NbFAD2 gene, that is, where silencing
35 of an endogenous gene was required to maximise flux into a novel biosynthetic
   pathway. Various combinations of GhCPFAS*, DGAT1, Oleosin, V2, p19, and

                                              85
   hpNbFAD2 were infiltrated into N. benthamiana leaves and the production of DHS
   determined (Figure 7). In the absence of hpNbFAD2, a slightly greater level of DHS
   production was observed in the presence of p19 compared to V2. However, in the
   presence of the hairpin hpNbFAD2, greater levels of DHS were observed with the use
 5 of V2. V2 allowed the greatest levels of substrate (18:1) to be produced and also the
   greatest levels of DHS production. Overall the use of V2 in the combined
   overexpression and silencing scenario generated approximately 30% more DHS in the
   leaf assays compared to the use of p19.
           A critical step in TAG synthesis pathways involves the removal of the acyl
10 group from the PC head group into the CoA pool. Once acyl groups enter the CoA
   pool, they become available for the TAG synthesis pathway termed the 'Kennedy'
   pathway that includes the last committed step of TAG formation catalysed by the
   DGAT enzyme. The movement of DHS, produced on the PC fraction of leaves, into
   leaf TAGs was tested by combining GhCPFAS* with DGAT1, Oleosin and
15 hpNbFAD2 (Figure 10). DHS produced by GhCPFAS*, DGAT1 and Oleosin was
   found in leaf TAGs at approximately 7% of the total fatty acid content in TAG, with a
   conversion efficiency of oleic acid to DHS of 55%. The inclusion of hpNbFAD2
   boosted the percentage of DHS in leaf TAG from 7% to 15%, while the conversion
   efficiency remained unchanged at 55%. These results indicated that the combination of
20 V2 and hpNbFAD2 doubled the flux of DHS into the metabolic pathway, using in
   addition CPFAS* + AtDGAT1 + Oleosin, to produce plant oils having higher
   concentrations of cyclopropanated fatty acids.
           To demonstrate whether the DHS was exchanged readily between the PC and
   CoA pools, a further experiment was performed which added AtFAE1 to the
25 combination of enzymes. The present inventors reasoned that the fatty acid DHS,
   containing a mid-chain propane ring, was likely to form a structure similar to and
   intermediate between that of a saturated and a monounsaturated C18 fatty acid and that
   if DHS was transferred from the PC fraction into the CoA pool, it would be a suitable
   substrate for AtFAE1 to produce elongated DHS (eDHS). To examine if DHS,
30 produced on PC, was transferred into the CoA pool of leaves, the chimeric 35S:AtFAE]
   gene was included in combination with genes encoding V2, GhCPFAS* and
   hpNbFAD2, each under the control of the 35S promoter. The results of the fatty acid
   analysis are shown in Figure 11. Total lipids analysed 5 dpi were enriched for DHS and
   a new metabolite. The new metabolite was confirmed as eDHS, an elongated product of
35 DHS with an additional 2 carbon atoms, by using standard GC/MS techniques (Figure
   12). The conversion efficiency of DHS to eDHS averaged 15% across 6 samples

                                              86
   compared to the conversion of 18:1 to 20:1 which averaged 28%. Collectively, these
   experiments provided evidence that DHS produced on PC was moved efficiently into
   the CoA pool and accumulated into leaf oils via expression of a combination of
   endogenous genes and transgenic genes.
 5
   Example 7. Transgenic plant studies
   EcCPFAS in Arabidopsis seeds
           The EcCPFAS fragment (Example 6) was cloned into the EcoRI site of
   pCW442 generating pCW393 (FP1-EcCPFAS) a seed-specific expression vector using
10 the truncated FP1 promoter to drive expression of EcCPFAS. This promoter is useful
   for expression of transgenes in oilseeds (Ellerstrom et al., 1996). This vector was
   transformed into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGLI, and used to transform
   Arabidopsis plants of the fad2/fae] double mutant background via the floral dip
   method. Transgenic seeds were selected on media containing kanamycin (40 mg/L) and
15 T2 seed of these plants analysed for DHS content as described in Example 1.
           Seven independent transformed lines of Arabidopsis were analysed and the DHS
   content ranged from trace levels through to 1% DHS, consistent with the studies
   described above.
20 GhCPFAS in seeds of Arabidopsis and safflower
           A plant binary expression vector was designed for the expression of transgenes
   using a promoter derived from the promoter of the AtOlesoin] gene (TAIR website
   gene annotation At4g25140). The promoter was modified in that 6 basepairs within the
   1192 bp sequence were omitted to delete common restriction enzyme sites. The
25 AtOleosin promoter has been used for the strong seed-specific expression of transgenes
   in safflower and Brassica species (Nykiforuk et al., 2011; Van Rooijen and Moloney,
   1995). This promoter is thought to be bi-directional, directing not only strong seed
   specific expression of transgenes placed at the 3'end of the promoter, but also
   generating transcripts in the opposite direction from the 5'end of the promoter in a
30 range of tissues. The Arabidopsis oleosin promoter shares features of the Brassica
   napus promoter, characterised to have a bi-functional nature (Sadanandom et al., 1996).
   The promoter was chemically synthesised and subcloned into pGEMT-Easy and an
   EcoRI fragment of this vector was blunted via the Klenow enzyme fill-in reaction and
   ligated into the Klenow-blunted HindlIl site of pCW265 (Belide et al., 2011),
35 generating pCW600 (AtOleosinP::empty). A Spel-flanked fragment of pCW618

                                               87
   encompassing the GhCPFAS* coding region was ligated into pCW600, generating
   pCW619 (AtOloesin:GhCPFAS*).
           This pCW619 vector was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain
   AGLI and used to transform Arabidopsis of either the fad2 or fad2fae] mutant
 5 genotypes via the floral dip method. The same construct was also used to transform
   safflower of the variety S317 (high oleic background) via a method using grafting
   (Belide et al., 2011). 15 independent transformed lines of the fad2 mutant of
   Arabidopsis transformed with pCW619 were obtained and T2 seeds of these plants
   were analysed. DHS was detected in the seedoil to about 1% of total fatty acids. 20
10 independent transformed lines of safflower S317 transformed with pCW619 were
   generated and seeds of these plants harvested at maturity. DHS contents in seeds were
   analysed and found to be detectable but low, being below 1% of total fatty acids in the
   seedoil.
15 Discussion
           These experiments showed that the silencing suppressor protein V2 was
   advantageous in allowing efficient over-expression of one or more genes together with
   the silencing of genes, in the same cell. Although p19 allowed excellent over
   expression of transgenes and was more effective than V2 as a silencing suppressor, p19
20 also partially blocked hairpin-based silencing of endogenous genes. It is postulated that
   V2 and its functional homologs block the co-suppression pathway which utilises RNA
   dependent RNA polymerase and SGS3 and thereby maximises expression of a desired
   gene, but has little effect on the hairpin-RNA or microRNA silencing pathways and
   thereby allows concomitant gene silencing. The use of V2 also allowed the efficient
25 expression of numerous additional genes to the cells to form a new metabolic pathway,
   using either individual (separate) vectors or genes combined on single constructs, and
   thereby entire transgenic pathways could be assembled and tested within a few days in
   the transient assays. The present inventors used the V2-based leaf assays to determine
   that GhCPFAS* was much better than EcCPFAS in producing DHS. Finally, the
30 optimised leaf assays demonstrated that the unusual fatty acid DHS, produced on PC,
   was efficiently unloaded into the CoA pool and accumulated in leaf oil. The
   accumulation of 15% DHS in leaf oils reported here with GhCPFAS* exceeds levels
   reported with any CPFAS expressed in any plant cell reported in previous studies. Such
   efficient movements of DHS between lipid pools in leaf cells indicated that leaves
35 might be an ideal location for the production of DHS rather than or alternative to
   oilseeds.

                                                88
   Example 8. Additional genes for increasing cyclopropanated fatty acids
   Preparation of hairpin RNAi constructs for down-regulation of lipid handling genes
           In order to test whether the level of cyclopropanated fatty acids, specifically
 5 DHS, could be further increased, several candidate lipid handling genes were isolated
   from N. benthamiana and hairpin RNA constructs prepared for down-regulating these
   genes. These constructs were designed to be tested in the N. benthamianaleaf transient
   assay system as described in Example 6, in the presence of the 35S-V2, 35S
   GhCPFAS* and 35S-AtDGAT1 constructs, but using a 35S-WRI1 gene (US
10 61/580574; Vanhercke et al., 2012) instead of the hpNbFAD2 construct to increase the
   availability of fatty acyl substrates in the assay. The assays also included a 35S-GFP
   marker gene to allow visual confirmation of prolonged gene expression in the transient
   assays after infiltration with the Agrobacterium mixtures. Candidate lipid handling
   genes that were tested included sequences encoding NbLACS4, NbLACS7, NbPLDzl,
15 NbPLDz2, and NbLPCAT1. The nucleotide sequences of the protein coding regions
   and the corresponding amino acid sequences of these genes are set forth in SEQ ID
   NOs: 91, 93, 95, 97 and 99 respectively. The nucleotide sequences of the gene
   fragments used to prepare these hairpin RNA constructs are given in SEQ ID NOs: 101
   to 105 respectively. The hairpin RNA constructs were made in pHellsgatel2 using the
20 gene fragments and the standard methods described in Helliwell and Waterhouse
   (2003).
            N. benthamiana leaves were infiltrated with mixtures of A. tumefaciens strains
   AGLI or VG3101 containing the following plant expression constructs - 35S:GFP,
   35S:V2 (in VG3101; Naim et al., 2012), 35S:AtWRI1 (US 61/580574; Vanhercke et
25 al., 2012), 35S:AtDGAT1 (US 61/580574; Vanhercke et al., 2012), and
   35S:GhCPFAS* in pE1776 (Bao et al. 2002). To test the effect of inhibiting the lipid
   handling genes, some of the mixtures additionally contained one of the following five
   hairpin RNA constructs for down-regulating the N. benthamiana genes - NbLACS4,
   NbLACS7, NbPLDzl, NbPLDz2, and NbLPCAT1. Infiltration mixes were prepared
30 with each AGL1/VG3101 at 0.3 OD600 units in infiltration buffer (5 mM MES, 5 mM
   MgSO 4 , 500 [M acetosyringone; 0.5x culture volume), infiltrated on the underside of
   5-6 week old N. benthamiana leaves, and the plants left for five days at 24'C with a
   10:14 light:dark cycle in growth cabinets. On the fifth day, prolonged expression of the
   transgenes in the infiltrated region was confirmed by presence of the GFP signal. Leaf
35 samples from the infiltrated zones were harvested and freeze-dried overnight. Total
   lipids were extracted from the dried leaf samples using chloroform:methanol:0. 1 M

                                              89
   KCl = 2:1:1, followed by an additional chloroform extraction on the remaining aqueous
   phase. Fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) were prepared from the lipid extracts using
   0.1 M sodium methoxide in methanol followed by hexane extraction. The FAME were
   analysed on a Varian CP-3800 GC-FID fitted with a BPX70 capillary column
 5 (Phenomenex 30 m x 0.32 mm x 0.25 pm). Average wt %s of DHS-FAME and C18:1
   FAME (from total FAME) were from at least 6 replicate infiltrations.
           The data are shown in Figure 13. In comparison to expression of the
   35S:GhCPFAS* with the V2, AtDGAT1 and WRIl genes, which produced an average
   DHS-FAME level of 3.3% of the total extracted fatty acids, addition of the five hairpin
10 constructs resulted in an increase in average DHS FAME levels to between 3.6% and
   5.9%. The greatest increase in DHS-FAME was seen with hpNbLPCAT1 (Figure 13).
   There was also a trend of higher C 18:1-FAME levels with the added hairpin constructs
   that may have contributed to the increase in DHS-FAME, as C18:1 was the substrate
   for GhCPFAS*.
15
   Discussion
          The initial hypothesis behind the addition of hairpin constructs (except for
   hpNbLACS7) was to determine possible routes to DHS production and accumulation
   that could be blocked by silencing certain components of the oil accumulation pathway.
20 However, contrary to the inventors prediction the addition of hairpin constructs to
   silence the five putative lipid handling enzymes all showed an increase in DHS in N.
   benthamianaleaf when co-expressed with GhCPFAS*.
          The increase in DHS was possibly due to an increase in substrate availability for
   GhCPFAS*, as indicated by the trend of higher C18:1 seen with the addition of the
25 hairpin constructs. In the case of NbLACS7 this enzyme is known to be located in the
   peroxisome and is thought to contribute to fatty acid breakdown (Fulda et al., 2002).
   Therefore the increase in DHS with the addition of hpNbLACS7 could be due to two
   possibilities - inhibition of DHS breakdown or decreased breakdown of C 18:1. Based
   on the increase seen in C18:1 the latter explanation is more likely to be the cause of
30 increased DHS. The combination of hairpin constructs against lipid handling enzymes
   as well as combining these with hpNbFAD2 may further increase DHS production and
   accumulation in N. benthamiana leaf by GhCPFAS*.
35        It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
   and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific

                                                90
   embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
   described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
           The present application claims priority from US 61/580,567 filed 27 December
 5 2011, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
           All publications discussed and/or referenced herein are incorporated herein in
   their entirety.
           Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which
   has been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a
10 context for the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of
   these matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the
   field relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
   of this application.

                                               91
   REFERENCES
   Abdullah et al. (1986) Biotech. 4:1087.
   Al-Mariri et al. (2002) Infect. Immun. 70:1915-1923.
   Almeida and Allshire (2005) TRENDS Cell Biol., 15:251-258.
 5 Alvarez et al. (2000) Theor Appl Genet 100:319-327.
   Bao et al. (2002) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 99:7172-7177.
   Bao et al. (2003) Journal of Biological Chemistry 278:12846-12853.
   Baud et al. (2007) Plant J. 50:825-838.
   Baumlein et al. (1991) Mol. Gen. Genet. 225:459-467.
10 Baumlein et al. (1992) Plant J. 2:233-239.
   Beclin et al. (2002) Current Biology 12:684-688.
   Belide et al. (2011) Plant Methods 7:12.
   Bligh and Dyer (1959) Canadian Journal of Biochemistry and Physiology 37:911-7.
   Bouvier-Nave et al. (2000) European Journal of Biochemistry / FEBS 267:85-96.
15 Broothaerts et al. (2005) Nature 433:629-633.
   Brosnan et al. (2007) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 104:14741-14746.
   Broun et al. (1998) Plant J. 13:201-210.
   Cadwell and Joyce (1992) PCR Methods Appl. 2:28-33.
   Cao et al. (2003) J Biol Chem 278:25657-25663.
20 Capuano et al. (2007) Biotechnol. Adv. 25: 203-206.
   Cheng et al. (1996) Plant Cell Rep. 15:653-657.
   Cheng et al. (2003) J Biol Chem 278:13611-13614.
   Chikwamba et al. (2003) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 100:11127-11132.
   Chung et al. (2006) BMC Genomics 7:120.
25 Clough and Bent (1998) Plant J. 16:735-743.
   Coco et al. (2001) Nature Biotechnology 19:354-359.
   Coco et al. (2002) Nature Biotechnology 20:1246-1250.
   Courvalin et al. (1995) Life Sci. 318:1209-1212.
   Crameri et al. (1998) Nature 391:288-291.
30 Deshpande and Mukund (1992) Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol., 36:227.
   Dietrich et al. (1998) Nature Biotech. 18:181-185.
   Eggert et al. (2005) Chembiochem 6:1062-1067.
   Ellerstrom et al. (1996) Plant Mol. Biol. 32:1019-1027.
   Elmayan et al. (1998) Plant Cell 10: 1747-1757.
35 Fennelly et al. (1999) J. Immunol. 162:1603-1610.
   Fujimura et al. (1985) Plant Tissue Culture Lett. 2:74.

                                               92
   Fukunaga and Doudna (2009) EMBO Journal 28:545-555.
   Fulda et al. (2002) Plant Journal 32:93-103.
   Ghosal et al. (2007) Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1771:1457-1463.
   Glevin et al. (2003) Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 67:16-37.
 5 Glick et al. (2008) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 105:157-161.
   Grant et al. (1995) Plant Cell Rep. 15:254-258.
   Grillot-Courvalin (1999) Curr. Opin. Biotech. 10-477-481.
   Grillot-Courvalin et al. (1998) Nature Biotech. 16:862-866.
   Harayama (1998) Trends Biotechnol. 16: 76-82.
10 Hellinga (1997) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 94(19):10015-10017.
   Helliwell and Waterhouse (2003) Methods 30:289-295.
   Helliwell et al. (2006) Plant Journal 46:183-192.
   Hense et al. (2001) Cell Microbiol. 3:599-609.
   Hillman et al. (1989) Virology 169:42-50.
15 Hinchee et al. (1988) Biotechnology 6:915-922.
   Horvath et al. (2000) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 97:1914-1919.
   Huang (1996) Plant Physiol. 110: 1055-1061.
   James et al. (1995) Plant Cell 7: 309-319.
   J6zdquel et al. (2008) Biotechniques 45:523-532.
20 Jolivet et al. (2004) Plant Physiol. Biochem. 42:501-509.
   Kai et al (1982) JAOCS 59:300-305.
   Katavic et al. (1995) Plant Physiology 108: 399-409.
   Kinsman (1979) Journal of the American Oil Chemists Society 56:A823-A827.
   Koziel et al. (1996) Plant Mol. Biol. 32:393-405.
25 Kunik et al. (2001) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 98:1871-1876.
   Lacroix et al. (2008) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.U.S.A. 105: 15429-15434.
   Levy et al. (2008) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 105:10131-10136.
   Lin et al (2005) Plant Physiol. Biochem. 43: 770-776.
   Liu et al (2009) J. Agric. Food Chem. 57: 2308-2313.
30 Liu et al. (2010) Plant Physiol. Biochem. 48: 9-15.
   Millar and Waterhouse (2005) Funct. Integr. Genomics 5:129-135.
   Millar et al. (1998) Plant Cell 10:1889-1902.
   Mourrain et al. (2000) Cell 101:533-542.
   Naim et al. (in press) Advanced metabolic engineering in N.benthamiana using a draft
35 genome and the V2 viral suppressor protein. PLOS ONE.
   Needleman and Wunsch (1970) J. Mol. Biol. 48:443-453.

                                               93
   Ness et al. (2002) Nature Biotechnology 20:1251-1255.
   Niedz et al. (1995) Plant Cell Reports 14:403.
   Nykiforuk et al. (2011) Plant Biotechnology Journal 9:250-263.
   Ohlrogge and Browse (1995) Plant Cell 7:957-970.
 5 Ostermeier et al. (1999) Nature Biotechnology 17:1205-1209.
   Ow et al. (1986) Science 234:856-859.
   Pasquinelli et al. (2005) Curr. Opin. Genet. Develop., 15:200-205.
   Perez-Vich et al. (1998) JAOCS 75:547-555
   Perrin et al. (2000) Mol Breed 6:345-352.
10 Peterson et al. (1997) Plant Molecular Biology Reporter 15:148-153.
   Potenza et al. (2004) In Vitro Cell Dev. Biol. Plant 40:1-22.
   Powell et al. (1996)Vaccines 183, Abstract.
   Prasher et al. (1985) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 127:31-36.
   Ruuska et al. (2002) Plant Cell 14:1191-1206.
15 Sadanandom et al. (1996) Plant Journal 10:235-242.
   Saha et al. (2006) Plant Physiol. 141:1533-1543.
   Schaffner et al. (1980) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 77:2163-2167.
   Scott et al. (2010) Plant Biotechnology Journal 8:912-927.
   Shiau et al. (2001) Vaccine 19:3947-3956.
20 Shimada and Hara-Nishimura (2010) Biol. Pharm. Bull. 33: 360-363.
   Sieber et al. (2001) Nature Biotechnology 19:456-460.
   Sizemore et al. (1995) Science 270:299-302.
   Smith et al. (2000) Nature 407:319-320.
   Stalker et al. 1988 Science 242: 419-423.
25 Stemmer (1994a) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91:10747-10751.
   Stemmer (1994b) Nature 370(6488):389-391.
   Stymne and Appelqvist (1978) European Journal of Biochemistry 90:223-229.
   Taylor (1997) The Plant Cell 9:1245-1249.
   Thillet et al. (1988) J. Biol. Chem 263:12500-12508.
30 Toriyama et al. (1986) Theor. Appl. Genet. 205:34.
   Tzen and Huang (1992) J. Cell Biol. 117:327-335.
   Tzfira and Citovsky (2006) Curr. Opin. Biotech. 17:147-154.
   Vanhercke et al. (2012) Synergistic effect of WRIl and DGAT1 coexpression on
   triacylglycerol biosynthesis in plants. FEBS Letters.
35 Vanrooijen and Moloney (1995) Bio-Technology 13:72-77.
   Voinnet et al. (2003) Plant Journal 33:949-956.

                                               94
   Volkov et al. (1999) Nucleic acids research 27(18):e18.
   Wang et al. (1992) Biochemistry 31:11020-11028.
   Waterhouse et al. (1998) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95:13959-13964.
   Weiss et al. (2003) Int. J. Med. Microbiol. 293:95:106.
 5 Wood et al. (2009) Plant Biotechnology Journal 7:914-924.
   Yang et al. (2003) Planta 216:597-603.
   Ye et al. (2003) Nature 426:874-878.
   Yen et al. (2002) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 99:8512-8517.
   Yen et al. (2005) J Lipid Res 46:1502-1511.
10 Yu et al. (2011) BMC Plant Biology 11:97.
   Zhang et al. (2004) Journal of Surfactants and Detergents 7:211-215.
   Zhao et al. (1998) Nature Biotechnology 16:258-261.

                                                  95
   CLAIMS
   1.      A process for producing oil containing dihydrosterculic acid (DHS) and/or a
   fatty acid derivative thereof, the process comprising
 5         i) obtaining plant cells, algal cells or fungal cells comprising DHS, and/or a fatty
   acid derivative thereof, the DHS or fatty acid derivative thereof being esterified in
   triacylglycerols in the cells, wherein at least about 3% of the total fatty acid in
   extractable oil in the cells is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof, and,
           ii) extracting oil from the cells so as to thereby produce the oil.
10
   2.      The process of claim 1, wherein the plants cells of step i) are obtained as a plant
   or part thereof comprising said cells, such as a leaf or a stem.
   3.      The process of claim 2, wherein the part is a vegetative plant tissue.
15
   4.      The process of claim 3, wherein step i) comprises obtaining pieces of vegetative
   tissue from at least about 100, or at least about 1000, or at least about 10000, plants,
   which on average comprise at least about 3% DHS as a percentage of the total fatty
   acids in the extractable oil in the vegetative plant tissues.
20
   5.      The process according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the cells have one or
   more of the following features
           i) at least about 5%, or preferably at least about 7%, or more preferably at least
   about 10%, or even more preferably at least about 12%, or most preferably at least
25 about 15%, of the total fatty acid in the extractable oil in the cells is DHS and/or a fatty
   acid derivative thereof,
           ii) the ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in the
   extractable oil in the cells is less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more
   preferably less than about 1:1, or
30         iii) comprise less than about 10%, or less than about 5%, or less than about 3%,
   less than about 1%, or less than about 0.5% sterculic acid and/or malvalic acid,
   preferably the sum of the sterculic and malvalic acids is less than 0.5% of the total fatty
   acids in the extractable oil of the cells.
35 6.      The process according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein

                                                96
           i) the fatty acid derivative comprises a cyclo-propyl group or is a branched chain
   fatty acid having a methyl group as the branch, and/or
           ii) the derivative comprises 2, 4 or 6 more carbons in the acyl chain when
   compared to DHS.
 5
   7.      The process of claim 6, wherein the cyclo-propyl group or a methyl group is a
   mid-chain group such as isostearic acid with the methyl group attached to C9 or C 10.
   8.      The process according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein there is no detectable
10 fatty acid derivative of DHS present in the extractable oil.
   9.      A recombinant plant cell, algal cell or fungal cell comprising an exogenous
   polynucleotide encoding a cyclopropane fatty acid synthetase (CPFAS), wherein
   extractable oil in the cell contains dihydrosterculic acid (DHS) and/or a fatty acid
15 derivative thereof, and wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more
   promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the cell, and
   wherein the cell has one or more of the following features,
           i) at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least about
   10%, or at least about 12%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in the
20 extractable oil in the cell is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
           ii) the CPFAS converts oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion
   efficiency of at least about 45%, or at least about 50% or at least about 55%,
           iii) the ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in the
   extractable oil in the cell is less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more
25 preferably less than about 1:1, or
           iv) the CPFAS comprises amino acids having a sequence as provided in any one
   of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28, a biologically active fragment thereof, or an amino acid
   sequence which is at least 30% identical to any one or more of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to
   28, wherein the CPFAS is no longer than about 600 amino acids in length.
30
   10.     The cell of claim 9, wherein a corresponding cell lacking the exogenous
   polynucleotide does not produce DHS.
   11.     The cell of claim 9 or claim 10 which further comprises one or more of the
35 following

                                               97
           i) an exogenous polynucleotide encoding a silencing suppressor, wherein the
   polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more promoters that are capable of directing
   expression of the polynucleotide in the cell,
           ii) an exogenous polynucleotide encoding an enzyme having fatty acid
 5 acyltransferase   activity  such as   diacylglycerol   acyltransferase (DGAT)     and/or
   monoacylglycerol (MGAT) activity, and wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked
   to one or more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide
   in the cell,
           iii) an exogenous polynucleotide encoding an oleosin, and wherein the
10 polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more promoters that are capable of directing
   expression of the polynucleotide in the cell,
           iv) an exogenous polynucleotide encoding a double stranded RNA (dsRNA)
   which comprises a nucleotide sequence which is complementary to a region of a target
   RNA such as a target RNA encoding an endogenous A12 desaturase, DHS A9
15 desaturase, palmitoyl-ACP thioesterase such as FATB, or lipid handling enzyme,
   preferably a fatty acid acyltransferase such as an lysophosphatidyl-choline
   acyltransferase (LPCAT), a lipase such as a phospholipase D, or a fatty acid synthetase
   such as a long-chain acyl CoA synthetase (LACS), and wherein the polynucleotide is
   operably linked to one or more promoters that are capable of directing expression of the
20 polynucleotide in the cell, or
           v) an exogenous polynucleotide encoding a fatty acid elongase, and wherein the
   polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more promoters that are capable of directing
   expression of the polynucleotide in the cell.
25 12.     The cell of claim 11, wherein the fatty acid derivative is elongated DHS
   (eDHS).
   13.     The cell according to any one of any one of claims 9 to 12 which comprises two
   exogenous     polynucleotides   encoding different   CPFAS     enzymes,  wherein each
30 polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more promoters that are capable of directing
   expression of the polynucleotide in the cell.
   14.     The cell of claim 13, wherein a first exogenous polynucleotide encodes a
   truncated plant CPFAS or variant thereof, and a second exogenous polynucleotide
35 encodes a bacterial CPFAS or variant thereof.

                                                  98
   15.      The cell according to any one of claims 9 to 14 which further comprises one or
   more exogenous polynucleotides encoding a glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase
   (GPAT), a 1-acyl-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (LPAAT), an acyl
   CoA:lysophosphatidylcholine          acyltransferase (LPCAT), a phosphatidic acid
 5 phosphatase (PAP), or a combination of two or more thereof.
   16.      The cell according to any one of claims 9 to 15 which a plant cell.
   17.      The cell of claim 16, wherein the plant cell is a leaf cell.
10
   18.      A method of obtaining a cell according to any one of claims 9 to 17, the method
   comprising
            a) introducing into a cell an exogenous polynucleotide encoding a cyclopropane
   synthetase (CPFAS), wherein the polynucleotide is operably linked to one or more
15 promoters that are capable of directing expression of the polynucleotide in the cell,
            b) expressing the exogenous polynucleotide in the cell, and
            c) performing one or more of the following
                   i) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell, and selecting a cell
   wherein at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least about
20 10%, or at least about 12%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in extractable
   oil in the cell is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
                   ii) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell, and selecting a cell
   wherein the CPFAS converts oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion efficiency
   of at least about 45%, or at least about 50%, or at least about 55%,
25                 iii) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell, and selecting a cell
   wherein the ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in extractable
   oil in the cell is less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more preferably
   less than about 1:1, or
                   iv) analysing the cell for the exogenous polynucleotide, and selecting a
30 cell which comprises a CPFAS which comprises amino acids having a sequence as
   provided in any one of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28,, a biologically active fragment
   thereof, or an amino acid sequence which is at least 30% identical to any one or more
   of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or 21 to 28, wherein the CPFAS is no longer than about 600 amino
   acids in length.
35

                                                  99
   19.     The method claim 18, wherein the selected cell is a cell as defined in any one of
   claims 10 to 17.
   20.     A method of selecting a nucleic acid molecule encoding a truncated
 5 cyclopropane synthetase (CPFAS), the method comprising
           i) obtaining a nucleic acid molecule operably linked to a promoter, wherein the
   nucleic acid encodes a truncated variant of a CPFAS,
           ii) introducing the nucleic acid molecule into a plant cell, algal cell or fungal cell
   in which the promoter is active;
10         iii) expressing the nucleic acid molecule in the cell;
           iv) analysing the fatty acid composition of the cell; and
           v) selecting the nucleic acid molecule by selecting a cell having one or more of
   the following features,
                   a) at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least
15 about 10%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in extractable oil in the cell is
   DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
                  b) converts oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion efficiency of at
   least about 45%, or at least about 50% or at least about 55%, or
                   c) comprises a ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative
20 thereof in extractable oil in the cell less about than 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1,
   more preferably less than about 1:1.
   21.     The method of claim 20, wherein the cell is a plant cell.
25 22.     The method of claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the CPFAS comprises an amino
   acid sequence which is at least 30% identical to any one or more of SEQ ID NOs: 1, or
   21 to 28.
   23.     A transgenic plant, or part thereof, comprising a cell according to any one of
30 claims 9 to 17.
   24.     A method of producing a transgenic plant of claim 23 or a part therefrom such
   as seed, the method comprising the steps of
           i) introducing an exogenous polynucleotide encoding the CPFAS into a cell of a
35 plant,
           ii) regenerating a transgenic plant from the cell, and

                                                 100
            iii) optionally obtaining seed from the plant, a part of the plant and/or producing
   one or more progeny plants from the transgenic plant,
   thereby producing the transgenic plant.
 5 25.      A method of producing a transgenic plant of claim 23, the method comprising
   the steps of
            i) crossing two parental plants, wherein at least one is a transgenic plant of claim
   23,
            ii) screening one or more progeny plants from the cross for the presence or
10 absence of the exogenous polynucleotide, and
            iii) selecting a progeny plant which comprises the exogenous polynucleotide,
   thereby producing the transgenic plant.
   26.      The method of claim 25, wherein step iii) comprises analysing the phenotype of
15 the plant, or one or more progeny plants thereof, for one or more of the following
   features,
            a) at least about 3%, or at least about 5%, or at least about 7%, or at least about
   10%, or at least about 12%, or at least about 15%, of the total fatty acid in extractable
   oil in the cell is DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof,
20          b) conversion of oleic acid to DHS in the cell with a conversion efficiency of at
   least about 45%, or at least about 50%, or at least about 55%, or
            c) a ratio of oleic acid to DHS and/or fatty acid derivative thereof in extractable
   oil in the cell of less than about 2:1, preferably less than about 1.5:1, more preferably
   less than about 1:1.
25
   27.      A transgenic plant produced using the method according to any one of claims 24
   to 26.
   28.      A method of producing seed, the method comprising;
30          i) growing a plant of claim 23 or claim 27, and
            ii) harvesting the seed from the plant.
   29.      A method of producing DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof, the method
   comprising culturing a cell according to any one of claims 9 to 17 and/or cultivating a
35 plant, or part thereof, of claim 23 or claim 27.

                                               101
   30.     The method of claim 29 which further comprises extracting DHS and/or a fatty
   acid derivative thereof, from the cell and/or the plant or part thereof.
   31.     A product comprising or produced from DHS or a fatty acid derivative thereof
 5 produced from a cell according to any one of claims 9 to 17 and/or a plant, or part
   thereof, of claim 23 or claim 27.
   32.     A method of producing a fatty acid with a methyl group, the process comprising
   converting the cyclo-propyl group of DHS, or a fatty acid derivative thereof comprising
10 a cyclo-propyl group, produced using the method of claim 29 and claim 30, to a methyl
   group.
   33.     The method of claim 32, wherein the cyclo-propyl group is converted to a
   methyl group using hydrogenation.
15
   34.     The method of claim 32 or claim 33, wherein the fatty acid with a methyl group
   is isostearic acid having a methyl group attached at C9 or C 10.
   35.     A product comprising or produced from a fatty acid with a methyl group
20 produced using the method according to any one of claims 32 to 34.
   36.     The product of claim 35 which is a lubricant and/or used in cosmetics.
   37.     Use of a cell according to any one of claims 9 to 17 and/or a plant, or part
25 thereof, of claim 23 or claim 27 to manufacture an industrial product.
   38.     DHS and/or a fatty acid derivative thereof produced by, or obtained from, a cell
   according to any one of claims 9 to 17, a plant, or part thereof, of claim 23 or claim 27
   or using a method of claim 29 or claim 30.
30
   39.     A methylated fatty acid produced using a method according to any one of claims
   29, 30 or 32 to 34.
   40.     A composition comprising one or more of the cell according to any one of
35 claims 9 to 17, the plant or part thereof of claim 23 or claim 27, the DHS and/or a fatty
   acid derivative thereof of claim 38, and the methylated fatty acid of claim 39.

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           B                        A
                                        1/13
Figure 1

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  2/13
Figure 2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  3/13
Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  4/13
Figure 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  5/13
Figure 5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  6/13
Figure 6

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  7/13
Figure 7

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  8/13
Figure 8

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  9/13
Figure 9

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   10/13
Figure 10

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   11/13
Figure 11

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   12/13
Figure 12

                                                        13/13
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                         20.0
                         16.0
                         12.0
              FAME wt%
                                                                                                       Avg DHS
                                                                                                       Avg C18:1
                          8.0
                          4.0
                          0.0
                                neg   base   hpNbACS4   hpNbACS7    hpNbPLDz1   hpNbPLDz2 hpNbLPCAT1
                                                        treatment
                                                  Figure 13

                                                 1/104
<removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Grains Research and Development Corporation
                      Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research
                      Organisation
              <120>   Production of dihydrosterculic acid and derivatives thereof
              <130>   512281
              <150>   61/580,567
              <151>   2011-12-27
<removed-apn>
              <160>   105
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   tomato leaf yellow curl virus
              <400>   1
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ser Val Glu Glu Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Pro Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Met Asp Val Gln Ala His Val Pro Glu Ala Gln Asn Ile Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Ser Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   2
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   tomato bushy stunt virus
              <400>   2
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Asn Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Asn Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Thr Thr Ser Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Trp Thr Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Asp Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Asn Ser Asn Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Arg Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80

                                                 2/104
<removed-date>
              Ala Ser Leu His Arg Val Leu Gly Ser Trp Thr Gly Asp Ser Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Phe Gly Phe Asp Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Val Ser Ile Thr Val Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln His Leu Cys Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Ser Lys Gln Glu Leu
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gln Leu Ala Pro Ile Glu Val Glu Ser Asn Val Ser Arg Gly Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Thr Glu Thr Phe Glu Lys Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   3
              <211>   351
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   tomato leaf yellow curl virus
              <400> 3
              atgtgggatc cacttctaaa tgaatttcct gaatctgttc acggatttcg ttgtatgtta    60
              gctattaaat atttgcagtc cgttgaggaa acttacgagc ccaatacatt gggccacgat   120
              ttaattaggg atcttatatc tgttgtaagg gcccgtgact atgtcgaagc gaccaggcga   180
              tataatcatt tccacgcccg cctcgaaggt tcgccgaagg ctgaacttcg acagcccata   240
              cagcagccgt gctgctgtcc ccattgtcca aggcacaaac aagcgacgat catggacgta   300
              caggcccatg taccggaagc ccagaatata cagaatgtat cgaagccctg a            351
              <210>   4
              <211>   519
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   tomato bushy stunt virus
              <400> 4
              atggaacgag ctatacaagg aaacgacgct agggaacaag ctaacagtga acgttgggat    60
              ggaggatcag gaggtaccac ttctcccttc aaacttcctg acgaaagtcc gagttggact   120
              gagtggcggc tacataacga tgagacgaat tcgaatcaag ataatcccct tggtttcaag   180
              gaaagctggg gtttcgggaa agttgtattt aagagatatc tcagatacga caggacggaa   240
              gcttcactgc acagagtcct tggatcttgg acgggagatt cggttaacta tgcagcatct   300
              cgatttttcg gtttcgacca gatcggatgt acctatagta ttcggtttcg aggagttagt   360
              atcaccgttt ctggagggtc gcgaactctt cagcatctct gtgagatggc aattcggtct   420
              aagcaagaac tgctacagct tgccccaatc gaagtggaaa gtaatgtatc aagaggatgc   480
              cctgaaggta ctgagacctt cgaaaaagaa agcgagtaa                          519
              <210>   5
              <211>   145
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Sesamum indicum
              <400>   5
              Met Ala Glu His Tyr Gly Gln Gln Gln Gln Thr Arg Ala Pro His Leu

                                                3/104
<removed-date>
              1                5                  10                  15
              Gln Leu Gln Pro Arg Ala Gln Arg Val Val Lys Ala Ala Thr Ala Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Ala Gly Gly Ser Leu Leu Val Leu Ser Gly Leu Thr Leu Ala Gly
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Val Ile Ala Leu Thr Ile Ala Thr Pro Leu Leu Val Ile Phe Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Val Leu Val Pro Ala Val Ile Thr Ile Phe Leu Leu Gly Ala Gly
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Phe Leu Ala Ser Gly Gly Phe Gly Val Ala Ala Leu Ser Val Leu Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Trp Ile Tyr Arg Tyr Leu Thr Gly Lys His Pro Pro Gly Ala Asp Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Glu Ser Ala Lys Thr Lys Leu Ala Ser Lys Ala Arg Glu Met Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Arg Ala Glu Gln Phe Ser Gln Gln Pro Val Ala Gly Ser Gln Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser
              145
              <210>   6
              <211>   438
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Sesamum indicum
              <400> 6
              atggctgagc attatggtca acaacagcag accagggcgc ctcacctgca gctgcagccg    60
              cgcgcccagc gggtagtgaa ggcggccacc gccgtgacag ccggcggctc gcttctcgtc   120
              ctctctggcc tcactttagc cggaactgtt attgcgctca ccatcgccac tccgctgctt   180
              gtgatcttta gccccgttct ggtgccggcg gtcataacca ttttcttgct gggtgcgggt   240
              tttctggcat ccggaggctt cggcgtggcg gcgctgagtg tgctgtcgtg gatttacaga   300
              tatctgacag ggaaacaccc gccgggggcg gatcagctgg aatcggcaaa gacgaagctg   360
              gcgagcaagg cgcgagagat gaaggatagg gcagagcagt tctcgcagca gcctgttgcg   420
              gggtctcaaa cttcttga                                                 438
              <210>   7
              <211>   506
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400>   7
              Met Thr Ser Val Asn Val Lys Leu Leu Tyr Arg Tyr Val Leu Thr Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
              Phe Phe Asn Leu Cys Leu Phe Pro Leu Thr Ala Phe Leu Ala Gly Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Ala Ser Arg Leu Thr Ile Asn Asp Leu His Asn Phe Leu Ser Tyr Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Gln His Asn Leu Ile Thr Val Thr Leu Leu Phe Ala Phe Thr Val Phe
                  50                  55                  60

                                                4/104
<removed-date>
              Gly Leu Val Leu Tyr Ile Val Thr Arg Pro Asn Pro Val Tyr Leu Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asp Tyr Ser Cys Tyr Leu Pro Pro Pro His Leu Lys Val Ser Val Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Lys Val Met Asp Ile Phe Tyr Gln Ile Arg Lys Ala Asp Thr Ser Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Asn Val Ala Cys Asp Asp Pro Ser Ser Leu Asp Phe Leu Arg Lys
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Ile Gln Glu Arg Ser Gly Leu Gly Asp Glu Thr Tyr Ser Pro Glu Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Ile His Val Pro Pro Arg Lys Thr Phe Ala Ala Ser Arg Glu Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Glu Lys Val Ile Ile Gly Ala Leu Glu Asn Leu Phe Glu Asn Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Val Asn Pro Arg Glu Ile Gly Ile Leu Val Val Asn Ser Ser Met
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Asn Pro Thr Pro Ser Leu Ser Ala Met Val Val Asn Thr Phe Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Arg Ser Asn Ile Lys Ser Phe Asn Leu Gly Gly Met Gly Cys Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Gly Val Ile Ala Ile Asp Leu Ala Lys Asp Leu Leu His Val His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Lys Asn Thr Tyr Ala Leu Val Val Ser Thr Glu Asn Ile Thr Gln Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Ile Tyr Ala Gly Glu Asn Arg Ser Met Met Val Ser Asn Cys Leu Phe
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Val Gly Gly Ala Ala Ile Leu Leu Ser Asn Lys Ser Gly Asp Arg
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Arg Ser Lys Tyr Lys Leu Val His Thr Val Arg Thr His Thr Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Ala Asp Asp Lys Ser Phe Arg Cys Val Gln Gln Glu Asp Asp Glu Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Lys Ile Gly Val Cys Leu Ser Lys Asp Ile Thr Asn Val Ala Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Thr Leu Thr Lys Asn Ile Ala Thr Leu Gly Pro Leu Ile Leu Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Ser Glu Lys Phe Leu Phe Phe Ala Thr Phe Val Ala Lys Lys Leu
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Lys Asp Lys Ile Lys His Tyr Tyr Val Pro Asp Phe Lys Leu Ala
                  370                 375                 380
              Val Asp His Phe Cys Ile His Ala Gly Gly Arg Ala Val Ile Asp Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Glu Lys Asn Leu Gly Leu Ser Pro Ile Asp Val Glu Ala Ser Arg
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Thr Leu His Arg Phe Gly Asn Thr Ser Ser Ser Ser Ile Trp Tyr
                          420                 425                 430

                                                5/104
<removed-date>
              Glu Leu Ala Tyr Ile Glu Ala Lys Gly Arg Met Lys Lys Gly Asn Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              Ala Trp Gln Ile Ala Leu Gly Ser Gly Phe Lys Cys Asn Ser Ala Val
                  450                 455                 460
              Trp Val Ala Leu Arg Asn Val Lys Ala Ser Ala Asn Ser Pro Trp Gln
              465                 470                 475                 480
              His Cys Ile Asp Arg Tyr Pro Val Lys Ile Asp Ser Asp Leu Ser Lys
                              485                 490                 495
<removed-apn>
              Ser Lys Thr His Val Gln Asn Gly Arg Ser
                          500                 505
              <210>   8
              <211>   1842
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 8
              gaattcggta ccccgggttc gaaatcgata agcttggatc tcgatcccgc gaaattaata     60
              cgactcacta tagggagacc acaacggttt ccctctgggt aaatttctag tttttctcct    120
              tcattttctt ggttaggacc cttttctctt tttatttttt tgagctttga tctttcttta    180
              aactgatcta ttttttaatt gattggttat ggtgtaaata ttacatagct ttaactgata    240
              atctgattac tttatttcgt gtgtctatga tgatgatgat agttacagaa ccggcggccg    300
              ccgaattcga taaacagagc aatgacgtcc gttaacgtta agctccttta ccgttacgtc    360
              ttaaccaact ttttcaacct ctgtttgttc ccgttaacgg cgttcctcgc cggaaaagcc    420
              tctcggctta ccataaacga tctccacaac ttcctttcct atctccaaca caaccttata    480
              acagtaactt tactctttgc tttcactgtt ttcggtttgg ttctctacat cgtaacccga    540
              cccaatccgg tttatctcgt tgactactcg tgttaccttc caccaccgca tctcaaagtt    600
              agtgtctcta aagtcatgga tattttctac caaataagaa aagctgatac ttcttcacgg    660
              aacgtggcat gtgatgatcc gtcctcgctc gatttcctga ggaagattca agagcgttca    720
              ggtctaggtg atgagacgta cagtcctgag ggactcattc acgtaccacc gcggaagact    780
              tttgcagcgt cacgtgaaga gacagagaag gttatcatcg gtgcgctcga aaatctattc    840
              gagaacacca aagttaaccc tagagagatt ggtatacttg tggtgaactc aagcatgttt    900
              aatccaactc cttcgctatc cgctatggtc gttaatactt tcaagctccg aagcaacatc    960
              aaaagcttta atctaggagg aatgggttgt agtgctggtg ttattgccat tgatttggct   1020
              aaagacttgt tgcatgttca taaaaacact tatgctcttg tggtgagcac tgagaacatc   1080
              acacaaggca tttatgctgg agaaaataga tcaatgatgg ttagcaattg cttgtttcgt   1140
              gttggtgggg ccgcgatttt gctctctaac aagtcgggag accggagacg gtccaagtac   1200
              aagctagttc acacggtccg aacgcatact ggagctgatg acaagtcttt tcgatgtgtg   1260
              caacaagaag acgatgagag cggcaaaatc ggagtttgtc tgtcaaagga cataaccaat   1320
              gttgcgggga caacacttac gaaaaatata gcaacattgg gtccgttgat tcttccttta   1380
              agcgaaaagt ttcttttttt cgctaccttc gtcgccaaga aacttctaaa ggataaaatc   1440

                                                6/104
<removed-date>
              aagcattact atgttccgga tttcaagctt gctgttgacc atttctgtat tcatgccgga   1500
              ggcagagccg tgatcgatga gctagagaag aacttaggac tatcgccgat cgatgtggag   1560
              gcatctagat caacgttaca tagatttggg aatacttcat ctagctcaat ttggtatgaa   1620
              ttagcataca tagaggcaaa gggaagaatg aagaaaggga ataaagcttg gcagattgct   1680
              ttaggatcag ggtttaagtg taatagtgcg gtttgggtgg ctctacgcaa tgtcaaggca   1740
              tcggcaaata gtccttggca acattgcatc gatagatatc cggttaaaat tgattctgat   1800
<removed-apn>
              ttgtcaaagt caaagactca tgtccaaaac ggtcggtcct aa                      1842
              <210>   9
              <211>   520
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400>   9
              Met Ala Ile Leu Asp Ser Ala Gly Val Thr Thr Val Thr Glu Asn Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Gly Glu Phe Val Asp Leu Asp Arg Leu Arg Arg Arg Lys Ser Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Asp Ser Ser Asn Gly Leu Leu Leu Ser Gly Ser Asp Asn Asn Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Pro Ser Asp Asp Val Gly Ala Pro Ala Asp Val Arg Asp Arg Ile Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Val Val Asn Asp Asp Ala Gln Gly Thr Ala Asn Leu Ala Gly Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Asn Asn Gly Gly Gly Asp Asn Asn Gly Gly Gly Arg Gly Gly Gly Glu
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Arg Gly Asn Ala Asp Ala Thr Phe Thr Tyr Arg Pro Ser Val Pro
                          100                 105                 110
              Ala His Arg Arg Ala Arg Glu Ser Pro Leu Ser Ser Asp Ala Ile Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Gln Ser His Ala Gly Leu Phe Asn Leu Cys Val Val Val Leu Ile
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Val Asn Ser Arg Leu Ile Ile Glu Asn Leu Met Lys Tyr Gly Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Ile Arg Thr Asp Phe Trp Phe Ser Ser Arg Ser Leu Arg Asp Trp
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Leu Phe Met Cys Cys Ile Ser Leu Ser Ile Phe Pro Leu Ala Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Thr Val Glu Lys Leu Val Leu Gln Lys Tyr Ile Ser Glu Pro Val
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Ile Phe Leu His Ile Ile Ile Thr Met Thr Glu Val Leu Tyr Pro
                  210                 215                 220
              Val Tyr Val Thr Leu Arg Cys Asp Ser Ala Phe Leu Ser Gly Val Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Met Leu Leu Thr Cys Ile Val Trp Leu Lys Leu Val Ser Tyr Ala
                              245                 250                 255

                                                7/104
<removed-date>
              His Thr Ser Tyr Asp Ile Arg Ser Leu Ala Asn Ala Ala Asp Lys Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Asn Pro Glu Val Ser Tyr Tyr Val Ser Leu Lys Ser Leu Ala Tyr Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Met Val Ala Pro Thr Leu Cys Tyr Gln Pro Ser Tyr Pro Arg Ser Ala
                  290                 295                 300
              Cys Ile Arg Lys Gly Trp Val Ala Arg Gln Phe Ala Lys Leu Val Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
<removed-apn>
              Phe Thr Gly Phe Met Gly Phe Ile Ile Glu Gln Tyr Ile Asn Pro Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Arg Asn Ser Lys His Pro Leu Lys Gly Asp Leu Leu Tyr Ala Ile
                          340                 345                 350
              Glu Arg Val Leu Lys Leu Ser Val Pro Asn Leu Tyr Val Trp Leu Cys
                      355                 360                 365
              Met Phe Tyr Cys Phe Phe His Leu Trp Leu Asn Ile Leu Ala Glu Leu
                  370                 375                 380
              Leu Cys Phe Gly Asp Arg Glu Phe Tyr Lys Asp Trp Trp Asn Ala Lys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Val Gly Asp Tyr Trp Arg Met Trp Asn Met Pro Val His Lys Trp
                              405                 410                 415
              Met Val Arg His Ile Tyr Phe Pro Cys Leu Arg Ser Lys Ile Pro Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Thr Leu Ala Ile Ile Ile Ala Phe Leu Val Ser Ala Val Phe His Glu
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Cys Ile Ala Val Pro Cys Arg Leu Phe Lys Leu Trp Ala Phe Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Ile Met Phe Gln Val Pro Leu Val Phe Ile Thr Asn Tyr Leu Gln
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Glu Arg Phe Gly Ser Thr Val Gly Asn Met Ile Phe Trp Phe Ile Phe
                              485                 490                 495
              Cys Ile Phe Gly Gln Pro Met Cys Val Leu Leu Tyr Tyr His Asp Leu
                          500                 505                 510
              Met Asn Arg Lys Gly Ser Met Ser
                      515                 520
              <210>   10
              <211>   1563
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 10
              atggcgattt tggattctgc tggcgttact acggtgacgg agaacggtgg cggagagttc   60
              gtcgatcttg ataggcttcg tcgacggaaa tcgagatcgg attcttctaa cggacttctt   120
              ctctctggtt ccgataataa ttctccttcg gatgatgttg gagctcccgc cgacgttagg   180
              gatcggattg attccgttgt taacgatgac gctcagggaa cagccaattt ggccggagat   240
              aataacggtg gtggcgataa taacggtggt ggaagaggcg gcggagaagg aagaggaaac   300
              gccgatgcta cgtttacgta tcgaccgtcg gttccagctc atcggagggc gagagagagt   360

                                                8/104
<removed-date>
              ccacttagct ccgacgcaat cttcaaacag agccatgccg gattattcaa cctctgtgta    420
              gtagttctta ttgctgtaaa cagtagactc atcatcgaaa atcttatgaa gtatggttgg    480
              ttgatcagaa cggatttctg gtttagttca agatcgctgc gagattggcc gcttttcatg    540
              tgttgtatat ccctttcgat ctttcctttg gctgccttta cggttgagaa attggtactt    600
              cagaaataca tatcagaacc tgttgtcatc tttcttcata ttattatcac catgacagag    660
              gttttgtatc cagtttacgt caccctaagg tgtgattctg cttttttatc aggtgtcact    720
<removed-apn>
              ttgatgctcc tcacttgcat tgtgtggcta aagttggttt cttatgctca tactagctat    780
              gacataagat ccctagccaa tgcagctgat aaggccaatc ctgaagtctc ctactacgtt    840
              agcttgaaga gcttggcata tttcatggtc gctcccacat tgtgttatca gccaagttat    900
              ccacgttctg catgtatacg gaagggttgg gtggctcgtc aatttgcaaa actggtcata    960
              ttcaccggat tcatgggatt tataatagaa caatatataa atcctattgt caggaactca   1020
              aagcatcctt tgaaaggcga tcttctatat gctattgaaa gagtgttgaa gctttcagtt   1080
              ccaaatttat atgtgtggct ctgcatgttc tactgcttct tccacctttg gttaaacata   1140
              ttggcagagc ttctctgctt cggggatcgt gaattctaca aagattggtg gaatgcaaaa   1200
              agtgtgggag attactggag aatgtggaat atgcctgttc ataaatggat ggttcgacat   1260
              atatacttcc cgtgcttgcg cagcaagata ccaaagacac tcgccattat cattgctttc   1320
              ctagtctctg cagtctttca tgagctatgc atcgcagttc cttgtcgtct cttcaagcta   1380
              tgggcttttc ttgggattat gtttcaggtg cctttggtct tcatcacaaa ctatctacag   1440
              gaaaggtttg gctcaacggt ggggaacatg atcttctggt tcatcttctg cattttcgga   1500
              caaccgatgt gtgtgcttct ttattaccac gacctgatga accgaaaagg atcgatgtca   1560
              tga                                                                 1563
              <210>   11
              <211>   383
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400>   11
              Met Gly Ala Gly Gly Asn Met Ser Leu Val Thr Ser Lys Thr Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Lys Lys Asn Pro Leu Glu Lys Val Pro Thr Ser Lys Pro Pro Phe Thr
                          20                  25                  30
              Val Gly Asp Ile Lys Lys Ala Ile Pro Pro His Cys Phe Gln Arg Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Val Arg Ser Phe Ser Tyr Val Val Tyr Asp Leu Leu Leu Val Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Phe Tyr Tyr Ile Ala Thr Thr Tyr Phe His Leu Leu Pro Ser Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Cys Tyr Leu Ala Trp Pro Ile Tyr Trp Ile Cys Gln Gly Cys Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Thr Gly Ile Trp Val Ile Ala His Glu Cys Gly His His Ala Phe

                                                 9/104
<removed-date>
                           100                 105                 110
              Ser Asp Tyr Gln Trp Val Asp Asp Thr Val Gly Leu Ile Leu His Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Leu Met Val Pro Tyr Phe Ser Trp Lys Tyr Ser His Arg Arg His
                  130                 135                 140
              His Ser Asn Thr Gly Ser Leu Glu Arg Asp Glu Val Phe Val Pro Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Lys Ser Gln Leu Gly Trp Tyr Ser Lys Tyr Leu Asn Asn Pro Pro
                              165                 170                 175
<removed-apn>
              Gly Arg Val Ile Ser Leu Thr Ile Thr Leu Thr Leu Gly Trp Pro Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Tyr Leu Ala Phe Asn Val Ser Gly Arg His Tyr Asp Arg Phe Ala Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              His Tyr Asp Pro Tyr Gly Pro Ile Tyr Asn Asp Arg Glu Arg Leu Gln
                  210                 215                 220
              Ile Phe Leu Ser Asp Ala Gly Val Ile Gly Ala Gly Tyr Leu Leu Tyr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Arg Ile Ala Leu Val Lys Gly Leu Ala Trp Leu Val Cys Met Tyr Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Val Pro Leu Leu Ile Val Asn Gly Phe Leu Val Leu Ile Thr Tyr Leu
                          260                 265                 270
              Gln His Thr His Pro Ser Leu Pro His Tyr Asp Ser Ser Glu Trp Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Trp Leu Arg Gly Ala Leu Ala Thr Val Asp Arg Asp Tyr Gly Ile Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Asn Lys Val Phe His Asn Ile Thr Asp Thr His Val Val His His Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Ser Thr Met Pro His Tyr Asn Ala Met Glu Ala Thr Lys Ala Val
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Pro Leu Leu Gly Asp Tyr Tyr Gln Phe Asp Gly Thr Pro Val Phe
                          340                 345                 350
              Lys Ala Met Trp Arg Glu Ala Lys Glu Cys Ile Tyr Val Glu Lys Asp
                      355                 360                 365
              Glu Ala Ser Gln Gly Lys Gly Val Phe Trp Tyr Lys Asn Lys Phe
                  370                 375                 380
              <210>   12
              <211>   661
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Nucleotide sequence encoding dsRNA hairpin targetting N.
                      benthamiana FAD2
              <400> 12
              tagaacagat ggtgcacgac gtgagtatcg gtgatgttgt ggaagacctt gtttagaatg   60
              ccatagtctc tgtcgacggt tgccaaagct ccccttagcc aatcccattc ggatgaatcg   120
              tagtgaggca atgacgggtg agtgtgctgc aaataagtga tcaagacgag gaagccgttc   180

                                               10/104
<removed-date>
              acgattagga gtggtacgcc atacatacac acgagccaag ctagcccttt taccaaggca   240
              atacgatata gtagataacc agctccaata actccagcat cagaaaggaa gatctgtagc   300
              ctctcgcggt cattgtagat tgggccgtaa gggtcatagt gacatgcaaa gcgatcataa   360
              tgtcggccag aaacattgaa agccaagtac aaaggccagc caagagtaag ggtgatcgta   420
              agtgaaataa cccggcctgg tggattgttc aagtacttgg aataccatcc gagttgtgat   480
              ttcggcttag gcacaaaaac ctcatcgcgc tcgagtgagc cagtgttgga gtggtggcga   540
              cgatgactat atttccaaga gaagtagggc accatcagag cagagtggag gataagcccg   600
<removed-apn>
              acagtgtcat caacccactg gtagtcacta aaggcatggt ggccacattc gtgcgcaata   660
              a                                                                   661
              <210>   13
              <211>   26
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   forward primer
              <400> 13
              tcattgcgca cgaatgtggc caccat                                         26
              <210>   14
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   reverse primer
              <400> 14
              cgagaacaga tggtgcacga cg                                             22
              <210>   15
              <211>   32
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   forward primer
              <400> 15
              aacgcgttcg acgaattaat tccaatccca ca                                  32
              <210>   16
              <211>   26
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   reverse primer
              <400> 16
              acgcgtctgc tgagcctcga catgtt                                         26
              <210>   17
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   forward primer

                                                 11/104
<removed-date>
              <400> 17
              tttatgggag ctggtggtaa tatgt                                       25
              <210>   18
              <211>   28
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   reverse primer
              <400> 18
<removed-apn>
              ccctcagaat ttgtttttgt accagaaa                                    28
              <210>   19
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   forward primer
              <400> 19
              ttactagtat ggatgctgca catggtatct                                  30
              <210>   20
              <211>   36
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   reverse primer
              <400> 20
              ttactagttc aatcatccat gaaggaatat gcagaa                           36
              <210>   21
              <211>   468
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400>   21
              Met Asp Ala Ala His Gly Ile Leu Gly Lys His Ser Ser Val Pro Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Pro Lys Asn Met Ser Pro Ser Leu Pro Lys Asn Met Ser Pro Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Met Glu Thr Thr Ala Arg Leu Phe Val Thr Lys Phe Phe Gln Gln
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Ile Ser Met Gly Cys Val Ile Phe Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Arg Ile
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Thr Phe Lys Gly Asn Met Glu Lys Cys Pro Leu Lys Thr Val Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Val His Asn Pro Gln Phe Tyr Trp Arg Ile Met Lys Glu Ala Asp
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile His Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Leu Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Glu Asn Glu Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu Phe Arg Ile Leu Val Ala Asn Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Asn Ser Ala Ala Ser Gly Ser Thr Lys Arg Arg Thr Trp Trp Ser

                                               12/104
<removed-date>
                 130                   135               140
              Pro Ala Leu Leu Thr Ala Ser Ile Ser Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Val Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              His Leu Leu Arg Gln Asn Thr Ile Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Glu Leu Phe Ser Leu Tyr Leu Gly Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Met Met Gln Tyr Ser Ser Gly Val Phe Arg Thr Gly Glu Glu His Leu
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Asp Val Ala Gln Arg Arg Lys Ile Ser Ser Leu Ile Glu Lys Thr Arg
                  210                 215                 220
              Ile Glu Lys Trp His Glu Val Leu Asp Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Ala Ile Glu Thr Val Lys Arg Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Leu Ser Glu Gln Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala Gln Glu Lys Val Lys Glu
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Gly Leu Glu Asp Asn Ile Lys Ile Leu Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Pro Lys Glu His Gln Phe Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Val Glu Met Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Glu His Val Gly Glu Glu Tyr Ile Glu Glu Phe Tyr Arg Cys Cys Asp
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Leu Leu Lys Glu Asp Gly Leu Phe Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Glu Glu Leu Ser Lys Glu Ile Gln Gln Thr Ala Gly Phe Leu Lys
                          340                 345                 350
              Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Thr Leu Leu Ser Leu Asp Arg Asn Leu
                      355                 360                 365
              Ser Ala Met Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Phe Ser Val Glu His Val Glu Asn
                  370                 375                 380
              Ile Gly Met Ser Tyr Tyr His Thr Leu Arg Trp Trp Arg Lys Leu Phe
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Lys Asn Thr Ser Lys Val Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe
                              405                 410                 415
              Met Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Thr Gly Thr Leu Ile Asp Tyr Gln Val Val Phe Ser Arg Ala Gly Asn
                      435                 440                 445
              Phe Gly Thr Leu Gly Asp Pro Tyr Lys Gly Phe Pro Ser Ala Tyr Ser
                  450                 455                 460
              Phe Met Asp Asp
              465
              <210>   22
              <211>   460
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum

                                               13/104
<removed-date>
              <400>   22
              Met Asp Ala Ala His Gly Ile Leu Gly Lys His Ser Ser Val Leu His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Pro Lys Ser Met Ser Pro Ser Phe Met Glu Thr Thr Ala Arg Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Val Thr Lys Phe Phe Gln Gln Tyr Ile Ser Met Gly Cys Val Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Phe Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Arg Ile Phe Thr Phe Lys Gly Asn Met Glu
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Cys Pro Leu Lys Thr Val Leu Lys Val His Asn Pro Gln Phe Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Arg Ile Met Lys Glu Ala Asp Ile Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              His Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Leu Asp Glu Thr Glu Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Arg Ile Leu Val Ala Asn Lys Glu Asn Ser Ala Ala Ser Gly Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Lys Arg Arg Thr Trp Trp Ser Pro Ala Leu Leu Thr Ala Ser Ile
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Val Lys His Leu Leu Arg Gln Asn Thr Ile
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Phe Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gly Lys Met Met Gln Tyr Ser Ser Gly Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Arg Thr Gly Glu Glu His Leu Asp Val Ala Gln Arg Arg Lys Ile
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Ser Leu Ile Glu Lys Ala Arg Ile Glu Lys Arg His Glu Val Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Asp Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Ile Glu Thr Val Lys Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu Gln Gln Leu Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Tyr Ala Gln Glu Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Gln Asp Asn Ile Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Ile Leu Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Leu Pro Lys Glu His Gln Phe Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Ile Ile Ser Val Glu Met Val Glu His Val Gly Glu Glu Tyr Ile
                  290                 295                 300
              Glu Glu Phe Tyr Arg Cys Cys Asp Gln Leu Leu Lys Glu Asp Gly Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu Leu Ser Lys Glu Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Gln Gln Thr Ala Gly Phe Leu Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Thr
                          340                 345                 350

                                                14/104
<removed-date>
              Leu Leu Ser Leu Asp Arg Asn Leu Ser Ala Met Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Ser Val Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Met Ser Tyr Tyr His Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Leu Arg Trp Trp Arg Lys Leu Phe Leu Glu Asn Thr Ser Lys Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Met Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe
                              405                 410                 415
              Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Thr Gly Thr Leu Ile Asp Tyr Gln
<removed-apn>
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Val Phe Ser Arg Ala Gly Asn Phe Gly Thr Leu Gly Asp Pro Tyr
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys Gly Phe Pro Ser Ala Tyr Ser Phe Met Asp Asp
                  450                 455                 460
              <210>   23
              <211>   456
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (232)..(232)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   23
              Met Ile Ala Ala Asn Gly Leu Leu Gly Lys Ser Cys Asn Ile Leu Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Pro Lys His Met Val Pro Ser Leu Met Glu Thr Gly Ala Arg Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Val Thr Arg Phe Leu Ser His Phe Ile Ser Thr Gly Cys Val Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Thr Met Phe Thr Phe Glu Gly Thr Ser Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Cys Ser Leu Lys Thr Val Ile Lys Val His Ser Pro His Phe Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Lys Val Met Thr Glu Ala Asp Leu Gly Leu Ala Asp Ser Tyr Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Val Asp Lys Lys Asp Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Met Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Ser Asn Ser Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Ser Lys Lys Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro Leu Leu Phe Thr Ala Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Thr Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Phe Lys His Val Leu Arg Gln Asn Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Leu Phe Ala Leu Phe Leu Asp Glu Thr Met Thr Tyr Ser Cys Ala
                          180                 185                 190

                                                15/104
<removed-date>
              Val Phe Lys Thr Glu Asp Glu Asp Leu Lys Asp Ala Gln His Arg Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Ile Ser Leu Leu Ile Glu Lys Ala Arg Ile Asp Ser Lys His Glu Ile
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Glu Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Xaa Ser Leu Ala Ile Glu Val Val Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Arg Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu Glu Gln Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Leu Ala Glu Lys Arg Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Gln Glu Asn Ile
<removed-apn>
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Phe Gln Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Leu Pro Ser Thr Tyr Lys Tyr
                      275                 280                 285
              Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Cys Glu Met Ile Glu Ala Val Gly His Glu Tyr
                  290                 295                 300
              Met Glu Asp Phe Phe Gly Cys Cys Glu Ser Val Leu Ala Asp Asp Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Leu Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu Arg Tyr Asn Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              Tyr Arg Arg Ser Ser Asp Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly
                          340                 345                 350
              Cys Leu Pro Ser Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Thr Ala Met Asn Ala Ala Ser
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys Leu Cys Val Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Leu His Tyr Tyr Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Leu Arg Tyr Trp Arg Lys Asn Phe Leu Glu Lys Gln Ser Lys Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              His Ala Leu Gly Phe Asn Asp Lys Phe Ile Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Ser Asn Thr Leu Gly Asn Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Gln Val Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly Asn Val Val Ala Leu Gly Asn Pro
                      435                 440                 445
              Tyr Lys Asp Phe Pro Ser Ala Ser
                  450                 455
              <210>   24
              <211>   447
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400>   24
              Met Ala Ala Ala Gln Ser Leu Leu Gly Asn Lys Ile Asp Pro Leu Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Pro Lys Gln Met Val Leu Ser Trp Thr Glu Thr Gly Ala Arg Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Val Leu Arg Phe Leu Lys Gln Tyr Ile Ser Val Gly Asn Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Phe Glu Glu Gly Gly Thr Met Phe Ser Phe Gly Glu Ala Cys Glu
                  50                  55                  60

                                               16/104
<removed-date>
              Lys Cys Asn Lys Lys Ser Val Leu Gln Val Gln Asp Pro Leu Phe Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Gln Val Ala Thr Glu Ala Asp Leu Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Gly Cys Phe Ser Phe Val Asn Lys Arg Glu Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Leu Ile Leu Ile Ala Ser Arg Asp Ala His Arg Ser Ser Cys Arg
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Asn Ser Ser Arg Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro Leu Leu Phe Thr Ala Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ala Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu Arg His Ile Ser Arg Lys Asn Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Thr Gln Thr Arg Gln Asn Val Ser Gln His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Phe Phe Ser Leu Phe Leu Asp Lys Ser Met Thr Tyr Ser Ser Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Ile Phe Lys Asp Glu Glu Glu Ser Leu Glu Glu Ala Gln Leu Arg Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Ile Asn Leu Leu Ile His Lys Ala Lys Val Gly Gln Asp Asp Glu Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Glu Ile Gly Ser Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Met Glu Val Val Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Val Thr Gln Ser Val Glu Gln Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Tyr Ala Gln Arg Arg Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Glu Asp Arg Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Phe Leu Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Glu Ile Pro Cys His Lys Tyr Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Ile Ile Cys Cys Glu Met Ile Glu Glu Val Gly His Glu Tyr Met
                  290                 295                 300
              Asp Glu Phe Phe Gly Cys Cys Glu Ser Leu Leu Ala Glu Asn Gly Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Val Thr Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu Arg Tyr Asp Glu Tyr
                              325                 330                 335
              Arg Arg Ser Ser Asp Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Cys
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Ser Leu Thr Arg Ile Thr Ser Ala Met Ser Ala Ala Ser Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Cys Ile Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Tyr His Tyr Tyr Thr Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Leu Ile Arg Trp Arg Asp Asn Phe Met Ala Asn Lys Asp Lys Ile Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Ile Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe
                              405                 410                 415
              Ile Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Ser Arg Thr Leu Gly Asp Tyr Gln
                          420                 425                 430

                                               17/104
<removed-date>
              Ile Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly Asn Thr Lys Met Gly Ser Gly Phe
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   25
              <211>   456
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400>   25
              Met Ala Ala Ala Arg Gly Leu Leu Gly Lys Glu Thr Ala Leu Leu Asn
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Asn Pro Arg His Met Val Pro Ser Leu Thr Glu Thr Gly Ala Arg Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Val Thr Arg Phe Leu Gly Gln Phe Ile Ser Thr Gly Ser Val Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Thr Met Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly Lys Asp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Cys Pro Leu Lys Ser Ile Leu Lys Ile His Ser Pro Gln Phe Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Lys Val Met Thr Gln Ala Asp Leu Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Val Asp Lys Glu Ser Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Ile Met Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Arg Asp Thr Lys Ser Asn Leu Thr Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro Met Phe Leu Thr Ala Gly Leu Ala Ser
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu Lys His Val Ser Arg Gln Asn Thr Leu Thr Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Glu Leu Phe
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Leu Phe Leu Asp Asp Thr Met Thr Tyr Ser Ser Ala Val Phe Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Asp Asp Glu Asp Leu Arg Thr Ala Gln Met Arg Lys Ile Ser Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Ile Asp Lys Ala Arg Ile Glu Lys Asp His Glu Val Leu Glu Ile
                  210                 215                 220
              Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Thr Leu Ala Ile Glu Val Val Arg Arg Thr Gly
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Ile Glu Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Glu Glu Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Gln Asp Arg Ile Thr Phe Glu
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Arg Asp Tyr Arg Gln Leu Ser Asp Ala His Lys Tyr Asp Arg Ile
                      275                 280                 285
              Ile Ser Cys Glu Met Leu Glu Ala Val Gly His Glu Phe Met Glu Met
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Phe Ser Arg Cys Glu Ala Ala Leu Ala Glu Asp Gly Leu Met Val

                                                18/104
<removed-date>
              305                  310                315                 320
              Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Thr Pro Glu Glu Arg Tyr Asn Glu Tyr Arg Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Ser Ser Asp Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Ala Cys Val Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Leu Ala Lys Val Thr Ser Ala Met Ser Ser Ser Ser Arg Leu Cys
                      355                 360                 365
              Ile Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Ile His Tyr Tyr Gln Thr Leu Arg
                  370                 375                 380
<removed-apn>
              Leu Trp Arg Lys Asn Phe Leu Glu Arg Gln Lys Gln Ile Met Ala Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Gly Phe Asp Asp Lys Phe Val Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Thr Arg Thr Leu Gly Asp Tyr Gln Leu Val
                          420                 425                 430
              Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly Asn Val Ala Ala Phe Ala Asp Ser Tyr Arg Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Phe Pro Ser Ala Tyr Cys Val Ser
                  450                 455
              <210>   26
              <211>   460
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Sterculia foetida
              <400>   26
              Met Asp Ala Ala His Arg Ile Leu Gly Lys His Phe Ser Val Leu His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Pro Arg Gln Met Ser Pro Ser Phe Met Glu Thr Thr Ala Arg Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Val Thr Lys Phe Phe His Gln Tyr Ile Gln Val Gly Cys Val Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Ile Glu Glu Gly Gly Arg Val Tyr Thr Phe Lys Gly Ser Met Glu
                  50                  55                  60
              Asn Cys Ser Leu Lys Thr Ala Leu Lys Val His Asn Pro Gln Phe Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Arg Ile Met Lys Glu Ala Asp Ile Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Val Asp Lys Asp Asp Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Arg Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Lys Glu Leu Asn Ser Ala Ser Gly Gln
                      115                 120                 125
              Asn Lys Arg Arg Thr Trp Leu Ser Pro Ala Leu Phe Thr Ala Gly Ile
                  130                 135                 140
              Ser Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu Lys His Tyr Met Arg Gln Asn Thr Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Glu
                              165                 170                 175

                                               19/104
<removed-date>
              Leu Phe Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gly Glu Met Met Gln Tyr Ser Ser Gly Ile
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Lys Thr Gly Glu Glu His Leu Asp Val Ala Gln Arg Arg Lys Ile
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Ser Leu Ile Asp Lys Ser Arg Ile Glu Lys Trp His Glu Val Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Asp Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Met Glu Val Val Lys Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu Gln Gln Leu Lys
<removed-apn>
                              245                 250                 255
              Tyr Ala Glu Glu Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Gln Gly Asn Ile Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Leu Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Leu Pro Lys Thr Phe Lys Tyr Asp
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Ile Ile Ser Val Glu Met Val Glu His Val Gly Glu Glu Tyr Ile
                  290                 295                 300
              Glu Glu Phe Phe Arg Cys Cys Asp Ser Leu Leu Ala Glu Asn Gly Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Ile Leu Ser Lys Glu Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Gln Gln Thr Ala Gly Phe Leu Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Leu Ser Leu Asp Arg Thr Leu Ser Ala Met Ala Ala Ala Ser Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Ser Val Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Ile Ser Tyr Tyr His Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Leu Arg Trp Trp Arg Lys Asn Phe Leu Ala Asn Glu Ser Lys Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Met Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe
                              405                 410                 415
              Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Thr Gly Thr Leu Ile Asp Tyr Gln
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Val Phe Ser Arg Ala Gly Asn Phe Ala Ala Leu Gly Asp Pro Tyr
                      435                 440                 445
              Ile Gly Phe Pro Ser Ala Tyr Ser Tyr Ser Asp Asn
                  450                 455                 460
              <210>   27
              <211>   446
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400>   27
              Met Asp Ala Ala Tyr Asp Ile Leu Gly Arg Ile Cys Ser Leu Gln Arg
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Leu Lys Tyr Ile Val Pro Ser Trp Thr Glu Val Gly Ala Arg Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Val Thr Arg Phe Leu Ser Ala Tyr Ile Thr Thr Gly Cys Leu Met
                      35                  40                  45

                                               20/104
<removed-date>
              Leu Leu Glu Asp Gly Gly Thr Ile Phe Thr Phe Glu Gly Ser Lys Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Cys Ser Leu Lys Ser Val Leu Arg Ile His Asn Pro Gln Phe Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Lys Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Arg Asp Phe Asn Leu Ser Asn Ser Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Lys Asn Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro Val Phe Phe Thr Ala Gly Leu
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Ala Ser Ala Lys Phe Phe Ile Lys His Val Ser Arg Lys Asn Thr Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Met His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Phe Ala Cys Phe Leu Asp Glu Lys Met Gln Tyr Ser Cys Gly Val
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Phe Lys Asp Glu Tyr Glu Asp Leu Lys Asp Ala Gln Lys Arg Lys Ile
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ile Leu Ile Glu Lys Ala Gln Ile Asp Arg Lys His Glu Ile Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Gly Phe Ala Ile Glu Val Val Lys Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu Glu Gln Leu Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Tyr Ala Glu Asn Lys Val Lys Asp Ala Gly Leu Gln Glu His Ile Thr
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Leu Leu Cys Glu Tyr Arg Gln Leu Ser Lys Thr Lys Lys Tyr Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Ile Val Ser Cys Glu Met Ile Glu Ala Val Gly His Glu Tyr Met
                          260                 265                 270
              Glu Glu Phe Phe Gly Cys Cys Asp Ser Val Leu Ala Asp Asp Gly Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Leu Val Leu Gln Phe Thr Ser Ile Pro Asp Glu Arg Tyr Asp Ala Tyr
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Arg Ser Ser Glu Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Cys Cys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ile Pro Ser Leu Ser Arg Val Thr Leu Ala Met Ala Ala Ala Ser Arg
                              325                 330                 335
              Leu Trp Tyr Met Leu Tyr Phe Asn Thr Ala Asn Lys Leu Phe Phe Leu
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Thr Ile Leu Gln Asn Ile Val Gly Cys Ser Val Glu His Ala Glu
                      355                 360                 365
              Asn Ile Gly Ile His Tyr Tyr Pro Thr Leu Arg Trp Trp Arg Lys Asn
                  370                 375                 380
              Phe Met Glu Asn His Ser Lys Ile Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Phe Ile Arg Ile Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe
                              405                 410                 415

                                               21/104
<removed-date>
              Lys Ser Arg Thr Leu Gly Asn Tyr Gln Met Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly
                          420                 425                 430
              Asn Lys Thr Ala Phe Ser Asn Leu Asp Lys Lys Met Ala Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              <210>   28
              <211>   458
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   28
<removed-apn>
              Met Ala Ala Ala Gln Asp Leu Leu Gly Lys Glu Ser Asp Leu Leu Val
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Pro Lys Gln Met Ile Pro Ser Trp Ser Glu Ala Gly Ala Arg Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Val Thr Arg Phe Leu Gly Gln Tyr Val Ser Val Gly Asn Leu Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Thr Met Phe Ser Phe Gly Glu Val Gly Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Cys His Val Lys Ser Val Leu Arg Val His Asp Pro Met Phe Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Lys Val Ala Thr Glu Ala Asp Leu Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Gly Tyr Phe Ser Phe Val Asp Lys Arg Glu Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Leu Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Arg Asp Ala Asn Lys Ser Ser Ser Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Ala Gly Lys Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro Leu Leu Leu Thr Ala Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Ala Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu Arg His Ile Ala Arg Arg Asn Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Val Ser Gln Thr Arg Gln Asn Ile Ser Gln His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn
                              165                 170                 175
              Glu Phe Phe Ser Leu Phe Leu Asp Pro Ser Met Thr Tyr Ser Cys Ala
                          180                 185                 190
              Ile Phe Lys Thr Glu Asp Gln Ser Leu Glu Ala Ala Gln Leu Gln Lys
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Cys Leu Leu Ile Asp Lys Ala Lys Val Glu Arg Asp His His Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Glu Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Ile Gln Leu Val Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Val Glu Gln Leu
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Tyr Ala Gln Arg Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Glu Asp His Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser Phe Met Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Ile Pro Thr Gln Arg Lys Tyr
                      275                 280                 285
              Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Cys Glu Met Ile Glu Gly Val Gly His Glu Tyr

                                               22/104
<removed-date>
                 290                   295               300
              Met Asp Asp Phe Phe Gly Cys Cys Glu Ser Leu Leu Ala Gln Asp Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ile Phe Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu Arg Tyr Glu Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              Tyr Arg Arg Ser Ser Asp Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly
                          340                 345                 350
              Cys Leu Pro Ser Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ser Ala Met Ser Ala Ala Ser
                      355                 360                 365
<removed-apn>
              Arg Leu Cys Ile Glu His Leu Glu Asn Ile Gly Tyr His Tyr Tyr Pro
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Leu Ile Gln Trp Arg Asp Asn Phe Met Ala Asn Lys Asp Ala Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Ile Arg Ile Trp Glu Tyr Tyr
                              405                 410                 415
              Phe Ile Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Ser Arg Thr Leu Gly Asn Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Gln Ile Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly Asn Asp Lys Leu Gly Asp Ser Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Ile His Ser Leu Ser Lys Leu Ser Gly Ser
                  450                 455
              <210>   29
              <211>   873
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400>   29
              Met Glu Val Ala Val Ile Gly Gly Gly Ile Lys Gly Leu Leu Ser Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Val Leu Val Lys Ala Gly Val Asp Val Val Val Tyr Glu Lys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Gln Leu Gly Gly His Ala Lys Thr Val Asn Phe Asp Ala Val Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Asp Leu Gly Phe Leu Phe Leu Asn Pro Ala Arg Tyr Ala Thr Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu His Met Phe Asp Ser Leu Gly Val Asp Val Glu Thr Ser Asp Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Phe Ser Ile Ser His Asp Lys Gly Asn Asn Gly Tyr Glu Trp Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Gln Tyr Gly Phe Ser Asn Tyr Phe Ala Gln Lys Lys Lys Leu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Asn Pro Phe Asn Trp Gln Ser Leu Arg Glu Ile Ile Lys Phe Gly Asn
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Val Glu Ser Tyr Leu Gly Ser Leu Glu Asn Asn Pro Asp Ile Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Thr Glu Thr Leu Gly Gln Phe Ile Asn Ser Lys Gly Tyr Ser Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                               23/104
<removed-date>
              Asn Phe Gln Asn Thr Tyr Leu Ala Pro Ile Cys Gly Ser Met Trp Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ser Lys Glu Asp Val Thr Ser Phe Ser Ala Phe Ser Ile Leu Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Cys Arg Thr His His Leu Tyr Gln Leu Phe Gly Gln Ser Gln Trp
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Thr Ile Lys Gly His Ser His Phe Val Lys Arg Val Arg Glu Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Glu Thr Lys Gly Cys Gln Phe Lys Leu Gly Cys Glu Val Gln Ser
<removed-apn>
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Leu Pro Val Asp Asn Gly Thr Ala Met Val Cys Gly Asp Gly Phe
                              245                 250                 255
              Gln Glu Thr Tyr Asn Gly Cys Ile Met Ala Val Asp Ala Pro Thr Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Lys Leu Leu Gly Asn Gln Ala Thr Phe Glu Glu Thr Arg Val Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Ala Phe Gln Tyr Ala Thr Ser Asp Ile Phe Leu His Gln Asp Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Leu Met Pro Gln Asn Lys Ser Ala Trp Ser Ala Leu Asn Phe Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asn Ser Ser Lys Asn Asn Ala Phe Leu Thr Tyr Trp Leu Asn Ala Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Gln Asn Ile Gly Lys Thr Ser Glu Pro Phe Phe Val Thr Val Asn Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              Asp His Thr Pro Lys Asn Thr Leu Leu Lys Trp Ser Thr Gly His Ala
                      355                 360                 365
              Ile Pro Ser Val Ala Ala Ser Lys Ala Ser Leu Glu Leu Gly Gln Ile
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Gly Lys Arg Gly Ile Trp Phe Cys Gly Tyr Asp Phe Asn Gln Asp
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Glu Leu Lys Ala Gly Met Asp Ala Ala His Gly Ile Leu Gly Lys His
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Ser Val Pro Pro Ser Pro Lys Asn Met Ser Pro Ser Leu Pro Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Asn Met Ser Pro Ser Phe Met Glu Thr Thr Ala Arg Leu Phe Val Thr
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys Phe Phe Gln Gln Tyr Ile Ser Met Gly Cys Val Ile Phe Leu Glu
                  450                 455                 460
              Glu Gly Gly Arg Ile Phe Thr Phe Lys Gly Asn Met Glu Lys Cys Pro
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Leu Lys Thr Val Leu Lys Val His Asn Pro Gln Phe Tyr Trp Arg Ile
                              485                 490                 495
              Met Lys Glu Ala Asp Ile Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile His Gly Asp
                          500                 505                 510
              Phe Ser Phe Leu Asp Glu Asn Glu Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu Phe Arg Ile
                      515                 520                 525

                                               24/104
<removed-date>
              Leu Val Ala Asn Lys Glu Asn Ser Ala Ala Ser Gly Ser Thr Lys Arg
                  530                 535                 540
              Arg Thr Trp Trp Ser Pro Ala Leu Leu Thr Ala Ser Ile Ser Ser Ala
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Lys Tyr Phe Val Lys His Leu Leu Arg Gln Asn Thr Ile Thr Gln Ala
                              565                 570                 575
              Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Glu Leu Phe Ser
                          580                 585                 590
              Leu Tyr Leu Gly Lys Met Met Gln Tyr Ser Ser Gly Val Phe Arg Thr
<removed-apn>
                      595                 600                 605
              Gly Glu Glu His Leu Asp Val Ala Gln Arg Arg Lys Ile Ser Ser Leu
                  610                 615                 620
              Ile Glu Lys Thr Arg Ile Glu Lys Trp His Glu Val Leu Asp Ile Gly
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Ile Glu Thr Val Lys Arg Thr Gly Cys
                              645                 650                 655
              Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu Gln Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala Gln
                          660                 665                 670
              Glu Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Glu Asp Asn Ile Lys Ile Leu Leu
                      675                 680                 685
              Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Leu Pro Lys Glu His Gln Phe Asp Arg Ile Ile
                  690                 695                 700
              Ser Val Glu Met Val Glu His Val Gly Glu Glu Tyr Ile Glu Glu Phe
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Tyr Arg Cys Cys Asp Gln Leu Leu Lys Glu Asp Gly Leu Phe Val Leu
                              725                 730                 735
              Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu Leu Ser Lys Glu Ile Gln Gln Thr
                          740                 745                 750
              Ala Gly Phe Leu Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Thr Leu Leu Ser
                      755                 760                 765
              Leu Asp Arg Asn Leu Ser Ala Met Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Phe Ser Val
                  770                 775                 780
              Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Met Ser Tyr Tyr His Thr Leu Arg Trp
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Trp Arg Lys Leu Phe Leu Lys Asn Thr Ser Lys Val Leu Ala Leu Gly
                              805                 810                 815
              Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Met Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys
                          820                 825                 830
              Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Thr Gly Thr Leu Ile Asp Tyr Gln Val Val Phe
                      835                 840                 845
              Ser Arg Ala Gly Asn Phe Gly Thr Leu Gly Asp Pro Tyr Lys Gly Phe
                  850                 855                 860
              Pro Ser Ala Tyr Ser Phe Met Asp Asp
              865                 870
              <210>   30
              <211>   865
              <212>   PRT

                                               25/104
<removed-date>
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400>   30
              Met Glu Val Ala Val Ile Gly Gly Gly Ile Lys Gly Leu Val Ser Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Val Leu Val Lys Ala Gly Val Asp Val Val Val Tyr Glu Lys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Gln Leu Gly Gly His Ala Lys Thr Val Asn Phe Asp Ala Val Asp
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Leu Asp Leu Gly Phe Leu Phe Leu Asn Pro Ala Arg Tyr Ala Thr Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Leu Asp Ile Ile Asp Ser Leu Gly Val Asp Val Glu Thr Ser Asp Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Phe Ser Ile Ser His Asp Lys Gly Asn Asn Gly Tyr Glu Trp Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Gln Tyr Gly Phe Ser Asn Tyr Phe Ala Gln Lys Lys Lys Leu Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Asn Pro Phe Asn Trp Gln Asn Leu Arg Glu Ile Ile Arg Phe Ser Asn
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Val Glu Ser Tyr Leu Gly Ser Leu Glu Asn Asn Pro Asp Ile Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Thr Glu Thr Leu Gly Gln Phe Ile Lys Ser Lys Gly Tyr Ser Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Phe Gln Asn Thr Tyr Leu Ala Pro Ile Cys Gly Ser Met Trp Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Ser Lys Glu Asp Val Met Ser Phe Ser Ala Phe Ser Ile Leu Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Cys Arg Thr His His Leu Tyr Gln Gln Phe Gly Gln Pro Gln Trp
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Thr Ile Lys Gly His Ser His Phe Val Lys Arg Val Arg Glu Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Glu Thr Lys Gly Cys Gln Phe Lys Leu Gly Cys Glu Val Gln Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Leu Pro Ala Asp Asn Gly Thr Thr Met Val Cys Gly Asp Gly Phe
                              245                 250                 255
              Gln Glu Thr Tyr Asn Gly Cys Ile Met Ala Val Asp Ala Pro Thr Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Lys Leu Leu Gly Asn Gln Ala Thr Phe Glu Glu Thr Arg Val Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Ala Phe Gln Tyr Ala Thr Ser Asp Ile Phe Leu His Arg Asp Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Leu Met Pro Gln Asn Lys Ser Ala Trp Ser Ala Leu Asn Phe Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asn Ser Ser Lys Asn Asn Ala Phe Leu Thr Tyr Trp Leu Asn Ala Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Gln Asn Ile Gly Lys Thr Ser Glu Pro Phe Phe Val Thr Val Asn Pro
                          340                 345                 350

                                               26/104
<removed-date>
              Asp His Thr Pro Lys Asn Thr Leu Leu Lys Trp Ser Thr Gly His Ala
                      355                 360                 365
              Ile Pro Ser Val Ala Ala Ser Lys Ala Ser Leu Glu Leu Gly Gln Ile
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Gly Lys Arg Gly Ile Trp Phe Cys Gly Tyr Asp Phe Asn Gln Asp
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Glu Leu Lys Ala Gly Met Asp Ala Ala His Gly Ile Leu Gly Lys His
                              405                 410                 415
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser Val Leu His Ser Pro Lys Ser Met Ser Pro Ser Phe Met Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              Thr Thr Ala Arg Leu Phe Val Thr Lys Phe Phe Gln Gln Tyr Ile Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Met Gly Cys Val Ile Phe Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Arg Ile Phe Thr Phe
                  450                 455                 460
              Lys Gly Asn Met Glu Lys Cys Pro Leu Lys Thr Val Leu Lys Val His
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asn Pro Gln Phe Tyr Trp Arg Ile Met Lys Glu Ala Asp Ile Gly Leu
                              485                 490                 495
              Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile His Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Leu Asp Glu Thr Glu
                          500                 505                 510
              Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu Phe Arg Ile Leu Val Ala Asn Lys Glu Asn Ser
                      515                 520                 525
              Ala Ala Ser Gly Ser Asn Lys Arg Arg Thr Trp Trp Ser Pro Ala Leu
                  530                 535                 540
              Leu Thr Ala Ser Ile Ser Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Val Lys His Leu Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Arg Gln Asn Thr Ile Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Arg His Tyr
                              565                 570                 575
              Asp Leu Ser Asn Glu Leu Phe Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gly Lys Met Met Gln
                          580                 585                 590
              Tyr Ser Ser Gly Val Phe Arg Thr Gly Glu Glu His Leu Asp Val Ala
                      595                 600                 605
              Gln Arg Arg Lys Ile Ser Ser Leu Ile Glu Lys Ala Arg Ile Glu Lys
                  610                 615                 620
              Arg His Glu Val Leu Asp Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Ile
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Glu Thr Val Lys Arg Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser
                              645                 650                 655
              Glu Gln Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala Gln Glu Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu
                          660                 665                 670
              Gln Asp Asn Ile Lys Ile Leu Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Leu Pro Lys
                      675                 680                 685
              Glu His Gln Phe Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Val Glu Met Val Glu His Val
                  690                 695                 700
              Gly Glu Glu Tyr Ile Glu Glu Phe Tyr Arg Cys Cys Asp Gln Leu Leu
              705                 710                 715                 720

                                                27/104
<removed-date>
              Lys Glu Asp Gly Leu Phe Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu
                              725                 730                 735
              Leu Ser Lys Glu Ile Gln Gln Thr Ala Gly Phe Leu Lys Glu Tyr Ile
                          740                 745                 750
              Phe Pro Gly Gly Thr Leu Leu Ser Leu Asp Arg Asn Leu Ser Ala Met
                      755                 760                 765
              Ala Ala Ala Thr Arg Phe Ser Val Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Met
                  770                 775                 780
<removed-apn>
              Ser Tyr Tyr His Thr Leu Arg Trp Trp Arg Lys Leu Phe Leu Glu Asn
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Thr Ser Lys Val Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Met Arg Thr
                              805                 810                 815
              Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Thr Gly Thr
                          820                 825                 830
              Leu Ile Asp Tyr Gln Val Val Phe Ser Arg Ala Gly Asn Phe Gly Thr
                      835                 840                 845
              Leu Gly Asp Pro Tyr Lys Gly Phe Pro Ser Ala Tyr Ser Phe Met Asp
                  850                 855                 860
              Asp
              865
              <210>   31
              <211>   865
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <220>
              <221>   misc_feature
              <222>   (641)..(641)
              <223>   Xaa can be any naturally occurring amino acid
              <400>   31
              Met Lys Ile Ala Val Ile Gly Gly Gly Ile Ser Gly Val Val Ser Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Thr Leu Ala Lys Ala Gly Ala Asn Val Val Leu Tyr Glu Lys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Tyr Leu Gly Gly His Ser Lys Thr Val His Phe Asp Gly Val Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Asp Leu Gly Phe Met Val Phe Asn Arg Val Thr Tyr Pro Asn Met
                  50                  55                  60
              Met Glu Leu Phe Glu Ser Leu Gly Ile Asp Met Glu Pro Phe Asp Met
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Leu Ser Val Ser Leu Asn Glu Gly Lys Gly Cys Glu Trp Gly Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Asn Gly Leu Ser Ala Leu Phe Ala Gln Lys Ser Asn Leu Phe Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Tyr Phe Trp Gln Met Leu Arg Glu Ile Leu Lys Phe Lys Asn Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Ile Ser Tyr Leu Glu Leu Leu Glu Asn Asn Pro Asp Ile Asp Arg
                  130                 135                 140

                                               28/104
<removed-date>
              Asn Glu Thr Leu Gly Gln Phe Ile Lys Ser Lys Gly Tyr Ser Asp Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Leu Val Pro Val Cys Gly Ser Ile Trp Ser Cys
                              165                 170                 175
              Pro Thr Glu Arg Val Met Asp Phe Ser Ala Phe Ser Ile Leu Ser Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Arg Asn His His Leu Leu Gln Ile Phe Gly Arg Pro Gln Trp Met
                      195                 200                 205
<removed-apn>
              Thr Val Arg Trp Arg Ser His Arg Tyr Val Asn Lys Val Arg Glu Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Glu Ser Thr Gly Cys Gln Ile Arg Thr Gly Cys Glu Val His Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Leu Ser Asp Ala Glu Gly Cys Thr Val Leu Cys Gly Asp Asp Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              His Glu Leu Tyr Gln Gly Cys Ile Met Ala Val His Ala Pro Tyr Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Arg Leu Leu Gly Asn Gln Ala Thr Tyr Asp Glu Ser Thr Val Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Ala Phe Gln Tyr Val Tyr Ser Asp Ile Tyr Leu His Arg Asp Lys
                  290                 295                 300
              Asn Leu Met Pro Lys Asn Pro Ala Ala Trp Ser Ala Trp Asn Phe Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gly Ser Thr Asp Lys Asn Val Ser Leu Thr Tyr Trp Leu Asn Val Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Gln Asn Leu Gly Glu Thr Ser Leu Pro Phe Leu Val Thr Leu Asn Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              Asp Tyr Thr Pro Lys His Thr Leu Leu Lys Trp Arg Thr Gly His Pro
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Pro Ser Val Ala Ala Thr Lys Ala Ser Leu Glu Leu Asp Arg Ile
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Gly Lys Arg Gly Ile Trp Phe Cys Gly Ala Tyr Leu Gly Tyr Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Phe His Glu Asp Gly Leu Lys Ala Gly Met Ile Ala Ala Asn Gly Leu
                              405                 410                 415
              Leu Gly Lys Ser Cys Asn Ile Leu Ser Asn Pro Lys His Met Val Pro
                          420                 425                 430
              Ser Leu Met Glu Thr Gly Ala Arg Leu Phe Val Thr Arg Phe Leu Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              His Phe Ile Ser Thr Gly Cys Val Ile Leu Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Thr
                  450                 455                 460
              Met Phe Thr Phe Glu Gly Thr Ser Asn Lys Cys Ser Leu Lys Thr Val
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Ile Lys Val His Ser Pro His Phe Tyr Trp Lys Val Met Thr Glu Ala
                              485                 490                 495
              Asp Leu Gly Leu Ala Asp Ser Tyr Ile Asn Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Val
                          500                 505                 510

                                               29/104
<removed-date>
              Asp Lys Lys Asp Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu Val Met Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn
                      515                 520                 525
              Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Ser Asn Ser Lys Leu Ser Lys Lys Arg Gly Trp
                  530                 535                 540
              Trp Thr Pro Leu Leu Phe Thr Ala Gly Leu Thr Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Phe Lys His Val Leu Arg Gln Asn Thr Leu Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn
                              565                 570                 575
<removed-apn>
              Ile Ser Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Asp Leu Phe Ala Leu Phe Leu
                          580                 585                 590
              Asp Glu Thr Met Thr Tyr Ser Cys Ala Val Phe Lys Thr Glu Asp Glu
                      595                 600                 605
              Asp Leu Lys Asp Ala Gln His Arg Lys Ile Ser Leu Leu Ile Glu Lys
                  610                 615                 620
              Ala Arg Ile Asp Ser Lys His Glu Ile Leu Glu Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Xaa Ser Leu Ala Ile Glu Val Val Lys Arg Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr
                              645                 650                 655
              Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu Glu Gln Leu Lys Leu Ala Glu Lys Arg Val
                          660                 665                 670
              Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Gln Glu Asn Ile Arg Phe Gln Leu Cys Asp Tyr
                      675                 680                 685
              Arg Gln Leu Pro Ser Thr Tyr Lys Tyr Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Cys Glu
                  690                 695                 700
              Met Ile Glu Ala Val Gly His Glu Tyr Met Glu Asp Phe Phe Gly Cys
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Cys Glu Ser Val Leu Ala Asp Asp Gly Leu Leu Val Leu Gln Phe Ile
                              725                 730                 735
              Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu Arg Tyr Asn Glu Tyr Arg Arg Ser Ser Asp Phe
                          740                 745                 750
              Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Cys Leu Pro Ser Leu Ala Arg
                      755                 760                 765
              Ile Thr Thr Ala Met Asn Ala Ala Ser Lys Leu Cys Val Glu His Val
                  770                 775                 780
              Glu Asn Ile Gly Leu His Tyr Tyr Gln Thr Leu Arg Tyr Trp Arg Lys
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Asn Phe Leu Glu Lys Gln Ser Lys Ile His Ala Leu Gly Phe Asn Asp
                              805                 810                 815
              Lys Phe Ile Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly
                          820                 825                 830
              Phe Lys Ser Asn Thr Leu Gly Asn Tyr Gln Val Val Phe Ser Arg Pro
                      835                 840                 845
              Gly Asn Val Val Ala Leu Gly Asn Pro Tyr Lys Asp Phe Pro Ser Ala
                  850                 855                 860
              Ser
              865

                                               30/104
<removed-date>
              <210>   32
              <211>   837
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400>   32
              Met Gly Pro Ala Ala Pro Ser Ala Gly Ala Ser Gly Glu Arg Gly Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Arg Arg Gly Gly Gly Ser Pro Val Ala Val Arg Arg Ala Leu
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ala Pro Pro Ser Cys Val Thr Ser Pro Asn Met Met Gln Trp Phe
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Asp Leu Gly Ala Asn Met Glu Arg Ser Asp Met Ser Phe Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Thr Gln Leu Asp Ala Cys Gly Glu Cys Glu Trp Ala Ser Ser Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Ile Ser Gly Leu Leu Ala Lys Arg Ser Asn Ala Leu Ser Pro Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Trp Arg Met Ile Ser Glu Thr Leu Lys Phe Lys Arg Asp Ala Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg Tyr Leu Glu Asp Cys Glu Asn Asn Leu Asp Leu Glu Gln Ser Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gly Gln Phe Val Gln Ser His Gly Tyr Cys Gln Phe Phe Gln
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Ala Tyr Leu Phe Pro Ile Cys Gly Trp Met Trp Ser Cys Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Gln Arg Val Leu Gly Phe Ser Ala Ser Ser Val Leu Ser Phe Phe Arg
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys His Asn Leu Leu Gln Leu Phe Ser Arg Thr Gln Pro Leu Ile Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Gly Arg Ser Gln Ser Tyr Phe Asn Lys Val Arg Glu Asp Leu Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Arg Ser Cys Arg Ile Lys Thr Asn Cys His Val Lys Ser Ile Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Phe Asp Arg Gly Tyr Arg Val Leu Glu Val Asp Gly Ser Glu Glu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Met Tyr Asp Arg Ile Ile Val Gly Ile His Ala Leu Asp Ala Leu Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Leu Gly Ala Glu Ala Thr His Glu Glu Ser Arg Ile Leu Gly Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Gln Tyr Val Ser Ser Asn Leu Tyr Leu His Cys Asp Glu Ser Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Met Leu Cys Asn Ser Ser Thr Trp Ser Ala Cys Asn Ile Thr Arg Thr
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Ser Gly Ser Val Cys Val Thr Tyr Trp Leu Asn Leu Leu Gln Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ile Glu Ser Thr Asn His Phe Leu Val Thr Leu Asn Pro Ser Tyr Val

                                               31/104
<removed-date>
                              325                 330                 335
              Pro Asp His Val Leu Leu Lys Trp Asn Thr Asn His Phe Val Pro Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Ala Ala Ser Lys Ala Ser Leu Glu Leu Asp Gln Ile Gln Gly Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Arg Gly Ile Trp Phe Cys Gly Ala Tyr Gln Gly Ser Gly Phe His Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Asp Gly Phe Gln Ala Gly Lys Ala Ala Ala Gln Ser Leu Leu Gly Asn
              385                 390                 395                 400
<removed-apn>
              Lys Ile Asp Pro Leu Thr Asn Pro Lys Gln Met Val Leu Ser Trp Thr
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Thr Gly Ala Arg Leu Leu Val Leu Arg Phe Leu Lys Gln Tyr Ile
                          420                 425                 430
              Ser Val Gly Asn Leu Ile Leu Phe Glu Glu Gly Gly Thr Met Phe Ser
                      435                 440                 445
              Phe Gly Glu Ala Cys Glu Lys Cys Asn Lys Lys Ser Val Leu Gln Val
                  450                 455                 460
              Gln Asp Pro Leu Phe Tyr Trp Gln Val Ala Thr Glu Ala Asp Leu Gly
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile Asn Gly Cys Phe Ser Phe Val Asn Lys Arg
                              485                 490                 495
              Glu Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu Phe Leu Ile Leu Ile Ala Ser Arg Asp Ala
                          500                 505                 510
              His Arg Ser Ser Cys Arg Asn Ser Ser Arg Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro
                      515                 520                 525
              Leu Leu Phe Thr Ala Gly Val Ala Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu Arg His
                  530                 535                 540
              Ile Ser Arg Lys Asn Ser Val Thr Gln Thr Arg Gln Asn Val Ser Gln
              545                 550                 555                 560
              His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Asp Phe Phe Ser Leu Phe Leu Asp Lys Ser
                              565                 570                 575
              Met Thr Tyr Ser Ser Ala Ile Phe Lys Asp Glu Glu Glu Ser Leu Glu
                          580                 585                 590
              Glu Ala Gln Leu Arg Lys Ile Asn Leu Leu Ile His Lys Ala Lys Val
                      595                 600                 605
              Gly Gln Asp Asp Glu Val Leu Glu Ile Gly Ser Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu
                  610                 615                 620
              Ala Met Glu Val Val Lys Gln Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Val Thr
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Gln Ser Val Glu Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala Gln Arg Arg Val Lys Glu Ala
                              645                 650                 655
              Gly Leu Glu Asp Arg Ile Thr Phe Leu Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Glu Ile
                          660                 665                 670
              Pro Cys His Lys Tyr Asp Arg Ile Ile Cys Cys Glu Met Ile Glu Glu
                      675                 680                 685
              Val Gly His Glu Tyr Met Asp Glu Phe Phe Gly Cys Cys Glu Ser Leu

                                               32/104
<removed-date>
                 690                  695                700
              Leu Ala Glu Asn Gly Ile Phe Val Thr Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Glu Arg Tyr Asp Glu Tyr Arg Arg Ser Ser Asp Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr
                              725                 730                 735
              Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Cys Leu Pro Ser Leu Thr Arg Ile Thr Ser Ala
                          740                 745                 750
              Met Ser Ala Ala Ser Arg Leu Cys Ile Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly
                      755                 760                 765
<removed-apn>
              Tyr His Tyr Tyr Thr Thr Leu Ile Arg Trp Arg Asp Asn Phe Met Ala
                  770                 775                 780
              Asn Lys Asp Lys Ile Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Ile Arg
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Ile Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Ser Arg
                              805                 810                 815
              Thr Leu Gly Asp Tyr Gln Ile Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly Asn Thr Lys
                          820                 825                 830
              Met Gly Ser Gly Phe
                      835
              <210>   33
              <211>   867
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400>   33
              Met Lys Val Ala Val Ile Gly Ser Gly Ile Ser Gly Leu Gly Ser Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Val Leu Ala Asn Gln Gly Val Lys Glu Val Val Leu Tyr Glu Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Glu Ser Leu Gly Gly His Ala Lys Thr Val Arg Phe Asp Gly Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Leu Asp Leu Gly Phe Met Val Phe Asn Arg Val Thr Tyr Pro Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Met Ile Glu Phe Phe Glu Asn Leu Gly Val Glu Met Glu Val Ser Asp
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Ser Phe Ala Val Ser Leu Asp Asn Gly Lys Gly Cys Glu Trp Gly
                              85                  90                  95
              Ser Arg Asn Gly Val Ser Gly Leu Phe Ala Gln Lys Lys Asn Val Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Asn Pro Tyr Phe Trp Gln Met Ile Arg Glu Ile Val Arg Phe Lys Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Val Leu Asn Tyr Ile Glu Lys Leu Glu Gly Asn Pro Asp Ile Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Arg Lys Glu Thr Leu Gly Glu Phe Leu Asn Thr Arg Gly Tyr Ser Glu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Phe Gln Gln Ala Tyr Leu Val Pro Ile Cys Gly Ser Ile Trp Ser
                              165                 170                 175

                                               33/104
<removed-date>
              Cys Pro Ser Asp Gly Val Leu Ser Phe Ser Ala Tyr Ser Val Leu Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Cys Cys Asn His His Leu Leu Gln Ile Phe Gly Arg Pro Gln Trp
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Thr Val Ala Gly Arg Ser Gln Thr Tyr Val Ala Lys Val Arg Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Glu Leu Glu Arg Leu Gly Cys Lys Ile Arg Thr Ser Cys Asp Val Lys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Ser Thr Ser Glu Asn Gly Cys Val Thr Val Thr Ser Gly Asp
<removed-apn>
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Ser Glu Glu Val Phe Asp Arg Cys Ile Leu Ala Met His Ala Pro
                          260                 265                 270
              Asp Ala Leu Arg Leu Leu Gly Glu Glu Val Thr Phe Asp Glu Ser Arg
                      275                 280                 285
              Val Leu Gly Ala Phe Gln Tyr Val Tyr Ser Asp Ile Tyr Leu His His
                  290                 295                 300
              Asp Ile Asp Leu Met Pro Arg Asn Lys Ala Ala Trp Ser Ala Trp Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Leu Gly Ser Thr Glu Lys Lys Val Cys Val Thr Tyr Trp Leu Asn
                              325                 330                 335
              Ile Leu Gln Asn Leu Gly Glu Asn Ser Glu Pro Phe Phe Val Thr Leu
                          340                 345                 350
              Asn Pro Asp Glu Thr Pro Lys Lys Ala Leu Leu Lys Trp Thr Thr Gly
                      355                 360                 365
              His Pro Val Pro Ser Val Ala Ala Ser Ile Ala Ser Gln Glu Leu His
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Ile Gln Gly Lys Arg Asn Ile Trp Phe Cys Gly Ala Tyr Gln Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Tyr Gly Phe His Glu Asp Gly Leu Lys Ala Gly Met Ala Ala Ala Arg
                              405                 410                 415
              Gly Leu Leu Gly Lys Glu Thr Ala Leu Leu Asn Asn Pro Arg His Met
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Pro Ser Leu Thr Glu Thr Gly Ala Arg Leu Phe Val Thr Arg Phe
                      435                 440                 445
              Leu Gly Gln Phe Ile Ser Thr Gly Ser Val Thr Ile Leu Glu Glu Gly
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Thr Met Phe Thr Phe Gly Gly Lys Asp Ser Thr Cys Pro Leu Lys
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Ser Ile Leu Lys Ile His Ser Pro Gln Phe Tyr Trp Lys Val Met Thr
                              485                 490                 495
              Gln Ala Asp Leu Gly Leu Ala Asp Ala Tyr Ile Asn Gly Asp Phe Ser
                          500                 505                 510
              Phe Val Asp Lys Glu Ser Gly Leu Leu Asn Leu Ile Met Ile Leu Ile
                      515                 520                 525
              Ala Asn Arg Asp Thr Lys Ser Asn Leu Thr Lys Lys Arg Gly Trp Trp
                  530                 535                 540

                                               34/104
<removed-date>
              Thr Pro Met Phe Leu Thr Ala Gly Leu Ala Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Lys His Val Ser Arg Gln Asn Thr Leu Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile
                              565                 570                 575
              Ser Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Glu Leu Phe Gly Leu Phe Leu Asp
                          580                 585                 590
              Asp Thr Met Thr Tyr Ser Ser Ala Val Phe Lys Ser Asp Asp Glu Asp
                      595                 600                 605
              Leu Arg Thr Ala Gln Met Arg Lys Ile Ser Leu Leu Ile Asp Lys Ala
<removed-apn>
                  610                 615                 620
              Arg Ile Glu Lys Asp His Glu Val Leu Glu Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Thr Leu Ala Ile Glu Val Val Arg Arg Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly
                              645                 650                 655
              Ile Thr Leu Ser Ile Glu Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala Glu Glu Lys Val Lys
                          660                 665                 670
              Glu Ala Gly Leu Gln Asp Arg Ile Thr Phe Glu Leu Arg Asp Tyr Arg
                      675                 680                 685
              Gln Leu Ser Asp Ala His Lys Tyr Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Cys Glu Met
                  690                 695                 700
              Leu Glu Ala Val Gly His Glu Phe Met Glu Met Phe Phe Ser Arg Cys
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Glu Ala Ala Leu Ala Glu Asp Gly Leu Met Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser
                              725                 730                 735
              Thr Pro Glu Glu Arg Tyr Asn Glu Tyr Arg Leu Ser Ser Asp Phe Ile
                          740                 745                 750
              Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Ala Cys Val Pro Ser Leu Ala Lys Val
                      755                 760                 765
              Thr Ser Ala Met Ser Ser Ser Ser Arg Leu Cys Ile Glu His Val Glu
                  770                 775                 780
              Asn Ile Gly Ile His Tyr Tyr Gln Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Arg Lys Asn
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Phe Leu Glu Arg Gln Lys Gln Ile Met Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Asp Lys
                              805                 810                 815
              Phe Val Arg Thr Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe
                          820                 825                 830
              Lys Thr Arg Thr Leu Gly Asp Tyr Gln Leu Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly
                      835                 840                 845
              Asn Val Ala Ala Phe Ala Asp Ser Tyr Arg Gly Phe Pro Ser Ala Tyr
                  850                 855                 860
              Cys Val Ser
              865
              <210>   34
              <211>   864
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Sterculia foetida
              <400>   34

                                               35/104
<removed-date>
              Met Gly Val Ala Val Ile Gly Gly Gly Ile Gln Gly Leu Val Ser Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Val Leu Ala Lys Ala Gly Val Asn Val Val Val Tyr Glu Lys Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Gln Val Gly Gly His Ala Lys Thr Val Ser Phe Asp Ala Val Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Asp Leu Gly Leu Leu Phe Leu Asn Pro Ala Arg Tyr Pro Thr Met
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Glu Leu Phe Asp Ser Leu Glu Val Asp Val Glu Ala Thr Asp Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ser Phe Ser Val Ser His Asp Lys Gly Asn Gly Tyr Glu Trp Cys Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Tyr Gly Phe Ser Asn Phe Leu Ala His Lys Lys Lys Met Leu Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Tyr Asn Trp Gln Asp Leu Arg Glu Thr Ile Lys Phe Gly Asn Asp
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Asn Ser Tyr Leu Glu Ser Leu Glu Lys Asn Pro Asp Ile Asp Arg
                  130                 135                 140
              Asn Glu Thr Leu Gly His Phe Val Gly Ser Lys Gly Tyr Ser Glu Asn
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Phe Leu Asn Thr Tyr Leu Ala Pro Ile Cys Gly Ser Met Trp Ser Cys
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Lys Glu Glu Val Met Ser Phe Ser Ala Tyr Ser Ile Leu Ser Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Cys Arg Thr Tyr His Leu Tyr Gln Leu Phe Gly Asn Pro Gln Trp Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Thr Ile Lys Arg His Ser Tyr Leu Val Lys Lys Val Arg Asp Ile Leu
                  210                 215                 220
              Glu Ser Arg Gly Cys Gln Phe Lys Leu Gly Cys Glu Val Leu Ser Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Pro Ala Asp Asp Gly Ser Ser Ile Val Phe Gly Asp Gly Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Glu Thr Tyr Asn Gly Cys Ile Met Ala Val Asn Ala Pro Thr Ala Leu
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ile Leu Gly Asn Gln Ala Thr Phe Glu Glu Met Arg Val Leu Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Phe Gln Tyr Ala Ser Ser Asp Ile Tyr Leu His Arg Asp Ser Asn
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Met Pro Thr Asn Arg Ser Gly Trp Ser Ala Leu Asn Phe Leu Arg
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Arg Glu Asn Lys Ala Ser Leu Thr Tyr Trp Leu Asn Val Leu Gln
                              325                 330                 335
              Asn Val Gly Lys Thr Ser Gln Pro Phe Phe Val Thr Leu Asn Pro Asp
                          340                 345                 350
              Arg Ile Pro Asp Lys Ile Leu Leu Lys Trp Ser Thr Gly Arg Pro Ile
                      355                 360                 365

                                               36/104
<removed-date>
              Pro Ser Val Ala Ala Ser Lys Ala Ser Leu Glu Leu Asp Gln Ile Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Gly Lys Arg Gly Ile Trp Phe Cys Gly Tyr Asp Phe His Glu Asp Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Lys Ala Gly Met Asp Ala Ala His Arg Ile Leu Gly Lys His Phe
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Val Leu His Ser Pro Arg Gln Met Ser Pro Ser Phe Met Glu Thr
                          420                 425                 430
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ala Arg Leu Leu Val Thr Lys Phe Phe His Gln Tyr Ile Gln Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Cys Val Ile Ile Ile Glu Glu Gly Gly Arg Val Tyr Thr Phe Lys
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Ser Met Glu Asn Cys Ser Leu Lys Thr Ala Leu Lys Val His Asn
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Pro Gln Phe Tyr Trp Arg Ile Met Lys Glu Ala Asp Ile Gly Leu Ala
                              485                 490                 495
              Asp Ala Tyr Ile Gln Gly Asp Phe Ser Phe Val Asp Lys Asp Asp Gly
                          500                 505                 510
              Leu Leu Asn Leu Phe Arg Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Lys Glu Leu Asn Ser
                      515                 520                 525
              Ala Ser Gly Gln Asn Lys Arg Arg Thr Trp Leu Ser Pro Ala Leu Phe
                  530                 535                 540
              Thr Ala Gly Ile Ser Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu Lys His Tyr Met Arg
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Gln Asn Thr Val Thr Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Arg His Tyr Asp
                              565                 570                 575
              Leu Ser Asn Glu Leu Phe Thr Leu Tyr Leu Gly Glu Met Met Gln Tyr
                          580                 585                 590
              Ser Ser Gly Ile Phe Lys Thr Gly Glu Glu His Leu Asp Val Ala Gln
                      595                 600                 605
              Arg Arg Lys Ile Ser Ser Leu Ile Asp Lys Ser Arg Ile Glu Lys Trp
                  610                 615                 620
              His Glu Val Leu Asp Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Met Glu
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Val Val Lys Arg Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu
                              645                 650                 655
              Gln Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala Glu Glu Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Gln
                          660                 665                 670
              Gly Asn Ile Lys Phe Leu Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Leu Pro Lys Thr
                      675                 680                 685
              Phe Lys Tyr Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Val Glu Met Val Glu His Val Gly
                  690                 695                 700
              Glu Glu Tyr Ile Glu Glu Phe Phe Arg Cys Cys Asp Ser Leu Leu Ala
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Glu Asn Gly Leu Phe Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Ile Leu
                              725                 730                 735

                                               37/104
<removed-date>
              Ser Lys Glu Ile Gln Gln Thr Ala Gly Phe Leu Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe
                          740                 745                 750
              Pro Gly Gly Thr Leu Leu Ser Leu Asp Arg Thr Leu Ser Ala Met Ala
                      755                 760                 765
              Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Ser Val Glu His Val Glu Asn Ile Gly Ile Ser
                  770                 775                 780
              Tyr Tyr His Thr Leu Arg Trp Trp Arg Lys Asn Phe Leu Ala Asn Glu
              785                 790                 795                 800
<removed-apn>
              Ser Lys Val Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Met Arg Thr Trp
                              805                 810                 815
              Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Thr Gly Thr Leu
                          820                 825                 830
              Ile Asp Tyr Gln Val Val Phe Ser Arg Ala Gly Asn Phe Ala Ala Leu
                      835                 840                 845
              Gly Asp Pro Tyr Ile Gly Phe Pro Ser Ala Tyr Ser Tyr Ser Asp Asn
                  850                 855                 860
              <210>   35
              <211>   797
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Medicago truncatula
              <400>   35
              Met Leu Val Val Thr Leu Leu Arg Met Gln Gln Ile Lys Leu Leu Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Lys Gln Val Asn Tyr Pro Asn Ile Met Glu Leu Phe Asp Ser Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Val Asp Lys Lys Leu Ser Tyr Leu Ser Thr Ser Val Ser Leu Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Asn Gly Lys Gly Tyr Glu Trp Gly Thr Gln Asn Gly Leu Ser Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Ala Gln Lys Lys Asn Val Ile Asn Pro Tyr Phe Trp Lys Met Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Lys Glu Val Ser Lys Phe Lys Glu Asp Val Leu Ser Tyr Leu Asp Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Glu Thr Asn Gln Asp Ile Glu His Asn Glu Thr Met Glu His Phe
                          100                 105                 110
              Ile Lys Ser Arg Gly Tyr Ser Glu Leu Phe Gln Lys Ala Tyr Leu Ile
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Cys Cys Ser Ile Trp Pro Trp Pro Cys Ser Ser Pro Glu Gly
                  130                 135                 140
              Val Met Ser Phe Ser Ser Phe Ser Val Leu Thr Phe Leu Ser Asn His
              145                 150                 155                 160
              His Leu Leu Gln Leu Ile Tyr Ser Pro Gln Cys Lys Ile Val Arg Trp
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Ser Gln Asn Phe Ile Lys Lys Val Lys Glu Lys Leu Ala Ser Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Cys Gln Ile Lys Val Asn Cys Glu Val His Leu Val Ser Thr Ser

                                               38/104
<removed-date>
                     195                 200                 205
              Asp Lys Gly Cys Val Val Leu Cys Lys Asp Gly Ser Glu Glu Met Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
              Asp Ser Cys Ile Ile Ala Val His Ala Pro Asp Val Leu Lys Ile Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gly Asp Glu Ala Thr Ser Asp Glu Cys Arg Ile Leu Gly Ala Phe Gln
                              245                 250                 255
              Tyr Val Tyr Cys Asp Thr Phe Leu Leu Asn Asp Ser Val Cys Val Thr
                          260                 265                 270
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Trp Ile Asp Ile Leu Gln Asn Val Glu Glu Thr Ser Gly Pro Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Phe Ile Thr Val Asn Pro Asn Gln Thr Pro Gln Asn Thr Leu Phe Lys
                  290                 295                 300
              Trp Ser Thr Gly His Leu Val Pro Thr Val Ala Ala Ser Lys Ala Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              His Glu Leu Asn His Ile Gln Gly Lys Arg Lys Ile Trp Phe Ser Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Tyr Gln Gly Tyr Ala Tyr His Gly Asp Glu Leu Lys Ala Gly Met
                          340                 345                 350
              Asp Ala Ala Tyr Asp Ile Leu Gly Arg Ile Cys Ser Leu Gln Arg Asn
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Lys Tyr Ile Val Pro Ser Trp Thr Glu Val Gly Ala Arg Leu Phe
                  370                 375                 380
              Val Thr Arg Phe Leu Ser Ala Tyr Ile Thr Thr Gly Cys Leu Met Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Glu Asp Gly Gly Thr Ile Phe Thr Phe Glu Gly Ser Lys Lys Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Cys Ser Leu Lys Ser Val Leu Arg Ile His Asn Pro Gln Phe Tyr Trp
                          420                 425                 430
              Lys Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Arg Asp Phe Asn Leu Ser Asn Ser Thr Leu
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys Asn Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro Val Phe Phe Thr Ala Gly Leu Ala
                  450                 455                 460
              Ser Ala Lys Phe Phe Ile Lys His Val Ser Arg Lys Asn Thr Val Thr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Gln Ala Arg Arg Asn Ile Ser Met His Tyr Asp Leu Ser Asn Asp Leu
                              485                 490                 495
              Phe Ala Cys Phe Leu Asp Glu Lys Met Gln Tyr Ser Cys Gly Val Phe
                          500                 505                 510
              Lys Asp Glu Tyr Glu Asp Leu Lys Asp Ala Gln Lys Arg Lys Ile Ser
                      515                 520                 525
              Ile Leu Ile Glu Lys Ala Gln Ile Asp Arg Lys His Glu Ile Leu Asp
                  530                 535                 540
              Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Gly Phe Ala Ile Glu Val Val Lys Lys Val
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Glu Glu Gln Leu Lys Tyr

                                               39/104
<removed-date>
                                 565              570                 575
              Ala Glu Asn Lys Val Lys Asp Ala Gly Leu Gln Glu His Ile Thr Phe
                          580                 585                 590
              Leu Leu Cys Glu Tyr Arg Gln Leu Ser Lys Thr Lys Lys Tyr Asp Arg
                      595                 600                 605
              Ile Val Ser Cys Glu Met Ile Glu Ala Val Gly His Glu Tyr Met Glu
                  610                 615                 620
              Glu Phe Phe Gly Cys Cys Asp Ser Val Leu Ala Asp Asp Gly Leu Leu
              625                 630                 635                 640
<removed-apn>
              Val Leu Gln Phe Thr Ser Ile Pro Asp Glu Arg Tyr Asp Ala Tyr Arg
                              645                 650                 655
              Arg Ser Ser Glu Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Cys Cys Ile
                          660                 665                 670
              Pro Ser Leu Ser Arg Val Thr Leu Ala Met Ala Ala Ala Ser Arg Leu
                      675                 680                 685
              Trp Tyr Met Leu Tyr Phe Asn Thr Ala Asn Lys Leu Phe Phe Leu Ser
                  690                 695                 700
              Thr Ile Leu Gln Asn Ile Val Gly Cys Ser Val Glu His Ala Glu Asn
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Ile Gly Ile His Tyr Tyr Pro Thr Leu Arg Trp Trp Arg Lys Asn Phe
                              725                 730                 735
              Met Glu Asn His Ser Lys Ile Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe
                          740                 745                 750
              Ile Arg Ile Trp Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Asp Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys
                      755                 760                 765
              Ser Arg Thr Leu Gly Asn Tyr Gln Met Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly Asn
                  770                 775                 780
              Lys Thr Ala Phe Ser Asn Leu Asp Lys Lys Met Ala Ser
              785                 790                 795
              <210>   36
              <211>   877
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400>   36
              Met Arg Val Ala Val Val Gly Ala Gly Val Ser Gly Leu Ala Ala Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Glu Leu Ala Arg Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg Val Thr Val Tyr Glu Lys
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Asp Tyr Leu Gly Gly His Ala Arg Thr Val Ala Val Glu Asp Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Ala Ala Ser Thr Val Gln Leu Asp Leu Gly Phe Met Val Phe Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Val Thr Tyr Pro Asn Met Leu Glu Trp Phe Glu Gly Leu Gly Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Met Glu Ile Ser Asp Met Ser Phe Ser Val Ser Thr Glu Leu Gly
                              85                  90                  95

                                               40/104
<removed-date>
              Ala Ser Gly Ser Arg Cys Glu Trp Gly Ser Arg Asn Gly Ile Ser Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Leu Ala Gln Lys Ser Asn Ala Leu Ser Pro Ser Phe Trp Arg Met
                      115                 120                 125
              Ile Arg Glu Ile Leu Lys Phe Lys Asn Asp Ala Leu Arg Tyr Leu Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Asp His Glu Asn Asn Pro Asp Met Asp Arg Asn Glu Thr Leu Gly Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Phe Ile Arg Ser His Gly Tyr Ser Gln Phe Phe Gln Glu Ala Tyr Leu
<removed-apn>
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Pro Ile Cys Ala Cys Ile Trp Ser Cys Pro Ser Gln Gly Val Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly Phe Ser Ala Phe Phe Val Leu Ser Phe Cys Arg Asn His His Leu
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Gln Leu Phe Gly Arg Pro Gln Trp Leu Thr Val Lys Gly Arg Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              His Ser Tyr Val His Lys Val Arg Glu Glu Leu Glu Ser Met Gly Cys
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Ile Lys Thr Ser Cys Glu Ile Lys Ser Val Ser Ser Ser Glu Gly
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Phe Arg Val Thr Val Phe Asp Gly Ser Glu Glu Thr Tyr Asp Arg
                          260                 265                 270
              Ile Ile Phe Gly Val His Ala Pro Asp Ala Leu Lys Ile Leu Gly Ala
                      275                 280                 285
              Glu Ala Thr His Glu Glu Leu Arg Ile Leu Gly Ala Phe Gln Tyr Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Tyr Ser Asp Ile Tyr Leu His Ser Asp Lys Ser Leu Met Pro Arg Ser
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Ser Ala Trp Ser Ser Trp Asn Phe Leu Gly Thr Thr Ser Lys Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Cys Val Thr Tyr Trp Leu Asn Leu Leu Gln Asn Ile Glu Ser Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Arg Pro Phe Leu Val Thr Leu Asn Pro Pro His Val Pro Asp His
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Phe Leu Lys Trp Tyr Thr Ser His Pro Val Pro Ser Val Ala Ala
                  370                 375                 380
              Ala Lys Ala Ser Leu Glu Leu His His Ile Gln Gly Asn Arg Gly Ile
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Trp Phe Cys Gly Ala Tyr Gln Gly Tyr Gly Phe His Glu Asp Gly Leu
                              405                 410                 415
              Lys Ala Gly Lys Ala Ala Ala Gln Asp Leu Leu Gly Lys Glu Ser Asp
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu Leu Val Asn Pro Lys Gln Met Ile Pro Ser Trp Ser Glu Ala Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Ala Arg Leu Leu Val Thr Arg Phe Leu Gly Gln Tyr Val Ser Val Gly
                  450                 455                 460

                                               41/104
<removed-date>
              Asn Leu Val Leu Leu Glu Glu Gly Gly Thr Met Phe Ser Phe Gly Glu
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Val Gly Lys Lys Cys His Val Lys Ser Val Leu Arg Val His Asp Pro
                              485                 490                 495
              Met Phe Tyr Trp Lys Val Ala Thr Glu Ala Asp Leu Gly Leu Ala Asp
                          500                 505                 510
              Ala Tyr Ile Asn Gly Tyr Phe Ser Phe Val Asp Lys Arg Glu Gly Leu
                      515                 520                 525
              Leu Asn Leu Phe Leu Ile Leu Ile Ala Asn Arg Asp Ala Asn Lys Ser
<removed-apn>
                  530                 535                 540
              Ser Ser Ser Ala Ala Gly Lys Arg Gly Trp Trp Thr Pro Leu Leu Leu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Thr Ala Gly Val Ala Ser Ala Lys Tyr Phe Leu Arg His Ile Ala Arg
                              565                 570                 575
              Arg Asn Ser Val Ser Gln Thr Arg Gln Asn Ile Ser Gln His Tyr Asp
                          580                 585                 590
              Leu Ser Asn Glu Phe Phe Ser Leu Phe Leu Asp Pro Ser Met Thr Tyr
                      595                 600                 605
              Ser Cys Ala Ile Phe Lys Thr Glu Asp Gln Ser Leu Glu Ala Ala Gln
                  610                 615                 620
              Leu Gln Lys Val Cys Leu Leu Ile Asp Lys Ala Lys Val Glu Arg Asp
              625                 630                 635                 640
              His His Val Leu Glu Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Ser Leu Ala Ile Gln
                              645                 650                 655
              Leu Val Lys Gln Thr Gly Cys Lys Tyr Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Ser Val
                          660                 665                 670
              Glu Gln Leu Lys Tyr Ala Gln Arg Lys Val Lys Glu Ala Gly Leu Glu
                      675                 680                 685
              Asp His Ile Ser Phe Met Leu Cys Asp Tyr Arg Gln Ile Pro Thr Gln
                  690                 695                 700
              Arg Lys Tyr Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Cys Glu Met Ile Glu Gly Val Gly
              705                 710                 715                 720
              His Glu Tyr Met Asp Asp Phe Phe Gly Cys Cys Glu Ser Leu Leu Ala
                              725                 730                 735
              Gln Asp Gly Ile Phe Val Leu Gln Phe Ile Ser Ile Pro Glu Glu Arg
                          740                 745                 750
              Tyr Glu Glu Tyr Arg Arg Ser Ser Asp Phe Ile Lys Glu Tyr Ile Phe
                      755                 760                 765
              Pro Gly Gly Cys Leu Pro Ser Leu Ala Arg Ile Thr Ser Ala Met Ser
                  770                 775                 780
              Ala Ala Ser Arg Leu Cys Ile Glu His Leu Glu Asn Ile Gly Tyr His
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Tyr Tyr Pro Thr Leu Ile Gln Trp Arg Asp Asn Phe Met Ala Asn Lys
                              805                 810                 815
              Asp Ala Ile Leu Ala Leu Gly Phe Asp Glu Lys Phe Ile Arg Ile Trp
                          820                 825                 830

                                               42/104
<removed-date>
              Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Ile Tyr Cys Ala Ala Gly Phe Lys Ser Arg Thr Leu
                      835                 840                 845
              Gly Asn Tyr Gln Ile Val Phe Ser Arg Pro Gly Asn Asp Lys Leu Gly
                  850                 855                 860
              Asp Ser Gly Ile His Ser Leu Ser Lys Leu Ser Gly Ser
              865                 870                 875
              <210>   37
              <211>   1407
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
<removed-apn>
              <400> 37
              atggatgctg cacatggtat cttgggaaag cattcttctg ttccgcccag tccaaagaat     60
              atgtcaccct ctttaccaaa gaatatgtca ccctctttca tggaaacaac ggcacgcctc    120
              tttgttacca aattctttca acaatatata tctatgggct gcgtaatttt tttagaggaa    180
              ggaggcagaa ttttcacttt caaaggaaac atggaaaagt gtcctcttaa aacagttctg    240
              aaagtgcata atcctcagtt ttactggagg atcatgaaag aagctgatat aggccttgca    300
              gacgcatata tccatggaga tttttctttt cttgatgaaa atgaaggcct tcttaatctt    360
              ttccggattc ttgttgccaa taaagagaac tcagctgcct cagggtcgac taaaagaagg    420
              acttggtggt cgcctgctct gttaacagct agtatatcat ctgccaagta ttttgtgaag    480
              catctcttaa gacaaaatac tattacacaa gctcgtagga acatttctcg tcattatgat    540
              ctgagtaatg aacttttctc tctatacttg ggcaaaatga tgcaatactc ttctggagtc    600
              tttaggacag gagaagaaca tttggacgtt gcacagcgaa gaaaaatcag ttctctaatt    660
              gagaaaacaa ggatagagaa atggcatgaa gttctagaca ttgggtgcgg ttggggaagc    720
              ttagctattg aaactgtgaa aagaacagga tgcaaatata ctggcatcac tctatcagaa    780
              cagcaactga aatatgctca agaaaaagtg aaggaagctg gactcgagga taacatcaaa    840
              atacttctct gtgactatcg ccagttacct aaggaacacc aatttgacag aatcatatct    900
              gtagagatgg tagaacatgt tggtgaagaa tatattgagg aattttacag atgctgtgat    960
              caattactga aagaagatgg acttttcgtt cttcagttca tatctatccc agaggagctt   1020
              tccaaagaaa tccagcaaac agctggtttt cttaaggaat atatattccc tggtggaacc   1080
              ctgctttctt tggataggaa tttatcagcc atggctgctg caacaagatt cagtgtggag   1140
              catgtggaaa acataggaat gagttattac cacacactga gatggtggag aaaacttttc   1200
              ctgaaaaaca caagcaaagt tctggctttg gggttcgacg agaagttcat gcggacatgg   1260
              gaatactatt tcgattactg tgctgctggt tttaagacag gaacccttat agattaccag   1320
              gttgtatttt ctcgagccgg taatttcggt acacttggag atccatacaa aggtttccct   1380
              tctgcatatt ccttcatgga tgattga                                       1407
              <210>   38
              <211>   1383
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400>   38

                                               43/104
<removed-date>
              atggatgctg cacatggtat cttgggaaag cattcttctg ttctgcatag tccaaagagt     60
              atgtcaccct ctttcatgga aacaacggca cgcctctttg ttactaaatt ctttcaacaa    120
              tatatatcta tgggctgtgt aattttctta gaggaaggag gcagaatttt cactttcaaa    180
              ggaaacatgg aaaagtgtcc tcttaaaaca gttctgaaag tacataatcc tcagttttac    240
              tggaggatca tgaaagaagc tgatataggc cttgcagatg catatatcca tggagatttt    300
              tcttttcttg atgaaactga aggccttctt aatcttttcc ggattcttgt tgccaataaa    360
              gagaactcag ctgcctcagg gtcgaataaa agaaggactt ggtggtcacc tgctctgtta    420
<removed-apn>
              acagctagta tatcatctgc aaagtatttt gtgaagcatc tcttgagaca aaatactatt    480
              acacaagctc gtaggaacat ttctcgtcat tatgatctga gtaatgaact tttcactcta    540
              tacttgggca aaatgatgca atactcttct ggagtcttta ggacgggaga agaacatttg    600
              gacgttgcac agcgtagaaa aatcagttct ctaattgaga aagcaaggat agagaaacgg    660
              cacgaagttc tcgacattgg gtgcggttgg ggaagcttag ctattgaaac tgtgaaaaga    720
              acaggatgca aatatactgg catcactcta tcagaacagc aactgaaata tgctcaagaa    780
              aaagtgaagg aagctggact ccaggataac atcaaaatac ttctctgtga ctatcgccag    840
              ttacctaagg aacaccaatt tgacagaatc atatctgtag agatggtaga acatgttggt    900
              gaagaatata ttgaggagtt ttacagatgc tgtgaccaat tactgaaaga agatgggctt    960
              tttgttcttc agttcatatc tatcccagaa gagctttcca aagaaatcca gcaaacagca   1020
              ggttttctaa aggaatatat attccctgga ggaaccctgc tttctttgga taggaattta   1080
              tcagccatgg ctgctgcaac aagattcagt gtggagcatg tggaaaatat aggaatgagt   1140
              tattaccaca cactgagatg gtggagaaaa cttttcctgg aaaacacaag caaagttcta   1200
              gctctggggt tcgacgagaa gttcatgagg acatgggaat actatttcga ttactgcgct   1260
              gccggtttta agacaggaac tcttatagat taccaggttg tattttcaag ggccggaaat   1320
              ttcggtacac tcggagatcc atacaaaggt ttcccttctg catattcctt catggatgat   1380
              tga                                                                 1383
              <210>   39
              <211>   1371
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 39
              atgattgctg caaacggtct gctgggaaaa agttgtaata ttctgagcaa tccaaagcat     60
              atggtgccct ctctgatgga aacaggggca cgtctttttg ttactagatt cctcagtcat    120
              tttatatcaa ccggctgtgt gattttattg gaagaaggtg gcactatgtt tacctttgaa    180
              ggaactagca ataagtgttc tctaaaaact gtaattaaag ttcacagtcc acatttttat    240
              tggaaggtta tgacagaggc agatttaggc cttgcagatt catatatcaa tggggatttt    300
              tcttttgttg ataaaaaaga cggtctgctg aaccttgtaa tgattcttat tgccaacaga    360
              gatttgattt cttccaactc aaaacttagt aagaaaaggg gttggtggac accattgttg    420
              tttacagctg gtctaacatc agcaaagtat ttcttcaagc atgtcttaag acaaaatact    480

                                               44/104
<removed-date>
              cttacacaag ctcgtaggaa catttctcgc cattacgacy tgagtaatga cctttttgca    540
              ctcttcttgg atgagacaat gacatactct tgtgcagtat ttaagacaga agatgaggat    600
              ttgaaagatg cacaacacag aaagatctct cttttgattg aaaaagcaag aattgatagc    660
              aagcatgaaa ttcttgagat tggatgtggt tgggkaagct tagctattga ggttgtcaaa    720
              cgaactggat gcaaatatac cggcattact ttatccgaag agcaactcaa acttgcagaa    780
              aaaagagtga aggaagctgg acttcaggaa aatataagat ttcaactctg tgactatcga    840
<removed-apn>
              caactaccta gcacctacaa gtatgacaga attatatcgt gtgagatgat agaagctgtt    900
              ggccatgaat acatggagga cttcttcggt tgctgtgaat cagtgttagc agatgatgga    960
              cttcttgttt tacagttcat atcaatacca gaggaacggt acaatgaata caggcgaagc   1020
              tcggatttca tcaaggaata catcttccct ggtggatgct taccttctct ggctaggata   1080
              acaacagcca tgaatgctgc gtccaaactc tgtgtggagc atgtggaaaa catcggactt   1140
              cattactacc aaacgcttag atattggaga aagaatttct tggagaaaca gagcaaaatc   1200
              catgccttgg gattcaatga caagttcatc cggacatggg aatactattt tgattattgt   1260
              gctgctggtt tcaagtccaa tactcttggt aattaccagg ttgtattttc tcggcctgga   1320
              aatgtagttg cacttggcaa cccatacaaa gacttcccct cagcttctta a            1371
              <210>   40
              <211>   1344
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 40
              atggcagcag ctcaaagttt gcttgggaac aagattgatc ccctgacgaa cccaaagcag     60
              atggtcctgt catggacaga gactggggca cgtcttctgg tgttaagatt tctcaaacag    120
              tacatctctg ttggcaactt gatcttgttt gaagaaggtg gcactatgtt cagttttggt    180
              gaagcttgtg aaaaatgcaa taaaaaatct gttctgcaag ttcaggaccc actattttat    240
              tggcaggttg caacagaagc agaccttggt ttagcagatg cctacataaa tggctgcttc    300
              tcttttgtca ataagagaga aggccttctg aatcttttcc ttatcctcat tgccagtaga    360
              gatgcacaca ggagttcttg caggaattct agtcgaaggg gttggtggac acccttgctt    420
              tttactgccg gcgttgcatc tgctaaatat tttctgcgtc acatctcaag gaagaactct    480
              gtaacacaaa ctcgtcaaaa tgtctctcag cactatgatt tgagtaatga tttcttctcg    540
              ctttttctgg ataagtcaat gacctactca tctgccattt tcaaggatga ggaagaaagc    600
              ttagaagagg ctcagctgcg taaaataaac cttctaatcc ataaggctaa agtgggacag    660
              gatgatgaag ttcttgagat tggtagtggt tggggcagtt tggctatgga agtggtgaag    720
              caaactggct gcaaatatac aggagttaca cagtctgtgg agcaacttaa atatgcccaa    780
              agaagggtga aagaagctgg cttagaggac cgaataactt ttctgctgtg tgactaccgt    840
              gaaataccat gtcacaaata tgacaggatc atatgctgtg agatgattga agaagttggt    900
              catgaataca tggatgaatt ctttggctgc tgtgagtccc ttttggctga aaatggcata    960

                                               45/104
<removed-date>
              tttgtcaccc agtttatctc aattccggag gaacggtatg atgagtaccg gagaagctca   1020
              gactttatta aagaatacat attccctggt ggatgccttc cttctctgac tcggataaca   1080
              tctgccatgt ctgctgcatc aaggctctgc attgagcacg ttgagaatat tgggtaccat   1140
              tattatacaa ctctgatacg ctggagggac aacttcatgg ccaataaaga taaaattttg   1200
              gccctgggct ttgatgagaa gttcattcgt acatgggagt actatttcat atactgcgca   1260
              gccggtttta aatccaggac acttggagac taccagattg tattctctcg tcctgggaac   1320
              accaagatgg gatctggctt ctaa                                          1344
<removed-apn>
              <210>   41
              <211>   1371
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 41
              atggcggctg cacgaggttt gttagggaaa gaaacagctc ttctgaacaa tccgcgacat     60
              atggtccctt ccttgacaga aacaggagct cggcttttcg ttactagatt cttgggacaa    120
              tttatatcaa ccggttctgt aacaatacta gaagaaggag gaacaatgtt cacattcgga    180
              gggaaggatt ctacttgtcc tctgaaatct atcctcaaga ttcacagtcc tcaattttac    240
              tggaaggtta tgacacaagc ggatttagga cttgcagatg cttatatcaa tggagatttt    300
              tctttcgttg ataaagaatc aggactttta aatctgatta tgattctcat tgctaacaga    360
              gatacaaaat caaatcttac taagaaaagg ggatggtgga caccgatgtt tttaactgcg    420
              ggtttagcat ctgcaaagta ttttctaaag catgtctcta ggcagaacac tctaacacaa    480
              gctcgtagaa acatttctcg tcactatgac cttagcaacg agcttttcgg tttgttcttg    540
              gatgatacca tgacttactc ctcggcagta ttcaagtcgg atgatgagga tctgagaact    600
              gcacagatga gaaaaatatc tcttctgatt gataaggcga gaatagagaa ggaccatgag    660
              gttttagaga taggatgtgg atggggaact ttggccatag aagttgtgag aagaactgga    720
              tgcaaataca ccggcattac gctatctatt gagcagctta aatatgctga agaaaaagtg    780
              aaagaagctg gacttcagga ccggattact tttgagctcc gcgattatcg ccaactatct    840
              gatgctcaca aatatgacag aattatatct tgcgagatgc tagaagcggt cggacatgag    900
              tttatggaga tgtttttcag tcgatgtgaa gccgcacttg ctgaagacgg cctaatggtc    960
              ttgcagttca tatcgacacc cgaagagcgt tacaatgagt acagactaag ttcagatttc   1020
              attaaagaat acatattccc tggtgcatgc gttccttctt tagccaaagt cacttcagcc   1080
              atgtcctctt cttctaggct atgcattgaa catgttgaga acattgggat tcattactac   1140
              caaacattga gattgtggag gaagaacttc ttggagagac agaaacaaat catggctctt   1200
              ggatttgatg ataaattcgt aaggacatgg gaatattatt ttgattattg cgcagctgga   1260
              ttcaagactc gtactcttgg agactaccag ttggtgttct cgcgtccagg gaacgtagct   1320
              gcatttgcgg attcataccg aggatttcct tctgcttatt gtgtctcttg a            1371
              <210>   42
              <211>   1383
              <212>   DNA

                                               46/104
<removed-date>
              <213>   Sterculia foetida
              <400> 42
              atggatgctg cacatcgtat cttgggaaag catttttctg ttctgcacag tccaaggcaa     60
              atgtcaccct ctttcatgga aacaacggca cgtcttcttg ttactaaatt ctttcaccaa    120
              tatatacaag tgggctgcgt aataatcata gaggaaggtg gcagagttta cactttcaaa    180
              ggaagcatgg aaaattgttc tcttaaaaca gctctgaaag tgcataatcc tcagttttac    240
              tggaggatta tgaaagaagc tgatataggc cttgctgatg catatatcca aggagatttt    300
<removed-apn>
              tcttttgttg acaaggatga tggtcttctt aatcttttcc ggatacttat tgccaataaa    360
              gagttgaact ctgcctcagg acagaacaaa agaaggactt ggctgtcacc tgcactgttc    420
              acagctggta tatcatctgc aaagtatttc ttgaagcatt acatgaggca aaatactgtt    480
              acacaggctc gcaggaacat ttctcgtcat tatgacctga gtaatgaact tttcactcta    540
              tacttaggtg aaatgatgca atactcttct ggaattttta agacgggaga agaacatttg    600
              gacgttgcac agcgcagaaa aatcagttcc ttaattgata aatcaagaat agagaagtgg    660
              catgaagttc ttgacattgg atgtggttgg ggaagcttag ctatggaagt tgtcaaaaga    720
              acaggatgta aatacactgg catcacactt tcagagcagc aactgaaata tgcagaagaa    780
              aaagtgaagg aagctggact tcagggaaac atcaaatttc ttctctgtga ctatcgccag    840
              ttacccaaga cattcaaata tgacagaatc atatctgttg agatggttga acatgttggt    900
              gaagaatata ttgaggagtt tttcagatgc tgtgactcat tattggcaga gaatgggctt    960
              ttcgttcttc agttcatatc aattccagag atactttcca aagaaatcca gcaaacagct   1020
              ggttttctaa aggaatatat cttccctggt ggaaccctgc tttctctgga taggactttg   1080
              tcagccatgg ctgctgcatc aagatttagt gtggagcatg tggaaaatat aggaattagt   1140
              tattatcaca cactgagatg gtggaggaaa aatttcttgg caaatgaaag caaagttctg   1200
              gctttggggt tcgatgagaa gttcatgcgg acatgggagt attattttga ttactgcgca   1260
              gctggtttta agacagggac acttatagat taccaggttg tattctcacg ggctggcaat   1320
              ttcgctgcac ttggcgatcc atacataggt ttcccttcag catattccta ctcggataat   1380
              tga                                                                 1383
              <210>   43
              <211>   1377
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 43
              atggctgcag ctcaagattt gcttggtaag gagagtgacc ttttggtgaa cccaaaacag     60
              atgatcccat cgtggtctga ggctggggcg cgtcttctgg taacaagatt tcttggtcaa    120
              tatgtgtctg tcggcaactt ggtcttgctt gaagaaggag gcactatgtt cagttttggt    180
              gaagtaggca aaaaatgcca tgtgaaatct gtcctgcgag tacatgaccc catgttttac    240
              tggaaggttg caactgaagc agaccttggc ttggcagatg cctacattaa cggttatttc    300
              tcatttgtag acaagagaga aggtcttcta aatcttttcc tgattctcat tgcgaacagg    360

                                               47/104
<removed-date>
              gacgcaaaca agagtagtag cagcgctgct ggtaaaaggg gttggtggac acccctgcta    420
              ttgacagctg gggttgcctc cgctaaatac ttcctgcgtc acatagcaag gaggaattct    480
              gtctcacaaa cacgtcaaaa catctctcaa cactatgatc tgagtaatga attcttctct    540
              cttttcctgg atccatcgat gacttactct tgtgccatct tcaagacgga ggatcaaagc    600
              ttagaggcag cccagctaca gaaagtttgc ctcctaatcg ataaggctaa agtggagcga    660
              gatcaccatg ttcttgagat tggctgtggt tggggcagct tagcaatcca attggtgaag    720
              caaactggtt gcaaatacac tgggatcaca ttatcagtgg agcaattgaa atatgcacag    780
<removed-apn>
              agaaaggtga aagaagctgg attagaggac cacataagct tcatgttgtg tgattaccgt    840
              caaataccaa ctcagcgcaa atacgacagg atcatctctt gcgagatgat cgaaggtgtt    900
              gggcacgaat acatggacga tttcttcggc tgctgcgagt cccttttggc tcaagacggc    960
              atatttgtcc tgcagttcat ctcaatccca gaagaacggt atgaggaata caggcgcagc   1020
              tcagacttca tcaaggaata catcttccct gggggttgcc tgccttcgtt agcccggatc   1080
              acgtctgcca tgtctgcagc atcaaggctc tgcatcgagc accttgagaa tattgggtac   1140
              cattactacc caacgctgat acagtggagg gacaacttca tggccaataa ggatgcaatt   1200
              ttggccctgg gcttcgatga gaaattcatc cgtatatggg aatactactt catatactgc   1260
              gccgctggtt tcaagtcacg gacacttggg aactaccaga ttgtgttttc tcgccctggc   1320
              aacgacaaat taggtgacag cggtatacac tccttaagca agctttctgg cagctaa      1377
              <210>   44
              <211>   2622
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 44
              atggaagtgg ccgtgatcgg aggtgggata aaagggttgc tttcggccta cgtactggtc     60
              aaagccggcg tggacgtggt ggtttacgag aaagaagaac aattaggcgg ccatgcaaag    120
              actgttaact tcgacgccgt tgatttagac cttggcttct tgtttctcaa tccagcaaga    180
              tatgcaacac tattgcatat gttcgacagc cttggtgttg atgtagaaac atccgatgtt    240
              tcattctcta taagccatga caaaggcaac aatggctatg aatggtgcag ccaatatgga    300
              ttttccaatt actttgctca aaagaagaaa ctgttgaacc ctttcaattg gcaaagcctc    360
              agagagatca tcaaattcgg caatgatgtc gaaagttacc ttggatcact tgagaacaac    420
              ccagacattg atcgtactga gaccttggga cagtttataa actcaaaggg ctactctgaa    480
              aattttcaaa acacttatct ggctcctata tgtggttcaa tgtggtcaag ctccaaggaa    540
              gatgttacga gcttttcagc tttttccatc ctttcatttt gccgtactca tcatttgtac    600
              cagctatttg ggcagtcaca gtggttgact atcaaagggc actcacattt tgttaaaagg    660
              gttagggaag tgctggagac taaaggttgt caatttaaac tcggttgtga agtacaatct    720
              gttttgcccg ttgataatgg taccgccatg gtctgtggag atggtttcca agaaacttac    780
              aatggatgca taatggctgt tgatgctccc actgccctaa aattattagg aaaccaagca    840
              acatttgaag aaacaagagt actgggtgct ttccaatatg ctaccagtga tattttcctt    900

                                               48/104
<removed-date>
              caccaggaca gtactttaat gccacaaaac aaatcagctt ggagtgcatt gaattttctc    960
              aatagtagca aaaataatgc attcttaaca tactggctca atgcactaca gaatattggg   1020
              aaaacaagtg agccattttt tgtgactgtc aatccagacc ataccccgaa gaatacctta   1080
              cttaagtggt caaccggcca tgcaattccc tctgttgctg catcaaaagc ttcacttgag   1140
              cttggtcaga ttcagggaaa gagaggaatc tggttctgtg gctatgactt caatcaggat   1200
              gaactaaagg ctggtatgga tgctgcacat ggtatcttgg gaaagcattc ttctgttccg   1260
<removed-apn>
              cccagtccaa agaatatgtc accctcttta ccaaagaata tgtcaccctc tttcatggaa   1320
              acaacggcac gcctctttgt taccaaattc tttcaacaat atatatctat gggctgcgta   1380
              atttttttag aggaaggagg cagaattttc actttcaaag gaaacatgga aaagtgtcct   1440
              cttaaaacag ttctgaaagt gcataatcct cagttttact ggaggatcat gaaagaagct   1500
              gatataggcc ttgcagacgc atatatccat ggagattttt cttttcttga tgaaaatgaa   1560
              ggccttctta atcttttccg gattcttgtt gccaataaag agaactcagc tgcctcaggg   1620
              tcgactaaaa gaaggacttg gtggtcgcct gctctgttaa cagctagtat atcatctgcc   1680
              aagtattttg tgaagcatct cttaagacaa aatactatta cacaagctcg taggaacatt   1740
              tctcgtcatt atgatctgag taatgaactt ttctctctat acttgggcaa aatgatgcaa   1800
              tactcttctg gagtctttag gacaggagaa gaacatttgg acgttgcaca gcgaagaaaa   1860
              atcagttctc taattgagaa aacaaggata gagaaatggc atgaagttct agacattggg   1920
              tgcggttggg gaagcttagc tattgaaact gtgaaaagaa caggatgcaa atatactggc   1980
              atcactctat cagaacagca actgaaatat gctcaagaaa aagtgaagga agctggactc   2040
              gaggataaca tcaaaatact tctctgtgac tatcgccagt tacctaagga acaccaattt   2100
              gacagaatca tatctgtaga gatggtagaa catgttggtg aagaatatat tgaggaattt   2160
              tacagatgct gtgatcaatt actgaaagaa gatggacttt tcgttcttca gttcatatct   2220
              atcccagagg agctttccaa agaaatccag caaacagctg gttttcttaa ggaatatata   2280
              ttccctggtg gaaccctgct ttctttggat aggaatttat cagccatggc tgctgcaaca   2340
              agattcagtg tggagcatgt ggaaaacata ggaatgagtt attaccacac actgagatgg   2400
              tggagaaaac ttttcctgaa aaacacaagc aaagttctgg ctttggggtt cgacgagaag   2460
              ttcatgcgga catgggaata ctatttcgat tactgtgctg ctggttttaa gacaggaacc   2520
              cttatagatt accaggttgt attttctcga gccggtaatt tcggtacact tggagatcca   2580
              tacaaaggtt tcccttctgc atattccttc atggatgatt ga                      2622
              <210>   45
              <211>   2598
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 45
              atggaagtgg cggtgatcgg aggtgggata aaagggttgg tttcggccta cgtactggtc     60
              aaagccggcg tggacgtggt ggtttacgag aaagaagagc aattaggcgg ccatgcgaag    120

                                               49/104
<removed-date>
              actgttaact tcgacgccgt tgacttagac cttggcttct tgtttcttaa tcctgcaaga    180
              tatgcaacac tgttggatat aatcgacagc cttggtgttg atgtagaaac atccgatgtt    240
              tcattctcta taagccatga caaaggcaac aatggctatg aatggtgcag tcaatatgga    300
              ttttccaatt actttgcaca aaagaagaaa ctgttgaacc ctttcaattg gcaaaacctt    360
              agagagatca tcagattcag caacgatgtc gaaagttacc ttggatcact tgagaacaac    420
              ccagacattg atcgtactga gaccttggga cagtttataa aatcaaaggg ctactctgaa    480
              aattttcaaa acacttacct ggctcctata tgtggttcaa tgtggtcaag ctccaaggaa    540
<removed-apn>
              gatgttatga gcttttcagc attttccatc ctttcatttt gccgtactca tcatttgtac    600
              cagcaatttg ggcagccaca gtggttgact atcaaagggc actcacattt tgttaaaagg    660
              gttagggaag tgctggagac taaaggttgt caatttaaac tcggttgtga agtacaatct    720
              gttttgcctg ctgataatgg taccaccatg gtctgtggag atggtttcca agaaacttac    780
              aatggatgca taatggctgt tgatgctccc actgccctaa aattattagg aaaccaagca    840
              acatttgaag aaacaagagt actgggtgct ttccaatatg ctaccagtga tattttcctt    900
              caccgggaca gtactttaat gccacaaaac aaatcagctt ggagtgcatt gaattttctc    960
              aatagtagca aaaataatgc attcttaaca tactggctca atgcactaca gaatattggg   1020
              aaaacaagtg agccattttt tgtgactgtc aatccagacc ataccccgaa gaataccttg   1080
              cttaagtggt cgactggcca tgcaattccc tctgttgctg catcaaaagc ttcacttgag   1140
              cttggtcaga ttcaggggaa gagaggaatc tggttctgtg gctatgactt caatcaggat   1200
              gaactaaagg ctggtatgga tgctgcacat ggtatcttgg gaaagcattc ttctgttctg   1260
              catagtccaa agagtatgtc accctctttc atggaaacaa cggcacgcct ctttgttact   1320
              aaattctttc aacaatatat atctatgggc tgtgtaattt tcttagagga aggaggcaga   1380
              attttcactt tcaaaggaaa catggaaaag tgtcctctta aaacagttct gaaagtacat   1440
              aatcctcagt tttactggag gatcatgaaa gaagctgata taggccttgc agatgcatat   1500
              atccatggag atttttcttt tcttgatgaa actgaaggcc ttcttaatct tttccggatt   1560
              cttgttgcca ataaagagaa ctcagctgcc tcagggtcga ataaaagaag gacttggtgg   1620
              tcacctgctc tgttaacagc tagtatatca tctgcaaagt attttgtgaa gcatctcttg   1680
              agacaaaata ctattacaca agctcgtagg aacatttctc gtcattatga tctgagtaat   1740
              gaacttttca ctctatactt gggcaaaatg atgcaatact cttctggagt ctttaggacg   1800
              ggagaagaac atttggacgt tgcacagcgt agaaaaatca gttctctaat tgagaaagca   1860
              aggatagaga aacggcacga agttctcgac attgggtgcg gttggggaag cttagctatt   1920
              gaaactgtga aaagaacagg atgcaaatat actggcatca ctctatcaga acagcaactg   1980
              aaatatgctc aagaaaaagt gaaggaagct ggactccagg ataacatcaa aatacttctc   2040
              tgtgactatc gccagttacc taaggaacac caatttgaca gaatcatatc tgtagagatg   2100
              gtagaacatg ttggtgaaga atatattgag gagttttaca gatgctgtga ccaattactg   2160
              aaagaagatg ggctttttgt tcttcagttc atatctatcc cagaagagct ttccaaagaa   2220

                                               50/104
<removed-date>
              atccagcaaa cagcaggttt tctaaaggaa tatatattcc ctggaggaac cctgctttct   2280
              ttggatagga atttatcagc catggctgct gcaacaagat tcagtgtgga gcatgtggaa   2340
              aatataggaa tgagttatta ccacacactg agatggtgga gaaaactttt cctggaaaac   2400
              acaagcaaag ttctagctct ggggttcgac gagaagttca tgaggacatg ggaatactat   2460
              ttcgattact gcgctgccgg ttttaagaca ggaactctta tagattacca ggttgtattt   2520
              tcaagggccg gaaatttcgg tacactcgga gatccataca aaggtttccc ttctgcatat   2580
<removed-apn>
              tccttcatgg atgattga                                                 2598
              <210>   46
              <211>   2598
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Gossypium hirsutum
              <400> 46
              atgaaaatag cagtgatagg aggagggata agtggggtgg tatcagccta tactttagcc     60
              aaagccggtg caaatgtagt gctttacgag aaagaagagt atttgggagg ccattccaag    120
              accgttcact tcgatggtgt tgatttagac cttggtttca tggtttttaa tcgcgttaca    180
              tatccaaata tgatggagtt gtttgagagc cttgggattg atatggaacc atttgatatg    240
              tcactctcag tgagccttaa tgaaggcaaa ggctgtgaat ggggcagccg taatggcctt    300
              tcggccttgt ttgcccaaaa atccaacctc ttcaatcctt acttttggca aatgcttaga    360
              gaaattctca aattcaagaa tgatgttatt agttatcttg aattgctcga aaacaacccg    420
              gatattgacc gtaatgaaac attgggacag ttcataaaat caaagggtta ctctgattta    480
              tttcagaagg cttatctggt gcctgtatgt ggttcaatat ggtcatgccc tacagaaaga    540
              gttatggatt tttcagcttt ctctattctt tcattttgcc gcaatcatca tctacttcag    600
              atctttggac gaccacagtg gatgaccgtt cgatggcgtt cacatcgtta cgtcaataag    660
              gttagagaag agctggagag tacaggttgt caaataagaa ctggttgcga ggtgcattct    720
              gttttgagtg atgctgaagg ttgcactgta ttatgtggag atgactctca cgagttatat    780
              caagggtgca taatggctgt tcatgcacca tatgctttga gattgttagg gaatcaagca    840
              acatatgatg aatcaacagt gcttggcgct ttccaatatg tctatagtga tatttatctt    900
              catcgtgaca aaaatttaat gcccaaaaac ccagcagcat ggagtgcatg gaattttctt    960
              ggaagtacag acaagaatgt atctttgaca tactggctta atgtgcttca gaatctagga   1020
              gaaacaagcc tacccttttt ggtcactctc aatccagatt atacaccaaa acacaccttg   1080
              cttaagtgga gaacaggcca tccagtacca tctgttgctg caacaaaagc ttctcttgag   1140
              cttgatcgga ttcaagggaa gagaggaatt tggttttgtg gagcatacct gggctatggc   1200
              ttccatgaag atggattaaa ggctgggatg attgctgcaa acggtctgct gggaaaaagt   1260
              tgtaatattc tgagcaatcc aaagcatatg gtgccctctc tgatggaaac aggggcacgt   1320
              ctttttgtta ctagattcct cagtcatttt atatcaaccg gctgtgtgat tttattggaa   1380
              gaaggtggca ctatgtttac ctttgaagga actagcaata agtgttctct aaaaactgta   1440

                                               51/104
<removed-date>
              attaaagttc acagtccaca tttttattgg aaggttatga cagaggcaga tttaggcctt   1500
              gcagattcat atatcaatgg ggatttttct tttgttgata aaaaagacgg tctgctgaac   1560
              cttgtaatga ttcttattgc caacagagat ttgatttctt ccaactcaaa acttagtaag   1620
              aaaaggggtt ggtggacacc attgttgttt acagctggtc taacatcagc aaagtatttc   1680
              ttcaagcatg tcttaagaca aaatactctt acacaagctc gtaggaacat ttctcgccat   1740
              tacgacytga gtaatgacct ttttgcactc ttcttggatg agacaatgac atactcttgt   1800
              gcagtattta agacagaaga tgaggatttg aaagatgcac aacacagaaa gatctctctt   1860
<removed-apn>
              ttgattgaaa aagcaagaat tgatagcaag catgaaattc ttgagattgg atgtggttgg   1920
              gkaagcttag ctattgaggt tgtcaaacga actggatgca aatataccgg cattacttta   1980
              tccgaagagc aactcaaact tgcagaaaaa agagtgaagg aagctggact tcaggaaaat   2040
              ataagatttc aactctgtga ctatcgacaa ctacctagca cctacaagta tgacagaatt   2100
              atatcgtgtg agatgataga agctgttggc catgaataca tggaggactt cttcggttgc   2160
              tgtgaatcag tgttagcaga tgatggactt cttgttttac agttcatatc aataccagag   2220
              gaacggtaca atgaatacag gcgaagctcg gatttcatca aggaatacat cttccctggt   2280
              ggatgcttac cttctctggc taggataaca acagccatga atgctgcgtc caaactctgt   2340
              gtggagcatg tggaaaacat cggacttcat tactaccaaa cgcttagata ttggagaaag   2400
              aatttcttgg agaaacagag caaaatccat gccttgggat tcaatgacaa gttcatccgg   2460
              acatgggaat actattttga ttattgtgct gctggtttca agtccaatac tcttggtaat   2520
              taccaggttg tattttctcg gcctggaaat gtagttgcac ttggcaaccc atacaaagac   2580
              ttcccctcag cttcttaa                                                 2598
              <210>   47
              <211>   2514
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Oryza sativa
              <400> 47
              atggggccgg cggcgccttc tgcaggtgca tcgggtgaaa ggggagcgac gctgcgccgc     60
              ggcggcggat ccccagttgc cgtccggcga gcgttgacgg cgccgcccag ctgcgtaaca    120
              tccccaaaca tgatgcaatg gtttgcagat cttggggcca atatggagag atcagacatg    180
              tccttctctg taagaacaca attggatgct tgtggtgaat gtgaatgggc cagcagcaat    240
              ggcatctcag gcctcttggc aaagaggagt aatgcgctca gccccagctt ttggcgcatg    300
              atcagtgaga cactcaagtt caagagggat gctctcaggt acttggagga ttgtgaaaac    360
              aaccttgatc tggaacagag cgagactttg gggcaattcg ttcagtccca tggatattgt    420
              cagttcttcc aagaagctta tctttttcca atctgtggtt ggatgtggtc atgtccatca    480
              caaagagttt tgggcttctc tgcttcctct gtgctgtcgt tttttcgtaa gcataatctc    540
              cttcagttgt ttagtcgcac ccagccgctc attgtcaatg gtcgctctca gtcctatttc    600
              aacaaggtaa gagaagatct ggaaagcagg agctgtcgaa taaaaactaa ctgccatgtg    660
              aaatccattt caagttttga cagaggttac agagtcttag aggttgatgg ttcagaggag    720

                                               52/104
<removed-date>
              atgtatgaca gaatcatagt tggtatccat gcacttgatg ctctaaaatt actaggagca    780
              gaagcaacac atgaagaatc aagaattctt ggtgcttttc agtatgtctc tagtaatcta    840
              tatcttcact gcgatgaaag ttttatgcta tgtaattcat ccacatggag tgcctgcaac    900
              ataaccagaa caagaagcgg ctctgtctgt gtcacatact ggttgaatct gcttcagaac    960
              attgaatcta caaatcattt tctcgtgaca ttgaacccct cttatgttcc tgatcatgtg   1020
              ttgcttaagt ggaatacaaa tcattttgtt ccgactgtgg ctgcttcaaa ggcttctctt   1080
<removed-apn>
              gagcttgatc agatccaggg caagagaggt atatggttct gcggggcata tcaaggatct   1140
              ggcttccatg aagatggatt ccaggctggc aaagcagcag ctcaaagttt gcttgggaac   1200
              aagattgatc ccctgacgaa cccaaagcag atggtcctgt catggacaga gactggggca   1260
              cgtcttctgg tgttaagatt tctcaaacag tacatctctg ttggcaactt gatcttgttt   1320
              gaagaaggtg gcactatgtt cagttttggt gaagcttgtg aaaaatgcaa taaaaaatct   1380
              gttctgcaag ttcaggaccc actattttat tggcaggttg caacagaagc agaccttggt   1440
              ttagcagatg cctacataaa tggctgcttc tcttttgtca ataagagaga aggccttctg   1500
              aatcttttcc ttatcctcat tgccagtaga gatgcacaca ggagttcttg caggaattct   1560
              agtcgaaggg gttggtggac acccttgctt tttactgccg gcgttgcatc tgctaaatat   1620
              tttctgcgtc acatctcaag gaagaactct gtaacacaaa ctcgtcaaaa tgtctctcag   1680
              cactatgatt tgagtaatga tttcttctcg ctttttctgg ataagtcaat gacctactca   1740
              tctgccattt tcaaggatga ggaagaaagc ttagaagagg ctcagctgcg taaaataaac   1800
              cttctaatcc ataaggctaa agtgggacag gatgatgaag ttcttgagat tggtagtggt   1860
              tggggcagtt tggctatgga agtggtgaag caaactggct gcaaatatac aggagttaca   1920
              cagtctgtgg agcaacttaa atatgcccaa agaagggtga aagaagctgg cttagaggac   1980
              cgaataactt ttctgctgtg tgactaccgt gaaataccat gtcacaaata tgacaggatc   2040
              atatgctgtg agatgattga agaagttggt catgaataca tggatgaatt ctttggctgc   2100
              tgtgagtccc ttttggctga aaatggcata tttgtcaccc agtttatctc aattccggag   2160
              gaacggtatg atgagtaccg gagaagctca gactttatta aagaatacat attccctggt   2220
              ggatgccttc cttctctgac tcggataaca tctgccatgt ctgctgcatc aaggctctgc   2280
              attgagcacg ttgagaatat tgggtaccat tattatacaa ctctgatacg ctggagggac   2340
              aacttcatgg ccaataaaga taaaattttg gccctgggct ttgatgagaa gttcattcgt   2400
              acatgggagt actatttcat atactgcgca gccggtttta aatccaggac acttggagac   2460
              taccagattg tattctctcg tcctgggaac accaagatgg gatctggctt ctaa         2514
              <210>   48
              <211>   2604
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Arabidopsis thaliana
              <400> 48
              atgaaagtgg cagttatagg aagtggtata agtggattag gaagtgctta cgtacttgcg     60

                                               53/104
<removed-date>
              aatcaaggag ttaaagaagt tgtgttgtac gagaaagaag agtcattagg aggccatgcc    120
              aagacggtgc gtttcgatgg cgttgacttg gatcttggtt tcatggtctt taatcgtgtt    180
              acatatccaa acatgataga gttcttcgag aaccttggag tagagatgga ggtttcagac    240
              atgtctttcg cagtgagcct tgacaatggc aaaggttgtg aatggggaag ccgcaacggt    300
              gtctcgggct tatttgctca aaagaagaac gttttaaatc cgtatttctg gcaaatgatc    360
              agagaaattg ttagatttaa agaagacgtc ttaaattaca ttgagaagct tgagggtaac    420
              cccgatatcg atcgaaagga aaccttagga gaatttctca atacacgtgg atactctgag    480
<removed-apn>
              ttgtttcagc aagcttactt agtaccgata tgcggttcga tatggtcatg cccatcagat    540
              ggtgtcttaa gcttctctgc ttactctgtt ctttcgtttt gttgcaacca ccaccttctt    600
              cagatctttg ggaggccaca gtggctaact gttgcaggac gttctcagac ttacgtcgca    660
              aaggttaggg cagaattgga gagactagga tgcaagatca gaacaagctg cgacgtaaaa    720
              tctgtttcga catccgaaaa tggttgtgta actgttacaa gtggagatgg gtctgaagaa    780
              gtattcgata ggtgcatatt ggctatgcac gccccagatg ctctgagatt gcttggtgaa    840
              gaagttacat ttgacgaatc tagggttctt ggtgctttcc aatacgttta cagcgatata    900
              tatctccatc atgacattga tttgatgcca cggaacaaag cagcgtggag tgcgtggaat    960
              ttcttgggaa gtacggaaaa gaaagtatgt gtaacatact ggctcaatat acttcagaac   1020
              cttggcgaga acagtgaacc attctttgta acacttaacc cagacgagac cccaaagaaa   1080
              gcattgctca aatggaccac tggtcaccct gtaccatcag ttgcagcttc gatagcttca   1140
              caagagcttc accagattca aggcaaacgt aacatatggt tctgtggtgc atatcagggc   1200
              tatggtttcc atgaagacgg gctaaaggcc ggtatggcgg ctgcacgagg tttgttaggg   1260
              aaagaaacag ctcttctgaa caatccgcga catatggtcc cttccttgac agaaacagga   1320
              gctcggcttt tcgttactag attcttggga caatttatat caaccggttc tgtaacaata   1380
              ctagaagaag gaggaacaat gttcacattc ggagggaagg attctacttg tcctctgaaa   1440
              tctatcctca agattcacag tcctcaattt tactggaagg ttatgacaca agcggattta   1500
              ggacttgcag atgcttatat caatggagat ttttctttcg ttgataaaga atcaggactt   1560
              ttaaatctga ttatgattct cattgctaac agagatacaa aatcaaatct tactaagaaa   1620
              aggggatggt ggacaccgat gtttttaact gcgggtttag catctgcaaa gtattttcta   1680
              aagcatgtct ctaggcagaa cactctaaca caagctcgta gaaacatttc tcgtcactat   1740
              gaccttagca acgagctttt cggtttgttc ttggatgata ccatgactta ctcctcggca   1800
              gtattcaagt cggatgatga ggatctgaga actgcacaga tgagaaaaat atctcttctg   1860
              attgataagg cgagaataga gaaggaccat gaggttttag agataggatg tggatgggga   1920
              actttggcca tagaagttgt gagaagaact ggatgcaaat acaccggcat tacgctatct   1980
              attgagcagc ttaaatatgc tgaagaaaaa gtgaaagaag ctggacttca ggaccggatt   2040
              acttttgagc tccgcgatta tcgccaacta tctgatgctc acaaatatga cagaattata   2100
              tcttgcgaga tgctagaagc ggtcggacat gagtttatgg agatgttttt cagtcgatgt   2160

                                               54/104
<removed-date>
              gaagccgcac ttgctgaaga cggcctaatg gtcttgcagt tcatatcgac acccgaagag   2220
              cgttacaatg agtacagact aagttcagat ttcattaaag aatacatatt ccctggtgca   2280
              tgcgttcctt ctttagccaa agtcacttca gccatgtcct cttcttctag gctatgcatt   2340
              gaacatgttg agaacattgg gattcattac taccaaacat tgagattgtg gaggaagaac   2400
              ttcttggaga gacagaaaca aatcatggct cttggatttg atgataaatt cgtaaggaca   2460
              tgggaatatt attttgatta ttgcgcagct ggattcaaga ctcgtactct tggagactac   2520
<removed-apn>
              cagttggtgt tctcgcgtcc agggaacgta gctgcatttg cggattcata ccgaggattt   2580
              ccttctgctt attgtgtctc ttga                                          2604
              <210>   49
              <211>   2595
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   sterculia foetida
              <400> 49
              atgggagtgg ctgtgatcgg tggtgggatc caagggctgg tttcggccta cgttcttgcc     60
              aaagccggcg tcaacgtcgt tgtttacgag aaagaggagc aagtaggtgg ccatgccaag    120
              actgttagct ttgacgccgt cgatttggac cttggcctct tgtttctcaa ccctgcaagg    180
              tatccaacaa tgttggagct gtttgatagc cttgaagttg atgtggaggc aactgatgtt    240
              tcattctctg taagccatga caaaggcaat ggctatgaat ggtgcagcca gtacggtttt    300
              tcgaactttt tagcacacaa gaagaaaatg ttgaatcctt acaattggca agacctcaga    360
              gaaactatca agttcggaaa tgatgtcaat agttatcttg aatcgcttga gaagaatcct    420
              gacattgatc gtaatgaaac cttggggcat tttgtagggt caaagggtta ctctgaaaat    480
              tttctgaaca cttacctggc tccaatatgt ggttcaatgt ggtcctgctc caaggaagaa    540
              gttatgagct tttcagccta ctccattctt tcgttttgtc gcacttatca tctgtaccag    600
              ctatttggga atccacagtg gctgactatt aaaaggcact catatttagt taaaaaggtc    660
              agagatattc tggaaagcag aggttgtcag tttaaacttg gttgtgaagt gctttctgtt    720
              ttgcctgctg atgatggtag ctccatagtc tttggagatg gtttccaaga aacgtacaat    780
              ggatgcataa tggctgttaa tgctcccaca gccctaaaaa tattaggaaa ccaagcaaca    840
              tttgaagaaa tgagagttct gggtgcattc caatatgctt ccagtgatat ttaccttcac    900
              cgtgacagca atttaatgcc cacaaacaga tcaggttgga gtgcactgaa ttttctcaga    960
              agtagagaaa ataaagcaag cttaacatac tggctcaatg tgctacagaa tgttgggaaa   1020
              acaagtcagc ccttttttgt gactctcaat ccagaccgta tcccagacaa aatcttgctt   1080
              aagtggtcga ctggacgtcc aattccctct gttgctgcat caaaagcttc acttgagcta   1140
              gatcagattc aggggaagag aggaatctgg ttctgtggct atgacttcca tgaggatgaa   1200
              ttaaaggctg gtatggatgc tgcacatcgt atcttgggaa agcatttttc tgttctgcac   1260
              agtccaaggc aaatgtcacc ctctttcatg gaaacaacgg cacgtcttct tgttactaaa   1320
              ttctttcacc aatatataca agtgggctgc gtaataatca tagaggaagg tggcagagtt   1380

                                               55/104
<removed-date>
              tacactttca aaggaagcat ggaaaattgt tctcttaaaa cagctctgaa agtgcataat   1440
              cctcagtttt actggaggat tatgaaagaa gctgatatag gccttgctga tgcatatatc   1500
              caaggagatt tttcttttgt tgacaaggat gatggtcttc ttaatctttt ccggatactt   1560
              attgccaata aagagttgaa ctctgcctca ggacagaaca aaagaaggac ttggctgtca   1620
              cctgcactgt tcacagctgg tatatcatct gcaaagtatt tcttgaagca ttacatgagg   1680
              caaaatactg ttacacaggc tcgcaggaac atttctcgtc attatgacct gagtaatgaa   1740
              cttttcactc tatacttagg tgaaatgatg caatactctt ctggaatttt taagacggga   1800
<removed-apn>
              gaagaacatt tggacgttgc acagcgcaga aaaatcagtt ccttaattga taaatcaaga   1860
              atagagaagt ggcatgaagt tcttgacatt ggatgtggtt ggggaagctt agctatggaa   1920
              gttgtcaaaa gaacaggatg taaatacact ggcatcacac tttcagagca gcaactgaaa   1980
              tatgcagaag aaaaagtgaa ggaagctgga cttcagggaa acatcaaatt tcttctctgt   2040
              gactatcgcc agttacccaa gacattcaaa tatgacagaa tcatatctgt tgagatggtt   2100
              gaacatgttg gtgaagaata tattgaggag tttttcagat gctgtgactc attattggca   2160
              gagaatgggc ttttcgttct tcagttcata tcaattccag agatactttc caaagaaatc   2220
              cagcaaacag ctggttttct aaaggaatat atcttccctg gtggaaccct gctttctctg   2280
              gataggactt tgtcagccat ggctgctgca tcaagattta gtgtggagca tgtggaaaat   2340
              ataggaatta gttattatca cacactgaga tggtggagga aaaatttctt ggcaaatgaa   2400
              agcaaagttc tggctttggg gttcgatgag aagttcatgc ggacatggga gtattatttt   2460
              gattactgcg cagctggttt taagacaggg acacttatag attaccaggt tgtattctca   2520
              cgggctggca atttcgctgc acttggcgat ccatacatag gtttcccttc agcatattcc   2580
              tactcggata attga                                                    2595
              <210>   50
              <211>   2634
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Zea mays
              <400> 50
              atgagagtgg cggtggtagg cgccggcgtg agcgggctgg cggcggcgca cgagctggcg     60
              aggagcggcg gctcccgggt gaccgtgtac gagaaggagg actacctcgg tgggcacgcc    120
              aggaccgtgg ccgtcgagga cgccgacgcc gccagcaccg tgcagctcga cctcggcttc    180
              atggtcttca accgggtaac atacccaaac atgctggagt ggtttgaagg gctcggtgta    240
              gagatggaga tatccgacat gtccttctca gtgagcacgg aattgggggc cagcggcagc    300
              agatgcgagt ggggcagccg caatggcatc tcaggactct tggcacagaa aagcaatgca    360
              ctcagcccta gtttctggcg catgattcgg gagatactca agttcaagaa cgatgctctc    420
              aggtacttgg aggaccatga aaacaaccct gatatggacc ggaatgagac tctcgggcaa    480
              ttcattcggt ctcatggata ttcacagttc ttccaagagg cttaccttac cccgatctgt    540
              gcgtgtatat ggtcatgccc atcgcaagga gtgttgggat tctctgcttt ctttgtgctc    600
              tctttctgcc gtaaccatca tcttcttcag ttgttcggtc gcccccagtg gctcaccgtg    660

                                               56/104
<removed-date>
              aagggtcgtt cgcactccta tgtacacaag gtaagggagg agttggaaag tatgggttgc    720
              caaattaaaa ccagctgtga aatcaaatct gtttcaagtt ctgagggagg tttcagggtt    780
              acagtgtttg atggttcaga ggagacgtat gacagaatca tatttggtgt ccatgcacct    840
              gatgctctaa agattctagg agctgaagca acacatgaag aattgaggat cctaggagct    900
              tttcagtacg tctacagtga tatatacctc cactccgata aaagtttgat gccacggagt    960
              ttgtctgctt ggagttcctg gaacttcctg gggacgacaa gcaagggggt ttgtgtaacc   1020
<removed-apn>
              tactggctaa atctgcttca gaacatagaa tctacaagca gaccttttct ggtgacgctg   1080
              aatcctcctc atgtcccaga ccacgtcttt cttaaatggt acactagcca ccctgtccca   1140
              tctgtggctg ccgcaaaggc ttctcttgag cttcatcaca ttcaaggaaa cagaggaatt   1200
              tggttttgtg gggcatacca aggttatggt ttccatgaag atggactcaa ggctgggaaa   1260
              gctgcagctc aagatttgct tggtaaggag agtgaccttt tggtgaaccc aaaacagatg   1320
              atcccatcgt ggtctgaggc tggggcgcgt cttctggtaa caagatttct tggtcaatat   1380
              gtgtctgtcg gcaacttggt cttgcttgaa gaaggaggca ctatgttcag ttttggtgaa   1440
              gtaggcaaaa aatgccatgt gaaatctgtc ctgcgagtac atgaccccat gttttactgg   1500
              aaggttgcaa ctgaagcaga ccttggcttg gcagatgcct acattaacgg ttatttctca   1560
              tttgtagaca agagagaagg tcttctaaat cttttcctga ttctcattgc gaacagggac   1620
              gcaaacaaga gtagtagcag cgctgctggt aaaaggggtt ggtggacacc cctgctattg   1680
              acagctgggg ttgcctccgc taaatacttc ctgcgtcaca tagcaaggag gaattctgtc   1740
              tcacaaacac gtcaaaacat ctctcaacac tatgatctga gtaatgaatt cttctctctt   1800
              ttcctggatc catcgatgac ttactcttgt gccatcttca agacggagga tcaaagctta   1860
              gaggcagccc agctacagaa agtttgcctc ctaatcgata aggctaaagt ggagcgagat   1920
              caccatgttc ttgagattgg ctgtggttgg ggcagcttag caatccaatt ggtgaagcaa   1980
              actggttgca aatacactgg gatcacatta tcagtggagc aattgaaata tgcacagaga   2040
              aaggtgaaag aagctggatt agaggaccac ataagcttca tgttgtgtga ttaccgtcaa   2100
              ataccaactc agcgcaaata cgacaggatc atctcttgcg agatgatcga aggtgttggg   2160
              cacgaataca tggacgattt cttcggctgc tgcgagtccc ttttggctca agacggcata   2220
              tttgtcctgc agttcatctc aatcccagaa gaacggtatg aggaatacag gcgcagctca   2280
              gacttcatca aggaatacat cttccctggg ggttgcctgc cttcgttagc ccggatcacg   2340
              tctgccatgt ctgcagcatc aaggctctgc atcgagcacc ttgagaatat tgggtaccat   2400
              tactacccaa cgctgataca gtggagggac aacttcatgg ccaataagga tgcaattttg   2460
              gccctgggct tcgatgagaa attcatccgt atatgggaat actacttcat atactgcgcc   2520
              gctggtttca agtcacggac acttgggaac taccagattg tgttttctcg ccctggcaac   2580
              gacaaattag gtgacagcgg tatacactcc ttaagcaagc tttctggcag ctaa         2634
              <210>   51
              <211>   519

                                               57/104
<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Aspergillus fumigatus
              <400>   51
              Met Thr Lys Ile His Pro Glu Ser Pro Glu Asp Phe Glu Tyr Ile Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Pro Pro Ala Ser Cys Thr Thr Pro Ala Asp Asp Cys Gly Val Arg
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Thr Ser Tyr Pro Ala Ile Lys Asn Ala Pro Val Pro Ala Asp Ala
                      35                  40                  45
<removed-apn>
              Ala Gly Ser Asp Ser Phe Ser Asn Ile Leu Leu Phe Ser Leu Leu Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Val Pro Trp Tyr Leu Ala Arg Gln Val Gly Gly Gly Phe Tyr Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ile Phe Phe Ala Ile Phe Thr Thr Val Pro Ile Leu Met Val Phe
                              85                  90                  95
              Trp Ser Val Ala Ser Ser Ile Ser Pro Arg Lys Asn Glu Lys Ala Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Tyr Ala Gly Arg Pro Val Glu His Tyr Leu His Phe His Asn Glu His
                      115                 120                 125
              Asp Arg Ala Thr Tyr Arg Gly Lys Ser Lys Ile Pro Met Glu Val Phe
                  130                 135                 140
              Tyr Glu Lys Tyr Phe Asn Gly Glu Val Asp Phe Lys Gly Asp Ala Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ala Leu Glu Phe Arg His Asp Trp Ala Asn Phe Arg Phe Thr Met
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Leu Tyr Lys His Phe Leu Phe Gly Phe Ile Pro Glu Leu Leu Val
                          180                 185                 190
              His Ser Arg Ser Gln Asp Glu Glu Gln Val Arg Asp His Tyr Asp Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Gly Asp Asp Phe Tyr Ala Trp Phe Leu Gly Pro Arg Met Ile Tyr Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Gly Ile Ile Ser Asp Ile Asn Lys Glu Glu Thr Leu Glu Glu Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Asp Asn Lys Leu Ala Val Val Cys Glu Lys Ile Asn Val Lys Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Asp Thr Ile Leu Asp Leu Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Thr Leu Ala Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Ala Ser Val His Tyr Gly Ala His Val Thr Gly Ile Thr Leu Gly
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Asn Gln Thr Ala Trp Gly Asn Lys Gly Leu Arg Ser Ala Gly Ile
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Glu Ser Gln Ser Arg Ile Leu Cys Leu Asp Tyr Arg Asp Ala Pro
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Arg Val Glu Gly Gly Tyr Lys Lys Ile Thr Cys Leu Glu Met Ala Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              His Val Gly Val Arg His Phe Gly Ser Phe Leu Ser Gln Val Tyr Glu

                                               58/104
<removed-date>
                           340               345                  350
              Met Leu Asp Asp Asp Gly Val Phe Phe Leu Gln Ile Ala Gly Leu Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys Ser Trp Gln Tyr Glu Asp Leu Ile Trp Gly Leu Phe Met Asn Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Ala Asp Ala Ser Thr Pro Leu Gly Phe Val Val
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Lys Leu Glu Gly Ala Gly Phe Glu Ile Lys Gly Val Asp Thr Ile
                              405                 410                 415
<removed-apn>
              Gly Val His Tyr Ser Ala Thr Leu Trp Arg Trp Tyr Arg Asn Trp Met
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Asn Arg Glu Lys Val Glu Ala Lys Tyr Gly Lys Arg Trp Phe Arg
                      435                 440                 445
              Ile Trp Glu Tyr Phe Leu Ala Tyr Ser Thr Ile Ile Ser Arg Gln Gly
                  450                 455                 460
              Ser Ala Thr Cys Trp Gln Leu Thr Met Val Lys Asn Ile Asn Ser Thr
              465                 470                 475                 480
              His Arg Ile Glu Gly Ile Gly Ser Gln Tyr Gly Leu Lys Gly Ala Arg
                              485                 490                 495
              Gln Ala Ala Ile Asp Asn Val Gly His Gly Val Leu Pro Lys Ala His
                          500                 505                 510
              Val Pro Thr Val Asn Lys Glu
                      515
              <210>   52
              <211>   380
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Escherichia coli
              <400>   52
              Met Ser Ser Ser Cys Ile Glu Glu Val Ser Val Pro Asp Asp Asn Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Arg Ile Ala Asn Glu Leu Leu Ser Arg Ala Gly Ile Ala Ile Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Ser Ala Pro Ala Asp Ile Arg Val Lys Asn Pro Asp Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Arg Val Leu Gln Glu Gly Ser Leu Gly Leu Gly Glu Ser Tyr Met Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Trp Trp Glu Cys Asp Arg Leu Asp Met Phe Phe Ser Lys Val Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Ala Gly Leu Glu Asn Gln Leu Pro His His Phe Lys Asp Thr Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Ile Ala Gly Ala Arg Leu Phe Asn Leu Gln Ser Lys Lys Arg Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Trp Ile Val Gly Lys Glu His Tyr Asp Leu Gly Asn Asp Leu Phe Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Met Leu Asp Pro Phe Met Gln Tyr Ser Cys Ala Tyr Trp Lys Asp
                  130                 135                 140

                                               59/104
<removed-date>
              Ala Asp Asn Leu Glu Ser Ala Gln Gln Ala Lys Leu Lys Met Ile Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Lys Leu Gln Leu Lys Pro Gly Met Arg Val Leu Asp Ile Gly Cys
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Trp Gly Gly Leu Ala His Tyr Met Ala Ser Asn Tyr Asp Val Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Val Gly Val Thr Ile Ser Ala Glu Gln Gln Lys Met Ala Gln Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Cys Glu Gly Leu Asp Val Thr Ile Leu Leu Gln Asp Tyr Arg Asp
<removed-apn>
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Asn Asp Gln Phe Asp Arg Ile Val Ser Val Gly Met Phe Glu His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Gly Pro Lys Asn Tyr Asp Thr Tyr Phe Ala Val Val Asp Arg Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Lys Pro Glu Gly Ile Phe Leu Leu His Thr Ile Gly Ser Lys Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Asp Leu Asn Val Asp Pro Trp Ile Asn Lys Tyr Ile Phe Pro Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Cys Leu Pro Ser Val Arg Gln Ile Ala Gln Ser Ser Glu Pro His
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Val Met Glu Asp Trp His Asn Phe Gly Ala Asp Tyr Asp Thr Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Met Ala Trp Tyr Glu Arg Phe Leu Ala Ala Trp Pro Glu Ile Ala
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Asn Tyr Ser Glu Arg Phe Lys Arg Met Phe Thr Tyr Tyr Leu Asn
                          340                 345                 350
              Ala Cys Ala Gly Ala Phe Arg Ala Arg Asp Ile Gln Leu Trp Gln Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Phe Ser Arg Gly Val Glu Asn Gly Leu Arg Val
                  370                 375                 380
              <210>   53
              <211>   382
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Salmonella enterica
              <400>   53
              Met Ser Ser Ser Cys Ile Glu Glu Val Ser Val Pro Asp Asp Asn Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Arg Ile Ala Asn Glu Leu Phe Ser Arg Ala Asp Ile Thr Ile Asn
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Ser Ala Pro Ser Asp Ile Arg Val Lys Asn Pro Asp Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Arg Val Leu Gln Glu Gly Ser Leu Gly Leu Gly Glu Ser Tyr Met Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Trp Trp Glu Cys Glu Arg Leu Asp Ile Phe Phe Ser Lys Val Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Ala Gly Leu Glu Asn Gln Leu Pro His His Val Lys Asp Thr Leu
                              85                  90                  95

                                               60/104
<removed-date>
              Arg Ile Leu Gly Ala Arg Leu Ile Asn Leu Gln Ser Lys Lys Arg Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Trp Ile Val Gly Lys Glu His Tyr Asp Leu Gly Asn Asp Leu Phe Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Met Leu Asp Pro Tyr Met Gln Tyr Ser Cys Ala Tyr Trp Lys Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Asp Thr Leu Glu Ala Ala Gln Gln Ala Lys Leu Lys Leu Ile Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Glu Lys Leu Gln Leu Gln Pro Gly Met Arg Val Leu Asp Ile Gly Cys
                              165                 170                 175
              Gly Trp Gly Gly Leu Ser Gln Tyr Met Ala Thr His Tyr Gly Val Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Val Gly Val Thr Ile Ser Ala Glu Gln Gln Lys Met Ala Gln Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Arg Cys Glu Gly Leu Asp Val Ser Ile Leu Leu Glu Asp Tyr Arg Asp
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Asn Asp Gln Phe Asp Arg Ile Val Ser Val Gly Met Phe Glu His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Gly Pro Lys Asn Tyr Asn Thr Tyr Phe Glu Val Val Asp Arg Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Leu Lys Pro Asp Gly Leu Phe Leu Leu His Thr Ile Gly Ser Lys Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Thr Asp His Asn Val Asp Pro Trp Ile Asn Lys Tyr Ile Phe Pro Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Cys Leu Pro Ser Val Arg Gln Ile Ala Glu Ala Ser Glu Ser His
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Val Met Glu Asp Trp His Asn Phe Gly Ala Asp Tyr Asp Thr Thr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Leu Met Ala Trp His Glu Arg Phe Ile Asn Ala Trp Pro Glu Ile Ala
                              325                 330                 335
              Gly Asn Tyr Asn Glu Arg Phe Lys Arg Met Phe Ser Tyr Tyr Leu Asn
                          340                 345                 350
              Ala Cys Ala Gly Ala Phe Arg Ala Arg Asp Ile Gln Leu Trp Gln Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Val Phe Thr Arg Gly Val Glu Asn Gly Leu Arg Val Pro Arg
                  370                 375                 380
              <210>   54
              <211>   488
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Leishmania infantum
              <400>   54
              Met Glu Asn Arg Pro His Glu Asp Ser Glu Ser Lys Glu Ala Ala Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Ala Leu Leu Ser Arg Glu Ser Tyr Glu Ser Val Gln Arg Leu Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Cys Pro Ser Asp Leu Pro Ser Ser Glu Asn Arg Tyr Glu Val Ile

                                               61/104
<removed-date>
                     35                  40                  45
              Ala Ala Ala Met Lys Gly Asp Asp His Gly Met Gly Gly Ser Thr Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Val Val Asn Tyr Gly Gly Pro His Gly Asn Gly Ser Leu Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Met Ser Lys Ala Glu Tyr Ala Lys Leu Glu Lys Arg Glu Ala Lys Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Arg Ile Ala Gln Lys Ile Leu Ser Ala Cys Gly Ile Thr Ile Gly
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Gly Asp Lys Pro Tyr Asp Met Val Val His Asn Pro Met Leu Phe Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Val Ile Arg Lys Gly Ser Leu Gly Leu Gly Glu Ala Tyr Met Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Trp Trp Asp Thr Arg Asp Phe Tyr Ala Leu Asp Asp Phe Phe Lys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Arg Ile Leu Gln Ser Gly Ile Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Pro Asn Asn Ala Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Met Leu Asn Ile Ile Arg Ala Lys Val His Asn Pro Gln Thr Lys
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Ser Arg Arg Val Gly Met Gln His Tyr Asp Ile Gly Asn Glu
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Phe Arg Asn Met Leu Gly Pro Arg Met Gln Tyr Ser Cys Ala Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
              Trp Glu Lys His Val Gly Ser Ala Glu Asp His Met Ile Lys Pro Val
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Glu Thr Leu Asp Glu Ala Gln Glu Leu Lys Leu His Met Ile Gly Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Leu Arg Leu Arg Pro Gly Met Glu Val Leu Asp Cys Gly Cys Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Trp Gly Ala Leu Ala Ala Phe Leu Ser Glu Lys Tyr Ser Val Lys Val
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Gly Ile Thr Ile Ser Glu Glu Gln Arg Glu Gly Ala Ala Arg Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Lys Asp Asp Pro Asn Val Thr Ile Leu Asn Arg Asp Tyr Arg Asp
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ala Thr Phe Asp Arg Lys Phe Asp Arg Ile Val Ser Val Gly Met Phe
                              325                 330                 335
              Glu His Val Gly Pro Lys Asn Tyr Lys Thr Phe Phe Lys His Met Arg
                          340                 345                 350
              Arg Leu Leu Arg Asp Asp Asp Pro Glu Ala Val Leu Leu Leu His Thr
                      355                 360                 365
              Ile Gly Ser Lys Thr Thr Met Ser Ser Ala Asp Gln Trp Tyr Leu Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Cys Leu Pro Ser Ile Ser Ser Ile Gly Lys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Gly Ile Glu Ala Tyr Phe Val Met Glu Asp Leu His Asn Phe Gly Phe

                                                62/104
<removed-date>
                               405                410                 415
              Phe Tyr Gly Leu Thr Leu Leu Ala Trp Arg Ser Asn Phe Leu Val His
                          420                 425                 430
              Trp Asn Lys Ser Ala Glu Ser Thr Lys Pro Gly Ala Asp Ala Phe Phe
                      435                 440                 445
              Arg Met Phe Tyr Tyr Tyr Leu Ser Ser Ser Ala Gly Ala Phe Glu Ala
                  450                 455                 460
              Arg Asp Leu Gln Leu Trp Gln Val Val Leu Ser Pro Lys Gly Thr Pro
              465                 470                 475                 480
<removed-apn>
              Gly Tyr Val Ser Val Tyr Arg Pro
                              485
              <210>   55
              <211>   379
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Synechococcus sp
              <400>   55
              Met Glu Lys Ser Leu Ser Ile Trp His Arg Leu Ala Arg Arg Tyr Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Arg Leu Leu Ser Ala Ala Asp Ile Ala Val Asn Gly Ser Arg Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Trp Asp Leu Gln Ile His Asp Glu Arg Leu Tyr Leu Arg Cys Leu Leu
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Gly Ser Leu Gly Phe Gly Glu Ala Tyr Met Glu Gly Trp Trp Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Cys Glu Ala Ile Asp Glu Leu Val Tyr Arg Leu Leu Thr Ser Gln Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Glu Gln Val Gly Trp Pro Val Arg Leu Leu Leu Ala Leu Asp Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Arg Leu Val Asn Arg Gln Arg Gly Lys Gly Ala Phe Val Val Gly Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Arg His Tyr Asp Leu Gly Asn Asp Leu Tyr Glu Ala Met Leu Asp Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Leu Ile Tyr Ser Cys Ala Tyr Trp Asp Gly Gly Ala Gln Thr Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Asp Glu Ala Gln Glu Ala Lys Leu Asp Leu Ile Ala Arg Lys Leu Asp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Gln Pro Gly Met Arg Val Leu Asp Ile Gly Cys Gly Trp Gly Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Thr Ala Gln Tyr Leu Ala Glu Arg Tyr Gly Val Gln Val Val Gly Ile
                          180                 185                 190
              Thr Val Ser Gln Glu Gln Ala Lys Leu Ala Ser Glu Arg Cys Gln Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Pro Val Glu Ile Arg Leu Glu Asp Tyr Arg Gln Thr Gln Gly Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Phe Asp Arg Ile Ile Ser Val Gly Met Phe Glu His Val Gly Tyr Arg
              225                 230                 235                 240

                                               63/104
<removed-date>
              Asn Tyr Arg Thr Phe Met Gln Val Ala Arg Arg Leu Leu Asn Asp Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Gly Leu Phe Leu Leu His Thr Ile Gly Ser Asn Val Ala Tyr Gln Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Arg Asp Pro Trp Ile Glu Arg Tyr Ile Phe Pro Asn Ser Met Leu Pro
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Pro Arg Leu Ile Thr Ala Ala Phe Glu Gly Leu Phe Val Leu Glu
                  290                 295                 300
              Asp Trp His Asn Phe Gly Ile Asn Tyr Val Ala Thr Leu Lys Ala Trp
<removed-apn>
              305                 310                 315                 320
              His Ala Asn Phe Glu Arg Ala Trp Pro Gln Leu Ala Arg Arg Tyr Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Glu Arg Phe Arg Arg Met Trp Arg Leu Tyr Leu Leu Met Ser Ala Gly
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Phe Lys Ala Arg Ala Ser Gln Leu Trp Gln Leu Val Leu Ser Pro
                      355                 360                 365
              Arg Gly Val Glu Gly Gly Tyr Arg Ser Val Arg
                  370                 375
              <210>   56
              <211>   485
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Neurospora crassa
              <400>   56
              Met Asp His Phe Ala Arg Val Leu Glu Phe Gly Glu Ile His Pro Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln His Leu Ala Asn Ile His Gln Gly Leu Thr Glu Ile Phe Tyr Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Thr Ala His Leu Arg Tyr Lys Leu Gly Ser Leu Thr Trp Gly Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Ile Gln Phe Ala Lys Asp Met Ala Gln Thr Thr Phe Ala Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Val Gly Thr Phe Leu Leu Val Asp Gln Val Ser Asp Glu Val Phe
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Val His Gly Glu Ser Phe Gly Thr Gly Pro Asp Glu Leu Gly Asn Leu
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Leu Cys Leu Arg Arg Pro Ser Glu Ser Glu Asp Glu Arg Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Asp Leu Pro Gly Ala Glu Leu Val Val Lys Asp Asp Ala Phe Trp
                      115                 120                 125
              Leu Arg Leu Leu Leu Phe Thr Asp Met Gly Phe Ala Glu Ser Tyr Met
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gly Glu Phe Glu Cys Asp Asp Leu Thr Ser Phe Phe Gln Leu Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ile Leu Asn Arg Glu Gln Leu Asn Asn Gly Thr Thr Leu Phe Ser Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Phe Ser His Val Ala Gly Leu Ala Arg Leu Ala Asn Thr Met Asp
                          180                 185                 190

                                               64/104
<removed-date>
              Asn Ala Arg Leu Asn Ile Val Arg His Tyr Asp Ile Ser Asn Gly Met
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Ala Ala Phe Leu Ser Pro Asp Met Met Tyr Ser Cys Pro Ile Trp
                  210                 215                 220
              Asn His Thr Thr Asn Ser Arg Thr Lys Gln Glu Glu Ser Leu Glu Ser
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ala Gln Met Arg Lys Ile Asn Tyr Phe Ile Glu Ala Ala Lys Ile Lys
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Arg Thr Asp His Val Leu Glu Phe Gly Thr Gly Trp Gly Thr Met Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Ile Glu Ala Val Arg Gln Thr Gly Cys Arg Val Thr Thr Ile Thr Leu
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Gln Glu Gln Lys Thr Phe Ala Glu Arg Arg Ile Trp Ala Ala Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Ser Asp Lys Ile Ala Val His Leu Leu Asp Tyr Arg Met Leu Pro
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Asp Pro Glu Val Pro Tyr Asp Lys Ile Ile Ser Cys Glu Met Ile Glu
                              325                 330                 335
              Ala Val Gly Glu Lys Phe Leu Ala Thr Phe Phe Ser Arg Val Asp Arg
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Leu Lys Lys Asp Gly Gly Ile Ala Val Phe His Phe Ile Asn His
                      355                 360                 365
              Tyr Ile Phe Pro Gly Gly Tyr Leu Pro Ser Val Thr Gln Leu Ile Asn
                  370                 375                 380
              His Ile Thr Thr Glu Ser Asn Gly Thr Leu Ile Val Glu Lys Ile Lys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asn Ile Gly Pro His Tyr Val Lys Ala Leu Arg Leu Trp Arg Glu Ala
                              405                 410                 415
              Phe Met Asn Arg Phe Asp Ser Val Ile Val Pro Ala Leu Met Val Glu
                          420                 425                 430
              His Pro Ser Leu Thr Glu Thr Asp Val Glu Val Phe Lys Arg Lys Trp
                      435                 440                 445
              Glu Tyr Tyr Phe Ser Tyr Ser Glu Ala Gly Phe Leu Thr Lys Thr Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Asp Val Ile Ile Thr Val Gly Arg Glu Gly Ala Leu Glu Leu Met
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Glu Gly Ile Pro Leu
                              485
              <210>   57
              <211>   474
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Magnaporthe grisea
              <400>   57
              Met Ala Tyr Ile Pro Ala Ala Ile Thr Gly Pro Val Ala Arg Gly Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Val Leu Arg Glu Ser Leu Gly Ser Leu Thr Trp Gly Pro Ala Met

                                               65/104
<removed-date>
                         20                  25                   30
              Ala Leu Ala Arg Pro Ala Val Glu Ala Val Phe Ser Gln Ile Glu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Thr Leu Leu Leu Val Asp Glu Pro Gly Gly Arg Arg Ile Val Tyr
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Gln Lys Leu Pro Asp Arg Ser Asn Gly Thr Lys Leu Asp Glu Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Leu Pro Thr Arg Pro Ser Gly Val Arg Lys Ala Thr Thr Ile Pro
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Arg Val Glu Leu Val Val Lys Arg Asp Ala Phe Trp Met Arg Leu Phe
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Phe Ala Asp Met Gly Leu Ala Glu Ala Tyr Met Leu Gly Asp Val
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Cys Ala Asp Leu Thr Ser Phe Phe Gln Leu Phe Ile Val Asn Arg
                  130                 135                 140
              Asp Gln Met Gly Asn Gly Thr Thr Arg Phe Ser Ala Ile Ser Gly Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ile Thr Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Asn Thr Leu Ser Asn Ser Leu Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Ile Ser Ala His Tyr Asp Ile Ser Asn Glu Met Phe Ala Ala Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Leu Ser Pro Asp Met Thr Tyr Ser Cys Pro Val Trp Lys Ser Val Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Asp Gly Ser Asp Glu Gln Glu Glu Ser Leu Glu Ala Ala Gln Leu Thr
                  210                 215                 220
              Lys Leu Arg Arg Phe Ile Thr Gly Ala Arg Ile Lys Ser Thr Asp His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Val Leu Glu Ile Gly Thr Gly Trp Gly Ser Phe Ala Ile Glu Ala Val
                              245                 250                 255
              Lys Ala Thr Gly Cys Arg Val Thr Ser Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Glu Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Lys Ala Leu Ala Glu Ala Arg Ile Ala Asp Ala Gly Leu Ser Asp Arg
                      275                 280                 285
              Ile Glu Val Leu Leu Lys Asp Tyr Arg Ala Leu Glu Ala Pro Glu Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Pro Phe Asp Lys Ile Val Ser Ile Glu Met Leu Glu Ala Val Gly
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Gln Glu Phe Leu Ser Thr Tyr Phe Ala Cys Ile Asp Arg Leu Leu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Asp Gly Gly Ile Ala Met Phe Gln Cys Ile Thr Met Pro Glu Gly
                          340                 345                 350
              Arg His Glu Ala Tyr Ser Lys Ser Glu Asp Phe Ile Asn His Tyr Ile
                      355                 360                 365
              Phe Pro Gly Gly Tyr Leu Pro Ser Ile Thr Gln Leu Leu Asn His Ile
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Lys Glu Ser Gln Gly Thr Leu Ile Val Glu Gly Val Glu Asn Ile

                                               66/104
<removed-date>
              385                  390                  395               400
              Gly Gly His Tyr Ser Lys Thr Leu Arg Leu Trp Lys Glu Ala Phe Leu
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Asn Phe Asp Ser Lys Ile Lys Pro Ala Leu Lys Thr Glu His Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Gly Met Thr Asp Glu Ala Ile Ala Val Phe Lys Asn Lys Trp Glu Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Arg Glu Ser Pro Pro Lys Phe Pro Phe Arg Tyr Pro Asp Glu Arg Thr
                  450                 455                 460
<removed-apn>
              Gln Pro Arg Ser Val Ser Ala Ser Leu Asn
              465                 470
              <210>   58
              <211>   469
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Coprinopsis cinerea
              <400>   58
              Met Pro Ala His His His Pro Ser Ser Ser Ala Pro Cys Val Ser Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Ser Ser Ser Lys Ala Leu Gln Ser Ser Ser Leu Leu Ser Ala Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Pro Arg Ser Trp Thr Ile Ser Phe Ala Arg Asn Ser Ile Leu Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Leu Glu Asp Ala Ile Thr Val Gly Arg Leu Thr Ile Ser Asp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Gly Asp His Gln Tyr Gly Glu Arg Gln Pro Gly Cys Asn Asp Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Leu Arg Ile Val Asn Asp Asn Phe Trp Met Arg Ile Leu Leu Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Asp Val Gly Phe Ser Glu Ala Tyr Met Ile Gly Asp Cys Glu Val
                          100                 105                 110
              Gln Thr Gly Leu Lys Gly Ala Met Asp Leu Trp Leu Asp Asn Gln Ser
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Met Glu Met Thr Leu Ser Ser Thr Val Ala Arg Ile Ser Ser Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Met Thr Ala Leu Tyr Asn Ser Phe Leu Gly Gln Thr Lys Ser Gln Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Arg Leu Asn Ala Ile Ala Ser Tyr Asp Gln Ser Asn Glu Leu Phe Lys
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Phe Leu Ser Lys Glu Met Met Tyr Ser Cys Ala Leu Trp Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Asn Glu Gly Gly Val Arg Gly Asp Leu Glu Leu Gly Pro Thr Pro Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Asp Leu Glu Ala Ala Gln Leu Arg Lys Leu His His Val Leu Arg Ala
                  210                 215                 220
              Ala Arg Val Lys Pro Gly Asp Arg Ile Leu Glu Phe Gly Ser Gly Trp
              225                 230                 235                 240

                                               67/104
<removed-date>
              Gly Gly Leu Ala Ile Glu Ala Ala Arg Thr Phe Gly Cys Glu Val Asp
                              245                 250                 255
              Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Ile Glu Gln Lys Thr Leu Ala Glu Glu Arg Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Glu Ala Gly Leu Glu Gly Val Ile Arg Val His Leu Met Asp Tyr
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Glu Ile Pro Ala Glu Trp Glu His Ala Phe Asp Ala Phe Ile Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Ile Glu Met Ile Glu His Val Gly Pro Lys Tyr Tyr Asn Thr Tyr Phe
<removed-apn>
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Leu Val Asp Phe Ala Leu Lys Pro Gln Lys Ala Ala Ala Val Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ser Ser Thr Phe Pro Glu Ser Arg Tyr Ser Ser Tyr Gln Ala Glu
                          340                 345                 350
              Asp Phe Met Arg Lys Tyr Met Trp Pro Asn Ser Ser Leu Pro Ser Ala
                      355                 360                 365
              Thr Ala Leu Ile Thr Ala Ala His Thr Ala Ser Gln Gly Arg Phe Thr
                  370                 375                 380
              Leu Gln Gly Val Glu Asn His Ala Ala His Tyr Pro Arg Thr Leu Arg
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Glu Trp Gly Arg Arg Leu Glu Arg Asn Leu Thr Gln Glu Leu Val Ala
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Asp Tyr Pro Ser Leu Lys Asp Asn Ala Asp Tyr Glu Ser Phe Lys
                          420                 425                 430
              Arg Lys Trp Gln Tyr Leu Phe Ala Tyr Ala Gly Ala Gly Phe Ser Lys
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly Tyr Ile Thr Cys His Met Leu Thr Phe Ile Arg Glu Asn Asp Ile
                  450                 455                 460
              Pro Glu Arg Cys Asp
              465
              <210>   59
              <211>   1560
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Aspergillus fumigatus
              <400> 59
              atgacgaaaa ttcaccccga gtcccctgag gacttcgagt acattgaaac acctcctgct   60
              tcttgcacta cccccgcaga cgattgcggt gtgcggacga catcgtaccc ggctatcaaa   120
              aatgctcccg tccccgcaga cgctgcaggc agtgatagtt tctccaacat cctgcttttc   180
              tctctactgc tgtttgttcc gtggtacttg gcccgccagg tcggtggtgg tttctacacc   240
              actatcttct ttgcaatctt taccaccgtc cccatcctga tggtcttctg gtccgtggct   300
              tcttccattt ctccccgcaa gaatgagaag gccaagtatg ctggtcgccc cgtcgagcac   360
              taccttcact tccacaacga gcatgatcgt gccacctacc gcggcaagag caagattccg   420
              atggaggtct tctacgaaaa gtacttcaat ggagaggttg atttcaaagg cgacgctctt   480
              gaagctctgg agttcagaca cgactgggcc aacttccgct tcaccatggg cctctacaag   540

                                                68/104
<removed-date>
              cacttcctct tcggcttcat tcctgaattg ctggtccact cccgttctca agacgaggaa     600
              caggtgcgcg accactatga ccgtggcgac gacttctacg cttggttctt gggccctcgg     660
              atgatctaca cctctggcat cattagtgat atcaacaagg aagagacttt ggaagaactt     720
              caggacaaca agctagctgt tgtctgtgag aagatcaatg ttaagcccgg tgacactatt     780
              ctcgacctgg gttgtggctg gggtactctc gccaaatttg cctcagtcca ctatggcgca     840
              cacgtcaccg gtatcacgct cggccgtaac caaactgcct ggggtaacaa gggtctccgc     900
              agcgccggta tccccgaatc tcagagccgt attctttgct tggactaccg tgatgctccc     960
<removed-apn>
              cgcgtcgagg gcggttacaa gaagatcact tgtcttgaga tggcagagca cgtcggtgta    1020
              cgccacttcg gttccttcct gtctcaggtc tatgaaatgc tagacgatga tggtgtgttc    1080
              ttcctccaga tcgcgggtct ccgtaagtcc tggcagtatg aggatctcat ctggggtctg    1140
              ttcatgaaca agtacatctt ccccggagct gatgccagca ctcctcttgg attcgtcgtt    1200
              gataaattgg agggcgctgg ttttgaaatc aagggcgttg acactattgg tgtccactac    1260
              tctgctactc tttggcgctg gtaccgcaac tggatgggta accgcgagaa ggtcgaggcc    1320
              aagtacggca agagatggtt tagaatctgg gagtacttcc tggcctactc aaccatcatc    1380
              tcccgccagg gaagcgctac ctgctggcag ctcaccatgg tcaagaacat caactccacc    1440
              caccgtattg agggtattgg ctcccagtac ggcctcaagg gtgcccgcca ggccgccatc    1500
              gacaacgtgg gccacggcgt tcttccaaag gcccatgtcc cgaccgttaa caaggagtaa    1560
              <210>   60
              <211>   1140
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Codon optimized E. Coli CPFAS open reading frame for plant
                      expression
              <400> 60
              atgtcatcct cctgcatcga agaagtttct gttccagacg ataactggta cagaattgcc      60
              aacgaattat tgtccagagc tggtattgct attaacggtt ctgctccagc tgatattaga     120
              gttaagaacc cagacttctt caagagagta ttgcaagaag gttctttggg tttgggtgaa     180
              tcttatatgg atggttggtg ggaatgcgat agattggata tgttcttctc aaaggttttg     240
              agagccggtt tggaaaatca attgccacat catttcaagg acaccttgag aattgctggt     300
              gctagattat tcaacttgca atctaagaag agagcctgga tcgttggtaa agaacattac     360
              gatttgggta acgacttgtt ctccagaatg ttggatccat tcatgcaata ctcttgtgct     420
              tactggaagg atgctgataa tttggaatct gctcaacaag ccaagttgaa gatgatttgc     480
              gaaaagttgc aattgaagcc aggtatgaga gttttggata ttggttgtgg ttggggtggt     540
              ttggctcatt atatggcttc taactacgat gtttccgttg ttggtgttac catttctgct     600
              gaacaacaaa agatggctca agaaagatgc gaaggtttgg atgttaccat cttgttgcaa     660
              gattacagag acttgaacga ccaattcgat agaatcgttt ccgttggtat gttcgaacat     720
              gttggtccaa agaactacga tacttacttc gctgttgtcg acagaaattt gaagccagaa     780

                                               69/104
<removed-date>
              ggtattttct tgttgcatac catcggttcc aaaaagaccg atttgaatgt agatccttgg    840
              atcaacaagt acatctttcc aaatggttgc ttgccatccg ttagacaaat tgctcaatct    900
              tctgaaccac acttcgttat ggaagattgg cataatttcg gtgctgatta cgatacaact    960
              ttgatggctt ggtacgaaag atttttggct gcttggccag aaattgctga taattactcc   1020
              gaaagattca agagaatgtt cacctactac ttgaatgctt gtgctggtgc ttttagagcc   1080
              agagatattc aattgtggca agttgttttc tccagaggtg ttgaaaacgg tttgagagtt   1140
<removed-apn>
              <210>   61
              <211>   1149
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Salmonella enterica
              <400> 61
              atgagttcat cgtgtataga agaagtcagc gtaccggatg ataactggta ccgaatcgcc     60
              aacgaattgt ttagtcgtgc ggatattaca attaatggtt ccgccccgtc tgacattcgt    120
              gttaagaatc ccgatttttt taaacgcgtc ctccaggaag gatcgttggg gttaggtgag    180
              agttacatgg atggctggtg ggaatgcgag cgtctggata ttttcttcag caaagtctta    240
              cgtgccggtc ttgaaaatca actcccccac catgtcaaag atacgctccg tatcctcggc    300
              gcgcgtctga ttaatctaca aagtaaaaaa cgcgcctgga ttgtcggcaa ggaacattac    360
              gatcttggta atgacctttt ttcccgtatg ctcgatccct atatgcaata ttcttgcgcc    420
              tactggaaag atgccgatac gctggaagcg gcacagcaag ccaagctgaa attaatttgc    480
              gaaaagctac agctacaacc ggggatgcgt gtgctggata tcggctgcgg ctggggcggc    540
              ctgtcgcaat atatggcgac ccattatggc gttagcgtgg tgggcgtaac gatctccgct    600
              gaacaacaaa aaatggcgca gacgcgttgc gaaggtctgg atgtctccat tctcctggaa    660
              gattatcgcg accttaacga tcagtttgac cgaatcgtct ccgtcggcat gttcgaacat    720
              gtcgggccaa aaaactacaa cacctatttt gaagttgttg acaggaattt aaaaccggat    780
              ggtcttttcc tgctccatac tattggttct aaaaaaaccg atcataatgt cgatccgtgg    840
              atcaataagt atattttccc caacggttgc ttgccgtctg ttcgtcaaat cgccgaggcc    900
              agcgaatcac actttgtaat ggaagactgg cataactttg gcgccgacta tgacacgact    960
              ctgatggcgt ggcatgagcg ctttatcaat gcctggccag agattgcggg caattataac   1020
              gagcgcttta aacgtatgtt cagctattat ctcaacgcct gcgcgggtgc gtttcgcgcg   1080
              cgtgatatcc agctttggca ggtggtattt acgcgcggcg ttgaaaacgg tctgcgcgtt   1140
              cctcgctaa                                                           1149
              <210>   62
              <211>   1467
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Leishmania infantum
              <400> 62
              atggaaaacc ggccacacga ggactccgaa tcgaaggaag cggcagcggc ggcgctcttg     60
              tcgcgtgaat cgtacgaatc cgtgcagagg ctgtcgaagt gccccagcga cttacccagc    120

                                                 70/104
<removed-date>
              agcgagaacc gctacgaggt catcgccgcc gccatgaagg gtgacgacca cggcatgggc    180
              ggcagcacga gccgcgtagt caactacggt ggcccgcacg gcaacggaag cctgttcagc    240
              atgagcaagg cggagtacgc gaagctggag aagagggagg ccaagtactt gcgcatcgcc    300
              cagaagatcc tgagtgcttg tggcattacc attggcggcg ataagccata cgacatggtc    360
              gtgcacaacc cgatgctgtt ccgccgcgtt atccgcaagg gcagtcttgg cctcggtgag    420
              gcctacatgg agggttggtg ggacacccgc gacttctatg ccctggacga cttcttcaag    480
              cgcattctgc agagtgggat cgagtactac tttccaaata acgccaaaga catgctcaac    540
<removed-apn>
              atcatccgcg ccaaggtgca caacccgcaa accaagtcga agagtcgcag ggtgggtatg    600
              cagcactacg acatcggcaa cgagttcttt cgaaacatgc tggggccgcg catgcaatac    660
              agctgcgcgt attgggagaa gcacgtcggc tccgccgaag accacatgat taagccggtg    720
              gagacgctgg acgaggcgca ggagctaaag ctgcacatga ttggcgagaa gctgcgcctg    780
              cgtccaggga tggaggtgct tgattgcggc tgtgggtggg gcgctctggc ggcgtttctg    840
              agcgagaagt acagcgtgaa ggtgacaggc atcacgatct ccgaggagca gcgcgagggt    900
              gccgcgcgtt tggtgaagga cgacccgaac gtgactatcc tcaaccgcga ctaccgcgac    960
              gccaccttcg accgcaagtt tgaccgcatc gtgagcgtcg gcatgttcga gcacgttggc   1020
              cccaagaact acaagacctt tttcaagcac atgcgccgtc tactgcgcga cgacgacccg   1080
              gaagcggttc tgttgctgca caccatcggc agcaagacga ccatgagcag cgccgatcag   1140
              tggtacctca agtacatttt tccaggcggc tgtctgccga gcatttcgag tattggcaag   1200
              ggcatcgagg cgtattttgt catggaggac ctgcataact tcggcttctt ctatggcttg   1260
              acgctgcttg cctggcgctc gaactttctc gttcactgga acaagtcggc cgagagcacg   1320
              aagcccggcg cggatgcgtt ttttcgcatg ttctactact acctgagcag cagcgctggc   1380
              gccttcgagg cacgtgacct tcagctgtgg caagtggtcc tgagcccgaa ggggacacct   1440
              gggtacgtca gcgtgtaccg gccgtaa                                       1467
              <210>   63
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Cymbidium ringspot virus
              <400>   63
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Ser Asp Val Arg Glu Gln Ala Asp Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Cys Trp Asp Gly Gly Gly Gly Gly Thr Thr Ser Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Leu His Glu Trp Arg Leu His His Ser Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ser Glu Asn Lys Asp Asn Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Gly Ala Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ser Leu His Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Glu Arg Asp Ser Val Asn

                                                71/104
<removed-date>
                               85                  90                 95
              Asp Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Leu Ser Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Thr Arg Leu Thr Leu Ser Gly Gly Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln Arg Leu Ile Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Thr Lys Arg Thr Met
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Pro Thr Pro Ser Glu Arg Glu Gly Asn Val Ser Arg Arg Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
<removed-apn>
              Pro Glu Gly Thr Glu Ala Phe Lys Glu Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   64
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Pelargonium necrotic spot virus
              <400>   64
              Met Glu Arg Ala Val Gln Gly Gly Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Asn Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Cys Gly Gly Thr Ile Thr Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Leu His Glu Trp Arg Leu His His Ser Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Gly Glu Asp Gln Asp His Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Gly Gly Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ser Leu His Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Glu Arg Asn Thr Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Phe Gly Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Cys Leu Thr Ile Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln Arg Leu Ile Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Thr Lys Cys Thr Val
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Thr Pro Ser Glu Val Glu Gly Asn Val Ser Gly Gly Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Ile Glu Ala Phe Glu Lys Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   65
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Havel river tombusvirus
              <400>   65
              Met Glu Gly Ala Ile Gln Gly Ser Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Asn Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Cys Gly Gly Thr Ile Thr Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30

                                                72/104
<removed-date>
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Gly Leu His Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Ser Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ser Glu Asp Lys Asp His Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Gly Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Leu His Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Glu Arg Gly Ser Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Asp Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Leu Gly Gln Val Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Cys Leu Thr Leu Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln Arg Leu Ile Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Thr Lys Arg Thr Met
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Thr Pro Ser Glu Val Glu Gly Asn Val Ser Arg Gly Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Ala Lys Ala Phe Glu Lys Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   66
              <211>   173
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Cucumber necrosis virus
              <400>   66
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Ser Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Tyr Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Cys Gly Gly Thr Ile Thr Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Leu His Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Ser Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ser Glu Asp Lys Asp His Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Gly Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ser Leu His Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Glu Arg Ser Thr Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Phe Gly Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Cys Leu Thr Leu Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln Arg Leu Ile Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Thr Lys Tyr Thr Met
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Thr Pro Ser Glu Val Glu Gly Asp Val Ser Arg Gly Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Ser Glu Ala Phe Lys Thr Lys Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   67

                                                73/104
<removed-date>
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Grapevine Algerian latent virus
              <400>   67
              Met Glu Arg Thr Ile Gln Gly Ser Asp Val Arg Glu Gln Ala Asn Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Cys Gly Ser Thr Ile Thr Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Leu Tyr Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Ser Glu
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ser Glu Asp Lys Asp His Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Cys
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Gly Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Leu His Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Glu Arg Ser Ser Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Leu Gly Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Cys Leu Thr Leu Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln Arg Leu Ile Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Thr Lys Cys Thr Met
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Ala Pro Cys Glu Val Glu Ser Asp Val Ser Arg Arg Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Thr Glu Ala Phe Glu Lys Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   68
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Pear latent virus
              <400>   68
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Ser Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Tyr Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Cys Gly Gly Thr Ile Thr Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Leu Ile Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Ser Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ser Glu Asp Lys Asp Asn Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Gly Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Leu His Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Glu Arg Asp Thr Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Asn Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Phe Gly Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Cys Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Cys Leu Thr Ile Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125

                                                  74/104
<removed-date>
              Thr Leu Gln Arg Leu Ile Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Thr Lys Arg Thr Met
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Thr Pro Cys Glu Val Glu Gly Asn Val Ser Arg Gly Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Thr Glu Ala Phe Lys Glu Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   69
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Lisianthus necrotic virus
              <400>   69
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Ser Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Tyr Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Cys Gly Gly Thr Ile Thr Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Leu Ile Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Ser Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Glu Ser Glu Asp Lys Asp Asn Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Gly Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Leu His Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Glu Arg Asp Thr Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Phe Gly Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Cys Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Ser Cys Leu Thr Ile Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln Arg Leu Ile Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Thr Lys Arg Thr Met
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Ala Pro Cys Glu Val Glu Gly Asn Val Ser Arg Gly Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Thr Glu Ala Phe Lys Glu Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   70
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Lettuce necrotic stunt virus
              <400>   70
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Asn Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Asn Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asn Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Ser Ala Ser Pro Phe Lys Phe
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Trp Thr Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Asp Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Asn Ser Asn Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Gly
                  50                  55                  60

                                                75/104
<removed-date>
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Gly Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Leu His Arg Val Leu Gly Ser Trp Thr Gly Asp Ser Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Phe Gly Ile Asn Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Val Ser Val Thr Ile Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Leu Gln His Leu Cys Glu Met Ala Val Arg Ala Lys Gln Glu Leu
<removed-apn>
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Thr Pro Val Glu Val Glu Ser Asn Val Ser Arg Arg Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Phe Glu Ala Phe Glu Lys Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   71
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artichoke Mottled Crinkle Virus
              <400>   71
              Met Glu Arg Val Ile Gln Gly Asn Asp Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Asn Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Thr Thr Ser Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Trp Thr Glu Trp Arg Ile His Asn Asp Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Asp Ser Asn Lys Asp Asn Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Arg Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Thr Ser Leu His Arg Val Leu Gly Ser Trp Thr Gly Asp Ser Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Val Asn Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Val Ser Val Thr Ile Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln His Leu Cys Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Ser Lys Gln Glu Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Ala Pro Val Glu Val Glu Ser Asn Val Ser Arg Gly Arg
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Ala Glu Ala Phe Lys Glu Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   72
              <211>   172
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Carnation Italian ringspot virus
              <400>   72
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Asn Gln Ala Arg Glu Gln Ala Asn Gly

                                                76/104
<removed-date>
              1                5                    10                15
              Glu Arg Trp Asp Gly Gly Ser Gly Gly Thr Thr Ser Pro Phe Lys Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Asp Glu Ser Pro Ser Trp Thr Glu Trp Arg Leu His Asn Asp Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Thr Asn Ser Asn Gln Asp Asn Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Ser Trp Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gly Lys Val Val Phe Lys Arg Tyr Leu Arg Tyr Asp Arg Thr Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ser Leu His Arg Val Leu Gly Ser Trp Thr Gly Asn Ser Val Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Ala Ala Ser Arg Phe Phe Gly Val Asn Gln Ile Gly Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Phe Arg Gly Val Ser Val Thr Ile Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Leu Gln His Leu Cys Glu Met Ala Ile Arg Ser Lys Gln Glu Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Leu Thr Pro Val Glu Val Glu Ser Asn Val Ser Arg Gly Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Glu Gly Ala Glu Ala Phe Glu Glu Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   73
              <211>   170
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Maize necrotic streak virus
              <400>   73
              Met Glu Arg Ala Ile Gln Gly Ser Asp Ala Trp Gln Gln Thr Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Arg Arg Val Gly Gly Cys Gly Asp Ser Phe Ala Pro Phe Gln Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Asp Glu Ser Pro Thr Ser Asp Glu Trp Arg Leu His His Asp Ala
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Asp Pro Asp Thr Asp Cys Pro Leu Gly Phe Lys Glu Phe Trp Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Gly Lys Ala Ile Ser Lys Arg Tyr His Arg Tyr Asp Trp Lys Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Ala Ser Leu Asp Arg Ala Leu Gly Ser Trp Gln Gly Asp Lys Val Ile
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Glu Ala Ser Arg Phe Leu Gly Val Asp Gln Val Ser Cys Thr Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Ser Ile Arg Val Arg Gly Val Ser Ile Thr Leu Ser Gly Gly Ser Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Ala Leu Leu Arg Leu Val Ser Met Ala Asp Arg Ile Lys Arg Ser Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gln Phe Ala Thr Ser Ala Val Glu Ser Val Val Ser Arg Gly Cys
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                  77/104
<removed-date>
              Pro Glu Glu Glu Thr Pro Lys Glu Ser Glu
                              165                 170
              <210>   74
              <211>   119
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Watermelon chlorotic stunt virus
              <400>   74
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Asp Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Val Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Ser Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Glu Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Leu Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Gly Glu Ala Asn Arg Arg Tyr Ser His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ser Arg Phe Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Thr Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Glu Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Gly His Lys Gln Ala Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Met Gly Gln Gln Ala His Val Ser Lys Ala Gln Asp Val Gln Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Ser Lys Pro Arg Cys Pro
                      115
              <210>   75
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Okra yellow crinkle virus
              <400>   75
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Val Asn Glu Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Leu Glu Asp Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly Ser Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Lys Asn Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn Phe Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Glu Pro Cys Asn Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Thr Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Met Asp Ser Pro Ala Asn Val Gln Lys Ala Gln Asn Val Pro Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   76
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Okra leaf curl virus

                                                78/104
<removed-date>
              <400>   76
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Val Asn Glu Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Leu Glu Asp Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly Ser Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Lys Asn Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn Tyr Phe
<removed-apn>
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Glu Pro Cys Asn Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Thr Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Met Asp Leu Pro Ala Asn Val Gln Lys Ala Gln Asn Val Pro Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   77
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tomato leaf curl Togo virus
              <400>   77
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Asp Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Gly Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Leu Leu Glu Glu Glu Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Val Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Arg Ala Lys Asn Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn Asn Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ala Ser Thr Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Arg Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Val Asp Val Pro Ala His Val Ser Gln Ala Lys Asn Val Gln Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Asn Ser
                      115
              <210>   78
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ageratum leaf curl Cameroon virus
              <400>   78
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Asp Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Gly Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Leu Leu Glu Glu Glu Tyr

                                                79/104
<removed-date>
                           20                 25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Lys Asn Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn Asn Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ala Ser Thr Ser Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Ser
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Phe Met Asp Val Pro Ala His Val Pro Lys Ala Gln Asn Val Pro Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Asn Pro
                      115
              <210>   79
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   East African cassava mosaic Malawi virus
              <400>   79
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Asp Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Leu Glu Glu Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Val Arg Asp Leu Ile Cys Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ser Arg Leu Glu Gly Ala Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Met Asp Val Pro Ala His Val Ser Lys Ala Gln Asn Val Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Ser
                      115
              <210>   80
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   South African cassava mosaic virus
              <400>   80
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Val Asn Glu Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Glu Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Val Arg Asp Leu Ile Cys Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Leu Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60

                                                80/104
<removed-date>
              His Ser Arg Leu Glu Gly Ala Thr Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Met Asp Val Thr Ala His Val Ser Lys Ala Gln Asn Val Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Ser
                      115
<removed-apn>
              <210>   81
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tomato leaf curl Madagascar virus
              <400>   81
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Asp Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Val Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Glu Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Met Asp Leu Pro Ala His Val Pro Lys Ala Gln Asp Val Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   82
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tobacco leaf curl Zimbabwe virus
              <400>   82
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Glu Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Cys Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Thr Thr
                              85                  90                  95

                                                81/104
<removed-date>
              Val Val Asp Leu Pro Ala Gln Leu Pro Lys Ala Gln Asn Val Pro Asp
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Ser
                      115
              <210>   83
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tomato begomovirus
              <400>   83
<removed-apn>
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Asp Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Val Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Glu Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Met Asp Leu Pro Ala His Val Pro Lys Ala Gln Asp Val Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   84
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tomato leaf curl Namakely virus
              <400>   84
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Asp Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Ile Glu Gln Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Phe Glu Gly Ala Ser Lys Val Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Thr Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Met Asp Val Gln Ala His Val Ser Lys Ala Gln Asp Val Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   85

                                                82/104
<removed-date>
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Pepper yellow vein Mali virus
              <400>   85
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Asp Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Asp Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Cys Val
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Ser Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Ser
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Met Asp Leu Pro Ala His Val Ser Lys Ala Gln Asp Val Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Gln Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   86
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tomato leaf curl Sudan virus
              <400>   86
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe
              1               5                   10                  15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Glu Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Thr Arg Arg Tyr Ser His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Pro Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gln Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Ile Met Asp Val Gln Ala His Val Ser Lys Ala Gln Asn Ile Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Ser Lys Ser
                      115
              <210>   87
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tomato leaf curl Oman virus
              <400>   87
              Met Trp Asp Pro Leu Leu Asn Glu Phe Pro Glu Ser Val His Gly Phe

                                                83/104
<removed-date>
              1                 5                  10                 15
              Arg Cys Met Leu Ala Ile Lys Tyr Leu Gln Ala Val Glu Gln Thr Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Pro Asn Thr Leu Gly His Asp Leu Ile Arg Asp Leu Ile Ser Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Arg Ala Arg Asp Tyr Val Glu Ala Ser Arg Arg Tyr Asn His Phe
                  50                  55                  60
              His Ala Arg Leu Glu Gly Ser Pro Lys Ala Glu Leu Arg Gln Pro Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Gln Gln Pro Cys Cys Cys Pro His Cys Pro Arg His Lys Gln Ala Thr
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Met Asp Val Gln Ala His Val Pro Lys Ala Gln Asn Ile Gln Asn
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Ser Lys Pro
                      115
              <210>   88
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   conserved DGAT motif
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (3)..(3)
              <223>   any amino acid other than proline
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (5)..(7)
              <223>   any amino acid other than proline
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (8)..(8)
              <223>   any nonpolar amino acid
              <400>   88
              Phe Leu Xaa Leu Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   89
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   conserved DGAT motif
              <400>   89
              His Pro His Gly
              1
              <210>   90
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence

                                                   84/104
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   conserved DGAT motif
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (2)..(2)
              <223>   any amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (5)..(5)
              <223>   any amino acid
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (6)..(6)
              <223>   lysine or arginine
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (7)..(7)
              <223>   any amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (9)..(11)
              <223>   any amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (13)..(15)
              <223>   any amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (16)..(16)
              <223>   leucine or valine
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (19)..(21)
              <223>   any amino acid
              <220>
              <221>   X
              <222>   (24)..(24)
              <223>   glutamic acid or glutamine
              <400>   90
              Arg Xaa Gly Phe Xaa Xaa Xaa Ala Xaa Xaa Xaa Gly Xaa Xaa Xaa Xaa
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Pro Xaa Xaa Xaa Phe Gly Xaa
                          20
              <210>   91
              <211>   1908
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400> 91
              atgggtgctg tttatagaag tctttttgct aaagatggat ttcctcctcc tattcctgga   60
              cttgacagtt gctgggatat tttccgtttg tcagtggaaa aatatcctaa caatcggatg   120
              cttggacgcc gtgagattgt agatggaaaa cctggcaagt atgtgtggat gtcttacaaa   180
              gaagtatatg acattgtgat taaattagga aattccatcc ggagctgtgg tgtggacgaa   240

                                               85/104
<removed-date>
              ggagacaaat gtggtatcta tggtgccaat tgccctgagt ggataatgag catggaggca    300
              tgcaatgctc atggacttta ctgtgtgcct ctatatgaca ccttaggtgc tggtgcagtg    360
              gaatttatca ttaaccatgc cgaggttaaa attgctttcg ttgaagagaa aaaacttcct    420
              gagcttctga aaacttttcc aaatgcagca aagtacttga agactgttgt gagttttggg    480
              aatgtcactc ctcaacagaa ggaagaggtt gaaaactgtg gggtgactct atactcgtgg    540
              gatgagttcc tacaattggg aagtgaaaaa caatttgatc ttccagtgaa aaagaaagaa    600
<removed-apn>
              gatatttgta caataatgta tactagtgga acgaccggag atcccaaagg tgtgctgatt    660
              tcaaataata gcattgttac tcttatagct ggagtacagc gtctgcttgg gagtgtgaat    720
              gagtcgttga cagtggatga tgtatatctt tcatatcttc cactggcaca tatctttgat    780
              cgggttatcg aagaatgttt cattaatcat ggtgcctcaa taggattttg gcgaggggat    840
              gtcaagttac ttaccgaaga tattggagag ctgaaaccaa ctatcttctg tgctgtaccc    900
              cgtgtactag acagaatata ttcaggtttg caacagaaaa tttcttctgg gggtcggctt    960
              aaaagcacat tgttcaatct tgcctatgct tacaaacact acaatttgaa gaagggacgt   1020
              aaacactttg aagcttctcc actttctgac aaagttgtct tcagtaaggt aaaagaaggg   1080
              ctaggaggca aagtacgtct tatattatct ggagcagcgc cccttgcagc tcatgtggaa   1140
              gcttttctgc gagttgtggc atgttgccat gttcttcaag gatatggtct gactgaaaca   1200
              tgtgctggta catttgtctc actaccaaac cagtatgcta tgcttggtac agttgggccc   1260
              ccggtgccca atgtggatgt gtgcttggag tcagtccctg aaatggcata tgatgctcta   1320
              tcaagcaggc cacgtggaga agtatgtgtg aggggcgaca ctcttttttc aggttattac   1380
              aagcgtgagg acctaacaaa agaagtcatg attgatgggt ggttccacac aggtgatatt   1440
              ggtgagtggc aaccaaatgg tagcttgaaa ataattgatc gcaagaagaa cattttcaag   1500
              ctatcacaag gtgaatatgt tgctgtcgag aatttggaga atatatatgg caataatcct   1560
              gttattgact ctatatggat atatggaaac agtttcgagt ctttccttgt tgctgttctt   1620
              aacccaaacc aacgagcagt tgaacaatgg gcccaacaga atggcatatc tggggatttt   1680
              gattcgctgt gtgaaaatcc aaaagttaag gagtacatac ttggagagct tacaaaagct   1740
              ggaaaagaaa agaagctgaa gggctttgag ttcataaaag ctgtacacct tgatgctcag   1800
              ccatttgaca tggaacgtga ccttctaact cctacattta agaagaaaag accccagttg   1860
              ctcaaatact acaaggacgt gattgacagc atgtacaaga ccaaatga                1908
              <210>   92
              <211>   635
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400>   92
              Met Gly Ala Val Tyr Arg Ser Leu Phe Ala Lys Asp Gly Phe Pro Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Ile Pro Gly Leu Asp Ser Cys Trp Asp Ile Phe Arg Leu Ser Val
                          20                  25                  30

                                               86/104
<removed-date>
              Glu Lys Tyr Pro Asn Asn Arg Met Leu Gly Arg Arg Glu Ile Val Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Lys Pro Gly Lys Tyr Val Trp Met Ser Tyr Lys Glu Val Tyr Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Val Ile Lys Leu Gly Asn Ser Ile Arg Ser Cys Gly Val Asp Glu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Asp Lys Cys Gly Ile Tyr Gly Ala Asn Cys Pro Glu Trp Ile Met
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Ser Met Glu Ala Cys Asn Ala His Gly Leu Tyr Cys Val Pro Leu Tyr
                          100                 105                 110
              Asp Thr Leu Gly Ala Gly Ala Val Glu Phe Ile Ile Asn His Ala Glu
                      115                 120                 125
              Val Lys Ile Ala Phe Val Glu Glu Lys Lys Leu Pro Glu Leu Leu Lys
                  130                 135                 140
              Thr Phe Pro Asn Ala Ala Lys Tyr Leu Lys Thr Val Val Ser Phe Gly
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Val Thr Pro Gln Gln Lys Glu Glu Val Glu Asn Cys Gly Val Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Leu Tyr Ser Trp Asp Glu Phe Leu Gln Leu Gly Ser Glu Lys Gln Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Asp Leu Pro Val Lys Lys Lys Glu Asp Ile Cys Thr Ile Met Tyr Thr
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Gly Thr Thr Gly Asp Pro Lys Gly Val Leu Ile Ser Asn Asn Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Ile Val Thr Leu Ile Ala Gly Val Gln Arg Leu Leu Gly Ser Val Asn
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Glu Ser Leu Thr Val Asp Asp Val Tyr Leu Ser Tyr Leu Pro Leu Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              His Ile Phe Asp Arg Val Ile Glu Glu Cys Phe Ile Asn His Gly Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Ser Ile Gly Phe Trp Arg Gly Asp Val Lys Leu Leu Thr Glu Asp Ile
                      275                 280                 285
              Gly Glu Leu Lys Pro Thr Ile Phe Cys Ala Val Pro Arg Val Leu Asp
                  290                 295                 300
              Arg Ile Tyr Ser Gly Leu Gln Gln Lys Ile Ser Ser Gly Gly Arg Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Ser Thr Leu Phe Asn Leu Ala Tyr Ala Tyr Lys His Tyr Asn Leu
                              325                 330                 335
              Lys Lys Gly Arg Lys His Phe Glu Ala Ser Pro Leu Ser Asp Lys Val
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Phe Ser Lys Val Lys Glu Gly Leu Gly Gly Lys Val Arg Leu Ile
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Ser Gly Ala Ala Pro Leu Ala Ala His Val Glu Ala Phe Leu Arg
                  370                 375                 380
              Val Val Ala Cys Cys His Val Leu Gln Gly Tyr Gly Leu Thr Glu Thr
              385                 390                 395                 400

                                               87/104
<removed-date>
              Cys Ala Gly Thr Phe Val Ser Leu Pro Asn Gln Tyr Ala Met Leu Gly
                              405                 410                 415
              Thr Val Gly Pro Pro Val Pro Asn Val Asp Val Cys Leu Glu Ser Val
                          420                 425                 430
              Pro Glu Met Ala Tyr Asp Ala Leu Ser Ser Arg Pro Arg Gly Glu Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Cys Val Arg Gly Asp Thr Leu Phe Ser Gly Tyr Tyr Lys Arg Glu Asp
                  450                 455                 460
<removed-apn>
              Leu Thr Lys Glu Val Met Ile Asp Gly Trp Phe His Thr Gly Asp Ile
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Gly Glu Trp Gln Pro Asn Gly Ser Leu Lys Ile Ile Asp Arg Lys Lys
                              485                 490                 495
              Asn Ile Phe Lys Leu Ser Gln Gly Glu Tyr Val Ala Val Glu Asn Leu
                          500                 505                 510
              Glu Asn Ile Tyr Gly Asn Asn Pro Val Ile Asp Ser Ile Trp Ile Tyr
                      515                 520                 525
              Gly Asn Ser Phe Glu Ser Phe Leu Val Ala Val Leu Asn Pro Asn Gln
                  530                 535                 540
              Arg Ala Val Glu Gln Trp Ala Gln Gln Asn Gly Ile Ser Gly Asp Phe
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Asp Ser Leu Cys Glu Asn Pro Lys Val Lys Glu Tyr Ile Leu Gly Glu
                              565                 570                 575
              Leu Thr Lys Ala Gly Lys Glu Lys Lys Leu Lys Gly Phe Glu Phe Ile
                          580                 585                 590
              Lys Ala Val His Leu Asp Ala Gln Pro Phe Asp Met Glu Arg Asp Leu
                      595                 600                 605
              Leu Thr Pro Thr Phe Lys Lys Lys Arg Pro Gln Leu Leu Lys Tyr Tyr
                  610                 615                 620
              Lys Asp Val Ile Asp Ser Met Tyr Lys Thr Lys
              625                 630                 635
              <210>   93
              <211>   2091
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400> 93
              atggaatcat cggcagaacg acgtctgaaa gctattcaaa accatcttgt tccggtcatc   60
              gatgaccggt cactctcatt catccggtca aacccaaccg ccggcgaatt tgttcaaggt   120
              cagggtttca gcgtagttct tcctgaaaaa ttgcagacag gaaaatggaa tgtgtacaga   180
              tctgcacgat ctcctctgaa gcttattact agattccctg atcatcctga aattgctaca   240
              ctacatgata actttgaaca tgcagttcaa acctatcagg attacaaata cttgggtacc   300
              cgtattcggg tagatggaac tattggagac tacaaatgga tgacatatgg agaggcaggg   360
              actgctcgga ctgcaattgg ttctggactt cactattatg gattgcaacc gggtgctcgc   420
              gtgggacttt atttcataaa taggcctgag tggctgattg tagaccatgc ctgctcagca   480
              tattcatatt cttcagtccc actatatgac actcttggtc ctgatgctgt taaatatatt   540

                                               88/104
<removed-date>
              gtcaatcatg ctgacgtaca ggccattttt tgtgtgcctg gtaccttgaa cacgttgttg    600
              acctttttat cagagattcc ttctgtacgt ttgattgtgg tagtgggtgg gatagatgaa    660
              catctcccat ctcttccatc tacaacggga atgaagctct tatcatatac aaggctgctg    720
              agtcagggtc gcagcagtat gcaacccttt tgccctccca agcctgaaga cattgctacc    780
              atatgctata caagtggtac tacgggtaca ccgaagggtg tcgtactatc ccatgcgaac    840
              ctgatagcaa gtgttgcggg catgaccctt tccatcaagt tttatccttc tgacatatac    900
<removed-apn>
              atatcctatc ttcctctcgc gcacatctat gaacgtgcca accaaattac atcggcatat    960
              tatggtgttg ctgttggctt ctaccaaggg gacaatctga aattgatgga tgatttggcg   1020
              acacttagac ctacaatatt tagcagtgtt cctcgtctgt acaacaggat atatgctggg   1080
              atcacaaatg ctgtacaaac ttctggcatt ctgaagcaga gactgttcaa tgctgcctac   1140
              aactccaaga agcaagctgt catgaatggt agaaagccat caccaatgtg ggatagattg   1200
              gtattcaaca aaataaagga caaactgggg gggcgagttc gtcttatgac ctcaggtgct   1260
              tcaccattgt cgccagacgt gatggagttc ttgagagtat gttttggctg tctagttatg   1320
              gaagggtatg gcatgactga gacttcatgt gtcataagct caatggacga tagtgatctc   1380
              ttaactggtc atgttggttc accaaatcct gcgtgtgaga taaaactcgt ggatgttccg   1440
              gaaatgagtt acacatcaga agatcagcct catcctcgtg gagagatttg tgttagaggt   1500
              cctattattt ttgaaggcta ttacaaagat gaagtgcaga cgagggaggt aattgatgaa   1560
              gacgggtggc tgcatactgg tgatattgga ttatggttac ctggaggccg cttgaagatt   1620
              attgacagga agaagaatat cttcaagttg gcacaaggtg aatacatagc tcctgagaaa   1680
              attgagaatg tttatgccaa atgcaaattt gttgcacagt gctttgtcta tggtgatagc   1740
              tttaattcct ctttagtagc agtggtttgt gtagagccag atgtctttaa ggaatgggca   1800
              tcatctgagg gaatcaagta tgaaagtttg ggacaactgt gtattgatcc aagagcaaag   1860
              gctgcggttc ttgctgagat ggatgctgtg ggaaaggaag cgcagttgag aggtttcgaa   1920
              tttgcaaaag ctgtaacatt ggtaatcgag cctttcacga tcgaaaatgg tctgctcact   1980
              cccacattca aggtgaagag accgcaggca aaggcttatt ttgccaaagc aatatctgat   2040
              atgtataatg agctttctac atcagatcca gtatcccaga aatcgctatg a            2091
              <210>   94
              <211>   696
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400>   94
              Met Glu Ser Ser Ala Glu Arg Arg Leu Lys Ala Ile Gln Asn His Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Pro Val Ile Asp Asp Arg Ser Leu Ser Phe Ile Arg Ser Asn Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Ala Gly Glu Phe Val Gln Gly Gln Gly Phe Ser Val Val Leu Pro
                      35                  40                  45

                                               89/104
<removed-date>
              Glu Lys Leu Gln Thr Gly Lys Trp Asn Val Tyr Arg Ser Ala Arg Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Pro Leu Lys Leu Ile Thr Arg Phe Pro Asp His Pro Glu Ile Ala Thr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu His Asp Asn Phe Glu His Ala Val Gln Thr Tyr Gln Asp Tyr Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Tyr Leu Gly Thr Arg Ile Arg Val Asp Gly Thr Ile Gly Asp Tyr Lys
                          100                 105                 110
              Trp Met Thr Tyr Gly Glu Ala Gly Thr Ala Arg Thr Ala Ile Gly Ser
<removed-apn>
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Leu His Tyr Tyr Gly Leu Gln Pro Gly Ala Arg Val Gly Leu Tyr
                  130                 135                 140
              Phe Ile Asn Arg Pro Glu Trp Leu Ile Val Asp His Ala Cys Ser Ala
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Ser Tyr Ser Ser Val Pro Leu Tyr Asp Thr Leu Gly Pro Asp Ala
                              165                 170                 175
              Val Lys Tyr Ile Val Asn His Ala Asp Val Gln Ala Ile Phe Cys Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Pro Gly Thr Leu Asn Thr Leu Leu Thr Phe Leu Ser Glu Ile Pro Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Val Arg Leu Ile Val Val Val Gly Gly Ile Asp Glu His Leu Pro Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Pro Ser Thr Thr Gly Met Lys Leu Leu Ser Tyr Thr Arg Leu Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Gln Gly Arg Ser Ser Met Gln Pro Phe Cys Pro Pro Lys Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
              Asp Ile Ala Thr Ile Cys Tyr Thr Ser Gly Thr Thr Gly Thr Pro Lys
                          260                 265                 270
              Gly Val Val Leu Ser His Ala Asn Leu Ile Ala Ser Val Ala Gly Met
                      275                 280                 285
              Thr Leu Ser Ile Lys Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Leu Ala His Ile Tyr Glu Arg Ala Asn Gln Ile Thr Ser Ala Tyr
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Gly Val Ala Val Gly Phe Tyr Gln Gly Asp Asn Leu Lys Leu Met
                              325                 330                 335
              Asp Asp Leu Ala Thr Leu Arg Pro Thr Ile Phe Ser Ser Val Pro Arg
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Tyr Asn Arg Ile Tyr Ala Gly Ile Thr Asn Ala Val Gln Thr Ser
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Ile Leu Lys Gln Arg Leu Phe Asn Ala Ala Tyr Asn Ser Lys Lys
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Ala Val Met Asn Gly Arg Lys Pro Ser Pro Met Trp Asp Arg Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Val Phe Asn Lys Ile Lys Asp Lys Leu Gly Gly Arg Val Arg Leu Met
                              405                 410                 415

                                                90/104
<removed-date>
              Thr Ser Gly Ala Ser Pro Leu Ser Pro Asp Val Met Glu Phe Leu Arg
                          420                 425                 430
              Val Cys Phe Gly Cys Leu Val Met Glu Gly Tyr Gly Met Thr Glu Thr
                      435                 440                 445
              Ser Cys Val Ile Ser Ser Met Asp Asp Ser Asp Leu Leu Thr Gly His
                  450                 455                 460
              Val Gly Ser Pro Asn Pro Ala Cys Glu Ile Lys Leu Val Asp Val Pro
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Glu Met Ser Tyr Thr Ser Glu Asp Gln Pro His Pro Arg Gly Glu Ile
<removed-apn>
                              485                 490                 495
              Cys Val Arg Gly Pro Ile Ile Phe Glu Gly Tyr Tyr Lys Asp Glu Val
                          500                 505                 510
              Gln Thr Arg Glu Val Ile Asp Glu Asp Gly Trp Leu His Thr Gly Asp
                      515                 520                 525
              Ile Gly Leu Trp Leu Pro Gly Gly Arg Leu Lys Ile Ile Asp Arg Lys
                  530                 535                 540
              Lys Asn Ile Phe Lys Leu Ala Gln Gly Glu Tyr Ile Ala Pro Glu Lys
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Ile Glu Asn Val Tyr Ala Lys Cys Lys Phe Val Ala Gln Cys Phe Val
                              565                 570                 575
              Tyr Gly Asp Ser Phe Asn Ser Ser Leu Val Ala Val Val Cys Val Glu
                          580                 585                 590
              Pro Asp Val Phe Lys Glu Trp Ala Ser Ser Glu Gly Ile Lys Tyr Glu
                      595                 600                 605
              Ser Leu Gly Gln Leu Cys Ile Asp Pro Arg Ala Lys Ala Ala Val Leu
                  610                 615                 620
              Ala Glu Met Asp Ala Val Gly Lys Glu Ala Gln Leu Arg Gly Phe Glu
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Phe Ala Lys Ala Val Thr Leu Val Ile Glu Pro Phe Thr Ile Glu Asn
                              645                 650                 655
              Gly Leu Leu Thr Pro Thr Phe Lys Val Lys Arg Pro Gln Ala Lys Ala
                          660                 665                 670
              Tyr Phe Ala Lys Ala Ile Ser Asp Met Tyr Asn Glu Leu Ser Thr Ser
                      675                 680                 685
              Asp Pro Val Ser Gln Lys Ser Leu
                  690                 695
              <210>   95
              <211>   3354
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400> 95
              atggcgtcga tggaacagtt ggtgacgggt gacggcggag gaggaggagg accgcggtac   60
              gtgcagatgc aatctgagcc ggagccatca acattatcgt cgttttactc gtttcatcag   120
              gatagtagcc atgaatcaac tcgaattttc gatgaattgc cttcggctac gatcattcag   180
              gtctctcgtc ctgacgccgg cgacatcagc cccatgcttc tcacttatac cattgaagtc   240
              cattacaaac agttcaagtg gcaattggtg aagaaagcgt cacatgtatt ttatttacat   300

                                               91/104
<removed-date>
              tttgcattaa agaagcgtgc attcattgag gagattcatg agaagcaaga gcaggtcaaa    360
              gaatggctcc aaaacttggg gataggagat catacaactg taattcaaga cgaggatgaa    420
              cctgatgatg aggctagtcc tctacgtgct gaggaaagtt ttaaatacag agatgttcca    480
              tcaagtgctg ctttgccaat aattcggcca accctgggaa ggcaacactc gatgtcagat    540
              cgagcaaaaa gtgctatgca gggttatttg aatcactttc ttggaaacat agatattgtc    600
              aattcccagg aggtgtgcag gtttctggaa gtctctaaat tatccttttc tccagagtat    660
<removed-apn>
              ggtcctaagc tgaaagaaga ctatattatg gtgaagcact taccaaaaat tcaaagacac    720
              gatgatagtc ggaaatgttg ttcatgtcag tggtttggct gctgtaaaga caactggcag    780
              aaggtgtggg ctgtattaaa acctggattc ctggctttcc tcaaagatcc atctgacccc    840
              gagccgttag atataatagt ttttgatgta ttaccagctt ccgacggaaa tggagagggc    900
              cgcgtttctt tagcaaaaga aataaaggat ggaaaccctt tacgccacta ttttagggtg    960
              tcttgtggta caaggtgtat taaactgagg actaagagca atgcaaaggt taaagactgg   1020
              gtagtagcaa ttaacgatgc agggcttagg ccacccgagg gttggtgtca tccgcaccgt   1080
              tttggttctt atgttcctcc taggggtttg acagaggatg gcagtcaggc tcagtggttt   1140
              gttgatggtg aatcagcttt tgaagccata gcgttggcta ttgaagaagc aaagtcagag   1200
              atctttatgt gtggctggtg gctgtgccca gaactttata tgcgacgtcc ctttcaccct   1260
              aatgcactct cccggcttga tgctttactg gaagccaaag caaaacaagg agttcagatt   1320
              tacatccttc tatacaaaga ggttgctatt gctttaaaaa tcaacagtgt gtatagcaag   1380
              agaaagcttt taggcatcca tgagaatgtc agggtgcttc gttatccgga tcatttttca   1440
              agtggtgtgt atctatggtc ccatcatgaa aaaattgtca ttgttgacaa tcagatttgc   1500
              tttatcggag gactggacct gtgctttggc cgttatgatt catctgaaca caaagtgggt   1560
              gattgtccac ctcttatatg gcctggaaaa gactattaca atccaaggga atctgaacca   1620
              aattcctggg aagataccat gaaggatgaa ttggatcgga ataaatatcc acgcatgcca   1680
              tggcatgatg tccattgcgc cctctgggga tcgccgtgcc gtgatattgc tcgacacttt   1740
              gttcagcgct ggaattatgc gaagaggaac aaagctccac gtgagcaagc aattccgttg   1800
              cttatgcctc agcaccacat ggttattcct cattacatgg gaatgagcaa cgagatggaa   1860
              aatggaagta atggtgttgc tcttcctcat aaaaaaatca agagacatga ttcattttct   1920
              tcagggtcat cttcccaaga cattcctttg cttatgcctc aggaagctga agggggtgaa   1980
              agttttaagg aagaactaaa aataaacggc ttccatacag ggaatggttt tcatgatcag   2040
              cggagcaggt ctagcagaat ccctttctct ttccggagga cccgagtaga acctctagtt   2100
              ccagatttac caatgaaagg atttgtggat gatttggacc aaaatctgga gctatcttca   2160
              aatggggtgc agcctggcat gaagaagtcg gacaaagatt ggtgggaaac acaggagaga   2220
              ggcgatcaag ttgtttccct tgaagaaagt gggcaagttg gtcctcgtgt ttcatgtcgt   2280
              tgccaggtta taaggagtgt cagtcaatgg tcagctggaa caagtcaaat tgaagaaagc   2340

                                               92/104
<removed-date>
              atacacaatg cttactgctc ccttatcgaa aaggctgaac attttgttta catagagaat   2400
              caatttttca tttctggtct atctggggat gaaattataa aaaatcgtgt tttggaagca   2460
              ttgtacaggc gtattatgcg agcttataat gaaaaaaagt ccttcagggt tatcattgtg   2520
              ataccgcttc ttcctggatt ccagggtggt ctggatgata gtggtgctgc ttcagttaga   2580
              gctattatgc attggcaata tcgaacaata tgcaggggat ctaattcgat actgcataat   2640
              cttaatgacc tcatgggatc tagaatgcac gactatatat cattttatgg tctcagagct   2700
              tatggaagac tcttcgatgg tggccctatt gcatctagcc aggtatatgt gcatagcaag   2760
<removed-apn>
              atcatgattg tcgatgacca tacagccttg attggatctg gaaatataaa tgacagaagc   2820
              ttgcttggtt caagagactc tgagattggt gtaattatcg aggacaaaga gttcgttgat   2880
              tcattcatgg gaggcaagcc taggaaggcg gggaaatttg cattaactct tcgcctttct   2940
              ctatggtctg agcaccttgg tcttcgtact gttgaggttg gtcgaattaa ggacccggtg   3000
              attgattcaa catacaagga tatttggatt gcaacggcta agacaaatac aatgatatac   3060
              caggatgttt tttcttgcat acccaacgat ctgatacatt ccagggcttc actccgacaa   3120
              tgcatggcat tctcgaaaga aaaacttggt cacacgacca ttgatttagg aatagctcca   3180
              agcaagctag aatcttatca ggatggagat atcgagtgta tagatcccat ggagagatta   3240
              aagtctgtga aaggtcatct tgtttccttc cctttggatt ttatgtgcaa agaagattta   3300
              agacctgtat ttaatgaaag tgagtactat gcgtctgctc aagtttttca ttga         3354
              <210>   96
              <211>   1117
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400>   96
              Met Ala Ser Met Glu Gln Leu Val Thr Gly Asp Gly Gly Gly Gly Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Pro Arg Tyr Val Gln Met Gln Ser Glu Pro Glu Pro Ser Thr Leu
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Ser Phe Tyr Ser Phe His Gln Asp Ser Ser His Glu Ser Thr Arg
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Phe Asp Glu Leu Pro Ser Ala Thr Ile Ile Gln Val Ser Arg Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Ala Gly Asp Ile Ser Pro Met Leu Leu Thr Tyr Thr Ile Glu Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Tyr Lys Gln Phe Lys Trp Gln Leu Val Lys Lys Ala Ser His Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Phe Tyr Leu His Phe Ala Leu Lys Lys Arg Ala Phe Ile Glu Glu Ile
                          100                 105                 110
              His Glu Lys Gln Glu Gln Val Lys Glu Trp Leu Gln Asn Leu Gly Ile
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Asp His Thr Thr Val Ile Gln Asp Glu Asp Glu Pro Asp Asp Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Ser Pro Leu Arg Ala Glu Glu Ser Phe Lys Tyr Arg Asp Val Pro

                                               93/104
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Ser Ala Ala Leu Pro Ile Ile Arg Pro Thr Leu Gly Arg Gln His
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Met Ser Asp Arg Ala Lys Ser Ala Met Gln Gly Tyr Leu Asn His
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Leu Gly Asn Ile Asp Ile Val Asn Ser Gln Glu Val Cys Arg Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Leu Glu Val Ser Lys Leu Ser Phe Ser Pro Glu Tyr Gly Pro Lys Leu
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Lys Glu Asp Tyr Ile Met Val Lys His Leu Pro Lys Ile Gln Arg His
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Asp Asp Ser Arg Lys Cys Cys Ser Cys Gln Trp Phe Gly Cys Cys Lys
                              245                 250                 255
              Asp Asn Trp Gln Lys Val Trp Ala Val Leu Lys Pro Gly Phe Leu Ala
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Leu Lys Asp Pro Ser Asp Pro Glu Pro Leu Asp Ile Ile Val Phe
                      275                 280                 285
              Asp Val Leu Pro Ala Ser Asp Gly Asn Gly Glu Gly Arg Val Ser Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Ala Lys Glu Ile Lys Asp Gly Asn Pro Leu Arg His Tyr Phe Arg Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ser Cys Gly Thr Arg Cys Ile Lys Leu Arg Thr Lys Ser Asn Ala Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Val Lys Asp Trp Val Val Ala Ile Asn Asp Ala Gly Leu Arg Pro Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              Glu Gly Trp Cys His Pro His Arg Phe Gly Ser Tyr Val Pro Pro Arg
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Leu Thr Glu Asp Gly Ser Gln Ala Gln Trp Phe Val Asp Gly Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Ala Phe Glu Ala Ile Ala Leu Ala Ile Glu Glu Ala Lys Ser Glu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ile Phe Met Cys Gly Trp Trp Leu Cys Pro Glu Leu Tyr Met Arg Arg
                              405                 410                 415
              Pro Phe His Pro Asn Ala Leu Ser Arg Leu Asp Ala Leu Leu Glu Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Lys Ala Lys Gln Gly Val Gln Ile Tyr Ile Leu Leu Tyr Lys Glu Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Ala Ile Ala Leu Lys Ile Asn Ser Val Tyr Ser Lys Arg Lys Leu Leu
                  450                 455                 460
              Gly Ile His Glu Asn Val Arg Val Leu Arg Tyr Pro Asp His Phe Ser
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Ser Gly Val Tyr Leu Trp Ser His His Glu Lys Ile Val Ile Val Asp
                              485                 490                 495
              Asn Gln Ile Cys Phe Ile Gly Gly Leu Asp Leu Cys Phe Gly Arg Tyr
                          500                 505                 510
              Asp Ser Ser Glu His Lys Val Gly Asp Cys Pro Pro Leu Ile Trp Pro

                                               94/104
<removed-date>
                     515                 520                 525
              Gly Lys Asp Tyr Tyr Asn Pro Arg Glu Ser Glu Pro Asn Ser Trp Glu
                  530                 535                 540
              Asp Thr Met Lys Asp Glu Leu Asp Arg Asn Lys Tyr Pro Arg Met Pro
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Trp His Asp Val His Cys Ala Leu Trp Gly Ser Pro Cys Arg Asp Ile
                              565                 570                 575
              Ala Arg His Phe Val Gln Arg Trp Asn Tyr Ala Lys Arg Asn Lys Ala
                          580                 585                 590
<removed-apn>
              Pro Arg Glu Gln Ala Ile Pro Leu Leu Met Pro Gln His His Met Val
                      595                 600                 605
              Ile Pro His Tyr Met Gly Met Ser Asn Glu Met Glu Asn Gly Ser Asn
                  610                 615                 620
              Gly Val Ala Leu Pro His Lys Lys Ile Lys Arg His Asp Ser Phe Ser
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Ser Gly Ser Ser Ser Gln Asp Ile Pro Leu Leu Met Pro Gln Glu Ala
                              645                 650                 655
              Glu Gly Gly Glu Ser Phe Lys Glu Glu Leu Lys Ile Asn Gly Phe His
                          660                 665                 670
              Thr Gly Asn Gly Phe His Asp Gln Arg Ser Arg Ser Ser Arg Ile Pro
                      675                 680                 685
              Phe Ser Phe Arg Arg Thr Arg Val Glu Pro Leu Val Pro Asp Leu Pro
                  690                 695                 700
              Met Lys Gly Phe Val Asp Asp Leu Asp Gln Asn Leu Glu Leu Ser Ser
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Asn Gly Val Gln Pro Gly Met Lys Lys Ser Asp Lys Asp Trp Trp Glu
                              725                 730                 735
              Thr Gln Glu Arg Gly Asp Gln Val Val Ser Leu Glu Glu Ser Gly Gln
                          740                 745                 750
              Val Gly Pro Arg Val Ser Cys Arg Cys Gln Val Ile Arg Ser Val Ser
                      755                 760                 765
              Gln Trp Ser Ala Gly Thr Ser Gln Ile Glu Glu Ser Ile His Asn Ala
                  770                 775                 780
              Tyr Cys Ser Leu Ile Glu Lys Ala Glu His Phe Val Tyr Ile Glu Asn
              785                 790                 795                 800
              Gln Phe Phe Ile Ser Gly Leu Ser Gly Asp Glu Ile Ile Lys Asn Arg
                              805                 810                 815
              Val Leu Glu Ala Leu Tyr Arg Arg Ile Met Arg Ala Tyr Asn Glu Lys
                          820                 825                 830
              Lys Ser Phe Arg Val Ile Ile Val Ile Pro Leu Leu Pro Gly Phe Gln
                      835                 840                 845
              Gly Gly Leu Asp Asp Ser Gly Ala Ala Ser Val Arg Ala Ile Met His
                  850                 855                 860
              Trp Gln Tyr Arg Thr Ile Cys Arg Gly Ser Asn Ser Ile Leu His Asn
              865                 870                 875                 880
              Leu Asn Asp Leu Met Gly Ser Arg Met His Asp Tyr Ile Ser Phe Tyr

                                               95/104
<removed-date>
                                885               890                 895
              Gly Leu Arg Ala Tyr Gly Arg Leu Phe Asp Gly Gly Pro Ile Ala Ser
                          900                 905                 910
              Ser Gln Val Tyr Val His Ser Lys Ile Met Ile Val Asp Asp His Thr
                      915                 920                 925
              Ala Leu Ile Gly Ser Gly Asn Ile Asn Asp Arg Ser Leu Leu Gly Ser
                  930                 935                 940
              Arg Asp Ser Glu Ile Gly Val Ile Ile Glu Asp Lys Glu Phe Val Asp
              945                 950                 955                 960
<removed-apn>
              Ser Phe Met Gly Gly Lys Pro Arg Lys Ala Gly Lys Phe Ala Leu Thr
                              965                 970                 975
              Leu Arg Leu Ser Leu Trp Ser Glu His Leu Gly Leu Arg Thr Val Glu
                          980                 985                 990
              Val Gly Arg Ile Lys Asp Pro Val Ile Asp Ser Thr Tyr Lys Asp Ile
                      995                 1000                1005
              Trp Ile Ala Thr Ala Lys Thr Asn Thr Met Ile Tyr Gln Asp Val
                  1010                1015                1020
              Phe Ser Cys Ile Pro Asn Asp Leu Ile His Ser Arg Ala Ser Leu
                  1025                1030                1035
              Arg Gln Cys Met Ala Phe Ser Lys Glu Lys Leu Gly His Thr Thr
                  1040                1045                1050
              Ile Asp Leu Gly Ile Ala Pro Ser Lys Leu Glu Ser Tyr Gln Asp
                  1055                1060                1065
              Gly Asp Ile Glu Cys Ile Asp Pro Met Glu Arg Leu Lys Ser Val
                  1070                1075                1080
              Lys Gly His Leu Val Ser Phe Pro Leu Asp Phe Met Cys Lys Glu
                  1085                1090                1095
              Asp Leu Arg Pro Val Phe Asn Glu Ser Glu Tyr Tyr Ala Ser Ala
                  1100                1105                1110
              Gln Val Phe His
                  1115
              <210>   97
              <211>   3165
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400> 97
              atgtcgacgg agaaactgat agagaatgcg ccggcgtcgg caatgtcatc aatgcattcc   60
              cttcgttgct acgtcgagcc ggcgacgatc tttgaggaat tgcccaaagc gactatcatt   120
              gcggtttcaa gagcagatgc tagtgatata agccctttgc ttttgtcata cacaattgaa   180
              gtccagtaca agcagttcaa gtggcgctta gttaagaagg cctcacaagt tgtttatttg   240
              cactttgcat tgaggaaacg tgcaataatt gaggaactcc atggaaaaca agagcaggtt   300
              aaagaatggc ttcaccacat tggtatagga gaacaaacag ctgtcataca tgatgatgct   360
              gaacccgatg atggtgctat gcaaatttac agtgaagata gtattagaaa caggtatgtt   420
              ccatcccggg ctgctttatc aatcattcgt ccagcattgg gcaggcagca aaccattaca   480

                                               96/104
<removed-date>
              gaaaaaggga aaattgctat gcaaaagtat ctgaatcatt ttttggggaa tttggacatt    540
              gtaaattctc gagaggtgtg caagtttttg gaggtatcca agttatcatt cttaccagaa    600
              tatggcccaa agctcaagga aaattacgta atggttaaga atttgttgaa agttcccaaa    660
              gacgaggagg atgcgggatg ttgcatatgt tattggtctg gctgctgcaa gagcaagtgg    720
              caaaaggttt gggctgtttt aaaacctggt tacttggcct tactaaacaa tccttttgat    780
              gcaaaattac tggacattat tgtgttcgat gtgcttccaa catctaatga gaagggagag    840
              aagccagtat acttagcaga ggaagtaaga gaaaaaaatc ctttgcgata tgcatttaag    900
<removed-apn>
              gtttgttgtg ggaaccgcat ggtaaagttt agaaccacga gcaatgccaa agtcgatgat    960
              tggatatctg caatcaatga tgctgttctt aaacctccgg agggttggtg taacccgcac   1020
              cgctttggtt cttttgctcc attgaggggg acatatgatg atgccactca agctcagtgg   1080
              tttatagatg gtaaagcagc atttaaggca attgcttcct caatagagag tgcaaaatct   1140
              gagatctata taactggatg gtggctttgc ccagaactgt acttgagacg tccatttcac   1200
              aaccatagct catctagact tgatgcatta cttgagacta aagccaaaga aggggtccag   1260
              atttatattc ttctctacaa ggaggtttct attgctttaa agattaacag tttatacagt   1320
              aaaagacagc ttctgaaaat tcacaaaaat gttaaagtcc tgcgatatcc gaaccatttc   1380
              tctgcgggga tctacttgtg gtcgcaccat gaaaagattg tcattataga caacaagatt   1440
              tgttatattg gaggtctaga tttatgtttt ggccgttatg acacaagaga acacaacgtg   1500
              gctgatctgc ctccttctat ttggcctggg aaggactact ataacccaag agaatccgag   1560
              ccaaattctt gggaagatgc catgaaagat gaattagatc gagagaaata tccccgaatg   1620
              ccatggcatg atgtccactg tgctctattg ggaccacctt gccgagacat tgccagacac   1680
              ttcgttcagc gctggaatca tgctaagaga agcaaagctc caaatgaaca gacaatacca   1740
              ctgcttatgc cacagcatca catggttctt ccgcactaca tggggagaag cagacaagtt   1800
              gaggctgaaa ctaagacagc tgagctgaaa cctgaagacc tgaatggaca agatccgttt   1860
              ccgtctgggt caccaccgga agacctccca ctacttttac cccaggaagc tgattgtgac   1920
              aacggggcct ccagtgagga tgagaagttg gctgatgatc ttcatcgcct agatctccaa   1980
              agccgaatgg gaacttacca acaagataat tggtgggaga cacaagagcg agtagcagaa   2040
              gtggtttcaa cagatgaatt agcagatgtt ggtcctcggg cccgttgtca ctgtcaggtc   2100
              attagaagtg tcagccaatg gtctgctgga acaactcaaa ctgaagagag cattcacaaa   2160
              gcttattgtt ctcttattga agaagcagaa cattttgtgt tcattgagaa tcaatttttt   2220
              atctcgggtc ttgctggaga tgaaactata agcaatcgcg tagctgatgc tttatacaga   2280
              cgtatactgc gagcacacaa agaacataga tgtttcaggg ttataatagt gatcccacta   2340
              ttacctggtt ttcagggagg tcttgatgac attggggcag caactgtgag agccttaatg   2400
              cactggcaat accggacaat ttccaagagc aacaattcaa tattgcacaa tcttaatgct   2460
              ctgttgggtc cagaaacccg tgattacata tctttttatg gtctaaggac gtatggccag   2520
              ctttctgatg ttggccccat gttcaccagt caggtctatg tacatagtaa agtgatgata   2580

                                               97/104
<removed-date>
              gtggatgacc gtatagcctt gattggatca tctaatataa atgacagaag tttgcttgga   2640
              tctcgcgact ctgagatttg tgtagtcatt gaagataaag atttcattga ttcatccatg   2700
              gacggaaagc cttggaaggc tggaaaattt gcttttagcc ttcggatttc tttgtgggca   2760
              gagcaccttg gtttacatgc tgaagagatt tgtcaaatca aagatcccgt tgctgactct   2820
              tcttacaaag atatatggat ggcaactgca gagtggaatg ccacaattta ccaagacgtg   2880
              ttctcttgca tcccaaatga tcttgttcac tcaagatctg aacttcgaca atgtaggaac   2940
<removed-apn>
              ctctggaaag ataagcttgg gcacactact attgatttag gtgtcgctcc tgataaacat   3000
              gaatttcacg ataatgggct agtaactgta gagaatacga aagagaggtt aaagtcggtc   3060
              aaaggacatc ttgtttcttt tccattggag ttcatgcgtg aagaagatct gagaccgggg   3120
              tttatcgaga ctgagtttta tacttctcct caagtgttcc attaa                   3165
              <210>   98
              <211>   1054
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400>   98
              Met Ser Thr Glu Lys Leu Ile Glu Asn Ala Pro Ala Ser Ala Met Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ser Met His Ser Leu Arg Cys Tyr Val Glu Pro Ala Thr Ile Phe Glu
                          20                  25                  30
              Glu Leu Pro Lys Ala Thr Ile Ile Ala Val Ser Arg Ala Asp Ala Ser
                      35                  40                  45
              Asp Ile Ser Pro Leu Leu Leu Ser Tyr Thr Ile Glu Val Gln Tyr Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Phe Lys Trp Arg Leu Val Lys Lys Ala Ser Gln Val Val Tyr Leu
              65                  70                  75                  80
              His Phe Ala Leu Arg Lys Arg Ala Ile Ile Glu Glu Leu His Gly Lys
                              85                  90                  95
              Gln Glu Gln Val Lys Glu Trp Leu His His Ile Gly Ile Gly Glu Gln
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Ala Val Ile His Asp Asp Ala Glu Pro Asp Asp Gly Ala Met Gln
                      115                 120                 125
              Ile Tyr Ser Glu Asp Ser Ile Arg Asn Arg Tyr Val Pro Ser Arg Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Ala Leu Ser Ile Ile Arg Pro Ala Leu Gly Arg Gln Gln Thr Ile Thr
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Lys Gly Lys Ile Ala Met Gln Lys Tyr Leu Asn His Phe Leu Gly
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Leu Asp Ile Val Asn Ser Arg Glu Val Cys Lys Phe Leu Glu Val
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Leu Ser Phe Leu Pro Glu Tyr Gly Pro Lys Leu Lys Glu Asn
                      195                 200                 205
              Tyr Val Met Val Lys Asn Leu Leu Lys Val Pro Lys Asp Glu Glu Asp
                  210                 215                 220

                                               98/104
<removed-date>
              Ala Gly Cys Cys Ile Cys Tyr Trp Ser Gly Cys Cys Lys Ser Lys Trp
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gln Lys Val Trp Ala Val Leu Lys Pro Gly Tyr Leu Ala Leu Leu Asn
                              245                 250                 255
              Asn Pro Phe Asp Ala Lys Leu Leu Asp Ile Ile Val Phe Asp Val Leu
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Thr Ser Asn Glu Lys Gly Glu Lys Pro Val Tyr Leu Ala Glu Glu
                      275                 280                 285
<removed-apn>
              Val Arg Glu Lys Asn Pro Leu Arg Tyr Ala Phe Lys Val Cys Cys Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Asn Arg Met Val Lys Phe Arg Thr Thr Ser Asn Ala Lys Val Asp Asp
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Trp Ile Ser Ala Ile Asn Asp Ala Val Leu Lys Pro Pro Glu Gly Trp
                              325                 330                 335
              Cys Asn Pro His Arg Phe Gly Ser Phe Ala Pro Leu Arg Gly Thr Tyr
                          340                 345                 350
              Asp Asp Ala Thr Gln Ala Gln Trp Phe Ile Asp Gly Lys Ala Ala Phe
                      355                 360                 365
              Lys Ala Ile Ala Ser Ser Ile Glu Ser Ala Lys Ser Glu Ile Tyr Ile
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Gly Trp Trp Leu Cys Pro Glu Leu Tyr Leu Arg Arg Pro Phe His
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asn His Ser Ser Ser Arg Leu Asp Ala Leu Leu Glu Thr Lys Ala Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Gly Val Gln Ile Tyr Ile Leu Leu Tyr Lys Glu Val Ser Ile Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu Lys Ile Asn Ser Leu Tyr Ser Lys Arg Gln Leu Leu Lys Ile His
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys Asn Val Lys Val Leu Arg Tyr Pro Asn His Phe Ser Ala Gly Ile
                  450                 455                 460
              Tyr Leu Trp Ser His His Glu Lys Ile Val Ile Ile Asp Asn Lys Ile
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Cys Tyr Ile Gly Gly Leu Asp Leu Cys Phe Gly Arg Tyr Asp Thr Arg
                              485                 490                 495
              Glu His Asn Val Ala Asp Leu Pro Pro Ser Ile Trp Pro Gly Lys Asp
                          500                 505                 510
              Tyr Tyr Asn Pro Arg Glu Ser Glu Pro Asn Ser Trp Glu Asp Ala Met
                      515                 520                 525
              Lys Asp Glu Leu Asp Arg Glu Lys Tyr Pro Arg Met Pro Trp His Asp
                  530                 535                 540
              Val His Cys Ala Leu Leu Gly Pro Pro Cys Arg Asp Ile Ala Arg His
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Phe Val Gln Arg Trp Asn His Ala Lys Arg Ser Lys Ala Pro Asn Glu
                              565                 570                 575
              Gln Thr Ile Pro Leu Leu Met Pro Gln His His Met Val Leu Pro His
                          580                 585                 590

                                               99/104
<removed-date>
              Tyr Met Gly Arg Ser Arg Gln Val Glu Ala Glu Thr Lys Thr Ala Glu
                      595                 600                 605
              Leu Lys Pro Glu Asp Leu Asn Gly Gln Asp Pro Phe Pro Ser Gly Ser
                  610                 615                 620
              Pro Pro Glu Asp Leu Pro Leu Leu Leu Pro Gln Glu Ala Asp Cys Asp
              625                 630                 635                 640
              Asn Gly Ala Ser Ser Glu Asp Glu Lys Leu Ala Asp Asp Leu His Arg
                              645                 650                 655
<removed-apn>
              Leu Asp Leu Gln Ser Arg Met Gly Thr Tyr Gln Gln Asp Asn Trp Trp
                          660                 665                 670
              Glu Thr Gln Glu Arg Val Ala Glu Val Val Ser Thr Asp Glu Leu Ala
                      675                 680                 685
              Asp Val Gly Pro Arg Ala Arg Cys His Cys Gln Val Ile Arg Ser Val
                  690                 695                 700
              Ser Gln Trp Ser Ala Gly Thr Thr Gln Thr Glu Glu Ser Ile His Lys
              705                 710                 715                 720
              Ala Tyr Cys Ser Leu Ile Glu Glu Ala Glu His Phe Val Phe Ile Glu
                              725                 730                 735
              Asn Gln Phe Phe Ile Ser Gly Leu Ala Gly Asp Glu Thr Ile Ser Asn
                          740                 745                 750
              Arg Val Ala Asp Ala Leu Tyr Arg Arg Ile Leu Arg Ala His Lys Glu
                      755                 760                 765
              His Arg Cys Phe Arg Val Ile Ile Val Ile Pro Leu Leu Pro Gly Phe
                  770                 775                 780
              Gln Gly Gly Leu Asp Asp Ile Gly Ala Ala Thr Val Arg Ala Leu Met
              785                 790                 795                 800
              His Trp Gln Tyr Arg Thr Ile Ser Lys Ser Asn Asn Ser Ile Leu His
                              805                 810                 815
              Asn Leu Asn Ala Leu Leu Gly Pro Glu Thr Arg Asp Tyr Ile Ser Phe
                          820                 825                 830
              Tyr Gly Leu Arg Thr Tyr Gly Gln Leu Ser Asp Val Gly Pro Met Phe
                      835                 840                 845
              Thr Ser Gln Val Tyr Val His Ser Lys Val Met Ile Val Asp Asp Arg
                  850                 855                 860
              Ile Ala Leu Ile Gly Ser Ser Asn Ile Asn Asp Arg Ser Leu Leu Gly
              865                 870                 875                 880
              Ser Arg Asp Ser Glu Ile Cys Val Val Ile Glu Asp Lys Asp Phe Ile
                              885                 890                 895
              Asp Ser Ser Met Asp Gly Lys Pro Trp Lys Ala Gly Lys Phe Ala Phe
                          900                 905                 910
              Ser Leu Arg Ile Ser Leu Trp Ala Glu His Leu Gly Leu His Ala Glu
                      915                 920                 925
              Glu Ile Cys Gln Ile Lys Asp Pro Val Ala Asp Ser Ser Tyr Lys Asp
                  930                 935                 940
              Ile Trp Met Ala Thr Ala Glu Trp Asn Ala Thr Ile Tyr Gln Asp Val
              945                 950                 955                 960

                                              100/104
<removed-date>
              Phe Ser Cys Ile Pro Asn Asp Leu Val His Ser Arg Ser Glu Leu Arg
                              965                 970                 975
              Gln Cys Arg Asn Leu Trp Lys Asp Lys Leu Gly His Thr Thr Ile Asp
                          980                 985                 990
              Leu Gly Val Ala Pro Asp Lys His Glu Phe His Asp Asn Gly Leu Val
                      995                 1000                1005
              Thr Val Glu Asn Thr Lys Glu Arg Leu Lys Ser Val Lys Gly His
                  1010                1015                1020
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Ser Phe Pro Leu Glu Phe Met Arg Glu Glu Asp Leu Arg
                  1025                1030                1035
              Pro Gly Phe Ile Glu Thr Glu Phe Tyr Thr Ser Pro Gln Val Phe
                  1040                1045                1050
              His
              <210>   99
              <211>   1392
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400> 99
              atggggctgc cggagatgga atcaatggcg tcggcgatcg gagtatcagt gccggtgctc     60
              cgtttcttgc tttgttttgt cgccacaatt ccggtgagct tcctccaccg ttttgtccct    120
              agcgccgtcg gtagacacct ctacgccgcc gttaccggcg ctgttctctc gtacctgtca    180
              tttggtttct cctcaaatct tcacttcttt gggcctatgc ttctgggtta tgtttctatg    240
              gttctctctc gccgttactg cgggatcatc actttcttcg ccgcgtttgg ataccttatt    300
              ggatgccatg tatactacat gagtggagac gcatggaagg aaggaggaat tgatgctaca    360
              ggagctctaa tggtcataac gctgaaaata atttcatgtg tgattaatta ccaagatgga    420
              ttgttgaagg aggaagattt gcgtgaggct cagaagaaaa atcgtctgct caaattgcca    480
              tcgttacttg agtacgttgg ttgttgtctc tgttgtggaa gtcattttgc aggtccagtg    540
              tatgagatga aggattacct tgactggaca gagagaaaag gaatctggaa accttcagag    600
              aagggaaatc cctcaccttt agggtcaact ttaagggctc ttcttcaagc tgctatttgt    660
              atggggttgt atctctacct ggtgcctctt tttccacttt ccaggttcac tgatccttta    720
              taccaagaat ggggtttctt caaacggtcg ggttaccaat atatggcttg ctttaccgcc    780
              cggtggaaat attattttat ctggtcaatt tctgaagctg ctatcatcat atccggacta    840
              gggttcagtg gttggacaaa ctcttcttca ccaaaaccac gttgggaccg tgccaaaaat    900
              gttgatgtat tgggtgttga gttagcaaag agctcggttc agttaccact tgtttggaat    960
              attcaagtca gcacgtggct gcgccactat gtatatgaga ggctcataca gaaaggaagg   1020
              aagcctggtt tcttccagtt gctagctacc cagactgtca gtgctgtatg gcatggattg   1080
              tatcctgggt acatcatttt ctttgtacag tctgctttga tgattgctgg atcaagagtc   1140
              atttacagat ggcagcaagc tgctactggt actctgtttg agaagatgct tgtattgatg   1200
              aactttgcat acacacttct ggttctaaac tattccgctg ttgggttcat ggtattaagc   1260

                                              101/104
<removed-date>
              ctgcatgaaa cccttactgc atatggtagt gtatactatg ttggaacaat tgtaccagtt   1320
              gtactcatcc tgcttagtaa agtagttaag cctccaaaac ctgcgacatc taaagctagg   1380
              aaagtagagt ga                                                       1392
              <210>   100
              <211>   463
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Nicotiana benthamiana
              <400>   100
<removed-apn>
              Met Gly Leu Pro Glu Met Glu Ser Met Ala Ser Ala Ile Gly Val Ser
              1               5                   10                  15
              Val Pro Val Leu Arg Phe Leu Leu Cys Phe Val Ala Thr Ile Pro Val
                          20                  25                  30
              Ser Phe Leu His Arg Phe Val Pro Ser Ala Val Gly Arg His Leu Tyr
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Ala Val Thr Gly Ala Val Leu Ser Tyr Leu Ser Phe Gly Phe Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Asn Leu His Phe Phe Gly Pro Met Leu Leu Gly Tyr Val Ser Met
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Val Leu Ser Arg Arg Tyr Cys Gly Ile Ile Thr Phe Phe Ala Ala Phe
                              85                  90                  95
              Gly Tyr Leu Ile Gly Cys His Val Tyr Tyr Met Ser Gly Asp Ala Trp
                          100                 105                 110
              Lys Glu Gly Gly Ile Asp Ala Thr Gly Ala Leu Met Val Ile Thr Leu
                      115                 120                 125
              Lys Ile Ile Ser Cys Val Ile Asn Tyr Gln Asp Gly Leu Leu Lys Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Asp Leu Arg Glu Ala Gln Lys Lys Asn Arg Leu Leu Lys Leu Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ser Leu Leu Glu Tyr Val Gly Cys Cys Leu Cys Cys Gly Ser His Phe
                              165                 170                 175
              Ala Gly Pro Val Tyr Glu Met Lys Asp Tyr Leu Asp Trp Thr Glu Arg
                          180                 185                 190
              Lys Gly Ile Trp Lys Pro Ser Glu Lys Gly Asn Pro Ser Pro Leu Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Thr Leu Arg Ala Leu Leu Gln Ala Ala Ile Cys Met Gly Leu Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
              Leu Tyr Leu Val Pro Leu Phe Pro Leu Ser Arg Phe Thr Asp Pro Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Tyr Gln Glu Trp Gly Phe Phe Lys Arg Ser Gly Tyr Gln Tyr Met Ala
                              245                 250                 255
              Cys Phe Thr Ala Arg Trp Lys Tyr Tyr Phe Ile Trp Ser Ile Ser Glu
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Ala Ile Ile Ile Ser Gly Leu Gly Phe Ser Gly Trp Thr Asn Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Ser Ser Pro Lys Pro Arg Trp Asp Arg Ala Lys Asn Val Asp Val Leu

                                               102/104
<removed-date>
                 290                   295               300
              Gly Val Glu Leu Ala Lys Ser Ser Val Gln Leu Pro Leu Val Trp Asn
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Ile Gln Val Ser Thr Trp Leu Arg His Tyr Val Tyr Glu Arg Leu Ile
                              325                 330                 335
              Gln Lys Gly Arg Lys Pro Gly Phe Phe Gln Leu Leu Ala Thr Gln Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Val Ser Ala Val Trp His Gly Leu Tyr Pro Gly Tyr Ile Ile Phe Phe
                      355                 360                 365
<removed-apn>
              Val Gln Ser Ala Leu Met Ile Ala Gly Ser Arg Val Ile Tyr Arg Trp
                  370                 375                 380
              Gln Gln Ala Ala Thr Gly Thr Leu Phe Glu Lys Met Leu Val Leu Met
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asn Phe Ala Tyr Thr Leu Leu Val Leu Asn Tyr Ser Ala Val Gly Phe
                              405                 410                 415
              Met Val Leu Ser Leu His Glu Thr Leu Thr Ala Tyr Gly Ser Val Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Tyr Val Gly Thr Ile Val Pro Val Val Leu Ile Leu Leu Ser Lys Val
                      435                 440                 445
              Val Lys Pro Pro Lys Pro Ala Thr Ser Lys Ala Arg Lys Val Glu
                  450                 455                 460
              <210>   101
              <211>   744
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   dsRNA hairpin coding sequence
              <400> 101
              atgggtgctg tttatagaag tctttttgct aaagatggat ttcctcctcc tattcctgga    60
              cttgacagtt gctgggatat tttccgtttg tcagtggaaa aatatcctaa caatcggatg   120
              cttggacgcc gtgagattgt agatggaaaa cctggcaagt atgtgtggat gtcttacaaa   180
              gaagtatatg acattgtgat taaattagga aattccatcc ggagctgtgg tgtggacgaa   240
              ggagacaaat gtggtatcta tggtgccaat tgccctgagt ggataatgag catggaggca   300
              tgcaatgctc atggacttta ctgtgtgcct ctatatgaca ccttaggtgc tggtgcagtg   360
              gaatttatca ttaaccatgc cgaggttaaa attgctttcg ttgaagagaa aaaacttcct   420
              gagcttctga aaacttttcc aaatgcagca aagtacttga agactgttgt gagttttggg   480
              aatgtcactc ctcaacagaa ggaagaggtt gaaaactgtg gggtgactct atactcgtgg   540
              gatgagttcc tacaattggg aagtgaaaaa caatttgatc ttccagtgaa aaagaaagaa   600
              gatatttgta caataatgta tactagtgga acgaccggag atcccaaagg tgtgctgatt   660
              tcaaataata gcattgttac tcttatagct ggagtacagc gtctgcttgg gagtgtgaat   720
              gagtcgttga cagtggatga tgta                                          744
              <210>   102
              <211>   705

                                               103/104
<removed-date>
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   dsRNA hairpin coding sequence
              <400> 102
              atggaatcat cggcagaacg acgtctgaaa gctattcaaa accatcttgt tccggtcatc    60
              gatgaccggt cactctcatt catccggtca aacccaaccg ccggcgaatt tgttcaaggt   120
              cagggtttca gcgtagttct tcctgaaaaa ttgcagacag gaaaatggaa tgtgtacaga   180
<removed-apn>
              tctgcacgat ctcctctgaa gcttattact agattccctg atcatcctga aattgctaca   240
              ctacatgata actttgaaca tgcagttcaa acctatcagg attacaaata cttgggtacc   300
              cgtattcggg tagatggaac tattggagac tacaaatgga tgacatatgg agaggcaggg   360
              actgctcgga ctgcaattgg ttctggactt cactattatg gattgcaacc gggtgctcgc   420
              gtgggacttt atttcataaa taggcctgag tggctgattg tagaccatgc ctgctcagca   480
              tattcatatt cttcagtccc actatatgac actcttggtc ctgatgctgt taaatatatt   540
              gtcaatcatg ctgacgtaca ggccattttt tgtgtgcctg gtaccttgaa cacgttgttg   600
              acctttttat cagagattcc ttctgtacgt ttgattgtgg tagtgggtgg gatagatgaa   660
              catctcccat ctcttccatc tacaacggga atgaagctct tatca                   705
              <210>   103
              <211>   734
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   dsRNA hairpin coding sequence
              <400> 103
              atggcgtcga tggaacagtt ggtgacgggt gacggcggag gaggaggagg accgcggtac    60
              gtgcagatgc aatctgagcc ggagccatca acattatcgt cgttttactc gtttcatcag   120
              gatagtagcc atgaatcaac tcgaattttc gatgaattgc cttcggctac gatcattcag   180
              gtctctcgtc ctgacgccgg cgacatcagc cccatgcttc tcacttatac cattgaagtc   240
              cattacaaac agttcaagtg gcaattggtg aagaaagcgt cacatgtatt ttatttacat   300
              tttgcattaa agaagcgtgc attcattgag gagattcatg agaagcaaga gcaggtcaaa   360
              gaatggctcc aaaacttggg gataggagat catacaactg taattcaaga cgaggatgaa   420
              cctgatgatg aggctagtcc tctacgtgct gaggaaagtt ttaaatacag agatgttcca   480
              tcaagtgctg ctttgccaat aattcggcca accctgggaa ggcaacactc gatgtcagat   540
              cgagcaaaaa gtgctatgca gggttatttg aatcactttc ttggaaacat agatattgtc   600
              aattcccagg aggtgtgcag gtttctggaa gtctctaaat tatccttttc tccagagtat   660
              ggtcctaagc tgaaagaaga ctatattatg gtgaagcact taccaaaaat tcaaagacac   720
              gatgatagtc ggaa                                                     734
              <210>   104
              <211>   543
              <212>   DNA

                                               104/104
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   dsRNA hairpin coding sequence
              <400> 104
              atgtcgacgg agaaactgat agagaatgcg ccggcgtcgg caatgtcatc aatgcattcc    60
              cttcgttgct acgtcgagcc ggcgacgatc tttgaggaat tgcccaaagc gactatcatt   120
              gcggtttcaa gagcagatgc tagtgatata agccctttgc ttttgtcata cacaattgaa   180
              gtccagtaca agcagttcaa gtggcgctta gttaagaagg cctcacaagt tgtttatttg   240
<removed-apn>
              cactttgcat tgaggaaacg tgcaataatt gaggaactcc atggaaaaca agagcaggtt   300
              aaagaatggc ttcaccacat tggtatagga gaacaaacag ctgtcataca tgatgatgct   360
              gaacccgatg atggtgctat gcaaatttac agtgaagata gtattagaaa caggtatgtt   420
              ccatcccggg ctgctttatc aatcattcgt ccagcattgg gcaggcagca aaccattaca   480
              gaaaaaggga aaattgctat gcaaaagtat ctgaatcatt ttttggggaa tttggacatt   540
              gta                                                                 543
              <210>   105
              <211>   637
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   dsRNA hairpin coding sequence
              <400> 105
              atggaatcaa tggcgtcggc gatcggagta tcagtgccgg tgctccgttt cttgctttgt    60
              tttgtcgcca caattccggt gagcttcctc caccgttttg tccctagcgc cgtcggtaga   120
              cacctctacg ccgccgttac cggcgctgtt ctctcgtacc tgtcatttgg tttctcctca   180
              aatcttcact tctttgggcc tatgcttctg ggttatgttt ctatggttct ctctcgccgt   240
              tactgcggga tcatcacttt cttcgccgcg tttggatacc ttattggatg ccatgtatac   300
              tacatgagtg gagacgcatg gaaggaagga ggaattgatg ctacaggagc tctaatggtc   360
              ataacgctga aaataatttc atgtgtgatt aattaccaag atggattgtt gaaggaggaa   420
              gatttgcgtg aggctcagaa gaaaaatcgt ctgctcaaat tgccatcgtt acttgagtac   480
              gttggttgtt gtctctgttg tggaagtcat tttgcaggtc cagtgtatga gatgaaggat   540
              taccttgact ggacagagag aaaaggaatc tggaaacctt cagagaaggg aaatccctca   600
              cctttagggt caactttaag ggctcttctt caagctg                            637

