 COLLAGEN-BIN DING SYNTHETIC PEPTIDOGLYCANS, PREPARATION,
                              AND METHODS OF USE
                                       Abstract
            100 ,                    0 PF-4   -UNap-2
         4                                              4
              a
                          Hap    DAN     GSIT   SLY   Hop-G5IT Do-SILYi Mq Ctrl
                                                                  FIGURE 40
         This invention relates to collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans and
engineered collagen matrices comprising a collagen matrix and a collagen-binding
synthetic peptidoglycan where the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be
aberrant or can have amino acid homology with a portion of the amino acid sequence
of a protein or a proteoglycan that regulates collagen fibrillogenesis. The invention
also relates to kits, compounds., compositions, and engineered graft constructs
comprising such collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans or engineered collagen
matrices and methods for their preparation and use.

                                                       1
       COLLAGEN-BINDING SYNTHETIC PEPTIDOGLYCANS, PREPARATION, AND
                                           METHODS OF USE
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   2015230796, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   Australian Patent Application No. 2015230796 is a divisional application of Australian Patent
   Application No. 2009228140, the content of which is also incorporated herein by reference in
   its entirety.
   Australian Patent Application No. 2009228140 is the Australian National Phase Entry for
   PCT application PCT/US2009/038624, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/039,933 filed on March 27, 2008, and U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/081,984 filed on July 18, 2008, the entire disclosure of which is
   hereby incorporated by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
                 'Ihis invention pertains to the field of collagen-binding synthetic
peptidoglycans and niethods of forming and using the same.
BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF THE INVENTlION
                 Collagen is the most abundant protein in the body, presenting many biological
signals and maintaining the mechanical integrity of many different tissues. Its molecular
organization determines its function, which has made collagen fibrillogenesis a topic of
interest in many research fields. Collagen has the ability to self-associate in vitro, forming
gels that can act as a 3-dimensional substrate, and provide mechanical and biological signals
for cell growth. Research on collagen fibrillogenesis with and without additional
extracellular matrix components has raised many questions about the interplay between
collagen and other extracellular matrix molecules. There are more than 20 types of collagen
currently identified, with type I being the ntost common. Many tissues are composed
primarily of type I collagen including tendon, ligament, skin, and bone. While each of these
structures also contains other collagen types, proteoglycans and glycosaminoglycans, and
minerals in the case of bone, the principle component is type I collagen. The dramatic
difference in mechanical integrity each of these structures exhibits is largely due to the
intricate organization of collagen and the interplay with other non-collagen type I
components.
                 Decorin is a proteoglycan that is known to influence collagen fibrillogenesis,
 which consequently can modify the mechanical and biological information in a collagen gel.
 The signals resulting from structural changes in collagen organization, as well as the unique
 signals contained in the glycosaminoglycan chains that are part of proteoglycans, alter

                                                  -2
   cellular behavior and offer a mechanism to design collagen matrices to provide desired
   cellular responses. Consequently, we have developed collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycans which influence collagen organization at the molecular level. These collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycans are designed based on collagen binding peptides attached
 5 to, for example, a glycan, such as a glycosaminoglycan or a polysaccharide, and can be
   tailored with respect to these components for specific applications. The collagen-binding
   synthetic peptidoglycans described herein influence the morphological, mechanical, and
   biological characteristics of collagen matrices, and consequently alter cellular behavior,
   making these molecules useful for tissue engineering applications.
10                 In one embodiment, an engineered collagen matrix comprising a collagen
   matrix and a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan is provided. In this embodiment, the
   1) collagen can be crosslinked or uncrosslinked, 2) the collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan can have amino acid homology with a portion of the amino acid sequence of a
   protein or a proteoglycan that regulates collagen fibrillogenesis or the collagen-binding
15 synthetic peptidoglycan can be an aberrant collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan, 3) the
   engineered collagen matrix can further comprise an exogenous population of cells, 4) the
   exogenous population of cells can be selected from non-keratinized or keratinized epithelial
   cells or a population of cells selected from the group consisting of endothelial cells,
   mesodermally derived cells, mesothelial cells, synoviocytes, neural cells, glial cells,
20 osteoblast cells, fibroblasts, chondrocytes, tenocytes, smooth muscle cells, skeletal muscle
   cells, cardiac muscle cells, multi-potential progenitor cells (e.g., stem cells, including bone
   marrow progenitor cells), and osteogenic cells, 5) the engineered collagen matrix can further
   comprise at least one polysaccharide, 6) the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be
   a compound of formula PGx wherein n is 1 to 10, wherein x is 1 to 10, wherein P is a
25 synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a sequence of a collagen
   binding domain, and wherein G is a glycan (e.g. a glycosaminoglycan or a polysaccharide),
   7) the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be a compound of formula (PnL)xG
   wherein n is 1 to 5, wherein x is 1 to 10, wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about
   40 amino acids comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain, wherein L is a linker,
30 and wherein G is a glycan, 8) the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be a
   compound of formula P(LG)x wherein n is 1 to 5, wherein x is 1 to 10, wherein P is a
   synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a sequence of a collagen
   binding domain, wherein L is a linker, and wherein G is a glycan, 9) the synthetic peptide can

                                                   -3
   have amino acid homology with the amino acid sequence of a small leucine-rich
   proteoglycan or a platelet receptor sequence, 10) the synthetic peptide can have amino acid
   homology with the amino acid sequence of a platelet collagen receptor sequence, 11) the
   peptide can comprise an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
 5 RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, RLDGNEIKRGC, AHEEISTTNEGVMGC,
   NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, CQDSETRTFY, TKKTLRTGC,
   GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC, SYIRIADTNITGC,
   SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV, and
   GSITTIDVPWNVGC, 12) the glycan can be selected from the group consisting of alginate,
10 agarose, dextran, chondroitin, dermatan, dermatan sulfate, heparan, heparin, keratin, and
   hyaluronan, 13) the glycan can be selected from the group consisting of dermatan sulfate,
   dextran, and heparin, 14) the collagen can be selected from the group consisting of type I
   collagen, type II collagen, type III collagen, type IV collagen, and combinations thereof, 15)
   the glycan can be a glycosaminoglycan or a polysaccharide, or 16) the invention can include
15 any combination of the features described in this paragraph.
                   In another illustrative embodiment, a method of preparing an engineered
   collagen matrix is provided. The method comprises the steps of providing a collagen
   solution, providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan, and polymerizing the
   collagen in the presence of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan to form the
20 engineered collagen matrix. This embodiment can include any of the features described in
   the preceding paragraph. Also, in this embodiment, the amount of collagen in the collagen
   solution can be from about 0.4 mg/mL to about 6 mg/mL, and the molar ratio of the collagen
   to the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be from about 1:1 to about 40:1.
                   In yet another embodiment a compound of formula PGx is provided wherein n
25 is 1 to 10, wherein x is 1 to 10, wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino
   acids comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain, and wherein G is a glycan.
                   In a further embodiment, a compound is provided of formula (PnL)xG wherein
   n is 1 to 5, wherein x is I to 10, wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino
   acids comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain, wherein L is a linker, and G is a
30 glycan.
                   In still another illustrative embodiment, a compound is provided of formula
   P(LG)x wherein n is 1 to 5, wherein x is 1 to 10, wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5
   to about 40 amino acids comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain, wherein L is a

                                                     -4
   linker, and wherein G is a glycan. In any of these compound embodiments the linker can
   comprise the formula -SCH 2CH 2C(O)NHN= , the glycan can be a glycosaminoglycan or a
   polysaccharide, and any applicable features described above can also be included.
                   In another aspect, a method of altering the structure or mechanical
 5 characteristics of an engineered collagen matrix is provided. The method comprises the steps
   of providing a collagen solution, providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan, and
   polymerizing the collagen in the presence of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan to
   form the altered, engineered collagen matrix. Any applicable features described above can
   also be included.
10                 In another embodiment, a kit is provided. The kit can comprise any of the
   engineered collagen matrices described above. In this embodiment, the engineered collagen
   matrix can be sterilized, and the kit can further comprise cells wherein the cells can be
   selected from the group consisting of mesothelial cells, synoviocytes, progenitor cells,
   fibroblasts, neural cells, glial cells, osteoblast cells, chondrocytes, tenocytes, endothelial
15 cells, and smooth muscle cells. The engineered collagen matrix can comprise any of the
   compounds described above.
                   In one embodiment, a method for inhibiting activation of platelets is
   described, the method comprising the step of providing a collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan for contacting collagen wherein the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan
20 binds to the collagen and wherein activation of the platelets is inhibited. In another
   embodiment, a method for inhibiting adhesion of platelets to collagen is described, the
   method comprising the step of providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan for
   contacting collagen wherein the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan binds to the
   collagen, and wherein adhesion of the platelets to collagen is inhibited. In another
25 embodiment, either of the above methods wherein the glycan is selected from the group
   consisting of hyaluronan, heparin, and dextran is provided. In still another embodiment, the
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan used in any of the above methods comprises a
   peptide selected from the group consisting of RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC,
   GSITTIDVPWNV, and GSITTIDVPWNVGC.
30                 In yet another embodiment, a graft construct is provided. The graft construct
   comprises any of the engineered collagen matrices described above.

                                                 -5
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                   FIGURE 1 shows a schematic representation of the interaction between
   neighboring proteoglycans on adjacent tropocollagen strands which is important in
   determining the mechanical and alignment properties of collagen matrices.
 5                 FIGURE 2. AFM images made in contact mode, with a scan rate of 2 Hz with
   Silicon Nitride contact mode tip k=0.05N/m tips and deflection setpoint: 0-1 Volts, of gel
   samples prepared as in EXAMPLE 16 (10:1 collagen:treatment) after dehydration with
   ethanol. Samples are for collagen alone (Collagen), and for collagen with dermatan sulfate
   (DS), with decorin (Decorin), dermatan sulfate-RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC conjugate
10 (DS-SILY) and dermatan sulfate- SYIRIADTNIT conjugate (DS-SYIR).
                   FIGURE 3. Surface Plasmon Resonance scan in association mode and
   dissociation mode of peptide RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC (SILY) binding to collagen
   bound to CM-3 plates. SILY was dissolved in 1x HBS-EP buffer at varying concentrations
   from 100pM to 1.5pm in 2-fold dilutions.
15                 FIGURE 4. Binding of dansyl-modified peptide SILY to collagen measured
   in 96-well high-binding plate (black with a clear bottom (Costar)). PBS, buffer only; BSA,
   BSA-treated well; Collagen, collagen-treated well. Fluorescence readings were taken on an
   M5 Spectramax Spectrophotometer (Molecular Devices) at excitation/emission wavelengths
   of 335nm/490nm, respectively.
20                 FIGURE 5. Collagen-dansyl-modified peptide SILY binding curve derived
   from fluorescence data described in FIGURE 4.
                   FIGURE 6. A schematic description of the reagent, PDPH, and the chemistry
   of the two-step conjugation of a cysteine-containing peptide with an oxidized
   glycosylaminoglycoside showing the release of 2-pyridylthiol in the final step.
25                 FIGURE 7. Measurement of absorbance at 343nm before DTT treatment of
   oxidized dermatan sulfate conjugated to PDPH, and after treatment with DTT, which releases
   2-pyridylthiol from the conjugate. The measurements allow determination of the ratio of
   PDPH to oxidized dermatan sulfate. The measured AA = 0.35, corresponds to 1.1 PDPH
   molecules/DS.
30                 FIGURE 8. Binding of dansyl-modified peptide SILY conjugated to dermatan
   sulfate as described herein to collagen measured in 96-well high-binding plate (black with a
   clear bottom (Costar)). PBS, buffer only; BSA, BSA-treated well; Collagen, collagen-treated

                                                   -6
   well. Fluorescence readings were taken on an M5 Spectramax Spectrophotometer (Molecular
   Devices) at excitation/emission wavelengths of 335nm/490nm respectively.
                   FIGURE 9. Measurement of Shear modulus of gel samples (4mg/mL
   collagen, 10:1 collagen:treatment) on a AR-G2 rheometer with 20mm stainless steel parallel
 5 plate geometry (TA Instruments, New Castle, DE) , and the 20mm stainless steel parallel
   plate geometry was lowered to a gap distance of 600pm using a normal force control of
   0.25N. Col, no treatment, i.e. collagen alone; Col+DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate;
   Col+decorin, collagen + decorin; Col+DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR;
   Col+DS-SILY, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; Col+SILY, collagen + SILY
10 peptide; Col+SYIR, collagen + SYIRIADTNIT (SYIR) peptide.
                   FIGURE 10. Measurement of Shear modulus of gel samples (4mg/mL
   collagen, 5:1 collagen:treatment) on a AR-G2 rheometer with 20mm stainless steel parallel
   plate geometry (TA Instruments, New Castle, DE) , and the 20mm stainless steel parallel
   plate geometry was lowered to a gap distance of 600pm using a normal force control of
15 0.25N. Col, no treatment, i.e. collagen alone; Col+DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate;
   Col+decorin, collagen + decorin; Col+DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR;
   Col+DS-SILY, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; Col+SILY, SILY peptide;
   Col+SYIR, collagen + SYIR peptide.
                   FIGURE 11. Measurement of Shear modulus of gel samples (4mg/mL
20 collagen, 30:1 collagen:treatment) on a AR-G2 rheometer with 20mm stainless steel parallel
   plate geometry (TA Instruments, New Castle, DE) , and the 20mm stainless steel parallel
   plate geometry was lowered to a gap distance of 600pm using a normal force control of
   0.25N. Col, no treatment, i.e. collagen alone; Col+DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate;
   Col+decorin, collagen + decorin; Col+DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR
25 conjugate; Col+DS-SILY, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; Col+SILY, collagen
   + SILY peptide; Col+SYIR, collagen + SYIR peptide.
                   FIGURE 12. Measurement of Shear modulus of gel samples (1.5mg/mL
   collagen III, 5:1 collagen:treatment) on a AR-G2 rheometer with 20mm stainless steel
   parallel plate geometry (TA Instruments, New Castle, DE) , and the 20mm stainless steel
30 parallel plate geometry was lowered to a gap distance of 500pm using a normal force control
   of 0.25N.        * - no treatment, i.e. collagen III alone; U - collagen + dermatan sulfate (1:1);
   + - collagen + dermatan sulfate (5:1); x - collagen + dermatan sulfate-KELNLVYTGC (DS-

                                                   -7
   KELN) conjugate (1:1); A - collagen + dermatan sulfate-KELN conjugate (5:1); 0 - collagen
   + KELNLVYTGC (KELN) peptide.
                   FIGURE 13. Measurement of Shear modulus of gel samples (1.5mg/mL
   collagen III, 5:1 collagen:treatment) on a AR-G2 rheometer with 20mm stainless steel
 5 parallel plate geometry (TA Instruments, New Castle, DE) , and the 20mm stainless steel
   parallel plate geometry was lowered to a gap distance of 500pm using a normal force control
   of 0.25N.        * - no treatment, i.e. collagen III alone; U - collagen + dermatan sulfate (1:1);
   + - collagen + dermatan sulfate (5:1); x - collagen + dermatan sulfate-GSIT conjugate (DS
   GSIT) (1:1); A - collagen + dermatan sulfate-GSIT conjugate (5:1); 0 - collagen +
10 GSITTIDVPWNVGC (GSIT) peptide.
                   FIGURE 14. Turbidity measurement. Gel solutions were prepared as
   described in EXAMPLE 16 (collagen 4mg/mL and 10:1 collagen to treatment, unless
   otherwise indicated) and 50pL/well were added at 4'C to a 384-well plate. The plate was
   kept at 4'C for 4 hours before initiating fibril formation. A SpectraMax M5 at 37'C was
15 used to measure absorbance at 313nm at 30s intervals for 6 hours. Col, no treatment, i.e.,
   collagen alone; DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate; decorin, collagen + decorin; DS-SILY,
   collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR
   conjugate.
                   FIGURE 15. Turbidity measurement. Gel solutions were prepared as
20 described in EXAMPLE 16 (collagen 4mg/mL and 10:1 collagen to treatment, unless
   otherwise indicated) and 50pL/well were added at 4'C to a 384-well plate. The plate was
   kept at 4'C for 4 hours before initiating fibril formation. A SpectraMax M5 at 37'C was
   used to measure absorbance at 313nm at 30s intervals for 6 hours. Col, no treatment, i.e.,
   collagen alone; DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate; decorin, collagen + decorin; DS-SILY,
25 collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate.
                   FIGURE 16. Turbidity measurement. Gel solutions were prepared as
   described in EXAMPLE 16 (collagen 4mg/mL and 1:1 collagen to treatment, unless
   otherwise indicated) and 50pL/well were added at 4'C to a 384-well plate. The plate was
   kept at 4'C for 4 hours before initiating fibril formation. A SpectraMax M5 at 37'C was
30 used to measure absorbance at 313nm at 30s intervals for 6 hours. Col, no treatment, i.e.,
   collagen alone; DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate 10:1; SILY, collagen + SILY peptide; SYIR,
   collagen + SYIR peptide.

                                                   -8
                    FIGURE 17. Half-life of fibrillogenesis measured from the data presented in
   FIGURE 14. Col, no treatment, i.e., collagen alone; DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate;
   decorin, collagen + decorin; DS-SILY, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; DS
   SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR conjugate.
 5                  FIGURE 18. Confocal Reflection Microscopy images of gels prepared
   according to EXAMPLE 16 (4mg/mL collagen, 10:1 collagen:treatment) recorded with an
   Olympus FV1000 confocal microscope using a 60X, 1.4 NA water immersion lens. Samples
   were illuminated with 488nm laser light and the reflected light was detected with a
   photomultiplier tube using a blue reflection filter. Each gel was imaged 100IM from the
10 bottom of the gel, and three separate locations were imaged to ensure representative
   sampling. Collagen, no treatment, i.e., collagen alone; Col + DS, collagen + dermatan
   sulfate; Col + Decorin, collagen + decorin; Col + DS-SILY, collagen + dermatan sulfate
   SILY conjugate; Col + DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR conjugate.
                    FIGURE 19. Cryo-Scanning Electron Microscopy images of gel structure at a
15 magnification of 5000. Gels for cryo-SEM were formed, as in EXAMPLE 16 (4mg/mL
   collagen, 10:1 collagen:treatment), directly on the SEM stage and incubated at 37 0 C
   overnight. Each sample evaporated under sublimation conditions for 20 min. The sample
   was coated by platinum sputter coating for 120s. Samples were transferred to the cryo-stage
   at -130 0 C and regions with similar orientation were imaged for comparison across treatments.
20 Collagen, no treatment, i.e., collagen alone; Col + DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate; Col +
   Decorin, collagen + decorin; Col + DS-SILY, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate;
   Col + DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR conjugate.
                    FIGURE 20. Cryo-Scanning Electron Microscopy images of gel structure at a
   magnification of 5000. Gels for cryo-SEM were formed, as described in EXAMPLE 22 (1
25 mg/mL collagen (Type III), 1:1 collagen:treatment), directly on the SEM stage. Regions with
   similar orientation were imaged for comparison across treatments. Panel a, Collagen, no
   treatment, i.e., collagen alone; Panel b, collagen + dermatan sulfate; Panel c, collagen +
   dermatan sulfate-KELN conjugate; Panel d, collagen + dermatan sulfate-GSIT conjugate.
                    FIGURE 21. The average void space fraction measured from the Cryo-SEM
30 images shown in FIGURE 20. a) Collagen, no treatment, i.e., collagen alone; b) collagen +
   dermatan sulfate; c) collagen + dermatan sulfate-KELN conjugate; d) collagen + dermatan
   sulfate-GSIT conjugate. All differences are significant with p=0.05.

                                                  -9
                   FIGURE 22. The average fibril diameter measured from the Cryo-SEM
   images shown in FIGURE 19. Collagen, no treatment, i.e., collagen alone; Col + DS,
   collagen + dermatan sulfate; Col + Decorin, collagen + decorin; Col + DS-SILY, collagen +
   dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; Col + DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR
 5 conjugate.
                   FIGURE 23. The average distance between collagen sheets measured from
   the Cryo-SEM images shown in FIGURE 19. Collagen, no treatment, i.e., collagen alone;
   Col + DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate; Col + Decorin, collagen + decorin; Col + DS-SILY,
   collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; Col + DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate
10 SYIR conjugate.
                   FIGURE 24. Measurement of absorbance at 343nm before treatment of
   oxidized heparin conjugated to PDPH, and after treatment with SILY, which releases 2
   pyridylthiol from the conjugate and allows determination of the ratio of SILY peptide
   conjugated to oxidized heparin. The measured AA, corresponds to 5.44 SILY
15 molecules/oxidized heparin.
                   FIGURE 25. Measuring Human Coronary Artery Smooth Muscle Cell
   Proliferation in Collagen Gels Prepared with Collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans.
   Collagen, no treatment, i.e., collagen alone; DS, collagen + dermatan sulfate; DS-SILY,
   collagen + dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; DS-SYIR, collagen + dermatan sulfate-SYIR
20 conjugate; SILY, collagen + SILY peptide; and SYIR, collagen + SYIR peptide.
                   FIGURE 26. DS-SILY Conjugation Characterization. After 2 hours, a final
   AA343nm corresponded to 1.06 SILY molecules added to each DS molecule. Note, t=0 is an
   approximate zero time point due to the slight delay between addition of SILY to the DS
   PDPH and measurement of the solution at 343 nm.
25                 FIGURE 27. Conjugation of Dc13 to DS. Production of pyridine-2-thione
   measured by an increase in absorbance at 343nm indicates 0.99 Dc13 peptides per DS
   polymer chain.
                   FIGURE 28. Microplate Fluorescence Binding of DS-ZDc13 to Collagen.
   DS-ZDc13 bound specifically to the collagen surface in a dose-dependent manner.
30                 FIGURE 29. Collagen Fibrillogenesis by Turbidity Measurements. DS-Dc13
   delays fibrillogenesis and decreases overall absorbance in a dose-dependent manner. Free
   Dc13 peptide, in contrast, appears to have little effect on fibrillogenesis compared to collagen
   alone at the high 1:1 collagen: additive molar ratio.

                                                   - 10
                    FIGURE 30. Average Fibril Diameter from Cryo-SEM. A. Decorin and
   synthetic peptidoglycans significantly decrease fibril diameter over collagen or collagen +
   DS. B. Compared to collagen alone, free peptide Dc13 does not affect fibril diameter while
   SILY results in a decrease in fibril diameter.
 5                  FIGURE 31. Gel Compaction. A. and B. Days 3 and 5 respectively: Decorin
   and peptidoglycans are significant relative to collagen and DS, * indicates DS-Dcl3 and DS
   are not significant at day 3. Bars indicate no significance. C. Day 7: + Decorin is
   significant against all samples, # DS is significant compared to collagen. D. Day 10: ++
   collagen and DS are significant, $ DS-Dcl3 is significant compared to decorin and collagen.
10                  FIGURE 32. Elastin Estimate by Fastin Assay. A. DS-SILY significantly
   increased elastin production over all samples. DS and DS-Dc13 significantly decreased
   elastin production over collagen. Control samples of collagen gels with no cells showed no
   elastin production. B. Free peptides resulted in a slight decrease in elastin production
   compared to collagen, but no points were significant.
15                  FIGURE 33. SEM Images of Platelet-Rich Plasma Incubated Slides. Arrows
   in Heparin-SILY treatment indicate fibril-like structures unique to this treatment. Scale bar =
   100 pm.
                    FIGURE 34. Fibril Density from Cryo-SEM. Fibril density, defined as the
   ratio of fibril containing area to void space. DS-SILY and free SILY peptide had
20 significantly greater fibril density, while collagen had significantly lower fibril density. DS
   Dcl3 was not significant compared to collagen.
                    FIGURE 35. Storage Modulus (G') of Collagen Gels. Rheological
   mechanical testing of collagen gels formed with each additive at A. 5:1 B. 10:1 and C. 30:1
   molar ratio of collagen:additive. Frequency sweeps from 0.1 Hz to 1.0 Hz with a controlled
25 stress of 1.0 Pa were performed. G'avg ± S.E. are presented.
                    FIGURE 36. Cell Proliferation and Cytotoxicity Assays. No significant
   differences were found between all additives in A. CyQuant B. Live and C. Dead assays.
                    FIGURE 37. Cryo-SEM Images for Fibril Density. Collagen gels formed in
   the presence of each additive at a 10:1 molar ratio of collagen:additive. A. DS, Decorin, or
30 peptidoglycans. B. Free Peptides. Images are taken at 10,000x, Scale bar = 5 pm.
                    FIGURE 38. AFM Images of Collagen Gels. Collagen gels were formed in
   the presence of each additive at a 10:1 molar ratio of collagen:additive. D-banding is
                                                  2
   observed for all additives. Images are 1 Prum

                                                  - 11
                   FIGURE 39. Inhibition of Platelet Activation. Measured by determining the
   release of activation factors Platelet Factor 4 (PF-4) and 0-thromboglobulin (Nap-2).
   Collagen immobilized on the surface of a 96-well plate was pre-incubated with each
   treatment and subsequently incubated with platelet rich plasma (PRP). Values are reported as
 5 a percentage of activation factor released by the treatment compared to the amount of
   activation factor released by the control treatment (phosphate buffered saline, PBS). The   *
   indicates that the difference is significant vs. collagen surface with no treatment (phosphate
   buffered saline, PBS). Dex, dextran; Dex-SILY9, dextran-(SILY) 9 conjugate; Hep, heparin;
   Hep-SILY, heparin-SILY conjugate; HA, hyaluronan; HA-SILY, hyaluronan-SILY
10 conjugate; SILY, SILY peptide. Due to solubility limits, Hep, Hep-SILY, HA, and HA-SILY
   were incubated at 25pM. All other treatments were at 50pM (after the treatment was
   removed, the plates were washed with PBS < 1 min, before addition of PRP). Hep and HA
   (hyaluronic acid) conjugates contained approximately 4 peptides per polysaccharide.
                   FIGURE 40. Inhibition of Platelet Activation. Measured by determining the
15 release of activation factors Platelet Factor 4 (PF-4) and 0-thromboglobulin (Nap-2).
   Collagen immobilized on the surface of a 96-well plate was pre-incubated with each
   treatment and subsequently incubated with platelet rich plasma (PRP). Values are reported as
   a percentage of activation factor released by the treatment compared to the amount of
   activation factor released by the control treatment (phosphate buffered saline, PBS). Dex,
20 dextran; Dex-SILY6, dextran-(SILY) 6 conjugate; Hep, heparin; Hep-GSIT, heparin-GSIT
   conjugate; GSIT, GSIT peptide; SILY, SILY peptide. The values measured for all
   treatments are significant vs. PBS. Dex, SILY, and Dex-SILY6 are at 25pM, all other
   treatments are at 50pM. The ** indicates that the value for the Hep-GSIT treatment was
   significant vs. the values for the Hep treatment, similarly the value for the Dex-SILY6
25 treatment was significant vs. the value for the Dex treatment for PF4. (After the treatment
   was removed the plates were rinsed for 20 min). Hep conjugates contained approximately 4
   peptides per polysaccharide.
                   FIGURE 41. Inhibition of Platelet Binding to Collagen by Colorimetric
   Assay. Collagen immobilized on the surface of a 96-well plate was pre-incubated with each
30 treatment and subsequently incubated with platelet rich plasma (PRP). Microplate assay
   prepared as described was pre-incubated with treatments Collagen, PBS only; Dextran; Dex
   SILY6, dextran-(SILY) 6 ; SILY, SILY peptide. * Significant vs. collagen (no treatment).

                                              - 12
                  FIGURE 42. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescent microscope using a DAPI filter. No treatment, i.e. collagen treated
 5 with PBS.
                  FIGURE 43. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. Treatment: dextran.
10                FIGURE 44. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. Treatment: dextran-SILY9
   conjugate.
15                FIGURE 45. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. No treatment, i.e. collagen treated
   with PBS.
20                FIGURE 46. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. Treatment: hyaluronan.
                  FIGURE 47. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
25 were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. Treatment: hyaluronan-SILY
   conjugate.
                  FIGURE 48. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
30 were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. No treatment, i.e. collagen treated
   with PBS.

                                                   - 13
                   FIGURE 49. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. Treatment: heparin.
 5                 FIGURE 50. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
   were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. Treatment: heparin-SILY conjugate.
                   FIGURE 51. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
10 were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. No treatment, i.e. collagen treated
   with PBS.
                   FIGURE 52. Fluorescence image of adhered platelets. Adhered platelets
15 were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100, and platelet
   actin was labeled with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488. The adhered platelets were imaged using
   an upright fluorescence microscope using a DAPI filter. Treatment: SILY peptide.
                   FIGURE 53. Collagen Degradation Determined by Hydroxyproline.
   Treatments: Ctrl, no cells added; Col, collagen without added treatment; DS, dermatan
20 sulfate; Decorin; DS-SILY, dermatan sulfate-SILY conjugate; DS-Dcl3, dermatan sulfate
   Dcl3 conjugate; SILY, SILY peptide; Dcl3, Dcl3 peptide.
                   FIGURE 54. Inhibition of Platelet Activation. Measured by determining the
   release of activation factors Platelet Factor 4 (PF-4) and 0-thromboglobulin (Nap-2). Type I
   and III collagen gels on the surface of a 96-well plate were pre-incubated with each treatment
25 and subsequently incubated with PRP. Platelet activation was measured by the release of
   activation factors PF-4 and Nap-2. Treatments: PBS, buffer alone; Dex, dextran; Dex-SILY,
   dextran-SILY conjugate; Dex-GSIT, dextran-GSIT conjugate; Dex-KELN, dextran-KELN
   conjugate; Dex-Dc13, dextran-Dc13 conjugate; SILY, SILY peptide; GSIT, GSIT peptide;
   KELN, KELN peptide; Dc 13, Dc13 peptide; Dex-SILY+Dex-GSIT; combination of dextran
30 SILY conjugate and dextran-GSIT conjugate; SILY+GSIT; combination of SILY peptide and
   GSIT peptide. * Indicates the results are significant vs. collagen surface with no treatment
   (PBS). ** Indicates the results are also significant vs. collagen surface with Dex. ***
   Indicates the results are also significant vs. collagen surface with corresponding peptide

                                                 - 14
   control. All peptidoglycans caused significant decrease in NAP-2 release compared to no
   treatment (PBS) or dextran treatment, while Dex-GSIT additionally decreased release over its
   peptide control (GSIT). Dex-GSIT and Dex-KELN significantly decreased PF-4 release
   relative to no treatment (PBS) and dextran treatment, while Dex-Dc13 significantly decreased
 5 PF-4 release over no treatment (PBS).
                    FIGURE 55. Inhibition of Platelet Binding to Collagen (Adhesion) by
   Colorimetric Assay. Treatments: PBS, buffer alone; Dex, dextran; Dex-SILY, dextran-SILY
   conjugate; Dex-GSIT, dextran-GSIT conjugate; Dex-KELN, dextran-KELN conjugate; Dex
   Dc13, dextran-Dcl3 conjugate; SILY, SILY peptide; GSIT, GSIT peptide; KELN, KELN
10 peptide; Dc13, Dc13 peptide; Dex-SILY+Dex-GSIT; combination of dextran-SILY conjugate
   and dextran-GSIT conjugate; SILY+GSIT; combination of SILY peptide and GSIT peptide.
   * Significant vs. Collagen surface with no treatment (PBS). ** Also significant vs. collagen
   surface with Dex. *** Also significant vs. collagen surface with corresponding peptide
   control. Dex-SILY and Dex-KELN had significantly decreased platelet adherence as
15 compared to no treatment (PBS) or Dextran treatment, while Dex-GSIT additionally
   decreased platelet adherence over its peptide control treatment (GSIT).
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
                    As used in accordance with this invention, a "collagen-binding synthetic
20 peptidoglycan" means a collagen-binding conjugate of a glycan with a synthetic peptide. The
   "collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans" can have amino acid homology with a portion of
   a protein or a proteoglycan not normally involved in collagen fibrillogenesis. These
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans are referred to herein as "aberrant collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycans". The aberrant collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans
25 may or may not affect collagen fibrillogenesis. Other collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycans can have amino acid homology to a portion of a protein or to a proteoglycan
   normally involved in collagen fibrillogenesis. These collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycans are referred to herein as "fibrillogenic collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycans".
30                  As used herein an "engineered collagen matrix" means a collagen matrix
   where the collagen is polymerized in vitro in combination with a collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan under predetermined conditions that can be varied and are selected from the

                                                   - 15
   group consisting of, but not limited to, pH, phosphate concentration, temperature, buffer
   composition, ionic strength, and composition and concentration of the collagen.
                   As used herein an "engineered graft construct" means a graft construct
   comprising an "engineered collagen matrix."
 5                 In one aspect of the invention, an engineered collagen matrix is provided. The
   engineered collagen matrix comprises collagen and a collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan. In one embodiment, the engineered collagen matrix may be uncrosslinked. In
   another embodiment, the matrix may be crosslinked. In various illustrative embodiments,
   crosslinking agents, such as carbodiimides, aldehydes, lysl-oxidase, N-hydroxysuccinimide
10 esters, imidoesters, hydrazides, and maleimides, as well as various natural crosslinking
   agents, including genipin, and the like, can be added before, during, or after polymerization
   of the collagen in solution.
                   In various illustrative embodiments, the collagen used herein to prepare an
   engineered collagen matrix may be any type of collagen, including collagen types I to
15 XXVIII, alone or in any combination, for example, collagen types I, II, III, and/or IV may be
   used. In one embodiment, the engineered collagen matrix is formed using commercially
   available collagen (e.g., Sigma, St. Louis, MO). In an alternative embodiment, the collagen
   can be purified from submucosa-containing tissue material such as intestinal, urinary bladder,
   or stomach tissue. In a further embodiment, the collagen can be purified from tail tendon. In
20 an additional embodiment, the collagen can be purified from skin. In various aspects, the
   collagen can also contain endogenous or exogenously added non-collagenous proteins in
   addition to the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans, such as fibronectin or silk proteins,
   glycoproteins, and polysaccharides, or the like. The engineered graft constructs or
   engineered collagen matrices prepared by the methods described herein can serve as
25 constructs for the regrowth of endogenous tissues at the implantation site (e.g., biological
   remodeling) which can assume the characterizing features of the tissue(s) with which they are
   associated at the site of implantation or injection.
                   In various illustrative aspects, the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans
   used to form the engineered graft constructs or engineered collagen matrices in accordance
30 with the invention comprise synthetic peptides of about 5 to about 40 amino acids. In some
   embodiments, these peptides have homology to the amino acid sequence of a small leucine
   rich proteoglycan or a platelet receptor sequence. In various embodiments the synthetic
   peptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of

                                                   - 16
   RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, RLDGNEIKRGC, AHEEISTTNEGVMGC,
   NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, CQDSETRTFY, TKKTLRTGC,
   GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC, SYIRIADTNITGC,
   SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV, and
 5 GSITTIDVPWNVGC. In another embodiment, the synthetic peptide can comprise or can be
   an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
   RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, RLDGNEIKRGC, AHEEISTTNEGVMGC,
   NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, CQDSETRTFY, TKKTLRTGC,
   GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC, SYIRIADTNITGC,
10 SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV, GSITTIDVPWNVGC,
   and an amino acid sequence with 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 98% homology with to any of
   these fourteen amino acid sequences. The synthetic peptide can also be any peptide of 5 to
   40 amino acids selected from peptides that have collagen-binding activity and that are 80%,
   85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 100% homologous with the collagen-binding domain(s) of the von
15 Willebrand factor or a platelet collagen receptor as described in Chiang, et al.. J. Biol. Chem.
   277: 34896-34901 (2002), Huizinga, et al., Structure 5: 1147-1156 (1997), Romijn, et al., J.
   Biol. Chem. 278: 15035-15039 (2003), and Chiang, et al., Cardio. & Haemato. Disorders
   Drug Targets 7: 71-75 (2007), each incorporated herein by reference.
                   The glycan (e.g. glycosaminoglycan, abbreviated GAG, or polysaccharide)
20 attached to the synthetic peptide can be selected from the group consisting alginate, agarose,
   dextran, chondroitin, dermatan, dermatan sulfate, heparan, heparin, keratin, and hyaluronan.
   In one embodiment, the glycan is selected from the group consisting of dermatan sulfate,
   dextran, and heparin.
                   In one illustrative aspect, the engineered collagen matrix or the engineered
25 graft construct may be sterilized. As used herein "sterilization" or "sterilize" or "sterilized"
   means disinfecting the matrix or graft construct by removing unwanted contaminants
   including, but not limited to, endotoxins, nucleic acid contaminants, and infectious agents.
                   In various illustrative embodiments, the engineered collagen matrix or
   engineered graft construct can be disinfected and/or sterilized using conventional sterilization
30 techniques including glutaraldehyde tanning, formaldehyde tanning at acidic pH, propylene
   oxide or ethylene oxide treatment, gas plasma sterilization, gamma radiation, electron beam,
   and/or sterilization with a peracid, such as peracetic acid. Sterilization techniques which do
   not adversely affect the structure and biotropic properties of the matrix or construct can be

                                                  - 17
   used. Illustrative sterilization techniques are exposing the engineered graft construct or
   engineered collagen matrix, to peracetic acid, 1-4 Mrads gamma irradiation (or 1-2.5 Mrads
   of gamma irradiation), ethylene oxide treatment, or gas plasma sterilization. In one
   embodiment, the engineered graft construct can be subjected to one or more sterilization
 5 processes. In illustrative embodiments, the collagen in solution can also be sterilized or
   disinfected. The engineered collagen matrix or engineered graft construct may be wrapped in
   any type of container including a plastic wrap or a foil wrap, and may be further sterilized.
                    In any of these embodiments the engineered graft construct or engineered
   collagen matrix may further comprise an added population of cells. The added population of
10 cells may comprise one or more cell populations. In various embodiments, the cell
   populations comprise a population of non-keratinized or keratinized epithelial cells or a
   population of cells selected from the group consisting of endothelial cells, mesodermally
   derived cells, mesothelial cells, synoviocytes, neural cells, glial cells, osteoblasts, fibroblasts,
   chondrocytes, tenocytes, smooth muscle cells, skeletal muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells,
15 multi-potential progenitor cells (e.g., stem cells, including bone marrow progenitor cells), and
   osteogenic cells. In various embodiments, the engineered graft construct or engineered
   collagen matrix can be seeded with one or more cell types in combination.
                    In various aspects, the engineered collagen matrices or engineered graft
   constructs of the present invention can be combined with nutrients, including minerals, amino
20 acids, sugars, peptides, proteins, vitamins (such as ascorbic acid), or laminin, fibronectin,
   hyaluronic acid, fibrin, elastin, or aggrecan, or growth factors such as epidermal growth
   factor, platelet-derived growth factor, transforming growth factor beta, or fibroblast growth
   factor, and glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone or viscoelastic altering agents, such as
   ionic and non-ionic water soluble polymers; acrylic acid polymers; hydrophilic polymers
25 such as polyethylene oxides, polyoxyethylene-polyoxypropylene copolymers, and
   polyvinylalcohol; cellulosic polymers and cellulosic polymer derivatives such as
   hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose,
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate, methyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, and
   etherified cellulose; poly(lactic acid), poly(glycolic acid), copolymers of lactic and glycolic
30 acids, or other polymeric agents both natural and synthetic. In other illustrative
   embodiments, cross-linking agents, such as carbodiimides, aldehydes, lysl-oxidase, N
   hydroxysuccinimide esters, imidoesters, hydrazides, and maleimides, as well as natural

                                                  - 18
   crosslinking agents, including genipin, and the like can be added before, concurrent with, or
   after the addition of cells.
                   As discussed above, in accordance with one embodiment, cells can be added
   to the engineered collagen matrices or engineered graft constructs after polymerization of the
 5 collagen or during collagen polymerization. The engineered collagen matrices comprising
   the cells can be subsequently injected or implanted in a host for use as engineered graft
   constructs. In another embodiment, the cells on or within the engineered collagen matrices
   can be cultured in vitro, for a predetermined length of time, to increase the cell number or to
   induce desired remodeling prior to implantation or injection into a host.
10                 In accordance with one embodiment, a kit is provided comprising the
   engineered collagen matrix or engineered graft construct. The kit itself can be within a
   container of any type, and the kit can contain instructions for use of the components of the
   kit. In one embodiment, cells may constitute a component of the kit. In various
   embodiments, the characteristics of the engineered collagen matrices may vary. In various
15 illustrative embodiments, the engineered collagen matrix or engineered graft construct in the
   kit may comprise various other components, including non-collagenous proteins and
   polysaccharides, in addition to the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan(s). In one
   embodiment, the kit comprises a vessel, vial, container, bag, or wrap, for example, containing
   an engineered collagen matrix or an engineered graft construct. In another embodiment, the
20 kit comprises separate vessels (e.g., a vial, container, bag, or wrap), each containing one of
   the following components: a collagen solution or lyophilized collagen and one or more types
   of collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans. In another embodiment, the kit comprises
   separate vessels, each containing one of the following components: a collagen solution or
   lyophilized collagen, a buffer, and one or more types of collagen-binding synthetic
25 peptidoglycans. In any of these embodiments, the kits can further comprise a buffer, a
   sterilizing or disinfecting agent, non-collagenous proteins or polysaccharides, and/or
   instructional materials describing methods for using the kit reagents or describing methods
   for using the engineered collagen matrices or the engineered graft construct. The kit can also
   contain one or more types of collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans for use as
30 pharmacological agents in the absence of an engineered collagen matrix or an engineered
   graft construct. In this embodiment, the kit can be within a container of any type, and the kit
   can contain instructions for use of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans.

                                                   - 19
                    In yet another embodiment, the kit further comprises a container (e.g. a flask,
   an ampule, a vial, a tube, or a bottle, for example) of cells, including but not limited to, a
   population of non-keratinized or keratinized epithelial cells or a population of cells selected
   from the group consisting of endothelial cells, mesodermally derived cells, mesothelial cells,
 5 synoviocytes, neural cells, glial cells, osteoblasts, fibroblasts, chondrocytes, tenocytes,
   smooth muscle cells, skeletal muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells, multi-potential progenitor
   cells (e.g., stem cells, including bone marrow progenitor cells), and osteogenic cells. In
   another embodiment the cells may be present on a plate. In one embodiment, one or more
   containers of cells may be included and the kit may comprise one or more cell type and cell
10 culture reagents.
                    In one illustrative aspect, a method of preparing an engineered collagen matrix
   is provided. The method comprises the steps of providing a collagen solution, providing a
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan, and polymerizing the collagen in the presence of
   the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan to form the engineered collagen matrix. In
15 various embodiments, the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be an aberrant
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan or a fibrillogenic collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan with amino acid homology to a portion of the amino acid sequence of a
   proteoglycan that normally regulates collagen fibrillogenesis.
                    In embodiments where the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan is an
20 aberrant collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan or a fibrillogenic collagen-binding
   synthetic peptidoglycan, a method of altering the structure or mechanical characteristics of a
   collagen matrix is provided. As used herein, "altering" means changing the mechanical or
   structural characteristics of a collagen matrix polymerized in vitro in the presence of the
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan relative to that of a collagen matrix polymerized in
25 the absence of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan. The method comprises the steps
   of providing a collagen solution, providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan, and
   polymerizing the collagen in the presence of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan
   (e.g., aberrant or fibrillogenic collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan) to form the altered
   collagen matrix.
30                  In one illustrative embodiment, the collagen solution provided can have a
   collagen concentration ranging from about 0.4 mg/ml to about 6 mg/ml. In various
   embodiments, the collagen concentration may range from about 0.5 mg/ml to about 10

                                                  - 20
   mg/ml, about 0.1 mg/ml to about 6 mg/ml, about 0.5 mg/ml to about 3 mg/ml, about 1 mg/ml
   to about 3 mg/ml, and about 2 mg/ml to about 4 mg/ml.
                     As discussed above, in various illustrative aspects, the collagen-binding
   synthetic peptidoglycans used to form the engineered graft constructs or engineered collagen
 5 matrices in accordance with the invention comprise peptides of about 5 to about 40 amino
   acids with homology to the amino acid sequence of a small leucine-rich proteoglycan or a
   platelet receptor sequence. In various embodiments the synthetic peptide comprises an amino
   acid sequence selected from the group consisting of RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC,
   RLDGNEIKRGC, AHEEISTTNEGVMGC, CQDSETRTFY, TKKTLRTGC,
10 GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC, SYIRIADTNITGC,
   SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV,
   NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, and GSITTIDVPWNVGC. In another
   embodiment, the synthetic peptide can comprise or can be an amino acid sequence selected
   from the group consisting of RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, RLDGNEIKRGC,
15 AHEEISTTNEGVMGC, NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, CQDSETRTFY,
   TKKTLRTGC, GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC,
   SYIRIADTNITGC, SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV,
   GSITTIDVPWNVGC, and an amino acid sequence with 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 98%
   homology to any of these fourteen amino acid sequences. The synthetic peptide can also be
20 any peptide of 5 to 40 amino acids selected from peptides that have collagen-binding activity
   and that are 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 98%, or 100% homologous to the collagen-binding
   domain(s) of the von Willebrand factor or a platelet collagen receptor as described in Chiang,
   et al.. J. Biol. Chem. 277: 34896-34901 (2002), Huizinga, et al., Structure 5: 1147-1156
   (1997), Romijn, et al., J. Biol. Chem. 278: 15035-15039 (2003), and Chiang, et al., Cardio. &
25 Haemato. Disorders-DrugTargets 7: 71-75 (2007), each incorporated herein by reference.
                     The glycan attached to the synthetic peptide can be selected from the group
   consisting of alginate, agarose, dextran, chondroitin, dermatan, dermatan sulfate, heparan,
   heparin, keratin, and hyaluronan. In one embodiment, the glycan is selected from the group
   consisting of dermatan sulfate, dextran, and heparin. The collagen-binding synthetic
30 peptidoglycan can be lyophilized prior to polymerization, for example, in a buffer or in water
   or in an acid, such as hydrochloric acid or acetic acid. In one illustrative aspect, the molar
   ratio of the collagen to the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be from about 1:1 to
   about 40:1.

                                                   - 21
                   The polymerizing step can be performed under conditions that are varied
   where the conditions are selected from the group consisting of pH, phosphate concentration,
   temperature, buffer composition, ionic strength, the specific components present, and the
   concentration of the collagen or other components present. In one illustrative aspect, the
 5 collagen or other components, including the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan, can be
   lyophilized prior to polymerization. The collagen or other components can be lyophilized in
   an acid, such as hydrochloric acid or acetic acid.
                   In various illustrative embodiments, the polymerization reaction is conducted
   in a buffered solution using any biologically compatible buffer known to those skilled in the
10 art. For example, the buffer may be selected from the group consisting of phosphate buffer
   saline (PBS), Tris (hydroxymethyl) aminomethane Hydrochloride (Tris-HCl), 3-(N
   Morpholino) Propanesulfonic Acid (MOPS), piperazine-n,n'-bis (2-ethanesulfonic acid)
   (PIPES), [n-(2-Acetamido)]-2-Aminoethanesulfonic Acid (ACES), N-[2-hydroxyethyl]
   piperazine-N'-[2-ethanesulfonic acid] (HEPES), and 1,3-bis[tris(Hydroxymethyl)
15 methylamino]propane (Bis Tris Propane). In one embodiment the buffer is PBS, Tris, or
   MOPS and in one embodiment the buffer system is PBS.
                   In various illustrative embodiments, the polymerization step is conducted at a
   pH selected from the range of about 5.0 to about 11, and in one embodiment polymerization
   is conducted at a pH selected from the range of about 6.0 to about 9.0, and in one
20 embodiment polymerization is conducted at a pH selected from the range of about 6.5 to
   about 8.5, and in another embodiment the polymerization step is conducted at a pH selected
   from the range of about 7.0 to about 8.5, and in another embodiment the polymerization step
   is conducted at a pH selected from the range of about 7.3 to about 7.4.
                   In other illustrative aspects, the ionic strength of the buffered solution is also
25 regulated. In accordance with one embodiment, the ionic strength of the buffer is selected
   from a range of about 0.05 to about 1.5 M, in another embodiment the ionic strength is
   selected from a range of about 0.10 to about 0.90 M, in another embodiment the ionic
   strength is selected from a range of about 0.14 to about 0.30 M and in another embodiment
   the ionic strength is selected from a range of about 0.14 to about 0.17 M.
30                 In still other illustrative embodiments, the polymerization step is conducted at
   temperatures selected from the range of about 00 C to about 60'C. In other embodiments, the
   polymerization step is conducted at temperatures above 20'C, and typically the
   polymerization is conducted at a temperature selected from the range of about 20'C to about

                                                  - 22
   40'C, and more typically the temperature is selected from the range of about 30'C to about
   40C. In one illustrative embodiment the polymerization is conducted at about 370 C.
                    In yet other embodiments, the phosphate concentration of the buffer is varied.
   For example, in one embodiment, the phosphate concentration is selected from a range of
 5 about .005 M to about 0.5 M. In another illustrative embodiment, the phosphate
   concentration is selected from a range of about 0.01 M to about 0.2 M. In another
   embodiment, the phosphate concentration is selected from a range of about 0.01 M to about
   0.1 M. In another illustrative embodiment, the phosphate concentration is selected from a
   range of about 0.01 M to about 0.03 M.
10                  The engineered collagen matrices, including collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycans, of the present invention can be combined, prior to, during, or after
   polymerization, with nutrients, including minerals, amino acids, sugars, peptides, proteins,
   vitamins (such as ascorbic acid), or other compounds such as laminin and fibronectin,
   hyaluronic acid, fibrin, elastin, and aggrecan, or growth factors such as epidermal growth
15 factor, platelet-derived growth factor, transforming growth factor beta, vascular endothelial
   growth factor, or fibroblast growth factor, and glucocorticoids such as dexamethasone, or
   viscoelastic altering agents, such as ionic and non-ionic water soluble polymers; acrylic acid
   polymers; hydrophilic polymers such as polyethylene oxides, polyoxyethylene
   polyoxypropylene copolymers, and polyvinylalcohol; cellulosic polymers and cellulosic
20 polymer derivatives such as hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate, methyl cellulose, carboxymethyl
   cellulose, and etherified cellulose; poly(lactic acid), poly(glycolic acid), copolymers of lactic
   and glycolic acids, or other polymeric agents both natural and synthetic.
                    In accordance with one embodiment, cells can be added as the last step prior
25 to the polymerization or after polymerization of the engineered collagen matrix. In other
   illustrative embodiments, cross-linking agents, such as carbodiimides, aldehydes, lysl
   oxidase, N-hydroxysuccinimide esters, imidoesters, hydrazides, and maleimides, and the like
   can be added before, during, or after polymerization.
                    In one embodiment, the engineered collagen matrix is formed using
30 commercially available collagen (e.g., Sigma, St. Louis, MO). In an alternative embodiment,
   the collagen can be purified from submucosa-containing tissue material such as intestinal,
   urinary bladder, or stomach tissue. In a further embodiment, the collagen can be purified
   from tail tendon. In a further embodiment, the collagen can be purified from skin.

                                                   - 23
                   In one embodiment, the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans with amino
   acid homology to a portion of the amino acid sequence of a proteoglycan that normally
   regulates collagen fibrillogenesis or with amino acid homology to a portion of a protein or a
   peptide that does not normally regulate fibrillogenesis, can be used to form an engineered
 5 collagen matrix with desired structural or mechanical characteristics. In another
   embodiment, the aberrant collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans or fibrillogenic
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans can be used to form an engineered collagen matrix
   with desired, but altered structure or mechanical characteristics.
                   The desired structural, microstructural, nanostructural, or mechanical
10 characteristics can, illustratively, include fibril length, fibril diameter, fibril density, fibril
   volume fraction, fibril organization, 3-dimensional shape or form, and viscoelastic, tensile,
   shear, or compressive behavior (e.g., failure stress, failure strain, and modulus), permeability,
   degradation rate, swelling, hydration properties (e.g., rate and swelling), and in vivo tissue
   remodeling properties, and desired in vitro and in vivo cell responses. The engineered graft
15 constructs and engineered collagen matrices described herein can have desirable
   biocompatibility and in vitro and in vivo remodeling properties, among other desirable
   properties.
                   As used herein, a "modulus" can be an elastic or linear modulus (defined by
   the slope of the linear region of the stress-strain curve obtained using conventional
20 mechanical testing protocols; i.e., stiffness), a compressive modulus, a complex modulus, or a
   shear storage modulus.
                   As used herein, a "fibril volume fraction" is defined as the percent area of the
   total area occupied by fibrils in a cross-sectional surface of the matrix in 3 dimensions and
   "void space fraction" is defined as the percent area of the total area not occupied by fibrils in
25 a cross-sectional surface of the matrix in 3 dimensions.
                   The engineered collagen matrices described herein comprise collagen fibrils
   which typically pack in a quarter-staggered pattern giving the fibril a characteristic striated
   appearance or banding pattern along its axis. In various illustrative embodiments, qualitative
   and quantitative microstructural characteristics of the engineered collagen matrices can be
30 determined by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, confocal
   microscopy, second harmonic generation multi-photon microscopy. In another embodiment,
   tensile, compressive and viscoelastic properties can be determined by rheometry or tensile
   testing. All of these methods are known in the art or are further described in the Examples

                                                    - 24
   section of this application or in Roeder et al., J. Biomech. Eng., vol. 124, pp. 214-222 (2002),
   in Pizzo et al., J. Appl. Physiol., vol. 98, pp. 1-13 (2004), Fulzele et al., Eur. J. Pharm. Sci.,
   vol. 20, pp. 53-61 (2003), Griffey et al., J. Biomed. Mater. Res., vol. 58, pp. 10-15 (2001),
   Hunt et al., Am. J. Surg., vol. 114, pp. 302-307 (1967), and Schilling et al., Surgery, vol. 46,
 5 pp. 702-710 (1959), incorporated herein by reference.
                    In any of the above-described engineered collagen matrix, engineered graft
   construct, kit, or method embodiments, the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be a
   compound of any of the following formulas
10                  A)      PGx wherein n is I to 10;
                            wherein x is I to 10;
                            wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids
                                   comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain; and
                            wherein G is a glycan.
15
                            OR
                    B)      (PnL)xG wherein n is 1 to 5;
                            wherein x is I to 10;
20                          wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids
                                   comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                            wherein L is a linker; and
                            wherein G is a glycan.
25                          OR
                    C)      P(LG)x wherein n is 1 to 5;
                            wherein x is I to 10;
                            wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids
30                                 comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                            wherein L is a linker; and
                            wherein G is a glycan.

                                                   - 25
                  In alternative embodiments, a compound of any of the following formulas is
   provided
                  A)       PGx wherein n is I to 10;
 5                         wherein x is I to 10;
                           wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids
                                   comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain; and
                           wherein G is a glycan.
10                         OR
                  B)       (PnL)xG wherein n is 1 to 5;
                           wherein x is I to 10;
                           wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids
15                                 comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                           wherein L is a linker; and
                           wherein G is a glycan.
                           OR
20
                   C)      P(LG)x wherein n is 1 to 5;
                           wherein x is I to 10;
                           wherein P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids
                                   comprising a sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
25                         wherein L is a linker; and
                           wherein G is a glycan.
                  In another embodiment, a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan
   comprising a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids with amino acid sequence
   homology to a collagen binding peptide (e.g. a portion of an amino acid sequence of a
30 collagen binding protein or proteoglycan) conjugated to heparin, dextran, or hyaluronan can
   be used to inhibit platelet activation, to inhibit platelet binding to collagen, or to limit
   thrombosis or to form an engineered collagen matrix. In any of these embodiments, any of
   the above-described compounds can be used.

                                                   - 26
                    In another embodiment, a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan
   comprising a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids with amino acid sequence
   homology to a collagen binding peptide (e.g. a portion of an amino acid sequence of a
   collagen binding protein or proteoglycan) conjugated to heparin, dextran, or hyaluronan can
 5 be used to inhibit platelet binding to collagen, platelet activation, or both. In any of these
   embodiments, any of the above-described compounds can be used.
                    In another embodiment, the synthetic peptides described herein can be
   modified by the inclusion of one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. As is well
   known to those skilled in the art, altering any non-critical amino acid of a peptide by
10 conservative substitution should not significantly alter the activity of that peptide because the
   side-chain of the replacement amino acid should be able to form similar bonds and contacts
   as the side chain of the amino acid which has been replaced.
                    Non-conservative substitutions are possible provided that these do not
   excessively affect the collagen binding activity of the peptide and/or reduce its effectiveness
15 in altering the structure or mechanical characteristics of a collagen matrix, in inhibiting
   platelet activation, or in inhibiting platelet adhesion (e.g. binding) to collagen.
                    As is well-known in the art, a "conservative substitution" of an amino acid or
   a "conservative substitution variant" of a peptide refers to an amino acid substitution which
   maintains: 1) the secondary structure of the peptide; 2) the charge or hydrophobicity of the
20 amino acid; and 3) the bulkiness of the side chain or any one or more of these characteristics.
   Illustratively, the well-known terminologies "hydrophilic residues" relate to seine or
   threonine. "Hydrophobic residues" refer to leucine, isoleucine, phenylalanine, valine or
   alanine, or the like. "Positively charged residues" relate to lysine, arginine, ornithine, or
   histidine. "Negatively charged residues" refer to aspartic acid or glutamic acid. Residues
25 having "bulky side chains" refer to phenylalanine, tryptophan or tyrosine, or the like. A list
   of illustrative conservative amino acid substitutions is given in TABLE 1.
                                                 TABLE 1
                  For Amino Acid               Replace With
                  Alanine                      D-Ala, Gly, Aib, 3-Ala, L-Cys, D-Cys
                  Arginine                     D-Arg, Lys, D-Lys, Orn D-Orn
                  Asparagine                   D-Asn, Asp, D-Asp, Glu, D-Glu Gln, D
                                               Gln
                  Aspartic Acid                D-Asp, D-Asn, Asn, Glu, D-Glu, Gln, D
                                               Gln
                  Cysteine                     D-Cys, S-Me-Cys, Met, D-Met, Thr, D-

                                                    - 27
                                                Thr
                 Glutamine                      D-Gln, Asn, D-Asn, Glu, D-Glu, Asp, D
                                                Asp
                 Glutamic Acid                  D-Glu, D-Asp, Asp, Asn, D-Asn, Gln, D
                                                Gln
                 Glycine                        Ala, D-Ala, Pro, D-Pro, Aib, 3-Ala
                 Isoleucine                     D-Ile, Val, D-Val, Leu, D-Leu, Met, D
                                                Met
                 Leucine                        Val, D-Val, Met, D-Met, D-Ile, D-Leu, Ile
                 Lysine                         D-Lys, Arg, D-Arg, Orn, D-Orn
                 Methionine                     D-Met, S-Me-Cys, Ile, D-Ile, Leu, D-Leu,
                                                Val, D-Val
                 Phenylalanine                  D-Phe, Tyr, D-Tyr, His, D-His, Trp, D
                                                Trp
                 Proline                        D-Pro
                 Serine                         D-Ser, Thr, D-Thr, allo-Thr, L-Cys, D
                                                Cys
                 Threonine                      D-Thr, Ser, D-Ser, allo-Thr, Met, D-Met,
                                                Val, D-Val
                 Tyrosine                       D-Tyr, Phe, D-Phe, His, D-His, Trp, D
                                                Trp
                 Valine                         D-Val, Leu, D-Leu, Ile, D-Ile, Met, D
                                                Met
                    In another embodiment, a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan
   comprising a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids with amino acid sequence
 5 homology to a portion of a collagen binding peptide conjugated to heparin can be used to
   inhibit platelet activation, inhibit platelet binding (e.g. adhesion) to collagen, or to limit
   thrombosis or to form an engineered collagen matrix. In another embodiment, the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan conjugated to dextran can be used to inhibit platelet
   activation, inhibit platelet binding to collagen, or to limit thrombosis or to form an engineered
10 collagen matrix. In yet another embodiment, the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan
   conjugated to hyaluronan can be used to inhibit platelet activation, inhibit platelet binding to
   collagen, or to limit thrombosis or to form an engineered collagen matrix. In any of these
   embodiments, any of the above-described compounds can be used.
                    In another embodiment, a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan
15 comprising a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids with amino acid sequence
   homology to a collagen binding peptide (e.g. a portion of an amino acid sequence of a
   collagen binding protein or a proteoglycan) conjugated to any glycan, such as, for example,

                                                  - 28
   heparin, dextran, or hyaluronan can be used to inhibit platelet binding to collagen, to inhibit
   platelet activation, or to limit thrombosis. In any of these embodiments, any of the above
   described compounds can be used.
                    In one embodiment the synthetic peptide is synthesized according to solid
 5 phase peptide synthesis protocols that are well known by persons of skill in the art. In one
   embodiment a peptide precursor is synthesized on a solid support according to the well
   known Fmoc protocol, cleaved from the support with trifluoroacetic acid and purified by
   chromatography according to methods known to persons skilled in the art.
                    In another embodiment the synthetic peptide is synthesized utilizing the
10 methods of biotechnology that are well known to persons skilled in the art. In one
   embodiment a DNA sequence that encodes the amino acid sequence information for the
   desired peptide is ligated by recombinant DNA techniques known to persons skilled in the art
   into an expression plasmid (for example, a plasmid that incorporates an affinity tag for
   affinity purification of the peptide), the plasmid is transfected into a host organism for
15 expression, and the peptide is then isolated from the host organism or the growth medium
   according to methods known by persons skilled in the art (e.g., by affinity purification).
   Recombinant DNA technology methods are described in Sambrook et al., "Molecular
   Cloning: A Laboratory Manual", 3rd Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, (2001),
   incorporated herein by reference, and are well-known to the skilled artisan.
20                  In one embodiment the synthetic peptide is conjugated to a glycan by reacting
   a free amino group of the peptide with an aldehyde function of the glycan in the presence of a
   reducing agent, utilizing methods known to persons skilled in the art, to yield the peptide
   glycan conjugate. In one embodiment an aldehyde function of the glycan (e.g.
   polysaccharide or glycosaminoglycan) is formed by reacting the glycan with sodium
25 metaperiodate according to methods known to persons skilled in the art.
                    In another embodiment the synthetic peptide is conjugated to a glycan by
   reacting an aldehyde function of the glycan with 3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionyl hydrazide
   (PDPH) to form an intermediate glycan and further reacting the intermediate glycan with a
   peptide containing a free thiol group to yield the peptide glycan conjugate. In yet another
30 embodiment, the sequence of the peptide may be modified to include a glycine-cysteine
   segment to provide an attachment point for a glycan or a glycan-linker conjugate.
                    Although specific embodiments have been described in the preceding
   paragraphs, the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans described herein can be made by

                                                   - 29
   using any art-recognized method for conjugation of the peptide to the glycan (e.g.
   polysaccharide or glycosaminoglycan). This can include covalent, ionic, or hydrogen
   bonding, either directly or indirectly via a linking group such as a divalent linker. The
   conjugate is typically formed by covalent bonding of the peptide to the glycan through the
 5 formation of amide, ester or imino bonds between acid, aldehyde, hydroxy, amino, or
   hydrazo groups on the respective components of the conjugate. All of these methods are
   known in the art or are further described in the Examples section of this application or in
   Hermanson G.T., Bioconjugate Techniques, Academic Press, pp. 1 6 9 - 1 8 6 (1996). The linker
   typically comprises about 1 to about 30 carbon atoms, more typically about 2 to about 20
10 carbon atoms. Lower molecular weight linkers (i.e., those having an approximate molecular
   weight of about 20 to about 500) are typically employed.
                    In addition, structural modifications of the linker portion of the conjugates are
   contemplated herein. For example, amino acids may be included in the linker and a number
   of amino acid substitutions may be made to the linker portion of the conjugate, including but
15 not limited to naturally occurring amino acids, as well as those available from conventional
   synthetic methods. In another aspect, beta, gamma, and longer chain amino acids may be
   used in place of one or more alpha amino acids. In another aspect, the linker may be
   shortened or lengthened, either by changing the number of amino acids included therein, or
   by including more or fewer beta, gamma, or longer chain amino acids. Similarly, the length
20 and shape of other chemical fragments of the linkers described herein may be modified.
                    In one aspect, the linker may include one or more bivalent fragments selected
   independently in each instance from the group consisting of alkylene, heteroalkylene,
   cycloalkylene, cycloheteroalkylene, arylene, and heteroarylene each of which is optionally
   substituted. As used herein heteroalkylene represents a group resulting from the replacement
25 of one or more carbon atoms in a linear or branched alkylene group with an atom
   independently selected in each instance from the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen,
   phosphorus and sulfur.
                    In one aspect, a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan may be administered
   to a patient (e.g., a patient in need of treatment to inhibit platelet activation such as that
30 involved in thrombosis). In various embodiments, the collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan can be administered intravenously, or into muscle, or an internal organ, for
   example. Suitable routes for parenteral administration include intravenous, intra-arterial, and

                                                  - 30
   intramuscular delivery. Suitable means for parenteral administration include needle
   (including microneedle) injectors and infusion techniques.
                   In an illustrative embodiment, pharmaceutical formulations for use with
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans for parenteral administration comprising: a) a
 5 pharmaceutically active amount of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan; b) a
   pharmaceutically acceptable pH buffering agent to provide a pH in the range of about pH 4.5
   to about pH 9; c) an ionic strength modifying agent in the concentration range of about 0 to
   about 300 millimolar; and d) water soluble viscosity modifying agent in the concentration
   range of about 0.25% to about 10% total formula weight or any combinations of a), b), c) and
10 d) are provided.
                   In various illustrative embodiments, the pH buffering agents for use in the
   compositions and methods herein described are those agents known to the skilled artisan and
   include, for example, acetate, borate, carbonate, citrate, and phosphate buffers, as well as
   hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide, magnesium oxide, monopotassium phosphate,
15 bicarbonate, ammonia, carbonic acid, hydrochloric acid, sodium citrate, citric acid, acetic
   acid, disodium hydrogen phosphate, borax, boric acid, sodium hydroxide, diethyl barbituric
   acid, and proteins, as well as various biological buffers, for example, TAPS, Bicine, Tris,
   Tricine, HEPES, TES, MOPS, PIPES, cacodylate, or MES.
                   In another illustrative embodiment, the ionic strength modulating agents
20 include those agents known in the art, for example, glycerin, propylene glycol, mannitol,
   glucose, dextrose, sorbitol, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, and other electrolytes.
                   Useful viscosity modulating agents include but are not limited to, ionic and
   non-ionic water soluble polymers; crosslinked acrylic acid polymers such as the "carbomer"
   family of polymers, e.g., carboxypolyalkylenes that may be obtained commercially under the
25 Carbopol@ trademark; hydrophilic polymers such as polyethylene oxides, polyoxyethylene
   polyoxypropylene copolymers, and polyvinylalcohol; cellulosic polymers and cellulosic
   polymer derivatives such as hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate, methyl cellulose, carboxymethyl
   cellulose, and etherified cellulose; gums such as tragacanth and xanthan gum; sodium
30 alginate; gelatin, hyaluronic acid and salts thereof, chitosans, gellans or any combination
   thereof. Typically, non-acidic viscosity enhancing agents, such as a neutral or basic agent are
   employed in order to facilitate achieving the desired pH of the formulation.

                                                   - 31
                   In one illustrative aspect, parenteral formulations may be suitably formulated
   as a sterile non-aqueous solution or as a dried form to be used in conjunction with a suitable
   vehicle such as sterile, pyrogen-free water. The preparation of parenteral formulations under
   sterile conditions, for example, by lyophilisation, may readily be accomplished using
 5 standard pharmaceutical techniques well known to those skilled in the art.
                   In one embodiment, the solubility of a collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan used in the preparation of a parenteral formulation may be increased by the use
   of appropriate formulation techniques, such as the incorporation of solubility-enhancing
   agents.
10                 In various embodiments, formulations for parenteral administration may be
   formulated to be for immediate and/or modified release. Modified release formulations
   include delayed, sustained, pulsed, controlled, targeted and programmed release formulations.
   Thus, a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan may be formulated as a solid, semi-solid, or
   thixotropic liquid for administration as an implanted depot providing modified release of the
15 active compound. Illustrative examples of such formulations include drug-coated stents and
   copolymeric(dl-lactic, glycolic)acid (PGLA) microspheres. In another embodiment,
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans or compositions comprising collagen-binding
   synthetic peptidoglycan may be continuously administered, where appropriate.
                   In other embodiments, collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans and
20 compositions containing them can be administered topically. A variety of dose forms and
   bases can be applied to the topical preparations, such as an ointment, cream, gel, gel
   ointment, plaster (e.g. cataplasm, poultice), solution, powders, and the like. These
   preparations may be prepared by any conventional method with conventional
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or diluents as described below.
25                 For example, in the preparation of an ointment, vaseline, higher alcohols,
   beeswax, vegetable oils, polyethylene glycol, etc. can be used. In the preparation of a cream
   formulation, fats and oils, waxes, higher fatty acids, higher alcohols, fatty acid esters, purified
   water, emulsifying agents etc. can be used. In the preparation of gel formulations,
   conventional gelling materials such as polyacrylates (e.g. sodium polyacrylate),
30 hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, polyvinyl alcohol,
   polyvinylpyrrolidone, purified water, lower alcohols, polyhydric alcohols, polyethylene
   glycol, and the like are used. In the preparation of a gel ointment preparation, an emulsifying
   agent (preferably nonionic surfactants), an oily substance (e.g. liquid paraffin, triglycerides,

                                                   - 32
   and the like), etc. are used in addition to the gelling materials as mentioned above. A plaster
   such as cataplasm or poultice can be prepared by spreading a gel preparation as mentioned
   above onto a support (e.g. fabrics, non-woven fabrics). In addition to the above-mentioned
   ingredients, paraffins, squalane, lanolin, cholesterol esters, higher fatty acid esters, and the
 5 like may optionally be used. Moreover, antioxidants such as BHA, BHT, propyl gallate,
   pyrogallol, tocopherol, etc. may also be incorporated. In addition to the above-mentioned
   preparations and components, there may optionally be used any other conventional
   formulations for incorporated with any other additives.
                   It is also contemplated that any of the formulations described herein may be
10 used to administer the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan (e.g., one or more types)
   either in the absence or the presence of the engineered collagen matrices described herein.
                   In various embodiments, the dosage of the collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan, with or without an engineered collagen matrix, can vary significantly
   depending on the patient condition, the disease state being treated, the route of administration
15 and tissue distribution, and the possibility of co-usage of other therapeutic treatments. The
   effective amount to be administered to a patient is based on body surface area, patient weight
   or mass, and physician assessment of patient condition. In various exemplary embodiments,
   an effective dose can range from about 1 ng/kg to about 10 mg/kg, 100 ng/kg to about 1
   mg/kg, from about 1 pg/kg to about 500 pg/kg, or from about 100 pg/kg to about 400 pg/kg.
20 In each of these embodiments, dose/kg refers to the dose per kilogram of patient mass or
   body weight. In other illustrative aspects, effective doses can range from about 0.01 pg to
   about 1000 mg per dose, 1 pg to about 100 mg per dose, or from about 100 pg to about 50 mg
   per dose, or from about 500 pg to about 10 mg per dose or from about 1 mg to 10 mg per
   dose.
25                 Any effective regimen for administering the collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan can be used. For example, the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can
   be administered as a single dose, or as a multiple-dose daily regimen. Further, a staggered
   regimen, for example, one to five days per week can be used as an alternative to daily
   treatment.
30                 In one embodiment of the invention the patient is treated with multiple
   injections of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan. In one embodiment, the patient is
   injected multiple times (e.g., about 2 up to about 50 times) with the collagen-binding
   synthetic peptidoglycan, for example, at 12-72 hour intervals or at 48-72 hour intervals.

                                                    - 33
   Additional injections of the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan can be administered to
   the patient at an interval of days or months after the initial injections(s) and the additional
   injections prevent recurrence of disease. Alternatively, the initial injection(s) of the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan may prevent recurrence of disease.
 5                  In any of the embodiments herein described, it is to be understood that a
   combination of two or more collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycans, differing in the
   peptide portion, the glycan portion, or both, can be used in place of a single collagen-binding
   synthetic peptidoglycan.
                    It is also appreciated that in the foregoing embodiments, certain aspects of the
10 compounds, compositions and methods are presented in the alternative in lists, such as,
   illustratively, selections for any one or more of G and P. It is therefore to be understood that
   various alternate embodiments of the invention include individual members of those lists, as
   well as the various subsets of those lists. Each of those combinations are to be understood to
   be described herein by way of the lists.
15                  In the following illustrative examples, the terms "synthetic peptidoglycan" and
   "conjugate" are used synonymously with the term "collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan."
                                               EXAMPLE 1
                                             Peptide Synthesis
20                  All peptides were synthesized using a Symphony peptide synthesizer (Protein
   Technologies, Tucson, AZ), utililizing an FMOC protocol on a Knorr resin. The crude
   peptide was released from the resin with TFA and purified by reverse phase chromatography
   on an AKTAexplorer (GE Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ) utililizing a Grace-Vydac 218TP C-18
   reverse phase column and a gradient of water/acetonitrile 0.1 %TFA. Dansyl-modified
25 peptides were prepared by adding an additional coupling step with dansyl-Gly (Sigma) before
   release from the resin. Peptide structures were confirmed by mass spectrometry. The
   following peptides were prepared as described above: RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC,
   SYIRIADTNIT, Dansyl-GRRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, and Dansyl-GSYIRIADTNIT.
   These peptides are abbreviated SILY, SYIR, Z-SILY, and Z-SYIR. Additional peptides,
30 KELNLVYTGC (abbreviated KELN) and GSITTIDVPWNVGC (abbreviated GSIT) were
   prepared as described above or purchased (Genescript, Piscataway, NJ).

                                                 - 34
                                             EXAMPLE 2
                           Conjugation of SYIR Peptide to Dermatan Sulfate
                    SYIR was conjugated to oxDS by a method adapted from Hermanson with
   slight modifications (Hermanson, 1996). The peptide SYIR was dissolved in 0.05M sodium
 5 carbonate, 0.1M sodium citrate buffer, pH 9.5, at a concentration of 0.4 mg/mL for a final
   volume of 5mL. To react in 10-fold peptide molar excess, 29mg of oxDS MW 41,000
   (oxidized dermatan sulfate, containing 1.1 aldehydes/DS molecule of 41kDa is available from
   Celsus Laboratories, Cincinnati, OH) was dissolved into the peptide solution. Under gentle
   stirring, 50pL sodium cyanoborohydride was added, and the reaction allowed to proceed at
10 room temperature overnight.
                    Excess peptide was separated by gel filtration on an Akta Purifier using an XK
   26-40 column packed with Sephadex G-25 medium (GE Health) and equilibrated with
   deionized water (MilliQ). Eluent was monitored at 215nm, 254nm, and 280nm. The first
   eluting peak containing DS-SYIR was collected and lyophilized for further testing.
15                                           EXAMPLE 3
                               Conjugation of SILY to Dermatan Sulfate
   PDPH Attachment to oxDS
                    The bifunctional crosslinker PDPH (Pierce), reactive to sulfhydryl and amine
   groups, was used to conjugate SILY to oxDS. In the first step of the reaction, oxDS was
20 dissolved in coupling buffer (0. IM sodium phosphate, 0.25M sodium chloride, pH 7.2) to a
   final concentration of 1.2 mM. PDPH was added in 10-fold molar excess, and the reaction
   proceeded at room temperature for 2 hours. Excess PDPH (MW 229Da) was separated by
   gel filtration on an Akta Purifier using an XK 26-40 column packed with Sephadex G-25
   medium and equilibrated with MilliQ water. Eluent was monitored at 215nm, 254nm, and
25 280nm. The first eluting peak containing DS-PDPH was collected and lyophilized for
   conjugating with SILY.
   Determination of PDPH content
                    To determine the number of PDPH molecules conjugated to oxDS. DS-PDPH
   was dissolved in coupling buffer at 1.6mg/mL. 10pL of DTT at 15mg/mL was added to the
30 DS-PDPH solution, and the reaction proceeded at room temperature for 15min. Reducing the
   disulfide bond on the cysteine reactive side of PDPH liberates pyridine-2-thione, which is
   visible at 313nm. Absorbance at 313nm was measured before and after the addition of DTT,
   and the difference was used to calculate the number of PDPH molecules/DS molecule using

                                                 - 35
   the extinction coefficient of pyridine-2-thione. Results in FIGURE 7. show AA = 0.35,
   corresponding to 1.1 PDPH molecules/DS.
   Conjugation of SILY
                   The peptide was dissolved in a 5:1 molar excess in coupling buffer at a final
 5 peptide concentration of approximately 1mM (limited by peptide solubility). The reaction
   was allowed to proceed at room temperature overnight, and excess peptide was separated and
   the DS-SILY conjugate isolated by gel filtration as described above. See FIGURE 26
   showing a SILY/DS ratio of 1.06 after coupling.
                                             EXAMPLE 4
10                           Conjugation of Z-SILY to Dermatan Sulfate
                   Dermatan sulfate was conjugated to Z-SILY according to the method of
   EXAMPLE 3.
                                             EXAMPLE 5
                              Conjugation of KELN to Dermatan Sulfate
15                 Dermatan sulfate was conjugated to KELN according to the method of
   EXAMPLE 3.
                                             EXAMPLE 6
                              Conjugation of GSIT to Dermatan Sulfate
                   Dermatan sulfate was conjugated to GSIT according to the method of
20 EXAMPLE 3.
                                             EXAMPLE 7
                             Conjugation of Z-SYIR to Dermatan Sulfate
                   Dermatan sulfate was conjugated to Z-SYIR according to the method of
   EXAMPLE 2.
25                                           EXAMPLE 8
                                   Conjugation of SILY to Heparin
                   Oxidized Heparin (oxHep) (MW = 19.7kDa) containing 1 aldehyde per
   molecule (purchased from Celsus Laboratories, Cincinnati, OH). Additional aldehydes were
   formed by further oxidation in sodium meta-periodate as follows. oxHep was dissolved in
30 0.1M sodium acetate pH 5.5 at a concentration of 1Omg/mL. Sodium meta-periodate was
   then added at a concentration of 2mg/mL and allowed to react for 4 hours at room
   temperature protected from light. Excess sodium meta-periodate was removed by desalting

                                                 - 36
   using a HiTrap size exclusion column (GE Healthcare) and oxHep was lyophilized protected
   from light until conjugation with PDPH.
                   oxHep was conjugated to PDPH by the method described for DS-PDPH
   conjugation, EXAMPLE 3. PDPH was reacted in 50-fold molar excess. To achieve a higher
 5 PDPH concentration, 10mg PDPH was dissolved in 75pL DMSO and mixed with 1mL
   coupling buffer containing oxHep. The reaction proceeded at room temperature for 2.5 hours
   and excess PDPH was removed by desalting. Heparin containing PDPH (Hep-PDPH) was
   stored as a lyophilized powder until reacted with SILY.
                   SILY was reacted in 10-fold molar excess with Hep-PDPH as described for
10 DS-SILY conjugation in EXAMPLE 3. The reaction was monitored as described for DS
   SILY in EXAMPLE 3 and showed 5.44 SILY peptides conjugated per heparin molecule as
   shown in FIGURE 24.
                                            EXAMPLE 9
                                   Conjugation of GSIT to Heparin
15                 Heparin was conjugated to GSIT according to the method of EXAMPLE 8
   (abbreviated Hep-GSIT).
                                           EXAMPLE 10
                                   Conjugation of SILY to Dextran
                   Dextran was conjugated to SILY according to the method of EXAMPLE 8
20 replacing heparin with dextran. Modification of the conditions for oxidation of dextran with
   sodium meta-periodate in the first step to allowed preparation of conjugates with different
   molar ratios of SILY to dextran. For example dextran-SILY conjugates with a molar ratio of
   SILY to dextran of about 6 and a dextran-SILY conjugate with a molar ratio of SILY to
   dextran of about 9 were prepared (abbreviated Dex-SILY6 and Dex-SILY9).
25                                         EXAMPLE 11
                                 Conjugation of SILY to Hyaluronan
                   Hyaluronan was conjugated to SILY according to the method of EXAMPLE 8
   (abbreviated HA-SILY).
                                           EXAMPLE 12
30                               SILY Binding to Collagen (Biacore)
                   Biacore studies were performed on a Biacore 2000 using a CM-3 chip
   (Biacore, Inc., Piscataway, NJ). The CM-3 chip is coated with covalently attached
   carboxymethylated dextran, which allows for attachment of the substrate collagen via free

                                                - 37
   amine groups. Flow cells (FCs) 1 and 2 were used, with FC-I as the reference cell and FC-2
   as the collagen immobilized cell. Each FC was activated with EDC-NHS, and 1500RU of
   collagen was immobilized on FC-2 by flowing 1mg/mL collagen in sodium acetate, pH 4,
   buffer at 5pL/min for 10 min. Unreacted NHS-ester sites were capped with ethanolamine;
 5 the control FC-I was activated and capped with ethanolamin.
                   To determine peptide binding affinity, SILY was dissolved in 1x HBS-EP
   buffer (Biacore) at varying concentrations from 100uM to 1.5pm in 2-fold dilutions. The
   flow rate was held at 90pL/min which is in the range suggested by Myska for determining
   binding kinetics (Myska, 1997). The first 10 injections were buffer injections, which help to
10 prime the system, followed by randomized sample injections, run in triplicate. Analysis was
   performed using BlAevaluation software (Biacore). Representative
   association/disassociation curves are shown in FIGURE 3 demonstrating that the SILY
   peptide binds reversibly with collagen. KD=1.2 VM was calculated from the on-off binding
   kinetics.
15                                         EXAMPLE 13
                                    Z-SILY Binding to Collagen
                   Binding assays were done in a 96-well high-binding plate, black with a clear
   bottom (Costar). Collagen was compared to untreated wells and BSA coated wells. Collagen
   and BSA were immobilized at 37'C for 1 hr by incubating 90pL/well at concentrations of
20 2mg/mL in 10 mM HCl and 1xPBS, respectively. Each well was washed 3x with 1xPBS
   after incubating. Z-SILY was dissolved in 1xPBS at concentrations from 100pM to 10nM in
   10-fold dilutions. Wells were incubated for 30min at 37'C and rinsed 3X with PBS and then
   filled with 90pL of 1xPBS. Fluorescence readings were taken on an M5 Spectramax
   Spectrophotometer (Molecular Devices) at excitation/emission wavelengths of 335nm/490nm
25 respectively. The results are shown in FIGURES 4 and 5. KD=0.86 VM was calculated from
   the equilibrium kinetics.
                                           EXAMPLE 14
                                       Charaterizing DS-SILY
                   To determine the number of SILY molecules conjugated to DS, the production
30 of pyridine-2-thione was measured using a modified protocol provided by Pierce. Dermatan
   sulfate with 1.1 PDPH molecules attached was dissolved in coupling buffer (0. IM sodium
   phosphate, 0.25M sodium chloride) at a concentration of 0.44 mg/mL and absorbance at
   343nm was measured using a SpectraMax M5 (Molecular Devices). SILY was reacted in 5-

                                                 - 38
   fold molar excess and absorbance measurements were repeated immediately after addition of
   SILY and after allowing to react for 2 hours. To be sure SILY does not itself absorb at 343
   nm, coupling buffer containing 0.15 mg/mL SILY was measured and was compared to
   absorbance of buffer alone.
 5                 The number of SILY molecules conjugated to DS was calculated by the
   extinction coefficient of pyridine-2-thione using the following equation (Abs 3 4 3/8080) X
   (MWDs/DSmgmL). The results are shown in FIGURE 26.
                                            EXAMPLE 15
                           Collagen Binding, Fluorescence Data - DS-SILY
10                 In order to determine whether the peptide conjugate maintained its ability to
   bind to collagen after its conjugation to DS, a fluorescent binding assay was performed. A
   fluorescently labeled version of SILY, Z-SILY, was synthesized by adding dansylglycine to
   the amine terminus. This peptide was conjugated to DS and purified using the same methods
   described for SILY.
15                 Binding assays were done in a 96-well high binding plate, black with a clear
   bottom (Costar). Collagen was compared to untreated wells and BSA coated wells. Collagen
   and BSA were immobilized at 37'C for 1 hr by incubating 90pL/well at concentrations of
   2mg/mL in 10mM HCl and 1xPBS respectively. Each well was washed 3x with 1xPBS after
   incubating.
20                 Wells were preincubated with DS at 37'C for 30min to eliminate nonspecific
   binding of DS to collagen. Wells were rinsed 3x with 1xPBS before incubating with DS-Z
   SILY. DS-Z-SILY was dissolved in 1xPBS at concentrations from 100PM to 10nM in 10
   fold dilutions. Wells were incubated for 30 min at 37'C and rinsed 3x and then filled with
   90pL of 1xPBS. Fluorescence readings were taken on an M5 Spectramax Spectrophotometer
25 (Molecular Devices) at excitation/emission wavelengths of 335nm/490nm respectively.
                   Fluorescence binding of DS-Z-SILY on immobilized collagen, BSA, and
   untreated wells are compared in FIGURE 8. Results show that DS-Z-SILY binds specifically
   to the collagen-treated wells over BSA and untreated wells. The untreated wells of the high
   bind plate were designed to be a positive control, though little binding was observed relative
30 to collagen treated wells. These results suggest that SILY maintains its ability to bind to
   collagen after it is conjugated to DS. Preincubating with DS did not prevent binding,
   suggesting that the conjugate binds separately from DS alone.
                                            EXAMPLE 16

                                                  - 39
                                 Preparation Of Type I Collagen Gels
                   Gels were made with Nutragen collagen (Inamed, Freemont, CA) at a final
   concentration of 4mg/mL collagen. Nutragen stock is 6.4mg/mL in 10mM HCl. Gel
   preparation was performed on ice, and fresh samples were made before each test. The
 5 collagen solution was adjusted to physiologic pH and salt concentration, by adding
   appropriate volumes of 1Ox PBS (phosphate buffered saline), 1xPBS, and IM NaOH. For
   most experiments, samples of DS, decorin, DS-SILY, or DS-SYIR were added at a 10:1
   collagen:sample molar ratio by a final 1xPBS addition (equal volumes across treatments) in
   which the test samples were dissolved at appropriate concentrations. In this way, samples are
10 constantly kept at pH 7.4 and physiologic salt concentration. Collagen-alone samples
   received a 1xPBS addition with no sample dissolved. Fibrillogenesis will be induced by
   incubating neutralized collagen solutions at 37'C overnight in a humidified chamber to avoid
   dehydration. Gel solutions with collagen:sample molar ratios of other than 10:1 were
   prepared similarly.
15                                           EXAMPLE 17
                                 Viscoelastic Characterization of Gels
                   Collagen gels were prepared as described in EXAMPLE 16 and prior to
   heating, 200pL of each treatment were pipetted onto the wettable surface of hydrophobically
   printed slides (Tekdon). The PTFE printing restricted gels to the 20mm diameter wettable
20 region. Gels were formed in a humidified incubator at 370 C overnight prior to mechanical
   testing.
                   Slides were clamped on the rheometer stage of a AR-G2 rheometer with
   20mm stainless steel parallel plate geometry (TA Instruments, New Castle, DE) , and the
   20mm stainless steel parallel plate geometry was lowered to a gap distance of 600pm using a
25 normal force control of 0.25N to avoid excessive shearing on the formed gel. An iterative
   process of stress and frequency sweeps was performed on gels of collagen alone to determine
   the linear range. All samples were also tested over a frequency range from 0.1Hz to 1.0Hz
   and a controlled stress of 1.OPa. Statistical analysis using Design Expert software (StatEase,
   Minneapolis, MN) was performed at each frequency and a 5-way ANOVA used to compare
30 samples. The results shown in FIGURE 9, 10:1; FIGURE 10, 5:1; and FIGURE 11, 30:1
   demonstrate that treatment with synthetic peptidoglycans can modify the viscoelastic
   behavior of collagen type I gels.
                                             EXAMPLE 18

                                                  - 40
                     Viscoelastic Characterization of Collagen III Containing Gels
                   Gels containing type III collagen were prepared as in EXAMPLE 16 with the
   following modifications: treated and untreated gel solutions were prepared using a collagen
   concentration of 1.5 mg/mL (90% collagen III (Millipore), 10% collagen I), 200 pL samples
 5 were pipetted onto 20 mm diameter wettable surfaces of hydrophobic printed slides. These
   solutions were allowed to gel at 37'C for 24 hours. Gels were formed from collagen alone,
   collagen treated with dermatan sulfate (1:1 and 5:1 molar ratio), and collagen treated with the
   collagen Ill-binding peptides alone (GSIT and KELN, 5:1 molar ratio) served as controls.
   The treated gels contained the peptidoglycans (DS-GSIT or DS-KELN at 1:1 and 5:1 molar
10 ratios. All ratios are collagen:treatment compound ratios. The gels were characterized as in
   EXAMPLE 17, except the samples were tested over a frequency range from 0.1Hz to 1.0Hz
   at a controlled stress of 1.0 Pa. As shown in FIGURES 12 and 13, the dermatan sulfate-GSIT
   conjugate and the dermatan sulfate-KELN conjugate (synthetic peptidoglycans) can influence
   the viscoelastic properties of gels formed with collagen type III.
15                                           EXAMPLE 19
                                             Fibrillogenesis
                    Collagen fibrillogenesis was monitored by measuring turbidity related
   absorbance at 313nm providing information on rate of fibrillogenesis and fibril diameter. Gel
   solutions were prepared as described in EXAMPLE 16 (4mg/mL collagen, 10:1
20 collagen:treatment, unless otherwise indicated) and 50uL/well were added at 4'C to a 384
   well plate. The plate was kept at 4'C for 4 hours before initiating fibril formation. A
   SpectraMax M5 at 37'C was used to measure absorbance at 313nm at 30s intervals for 6
   hours. The results are shown in FIGURES 14, 15, and 16. The Tm/2 for gel formation of the
   10:1 molar ratio samples is shown in FIGURE 17. Dermatan sulfate-SILY decreases the rate
25 of fibrillogenesis.
                                             EXAMPLE 20
                                    Confocal Reflection Microscopy
                    Gels were formed and incubated overnight as described above in EXAMPLE
   16, the gels were imaged with an Olympus FV1000 confocal microscope using a 60X, 1.4
30 NA water immersion lens. Samples were illuminated with 488nm laser light and the
   reflected light was detected with a photomultiplier tube using a blue reflection filter. Each
   gel was imaged 100IM from the bottom of the gel, and three separate locations were imaged
   to ensure representative sampling. Results are shown in FIGURE 18.

                                                 - 41
                                            EXAMPLE 21
                               Cryo-SEM Measurements on Collagen I
                   Gels for cryo-SEM were formed, as in EXAMPLE 16, directly on the SEM
   stage and incubated at 37'C overnight. The stages were then secured in a cryo-holder and
 5 plunged into liquid nitrogen slush. Samples were then transferred to a Gatan Alto 2500 pre
   chamber cooled to -170'C under vacuum. A free-break surface was created with a cooled
   scalpel, and each sample evaporated under sublimation conditions for 20 min. The sample
   was coated by platinum sputter coating for 120s. Samples were transferred to the cryo-stage
   at -130 C and regions with similar orientation were imaged for comparison across treatments.
10 Representative samples imaged at 5,000x are shown in FIGURE 19. Analysis of the images
   was performed to determine the average fibril diameter, FIGURE 22; and the average
   distance between collagen sheets, FIGURE 23. Fibril diameter was calculated using ImageJ
   software (NIH) measuring individual fibrils by hand (drawing a line across fibrils and
   measuring its length after properly setting the scale). There were 3 observers, 3 separate
15 images per treatment, 10 fibrils recorded per image giving a total of 90 measurements per
   treatment. Sheet distance was calculated using ImageJ, again measuring by hand. One
   observer and 15 measurements per treatment. Fibril diameter and distance between collagen
   sheets decreased in the gels treated with the dermatan sulfate-SILY synthetic peptidoglycan.
                                            EXAMPLE 22
20                            Cryo-SEM Measurements on Collagen III
                   Gels for cryo-SEM were formed, as in EXAMPLE 16, directly on the SEM
   stage and incubated at 37'C overnight with the following modifications. The collagen
   concentration was 1 mg/mL (90% collagen III, 10% collagen I). The collagen:DS ratio was
   1:1 and the collagen:peptidoglycan ratio was 1:1. The images were recorded as in
25 EXAMPLE 21. The ratio of void volume to fibril volume was measured using a variation of
   the method in EXAMPLE 21. The results are shown in FIGURES 20 and 21. Dermatan
   sulfate-KELN and dermatan sulfate-GSIT decrease void space (increase fibril diameter and
   branching) in the treated collagen gels.
                                            EXAMPLE 23
30                                AFM Confirmation Of D-Banding
                   Gel solutions were prepared as described in EXAMPLE 16 and 20pL of each
   sample were pipetted onto a glass coverslip and allowed to gel overnight in a humidified
   incubator. Gels were dehydrated by treatment with graded ethanol solutions (35%, 70%,

                                                 - 42
   85%, 95%, 100%), 10min in each solution. AFM images were made in contact mode, with a
   scan rate of 2 Hz (Multimode SPM, Veeco Instruments, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, AFM tips
   Silicon Nitride contact mode tip k=0.05N/m, Veeco Instruments) Deflection setpoint: 0-1
   Volts. D-banding was confirmed in all treatments as shown in FIGURES 2 and 38.
 5                                          EXAMPLE 24
                                         Collagen Remodeling
   Tissue Sample Preparation
                   Following a method by Grassl, et al. (Grassl, et al., Journal of Biomedical
   MaterialsResearch 2002, 60, (4), 607-612), which is herein incorporated in its entirety,
10 collagen gels with or without synthetic PG mimics were formed as described in EXAMPLE
   16. Human aortic smooth muscle cells (Cascade Biologics, Portland, OR) were seeded
   within collagen gels by adding 4 x 106 cells/mL to the neutralized collagen solution prior to
   incubation. The cell-collagen solutions were pipetted into an 8-well Lab-Tek chamber slide
   and incubated in a humidified 37'C and 5% CO 2 incubator. After gelation, the cell-collagen
15 gels will be covered with 1mL Medium 231 as prescribed by Cascade. Every 3-4 days, the
   medium was removed from the samples and the hydroxyproline content measured by a
   standard hydroxyproline assay (Reddy, 1996).
   Hydroxyproline Content
                   To measure degraded collagen in the supernatant medium, the sample was
20 lyophilized, the sample hydrolyzed in 2M NaOH at 120'C for 20 min. After cooling, free
   hydroxyproline was oxidized by adding chloramine-T (Sigma) and reacting for 25 min at
   room temperature. Ehrlich's aldehyde reagent (Sigma) was added and allowed to react for 20
   min at 65'C and followed by reading the absorbance at 550nm on an M-5 spectrophotometer
   (Molecular Devices). Hydroxyproline content in the medium is an indirect measure degraded
25 collagen and tissue remodeling potential. Cultures were incubated for up to 30 days and three
   samples of each treatment measured. A gels incubated without added cells were used as a
   control. Free peptides SILY and Dc13 resulted in greater collagen degradation compared to
   collagen alone as measured by hydroxyproline content in cell medium as shown in FIGURE
   53.
30 Cell Viability
                   Cell viability was determined using a live/dead violet viability/vitality kit
   (Molecular Probes. The kit contains calcein-violet stain (live cells) and aqua-fluorescent
   reactive dye (dead cells). Samples were washed with 1xPBS and incubated with 300pL of

                                                   - 43
   dye solution for 1 hr at room temperature. To remove unbound dye, samples were rinsed
   with 1xPBS. Live and dead cells were counted after imaging a 2-D slice with filters 400/452
   and 367/526 on an Olympus FV1000 confocal microscope with a 20x objective. Gels were
   scanned for representative regions and 3 image sets were taken at equal distances into the gel
 5 for all samples.
                                             EXAMPLE 25
                                        Cell Proliferation in Gels
                    Gel samples were prepared as in EXAMPLE 16 (4mg/mL collagen, 10:1
   collagen:treatment) Cells were seeded at 1.5 x 104 cells/cm 2 and were incubated in growth
10 medium for 4 hrs to adhere the cells to the gel. The growth medium was then aspirated and
   the cells were treated for 24 hrs. Treatment concentrations were equal to those in gels at 10:1
   molar ratio collagen: treatment. The cells were incubated in growth medium for 4hrs to
   adhere to the gel. The growth medium was removed by aspiration and replaced with fresh
   growth medium. The samples were incubated for 24h. The number of cells in each sample
15 was measured using the CyQuant Cell Proliferation Assay (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA).
   The results shown in FIGURE 25 indicate that the synthetic peptidoglycans and peptides do
   not adversely affect cell proliferation.
                                             EXAMPLE 26
                                         Preparation of DS-Dc13
20                 The Dc 13 peptide sequence is SYIRIADTNITGC and its fluorescently labeled
   form is ZSYIRIADTNITGC, where Z designates dansylglycine. Conjugation to dermatan
   sulfate using the heterobifunctional crosslinker PDPH is performed as described for DS-SILY
   in EXAMPLE 3. As shown in FIGURE 27, the molar ratio of Dc13 to dermatan sulfate in
   the conjugate (DS-Dc13) was about 1.
25                                           EXAMPLE 27
                              Fluorescence Binding Assay For DS-ZSILY
                   The fluorescence binding assays described for DS-ZSILY was performed with
   peptide sequence ZSYIRIADTNITGC (ZDc13). The results appear in FIGURE 28, showing
   that DS-ZDc 13 binds specifically to the collagen surface in a dose-dependent manner, though
30 saturation was not achieved at the highest rate tested.
                                             EXAMPLE 28
                                  Fibrillogenesis Assay For DS-Dc13

                                                  - 44
                   A fibrillogenesis assay as described for DS-SILY, EXAMPLE 19, performed
   with the conjugate DS-Dc13. The results shown in FIGURE 29 indicate that the DS-Dc13
   delays fibrillogenesis and decreases overall absorbance in a dose-dependent manner. Free
   Dc13 peptide in contrast has little effect on fibrillogenesis compared to collagen alone at the
 5 high 1:1 collagen:additive molar ratio.
                                             EXAMPLE 29
                            Use of Cryo-SEM to Measure Fibril Diameters.
                   Using a modification of EXAMPLE 21 fibril diameters were measured by
   cryo-SEM. Fibril diameters from cryo-SEM images taken at 20,000x were measured using
10 ImageJ software (NIH). At least 45 fibrils were measured for each treatment. Results are
   presented as Avg.     S.E. Statistical analysis was performed using DesignExpert software
   (StatEase) with a = 0.05. The results are shown in FIGURE 30. Decorin and synthetic
   peptidoglycans significantly decrease fibril diameter over collagen or collagen + dermatan
   sulfate. Compared to collagen alone, free peptide Dc 13 does not affect fibril diameter while
15 free SILY results in a decrease in fibril diameter.
                                             EXAMPLE 30
                                   Cell Culture and Gel Compaction
                   Human coronary artery smooth muscle cells (HCA SMC) (Cascade Biologics)
   were cultured in growth medium (Medium 231 supplemented with smooth muscle growth
20 factor). Cells from passage 3 were used for all experiments. Differentiation medium
   (Medium 231 supplemented with 1% FBS and 1x pen/strep) was used for all experiments
   unless otherwise noted. This medium differs from manufacturer protocol in that it does not
   contain heparin.
                   Collagen gels were prepared with each additive as described with the
25 exception that the 1x PBS example addition was omitted to accommodate the addition of
   cells in media. After incubating on ice for 30 min, HCA SMCs in differentiation medium
   were added to the gel solutions to a final concentration of 1 x 106 cells/mL. Gels were
   formed in quadruplicate in 48-well non-tissue culture treated plates (Costar) for 6 hrs before
   adding 500 pL/well differentiation medium. Gels were freed from the well edges after 24
30 hrs. Medium was changed every 2-3 days and images for compaction were taken at the same
   time points using a Gel Doc System (Bio-Rad). The cross-sectional area of circular gels
   correlating to degree of compaction was determined using ImageJ software (NIH). Gels
   containing no cells were used as a negative control and cells in collagen gels absent additive

                                                 - 45
   were used as a positive control. The results are shown in FIGURE 31. By day 10 all gels had
   compacted to approximately 10% of the original gel area, and differences between additives
   were small. Gels treated with DS-Dc13 were slightly, but significantly, less compact than
   gels treated with decorin or collagen but compaction was statistically equivalent to that seen
 5 with DS and DS-SILY treated gels.
                                            EXAMPLE 31
                                        Measurement of Elastin
                   Collagen gels seeded with HCA SMCs were prepared as described in
   EXAMPLE 30. Differentiation medium was changed every three days and gels were
10 cultured for 10 days. Collagen gels containing no cells were used as a control. Gels were
   rinsed in 1xPBS overnight to remove serum protein, and gels were tested for elastin content
   using the Fastin elastin assay per manufacturers protocol (Biocolor, County Atrim, U.K.).
   Briefly, gels were solubilized in 0.25 M oxalic acid by incubating at 100 'C for 1 hr. Elastin
   was precipitated and samples were then centrifuged at 11,000 x g for 10 min. The solubilized
15 collagen supernatant was removed and the elastin pellet was stained by Fastin Dye Reagent
   for 90 min at room temperature. Samples were centrifuged at 11,000 x g for 10 min and
   unbound dye in the supernatant was removed. Dye from the elastin pellets was released by
   the Fastin Dye Dissociation Reagent, and 100 pL samples were transferred to a 96-well plate
   (Costar). Absorbance was measured at 513 nm, and elastin content was calculated from an a
20 elastin standard curve. The results of these assays are shown in FIGURE 32. Treatment with
   DS-SILY significantly increased elastin production over all samples. Treatment with DS and
   DS-Dc13 significantly decreased elastin production over untreated collagen. Control samples
   of collagen gels with no cells showed no elastin production.
                                            EXAMPLE 32
25                    Effect of Heparin or Heparin-SILY on Platelet Interaction
                   Collagen was immobilized on glass cover slides (18 mm) by incubating slides
   with collagen at 2 mg/mL in 10 mM HCl for 1 hr at 37 'C. Slides were then washed with 1x
   PBS and stored at 4 'C in 1x PBS for 24 hrs until further testing. Untreated glass cover slides
   were used as a negative control. Slides were placed into a 48-well non tissue-culture treated
30 plate (Costar) with the collagen surface facing up. Heparin or Heparin-SILY were dissolved
   in 1x PBS to a concentration of 100 pM and incubated at 100 pL/well for 30 min at 37 'C.
   Unbound heparin or Heparin-SILY were aspirated and the surfaces were washed with 1 mL

                                                   - 46
   1x PBS. Collagen immobilized slides incubated with 1x PBS containing no additive were
   used as a positive control.
                    Whole human blood was centrifuged at 800 x g for 15 min and 100 pL of
   platelet-rich plasma was removed from the buffy coat layer and added to each well. After
 5 incubating for 1 hr at 37 'C, platelet-rich plasma was removed from the wells and the wells
   were gently washed with 1x PBS to remove unbound cells. Slides were fixed with 5%
   glutaraldehyde for 1 hr at room temperature, rinsed, and lyophilized before imaging. Slides
   were gold sputter coated for 3 min and imaged at 200x on a JEOL 840 SEM. The results are
   shown in FIGURE 33. This images show that treatment with the heparin-SILY conjugate
10 affects platelet cell binding to collagen.
                                              EXAMPLE 33
                               Cryo-SEM Measurement of Fibril Density
                    Collagen gels were formed in the presence of each additive at a 10:1 molar
   ratio, as described in EXAMPLE 16, directly on the SEM stage, processed, and imaged as
15 described. Images at 10,000x were analyzed for fibril density calculations. Images were
   converted to 8-bit black and white, and threshold values for each image were determined
   using ImageJ software (NIH). The threshold was defined as the value where all visible fibrils
   are white, and all void space is black. The ratio of white to black area was calculated using
   MatLab software. All measurements were taken in triplicate and thresholds were determined
20 by an observer blinded to the treatment. Images of the gels are shown in FIGURE 37 and the
   measured densities are shown in FIGURE 34.
                                              EXAMPLE 34
                  Viscoelastic Characterization of Gels containing Dc13 or DS-Dc13
                    Collagen gels were prepared, as in EXAMPLE 16. Viscoelastic
25 characterization was performed as described in EXAMPLE 17 on gels formed with varying
   ratios of collagen to additive (treatment). Treatment with dermatan sulfate or dermatan-Dc13
   conjugate increase the stiffness of the resulting collagen gel over untreated collagen as shown
   in FIGURE 35.
                                              EXAMPLE 35
30                              Cell Proliferation and Cytotoxicity Assay
                    HCA SMCs, prepared as in EXAMPLE 30, were seeded at 4.8 x 104 cells/mL
   in growth medium onto a 96-well tissue-culture black/clear bottom plate (Costar) and allowed
   to adhere for 4 hrs. Growth medium was aspirated and 600 pL of differentiation medium

                                                  - 47
   containing each additive at a concentration equivalent to the concentration within collagen
   gels (1.4 x 10-6 M) was added to each well. Cells were incubated for 48 hrs and were then
   tested for cytotoxicity and proliferation using Live-Dead and CyQuant (Invitrogen) assays,
   respectively, according to the manufacturer's protocol. Cells in differentiation medium
 5 containing no additive were used as control. The results are shown in FIGURE 36 indicating
   that none of the treatments demonstrated significant cytotoxic effects.
                                             EXAMPLE 36
               Inhibition of Platelet Binding and Platelet Activation to Collagen Type I
   Microplate Preparation
10                 Type I fibrillar collagen (Chronolog, Havertown, PA) was diluted in isotonic
   glucose to a concentration of 20-100 ig/mL. 50!.L of collagen solution was added to each
   well of a high bind 96-well plate. The plate was incubated overnight at 4C, and then rinsed
   3X with IX PBS.
                   Peptidoglycan was diluted in IX PBS at concentrations of 25pM to 50pM and
15 50 iL solution was added to the collagen coated wells. Controls of GAG, peptide, or PBS
   were also added to collagen coated wells as controls. Treatments were incubated at 37 0 C
   with shaking at 200 rpm for 30 min. Wells were then rinsed 3X with IX PBS, including a 20
   min rinse with 200 rpm shaking to remove unbound treatment molecule.
   Platelet Preparation and Activation
20                 Human whole blood was collected from healthy volunteers by venipuncture
   following the approved Purdue IRB protocol and with informed consent. The first 5 mL of
   blood was discarded as it can be contaminated with collagen and other proteins, and
   approximately 15 mL was then collected into citrated glass vacutainers (BD Bioscience).
   Blood was centrifuged in the glass tube for 20min at 200 x g at 20'C. The top layer of the
25 centrifuged blood, the platelet rich plasma (PRP), was used for platelet experiments. PRP
   (50[tL/well) was added to the microplate and allowed to incubate for 1 hr at room
   temperature without shaking.
                   After 1 hour of incubation, the PRP was removed from each well and added to
   a microcentrifuge tube containing 5 iL ETP (107 mM EDTA, 12 mM theophylline, and
30 2.8[tM prostaglandin El) to inhibit further platelet activation. These tubes were spun at 4'C
   for 30 min at 1900 x g to pellet the platelets. The supernatant (platelet serum) was collected
   for ELISA studies to test for the presence of platelet activation markers PF-4 and Nap-2.

                                                 - 48
   Platelet Adherence
                   After the PRP was removed from the wells of the collagen/treatment coated
   plates, the wells were rinsed 3X with 0.9% NaCl for 5 min each shaking at 200 rpm. Platelet
   adherence was quantified colormetrically or visualized fluorescently.
 5
   Colormetric Assay
                   140 L of a sodium citrate/citric acid buffer (0.1M, pH 5.4) containing 0.1%
   Triton X-100 and lmg/mL p-nitrophenyl phosphate was added to each well. The background
   absorbance was measured at 405 nm. The plate was then incubated for 40 min at room
10 temperature with shaking at 200 rpm. The Triton X-100 creates pores in the cells, allowing
   p-nitrophenyl phosphate to interact with acid phosphatase in the platelets to produce p
   nitrophenol. After 40 min of incubation, 100 ±L of 2M NaOH was added to each well. The
   pH change stops the reaction by inactivating acid phosphatase, and also transforms the p
   nitrophenol to an optically active compound. The absorbance was then read at 405 nm and
15 correlated to the number of adhered platelets. The results are shown in FIGURE 41.
   Fluorescent Assay
                   Adhered platelets were fixed by incubation with 4% paraformaldehyde for 10
   min at room temperature. The platelets were permeabilized with 0.1% Triton X-100 for 5
   min. Platelet actin was labeled by incubation with phalloidin-AlexaFluor 488 (Invitrogen)
20 containing 1% BSA for 30 min. The wells were rinsed 3X with 1X PBS, and the adhered
   platelets were imaged using an upright fluorescent microscope using a DAPI filter.
                   See FIGURES 42 to 52 for results. Platelet aggregation on untreated collagen
   surfaces is indicated by blurred images resulting from clumped platelets. Without being
   bound by theory, it is believed that clumping of platelets in the z-direction (perpendicular to
25 the plate surface) prevents image capture in one focal plane. On treated surfaces, reduced
   platelet aggregation results in less clumping (fewer platelets in the z-direction), and focused
   images can be captured at the plate surface. These images show that treatment with the
   synthetic peptidoglycans reduces adhesion of platelet cells to collagen,
   Detection of Platelet Activation Markers
30                 The supernatant (platelet serum) obtained after pelleting the platelets was used
   to determine released activation factors. Platelet factor 4 (PF-4) and f-thromboglobulin
   (Nap-2) are two proteins contained within alpha granules of platelets which are released upon

                                                    - 49
   platelet activation. Sandwich ELISAs were utilized in order to detect each protein. The
   components for both sandwich ELISAs were purchased from (R&D Systems) and the
   provided protocols were followed. The platelet serum samples were diluted 1:10,000
   1:40,000 in 1% BSA in IX PBS so the values fell within a linear range. The results shown in
 5 FIGURES 39 and 40 show that treatment with synthetic peptidoglycans decreases platelet
   activation by collagen I.
                                              EXAMPLE 37
        Inhibition of Platelet Binding and Platelet Activation to Collagen Type III and Type I
                    The method according to EXAMPLE 36 was used with the following
10 modification.
   Microplate Preparation
                    Type I collagen (rat tail collagen, BD Biosciences) and type III collagen
   (Millipore) were combined on ice with NaOH, IX PBS, and 1OX PBS to physiological
   conditions. The total collagen concentration was 1mg/mL with 70% type I collagen and 30%
15 type III collagen. 30 iL of the collagen solution was pipetted into each well of a 96-well
   plate. The plate was incubated at 37'C in a humidified incubator for one hour, allowing a gel
   composed of fibrillar collagen to form in the wells. The wells were rinsed 3X with IX PBS.
                    Peptidoglycan was diluted in IX PBS at concentrations of 25pM and 50 L
   solution was added to the collagen coated wells. Controls of GAG, peptide, or PBS were also
20 added to collagen coated wells as controls. Combinations of peptidoglycan or peptide were
   composed of 25 M of each molecule in IX PBS. Treatments were incubated at 37'C with
   shaking at 200 rpm for 30 min. Wells were then rinsed 3X with IX PBS, including a 10 min
   rinse with 200 rpm shaking to remove unbound treatment molecule.
                    The results of the platelet activation inhibition measurements shown in
25 FIGURE 54 demonstrate that the synthetic peptidoglycans inhibit platelet cell activation by a
   mixture of collagen Type I and Type III.
                    The results shown in FIGURE 55 demonstrate that the peptidoglycans inhibit
   platelet cell binding to collagen Type 1 and Type III mixtures.

                                                   - 50
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                   1.      An engineered collagen matrix comprising a collagen matrix and a
   collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan.
                   2.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 wherein the collagen is
 5 crosslinked.
                   3.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 wherein the collagen is
   uncrosslinked.
                   4.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 wherein the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan has amino acid homology with a portion of the amino acid
10 sequence of a proteoglycan or a protein that regulates collagen fibrillogenesis.
                   5.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 wherein the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan has amino acid homology with a portion of a collagen
   binding protein that does not regulate collagen fibrillogenesis.
                   6.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 further comprising an
15 exogenous population of cells.
                   7.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 6 wherein the exogenous
   population of cells is selected from the group consisting of non-keratinized epithelial cells,
   keratinized epithelial cells, endothelial cells, neural cells, osteoblasts, fibroblasts,
   chondrocytes, tenocytes, smooth muscle cells, skeletal muscle cells, cardiac muscle cells,
20 progenitor cells, multi-potential progenitor cells, glial cells, synoviocytes, mesodermally
   derived cells, mesothelial cells, stem cells, and osteogenic cells.
                   8.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 further comprising at least
   one polysaccharide.
                   9.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 wherein the collagen
25 binding synthetic peptidoglycan is a compound of formula P"Gx wherein n is 1 to 10;
                   wherein x is I to 10;
                   P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain; and
                   G is a glycan.
30                 10.     The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 wherein the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan is a compound of formula (PnL)xG wherein n is 1 to 5;
                   wherein x is I to 10;

                                                 - 51
                   P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                   L is a linker; and
                   G is a glycan.
 5                 11.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 1 wherein the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan is a compound of formula P(LG)x wherein n is 1 to 5;
                   x is I to 10;
                   P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
10                 L is a linker; and
                   G is a glycan.
                   12.      The engineered collagen matrix of claim 9, 10, or 11 wherein the
   glycan is a glycosaminoglycan.
                   13.      The engineered collagen matrix of any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein
15 the synthetic peptide has amino acid homology with the amino acid sequence of a small
   leucine-rich proteoglycan or a platelet collagen receptor sequence.
                   14.      The engineered collagen matrix of any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein
   the synthetic peptide has amino acid homology with the amino acid sequence of a platelet
   collagen receptor sequence.
20                 15.      The engineered collagen matrix of any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein
   the peptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
   RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, RLDGNEIKRGC, AHEEISTTNEGVMGC,
   NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, CQDSETRTFY, TKKTLRTGC,
   GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC, SYIRIADTNITGC,
25 SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV, and
   GSITTIDVPWNVGC.
                   16.      The engineered collagen matrix of any one of claims 9 to 15 wherein
   the glycan is selected from the group consisting of alginate, agarose, dextran, chondroitin,
   dermatan, dermatan sulfate, heparan, heparin, keratin, and hyaluronan.
30                 17.      The engineered collagen matrix of any one of claims 9 to 16 wherein
   the glycan is selected from the group consisting of dermatan sulfate, dextran, and heparin.
                   18.      A method of preparing an engineered collagen matrix, said method
   comprising the steps of

                                                 - 52
                  providing a collagen solution;
                  providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan; and
                  polymerizing the collagen in the presence of the collagen-binding synthetic
   peptidoglycan to form the engineered collagen matrix.
 5                 19.     The method of claim 18 wherein the collagen is selected from the
   group consisting of type I collagen, type II collagen, type III collagen, type IV collagen, and
   combinations thereof.
                  20.      The method of claim 18 or 19 wherein the amount of collagen in the
   collagen solution is from about 0.4 mg/mL to about 6 mg/mL.
10                21.      The method of any one of claims 18 to 20 wherein the molar ratio of
   the collagen to the collagen-binding synthetic peptidogylcan is from about 1:1 to about 40:1.
                  22.      The method of any one of claims 18 to 21 wherein the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan is a compound of formula
                   PGx wherein n is I to 10;
15                xislto10
                  P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain; and
                   G is a glycan.
                  23.      The method of any one of claims 18 to 21 wherein the collagen
20 binding synthetic peptidoglycan is a compound of formula (PflL)xG wherein n is 1 to 5;
                  x is I to 10;
                  P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                  L is a linker; and
25                 G is a glycan.
                  24.      The method of any one of claims 18 to 21 wherein the collagen
   binding synthetic peptidoglycan is a compound of formula P(LG)x wherein n is 1 to 5;
                  x is I to 10;
                  P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
30 sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                  L is a linker; and
                   G is a glycan.

                                                - 53
                  25.      The method of any one of claims 22 to 24 wherein the glycan is a
   glycosaminoglycan or a polysaccharide.
                  26.      A compound of formula PGx wherein n is 1 to 10;
                  x is I to 10
 5                P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain; and
                  G is a glycan.
                  27.      A compound of formula (PnL)xG wherein n is 1 to 5;
                  x is I to 10;
10                P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                  L is a linker; and
                  G is a glycan.
                  28.      A compound of formula P(LG)x wherein n is 1 to 5;
15                xisIto10;
                  P is a synthetic peptide of about 5 to about 40 amino acids comprising a
   sequence of a collagen-binding domain;
                  L is a linker; and
                  G is a glycan.
20                29.      The compound of any one of claims 26 to 28 wherein the glycan is a
   glycosaminoglycan or a polysaccharide.
                  30.      The compound of any one of claims 26 to 29 wherein the synthetic
   peptide has amino acid homology with the amino acid sequence of a small leucine-rich
   proteoglycan or a platelet collagen receptor sequence.
25                31.      The compound of any one of claims 26 to 29 wherein the synthetic
   peptide has amino acid homology with the amino acid sequence of a platelet collagen
   receptor sequence.
                  32.      The compound of any one of claims 26 to 29 wherein the peptide
   comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
30 RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, RLDGNEIKRGC, AHEEISTTNEGVMGC,
   NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, CQDSETRTFY, TKKTLRTGC,
   GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC, SYIRIADTNITGC,

                                                  - 54
   SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV, and
   GSITTIDVPWNVGC.
                    33.    The compound of any one of claims 26 to 32 wherein the glycan is
   selected from the group consisting of alginate, agarose, dextran, chondroitin, dermatan,
 5 dermatan sulfate, heparan, heparin, keratin, and hyaluronan.
                    34.    The compound of any one of claims 26 to 33 wherein the glycan is
   selected from the group consisting of dermatan sulfate, dextran, and heparin.
                    35.    The compound of any one of claims 26 to 34 wherein the linker
   comprises the formula -SCH 2CH 2C(O)NHN=.
10                  36.    A method of altering the structure or mechanical characteristics of an
   engineered collagen matrix, said method comprising the steps of
                    providing a collagen solution;
                    providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan;
                    polymerizing the collagen in the presence of the collagen-binding synthetic
15 peptidoglycan to form the altered, engineered collagen matrix.
                    37.    The method of claim 36 wherein the collagen is selected from the
   group consisting of type I collagen, type II collagen, type III collagen, type IV collagen, and
   combinations thereof.
                    38.    The method of claim 36 wherein the collagen-binding synthetic
20 peptidoglycan is the compound of any one of claims 26 to 35.
                    39.    The method of claim 36 to 38 wherein the amount of collagen in the
   collagen solution is from about 0.4 mg/mL to about 6 mg/mL.
                    40.    The method of any one of claims 36 to 39 wherein the molar ratio of
   the collagen to the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan is from about 1:1 to about 40:1.
25                  41.    A kit comprising the engineered collagen matrix of any one of claims 1
   to 5 or 8 to 17.
                    42.    The kit of claim 41 wherein the engineered collagen matrix has been
   sterilized.
                    43.    The kit of any one of claims 41 to 42 further comprising cells.
30                  44.    The kit of claim 43 wherein the cells are in a flask, an ampule, a vial, a
   tube, or a bottle.
                    45.    The kit of claim 43 wherein the cells are on a plate.
                    46.    The kit of claim 41 wherein the kit is in a container.

                                                  - 55
                   47.     The kit of claim 43 wherein the cells are selected from the group
   consisting of progenitor cells, fibroblasts, neural cells, osteoblast cells, glial cells,
   synoviocytes, mesothelial cells, chondrocytes, tenocytes, endothelial cells, and smooth
   muscle cells.
 5                 48.     The kit of claim 41 comprising the compound of any one of claims 26
   to 35.
                   49.     The kit of claim 41 further comprising instructions for use.
                   50.     An engineered graft construct comprising the engineered collagen
   matrix of any one of claims 1 to 17.
10                 51.     A composition comprising the compound of any one of claims 26 to 35
   and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, or diluents, or a combination
   thereof.
                   52.     The composition of claim 51 in a form adapted for topical use.
                   53.     The composition of claim 52 wherein the topical form is selected from
15 the group consisting of a powder, a gel, a cream, an ointment, a plaster, and a topical liquid.
                   54.     The composition of the claim 51 adapted for parenteral administration.
                   55.     The composition of claim 54 wherein the parenteral administration is
   intravenous or intra-arterial.
                   56.     A method for inhibiting activation of platelets, the method comprising
20 the step of
                   providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan for contacting collagen;
   wherein the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan binds to the collagen; and wherein
   activation of the platelets is inhibited.
                   57.     The method of claim 56 wherein the glycan component of the
25 peptidoglycan is selected from the group consisting of hyaluronan, heparin, and dextran.
                   58.     The method of claim 56 wherein the peptide component of the
   peptidoglycan comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
   RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, GSITTIDVPWNV, and GSITTIDVPWNVGC.
                   59.     The method of claim 36 wherein the peptide component of the
30 peptidoglycan comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
   RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, RLDGNEIKRGC, AHEEISTTNEGVMGC,
   NGVFKYRPRYFLYKHAYFYPPLKRFPVQGC, CQDSETRTFY, TKKTLRTGC,
   GLRSKSKKFRRPDIQYPDATDEDITSHMGC, SQNPVQPGC, SYIRIADTNITGC,

                                               -56
SYIRIADTNIT, KELNLVYT, KELNLVYTGC, GSITTIDVPWNV, and
GSITTIDVPWNVGC.
               60.     A method for inhibiting platelet adhesion to collagen, the method
comprising the step of
               providing a collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan for contacting the
collagen; wherein the collagen-binding synthetic peptidoglycan binds to the collagen; and
wherein platelet adhesion to the collagen is inhibited.
               61.     The method of claim 60 wherein the glycan component of the
peptidoglycan is selected from the group consisting of hyaluronan, heparin, and dextran.
               62.     The method of claim 60 wherein the peptide component of the
peptidoglycan comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
RRANAALKAGELYKSILYGC, GSITIDVPWNV, and GSITTIDVPWNVGC.
                                Purdue Research Foundation
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>    !        !                " !
               #                $             %$ !"& #
               #                %    !        '
                        & $ !% %!!
<removed-apn>
                           " ! '
                        & $ " %"#
                           " ' "
               &            '
               '            ()*+) + ,*-./0+ !
                   !        -)/1/2/(3            *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01             -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #
              -;       -;       3(       .+     3(   3(    *5   8.   3(   38    35     *5   8-   8.   *-   3*
              *5       8-       38       8.
                   !        -)/1/2/(3            *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01             -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #
              -;       *5       .6       38     .+   35    3*   8.   -;   38    8.
                        !
                   !        -)/1/2/(3            *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01             -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #         !
              3(       /.       35       35     3*   *-    9-   9-   .+   35    38 <(3      *)   38   8.
                                                                               (;*

<removed-date>
                        #
                        !
                   !        -)/1/2/(3    *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01     -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #         #
              .+       38 <(3      9*   8.   8-    -;   -0   -;   8-    9*     *5   8-       8.   /.   3(
<removed-apn>
              8-       9*     8-   -0   -0   *5    8.   -;   9*   -0 <(3       3+   38       8.
                                                                                         !
                   !        -)/1/2/(3    *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01     -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #
              8.       3+     .6   *-   35   9-    -;   9-   9*   8-
                        &
                        %
                   !        -)/1/2/(3    *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01     -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #         &
              9-       8.     8.   9-   *5   -;    9-   38   8.
                        '
                        !
                   !        -)/1/2/(3    *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01     -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #         '
              38       *5     -;   *-   8.   *-    8.   8.   9*   -;    -;     -0   .6       3*   3+   8-
              -0       .6     3(   9-   .6   35    .6   3*   9-   *-    /.     *)   38       8.
                                                                                         !
                        "
                                                                       (;*

<removed-date>
                        %
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #         "
              *-       3+       .+   -0 <(3    3+    -0   38   8.
                        %
<removed-apn>
                            !
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #         %
              *-       8-       3*   -;   3*   3(    .6   9-   .+   3*    9-     38   8.
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #
              *-       8-       3*   -;   3*   3(    .6   9-   .+   3*    9-
                        "
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #
              8.       35       *5   .+   *5 <(3     8-   9-
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #
              8.       35       *5   .+   *5 <(3     8-   9-   38   8.
                                                                         (;* !

<removed-date>
                            !
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #             !
              38       *-       3*   9-   9-   3*    .6 <(3    -0   -6    .+ <(3
<removed-apn>
                            #
                            #
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #             #
              38       *-       3*   9-   9-   3*    .6 <(3    -0   -6    .+ <(3      38   8.
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #
              38       -;       -;   3(   .+   3(    3(   *5   8.   3(    38     35   *5   8-   8.   *-
              3*       *5       8-   38   8.
                            &
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #             &
              38       *-       8-   3*   -;   3*    3(   .6   9-   .+    3*     9-
                            '
                            #
                   !        -)/1/2/(3      *45*+2*
                                                                         (;* #

<removed-date>
                   !        *.2-/6)/0+ 01       -)/1/2/(3     *45*+2*7        8+)9*)/2 6*6)/:*
              #             '
              38       *-       8-   3*   -;   3*   3(   .6   9-   .+    3*     9-   38   8.
<removed-apn>
                                                                        (;*

