ABSTRACT
A fluted osteotome is rotated in one direction to enlarge an osteotomy by burnishing, and by
cutting/drilling when turned in an opposite direction. A conically tapered body has an apical
end with lips. The lips are set to grind bone when rotated in the burnishing direction and cut
bone when turned in the cutting/drilling direction. Helical flutes and interposed lands are
disposed about the body. The flutes each have a working edge that burnishes bone when
rotated in the burnishing direction and cuts bone when turned in the cutting/drilling direction.
The lips and lands generate an opposing axial reaction force that improves surgical control.
The osteotome auto-grafts bone by reapplying ground particles in a compacted manner
along the entire depth of the osteotomy, particularly at the bottom.
Fig. 11

7070
               FI11
     N, /      62
          7   62
                    430
           32           3
                          I L

                                                 -1
                                AUTOGRAFTING OSTEOTOME
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims priority to Provisional Patent Application No. 61/727,849
filed November 19, 2012, and in the United States this application is a continuation-in-part of
United States Serial Number 13/608,307 filed September 10, 2012, which is a continuation
in-part of United States Serial Number 13/427,391 filed March 22, 2012, which claims priority
to Provisional Patent Application No. 61/466,579 filed March 23, 2011, the entire disclosures
of each are hereby incorporated by reference and relied upon.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Field of the Invention
[0002]      The invention relates generally to tools for preparing a hole to receive an implant or
fixture, and more particularly to rotary osteotomes and methods implemented thereby for
expanding an osteotomy or hole in cellular material to receive an implant or other fixation
device.
            Description of Related Art
[0003]      Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0004]      An implant is a medical device manufactured to replace a missing biological
structure, to support a damaged biological structure, or to enhance an existing biological
structure. Bone implants are implants of the type placed into the bone of a patient. Bone
implants may be found throughout the human skeletal system, including dental implants in a
jaw bone to replace a lost or damaged tooth, joint implants to replace a damaged joints such
as hips and knees, and reinforcement implants installed to repair fractures and remediate
other deficiencies, to name but a few. The placement of an implant often requires a
preparation into the bone using either hand osteotomes or precision drills with highly
regulated speed to prevent burning or pressure necrosis of the bone. After a variable
amount of time to allow the bone to grow on to the surface of the implant (or in some cases
to a fixture portion of an implant), sufficient healing will enable a patient to start rehabilitation

                                                 -2
therapy or return to normal use or perhaps the placement of a restoration or other
attachment feature.
[0005]      In the example of a dental implant, preparation of a hole or osteotomy is required
to receive a bone implant. According to current techniques, at edentulous (without teeth) jaw
sites that need expansion, a pilot hole is bored into the recipient bone to form the initial
osteotomy, taking care to avoid the vital structures. The pilot hole is then expanded using
progressively wider expander devices called osteotomes, manually advanced by the surgeon
(typically between three and seven successive expanding steps, depending on implant width
and length). Once the receiving hole has been properly prepared, a fixture screw (usually
self-tapping) is screwed into place at a precise torque so as not to overload the surrounding
bone.
[0006]      The osteotome technique has become widely utilized in certain situations requiring
preparation of an osteotomy site by expansion of a pilot hole. By nature, the osteotome
technique is a traumatic procedure. Osteotomes are traditionally not rotating devices but
rather advanced with the impact of a surgical mallet, which compacts and expands the bone
in the process of preparing osteotomy sites that will allow implant placement. Treatment of a
mandibular site, for example, is often limited due to the increased density and reduced
plasticity exhibited by the bone in this region. Other non-dental bone implant sites may have
similar challenging density and plasticity characteristics. Or, the location of the bone may be
wholly unsuitable for the violent impact of an osteotome, such as in small bone applications
like the vertebrae and hand/wrist areas to name a few. Additionally, since the traditional
osteotome is inserted by hammering, the explosive nature of the percussive force provides
limited control over the expansion process, which often leads to unintentional displacement
or fracture such as in the labial plate of bone in dental applications. Many patients do not
tolerate the osteotome technique well, frequently complaining about the impact from the
surgical mallet. In addition, reports have documented the development of a variety of
complications that result from the percussive trauma in dental applications, including vertigo
and the eyes may show nystagmus (i.e., constant involuntary cyclical movement of the
eyeball in any direction).
[0007]      More recently, alternative techniques to the hammered osteotome have been
developed for bone applications that allow for less traumatic preparation of implant sites.
These alternative procedures are based on the use of motor-driven screw-type bone
expanders, such as those marketed by Meisinger (Neuss, Germany). First a pilot hole is
drilled at the implant site, then a series of progressively larger expander screw taps are

                                                -3
introduced into the bone by hand or with motor-driven rotation, which decreases surgical
trauma (as compared with hammer taps) while providing some degree of control over the
expansion site. The thread pattern of the expander screw taps is intended to compact bone
laterally as the expander tap advances into the osseous crest. This system allows expansion
and preparation of implant sites in Type || and III bone, as well as compaction of Type IV
bone.
[0008]      US Publication No. 2006/0121415 to Anitua Aldecoa describes the use of motor
driven tools and methods for expanding a human bone for the purpose of installing a dental
implant. Similar to the progressive illustration described above, a starter drill is used to
create a pilot hole followed by the insertion of an expander screw tap type osteotome having
a conical/cylindrical geometry with progressive cross-section. A surgical motor is used to
rotate the osteotome at relatively low speeds. Another example of this technique is
described in US Patent No. 7,241,144 to Nilo et al, issued July 10, 2007. The entire
disclosures of US Publication No. 2006/0121415 and US Patent No. 7,241,144 are hereby
incorporated by reference.
[0009]      US Patent No. 7,402,040 to Turri, issued July 22, 2008, discloses a hybrid
hammered and rotary osteotome technique using a non-circular osteotome design. In the
preferred embodiment, the non-circular osteotome is first hammered to the bottom of the
osteotomy, and then when at full depth rotated back-and-forth by hand to achieve a final
expansion shape. In an alternative embodiment however, impulse hammering and rotation
are concurrently applied in order to drive the osteotome deeper into the osteotomy, which
advance into the osteotomy is encouraged by helical edges that generate "a tractive force
that tends to advance it [the osteotome] towards the interior of the osseous site". (Turriat
Column 9, lines 42-43.) In other words, Turri's alternative embodiment osteotome uses
screw threads in combination with percussive hammering and powered rotation to pull the
osteotome down into the osteotomy.
[0010]      In the prior art designs involving motor-driven bone expansion, including those of
Anitua Aldecoa, Niro and Turri described above, the rotary speed of the expander screw tap
is locked in a fixed relationship to the expansion rate of the osteotomy. This is because
threads on the expander device cut into the bone and "pull" the expander tap deeper into the
initial osteotomy with rotation. Axial advance is thus controlled by pitch of threads and
rotation speed; the thread pitch of the expander is fixed and cannot be altered on-the-fly by
the surgeon. If a surgeon wishes to expand the bone more slowly, the only recourse is to turn
the expander more slowly. Conversely, if the surgeon wishes to expand the bone more

                                                  -4
rapidly, the only option is to turn the expander tool more quickly. Thus, the rate of bone
expansion is a direct and unalterable function of the rate at which the surgeon turns the
expander tool, and the surgeon is unable to vary other parameters such as pressure and/or
rotation rate to achieve an optimum expansion rate.
[0011]      This inexorable linking of tool rotation rate to bone expansion rate in all prior art
rotary expander systems limits surgical control over the implant process, and in some cases
may lead to unnecessary patient discomfort. There is therefore a need in the art for an
improved surgical method for expanding an osteotomy to receive an implant in all bone
applications, and tools therefor, that provide greater surgical control, are less costly, less
likely to introduce error and that reduce patient discomfort.
[0012]      Another area of interest with respect to preparing bone to receive an implant or
fixation screw is the subsequent osseointegration of the implant. The direct structural and
functional connection between living bone and the surface of a load-bearing artificial implant
leads to enhanced overall success of the surgical procedure for the patient. Current
approaches to improving the direct contact of bone and implant surface are directed toward
the use of engineered cements and/or proprietary implant surfaces that typically include
porous construction. The porous properties of the implant surface contribute to extensive
bone infiltration, allowing osteoblast activity to take place. In addition, the porous structure
allows for soft tissue adherence and vascularization within the implant. One significant
disadvantage of the current approaches to improving osseointegration, namely the use of
cements and implant constructions, is the relatively high added cost. The cements and
engineered implants tend to be proprietary products marketed at premium prices. For
example, it is not uncommon for a single bone screw used in a standard fixation application
to cost $5000 (USID).
[0013]      There is therefore a need for improved tools and techniques that facilitate
osseointegration without the attendant high cost associated with present cements and
engineered implants.
[0014]      Furthermore, other types of non-organic cellular materials, such as metal foams
used in some aerospace applications, also require fixation techniques that may benefit from
the hole preparation concepts used in the medical field for preparing bone.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015]     In a first aspect, the present invention provides a rotary osteotome configured to be
turned in one direction to enlarge an osteotomy by burnishing, said rotary osteotome
comprising:
           a shank, said shank establishing a longitudinal axis of rotation,
           a body joined to said shank, said body having an apical end remote from said
shank, said body having a conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter
adjacent said shank to a minimum diameter adjacent said apical end, said apical end
including at least one lip, a plurality of flutes disposed about said body,
           said lip configured to simultaneously auto-graft and compact bone when
continuously rotated in a burnishing direction and concurrently forcibly advanced into an
osteotomy.
[0016]     In a second aspect, the present invention provides an ultrasonic osteotome
configured to enlarge an osteotomy, said ultrasonic osteotome comprising:
           a shank,
           a body joined to said shank, said body having an apical end remote from said
shank, said body having a smooth and conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum
diameter adjacent said shank to a minimum diameter adjacent said apical end, said apical
end including a unidirectional grinding formation,
           said body including an auto-grafting ramp configured to auto-graft and compact
bone after the bone has been ultrasonically pulverized by said apical end as said body is
forcibly advanced into an osteotomy concurrently with high-frequency vibration.
[0017]     In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method for enlarging an
osteotomy by burnishing, said method comprising the steps of:
           continuously rotating a fluted body in a burnishing direction, the body having an
apical end and a conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter to a
minimum diameter adjacent the apical end,
           forcibly advancing the rotating body into an osteotomy,
           grinding a progressively larger amount of bone material with the apical end as the
body is advanced deeper into the osteotomy, and
           auto-grafting the ground bone material directly into the host bone within the
osteotomy and simultaneously compacting the ground bone material into the host bone with
the fluted body.

                                                -6
[0018]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
[0019]     According to an aspect of this invention, a rotary osteotome is configured to be
turned continuously in one direction to enlarge an osteotomy by burnishing. The rotary
osteotome includes a shank that establishes a longitudinal axis of rotation for the rotary
osteotome. A body is joined to the shank. The body has an apical end remote from the
shank, and a conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter adjacent the
shank to a minimum diameter adjacent the apical end. The apical end includes at least one
lip. A plurality of flutes are disposed about the body. Each flute has a burnishing face and
an opposing cutting face. A land is formed between adjacent flutes. Each land has a land
face joining a burnishing face of one the flute and a cutting face of an adjacent flute. At least
one of the lip and the lands are configured to generate an opposing axial reaction force when
continuously rotated in a burnishing direction and concurrently forcibly advanced into an
osteotomy. The opposing axial reaction force is directionally opposite to the forcibly
advanced direction into the osteotomy so that through the expansion procedure the
osteotome is pushed back against the surgeon. The push-back phenomenon gives the
surgeon enhanced control over the expansion procedure, and effectively decouples the
rotation of the tool to the rate of expansion in the bone.
[0020]     According to another aspect of this invention, a rotary osteotome is configured to
be turned in one direction to enlarge an osteotomy by burnishing. The rotary osteotome
includes a shank having an elongated cylindrical shaft. A body joined is to the shank. The
body has an apical end remote from the shank, and a conically tapered profile decreasing
from a maximum diameter adjacent the shank to a minimum diameter adjacent the apical
end. The apical end includes at least one lip. A plurality of flutes are disposed about the
body. Each flute has a burnishing face and an opposing cutting face. A land is formed
between adjacent flutes. The lip is configured to simultaneously auto-graft and compact
bone (i.e., gently push osseous structure laterally outwardly in a condensation mechanism)
when continuously rotated at high speed in a burnishing direction and concurrently forcibly
advanced into an osteotomy. The auto-grafting and compaction action of the lip enable the
rotary osteotome to expand an osteotomy from top to bottom in a progressive manner while
retaining the beneficial properties of immediately grafting displaced bone material directly
into the osteotomy, and thereby promoting osseointegration of a subsequently placed implant
or fixation member.

                                                 -7
[0021]     According to another aspect of this invention, a rotary tool is configured to be
turned continuously in one direction to enlarge a hole in cellular material (i.e., not limited to
bone) by burnishing. The rotary tool includes a shank that establishes a longitudinal axis of
rotation for the rotary tool. A body is joined to the shank. The body has an apical end
remote from the shank, and a conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter
adjacent the shank to a minimum diameter adjacent the apical end. The apical end includes
at least one lip. A plurality of flutes are disposed about the body. Each flute has a
burnishing face and an opposing cutting face. A land is formed between adjacent flutes.
Each land has a land face joining a burnishing face of one the flute and a cutting face of an
adjacent flute. At least one of the lip and the lands are configured to generate an opposing
axial reaction force when continuously rotated in a burnishing direction and concurrently
forcibly advanced into a hole. The push-back phenomenon gives the user enhanced control
over the expansion procedure, and effective decouples the rotation of the tool to the rate of
expansion of the hole.
[0022]     According to another aspect of this invention, an ultrasonic osteotome is configured
to enlarge an osteotomy. The ultrasonic osteotome includes a shank. A body is joined to the
shank. The body has an apical end remote from the shank, and a conically tapered profile
decreasing from a maximum diameter adjacent the shank to a minimum diameter adjacent
the apical end. The apical end includes a unidirectional grinding formation. An auto-grafting
ramp is configured to auto-graft and compact bone after the bone has been ultrasonically
pulverized by the apical end as the body is forcibly advanced into an osteotomy concurrently
with high-frequency vibration.
[0023]     According to another aspect of this invention, a method is provided for enlarging an
osteotomy by burnishing. The method includes the step of supporting a fluted body for
rotation about a longitudinal axis. The body has an apical end and a conically tapered profile
decreasing from a maximum diameter to a minimum diameter adjacent the apical end. The
method further includes continuously rotating the body in a burnishing direction while
concurrently forcibly advancing the body into an osteotomy. The improvement comprises
grinding a progressively larger amount of bone material with the apical end as the body is
advanced deeper into the osteotomy, and auto-grafting the ground bone material into the
host bone within the osteotomy and also compacting the ground bone material into the host
bone with the fluted body. The auto-grafting and compaction action enable the rotary
osteotome to expand an osteotomy from top to bottom in an axially progressive manner to
retain the beneficial properties of immediately grafting displaced bone material directly into

                                                -8
the osteotomy, and thereby promote osseointegration of a subsequently placed implant or
fixation member.
[0024]     According to another aspect of this invention, a method is provided for enlarging an
osteotomy by burnishing. The method includes the step of supporting a fluted body for
rotation about a longitudinal axis. The body has an apical end and a conically tapered profile
decreasing from a maximum diameter to a minimum diameter adjacent the apical end. The
method further includes continuously rotating the body in a burnishing direction while
concurrently forcibly advancing the body into an osteotomy. The improvement comprises
grinding a progressively larger amount of bone material with the apical end as the body is
advanced deeper into the osteotomy, and generating an opposing axial reaction force in
opposition to the advancing direction of the body into the osteotomy. The opposing axial
reaction force is directionally opposite to the forcibly advanced direction into the osteotomy
so that through the expansion procedure the osteotome pushes back against the surgeon.
The push-back phenomenon gives the surgeon enhanced control over the expansion
procedure, and effective decouples the rotation of the tool to the rate of expansion in the
bone.
[0025]     These and other aspects of the invention will be understood more fully by
considering the detailed description and illustrations of this invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026]     These and other features and advantages of the present invention will become
more readily appreciated when considered in connection with the following detailed
description and appended drawings, wherein:
[0027]     Figure 1 depicts an exemplary application of the present invention at an edentulous
(without teeth) jaw site that needs expansion to receive an implant;
[0028]     Figure 2 is a view as in Figure 1, but showing the resulting fully prepared
osteotomy as achieved through use of the present invention in a progressive series of
expansion steps;
[0029]     Figure 3 is a view as in Figure 1 showing a progressive expansion step with a
rotary osteotome according to one embodiment of this invention;

                                                 -9
[0030]     Figure 4 is a view as in Figure 2 in which an installed implant is poised to receive
an abutment or base for subsequent prosthetic (not shown);
[0031]     Figure 5 is a diagrammatic view illustrating by way of example the use of a surgical
kit containing four osteotomes of progressively larger diameter according to the present
invention in combination with a reversible drill motor to concurrently prepare three separate
osteotomy sites in a human jaw using selective reversal of osteotome direction to enlarge
each osteotomy either by cutting or burnishing without removing the osteotome from the
surgical drill motor;
[0032]     Figure 6 is a side elevation view of a rotary osteotome according to one
embodiment of this invention;
[0033]     Figure 7 is a simplified cross-sectional view showing a surgical procedure referred
to herein as "bounce" where an osteotome according to the present invention is repeatedly
pushed into the osteotomy and withdrawn while the osteotome remains spinning in a
repetitive manner so as to enlarge the osteotomy while enabling the surgeon to manage the
expansion rate (and other factors) while making adjustments on-the-fly;
[0034]     Figure 8 is an exemplary graph plotting the force applied by a user to advance the
body into an osteotomy against the depth of penetration into the osteotomy (or hole) in three
separate procedures in order to illustrate that the surgeon (or user) can make on-the-fly
adjustments to the advancing force depending on particular situation;
[0035]     Figure 9 is a simplified stress-strain curve generally representative of bone, metal
foam and other host materials for with the present invention is suited for use;
[0036]     Figure 10 is an enlarged view of the apical end of a rotary osteotome according to
one embodiment of this invention;
[0037]     Figure 11 depicts a cross-section through an osteotomy with a rotary osteotome
disposed partially within as in the midst of an expansion procedure according to this
invention;
[0038]     Figure 12 is an enlarged view of the area circumscribed at 12 in Figure 11 and
enhanced with reaction forces (R) as applied by the walls of the bone to the rotary osteotome
in response to rotation of the osteotome in the burnishing direction;

                                               -10
[0039]     Figure 13 is a diagram of the reaction forces (R) of Figure 12, shown broken into
component lateral (Rx) and axial (Ry) forces;
[0040]     Figure 14 is a fragmentary perspective view of the apical end of a rotary osteotome
according to one embodiment of this invention;
[0041]     Figure 15 is an end view of the apical end of a rotary osteotome of Figures 6, 10
and 14;
[0042]     Figure 15A is a cross-section of the apical end of an osteotome according to this
invention taken generally along the semi-circular lines 15A-15A in Figure 15;
[0043]     Figure 16 is an enlarged view of a land as circumscribed at 16 in Figure 15;
[0044]     Figure 17 is an exaggerated cross-section through an osteotomy with the apical
end of a rotary osteotome shown at various stages of the expansion procedure in order to
describe the zones of an osteotomy that experience grinding, compression and auto-grafting
with each stage of the expansion process;
[0045]     Figure 18 is a cross-sectional view taken generally along lines 18-18 in Figure 17;
[0046]     Figure 19 is a cross-sectional view taken generally along lines 19-19 in Figure 17;
[0047]     Figure 20 is an enlarged view of the area circumscribed at 20 in Figure 17 and
depicting the bone grinding and auto-grafting features of the apical end;
[0048]     Figure 21 is a fragmentary perspective view of the apical end as in Figure 14 but
from a slightly different perspective and illustrating the region of the apical end where bone
material collects and is subsequently repatriated into surrounding bone;
[0049]     Figures 22 is a micro-CT image developed during testing of a prototype rotary
osteotome according to this invention, and showing a transverse slice through a Porcine03
medial tibial plateau with comparative holes created by: (A-left) a prior art burr drill, (B
center) the rotary osteotome of this invention rotated in a cutting direction, and (C-right) the
rotary osteotome of this invention rotated in a burnishing direction;

                                               - 11
[0050]     Figures 23A-D are micro-CT images developed during testing of a prototype rotary
osteotome according to this invention, and showing comparative axial slice views of
Porcine03 medial tibial plateau holes created with a prior art burr drill (Figure 23A) and the
rotary osteotome of this invention rotated in a burnishing direction (Figure 23C), and
comparative axial slice views of average bone mineral density projection of 1cm volume
around Porcine02 medial holes created with a prior art burr drill (Figure 23B) and the rotary
osteotome of this invention rotated in a burnishing direction (Figure 23D);
[0051]     Figure 24 shows an alternative embodiment of the osteotome of this invention
configured for high-frequency vibration rather than rotation;
[0052]     Figure 25 is a cross-section through an osteotomy with the alternative osteotome
of Figure 24 disposed partially completing an expansion procedure according to this
invention;
[0053]     Figure 26 is an enlarged view of the apical end of the alternative osteotome of
Figure 24;
[0054]     Figure 27 is a simplified depiction of a human skeleton highlighting some examples
of areas in which the novel osteotome of this invention might be effectively applied;
[0055]     Figure 27A is an enlarged view of a human vertebrae;
[0056]     Figure 27B is a view of the vertebrae as in Figure 27A shown in cross-section with
a rotary osteotome according to one embodiment of this invention disposed to enlarge an
osteotomy for the purpose of receiving a fixation screw or other implant device; and
[0057]     Figure 28 is a perspective view of a foam metal product having a hole formed
therein using a rotary osteotome according to this invention exemplifying at least one non
bone commercial application.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0058]     Referring to the figures, wherein like numerals indicate like or corresponding parts
throughout the several views, Figures 1-4 show the example of a dental implant, in which
preparation of an osteotomy is required to receive a bone implant (Figure 4). It will be
understood that this invention is not limited to dental applications, but may be applied across
a wide spectrum of orthopedic applications. Furthermore, the invention is not even limited to

                                                 -12
bone or orthopedic applications, but may be used to prepare holes in metal foam and other
cellular materials for industrial and commercial applications, to name but a few. In Figure 1,
an edentulous (without teeth) jaw site 30 is shown that needs expanded and prepared as an
osteotomy 32 (Figure 2) in order to receive an implant 34 (Figure 4) or other fixture device.
The series of steps include first boring a pilot hole into the recipient bone to form the initial
osteotomy (not shown), then incrementally expanding the osteotomy using progressively
wider rotary expander devices or osteotomes, generally indicated at 36, as shown in Figure
3. Once the osteotomy has been prepared, the implant 34 or fixture screw is screwed into
place as illustrated in Figure 4. The procedure of forming an osteotomy is described,
generally, in US 2013/0004918 published January 3, 2013 to Huwais, the entire disclosure of
which is hereby incorporated by reference.
[0059]      Figure 5 is a diagrammatic view illustrating by way of example the use of a surgical
kit containing four osteotomes 36A-D of progressively larger diameter according to the
present invention in combination with a reversible surgical drill motor 38 to concurrently
prepare three separate osteotomy sites 32A, 32B and 32C, respectively, in a human jaw
bone 30 using selective reversal of osteotome direction to enlarge each osteotomy either by
cutting or burnishing without removing a given osteotome 36 from the surgical drill motor 38.
Although the example is presented here again in the context of a dental application, those of
skill in the art will appreciate that the described techniques are adaptable to non-dental
applications including, but not limited to, joint replacement, bone fixations generally and foam
metals (see for example Figures 27B and 28).
[0060]      Returning to the example of Figure 5, a first osteotomy site 32A is located in the
front of the mandible bone 30 where the bone width is relatively narrow. The composition of
the bone 30 in the region of the first osteotomy site 32A may be described as predominantly
Type 1l. A second osteotomy site 32B is located slightly posterior of the first site 32A in a
region of the mandible that has moderate bone 30 width. The composition of the bone 30 in
the region of the second osteotomy site 32B may be described as generally a combination of
Types || and Ill. A third osteotomy site 32C is located in a molar region of the mandible and
is surrounded by a relatively generous bone 30 width. The composition of the bone 30 in
the region of the third osteotomy site 32C may be described as predominantly Type Ill.         Due
to the varying width and composition of bone 30 at sites 32A, 32B and 32C, the surgeon
does not wish to apply exactly the same technique and procedure to each osteotomy 32. By
using the present invention, a surgeon (or user in non-surgical applications) has the ability to
concurrently prepare all three osteotomy sites 32A-32C in different ways.

                                                -13
[0061]      In this example, each osteotomy site 32A-32C is presumed to have an initial
osteotomy prepared by first drilling a pilot hole of 1.5 mm. (Of course, the circumstances of
any given surgical application, whether dental or non-dental in nature, will dictate the size of
initial osteotomy and other characteristics of the operation.) The surgeon locks or otherwise
installs the first osteotome 36A into the drill motor 38 and sets the rotational direction to
counter-clockwise. Although the surgeon may vary the rotational speed of the osteotome 36
according to the dictates of the situation in their judgment, experimental results indicate that
rotation speeds between about 200-1200 RPM and torque settings between about 15-50
Ncm provide satisfactory results. More preferably rotation speeds between about 600-1000
RPM and torque settings between about 20-45 Ncm provide satisfactory results. And still
more preferably, rotation speeds in the range of 800-900 RPM and torque settings of about
35 Ncm provide satisfactory results.
[0062]      The surgeon then pushes the rotating first osteotome 36A into the first osteotomy
site 32A to expand through burnishing (the details of which are described in detail below).
However, due to the different compositional nature of the second 32B and third 32C
osteotomy sites, the surgeon chooses to enlarge by cutting rather than burnishing. To affect
this, the surgeon reverses the rotational direction of the drill motor 38 to clockwise without
removing the first osteotome 36A from the drill motor 38. Then, using a similar pushing
motion, the surgeon enlarges the second 32B and third 32C osteotomy sites by removing
bone material which may, if desired, be harvested.
[0063]      At this stage in the hypothetical example, the first osteotomy site 32A has been
expanded as much as the surgeon desires; no further expansion is needed of the first
osteotomy site 32A. However, the second 32B and third 32C osteotomy sites both require
additional expansion. The surgeon then installs the second osteotome 36B into the drill
motor 38 and sets the rotational direction to counter-clockwise. Skipping the completed first
osteotomy site 32A, the surgeon then expands the second osteotome 36B into the second
osteotomy site 32B through burnishing. Due to the different compositional nature of the third
osteotomy site 32C, the surgeon chooses to enlarge by cutting rather than burnishing. To
affect this, the surgeon sets the rotational direction of the surgical motor 38 to clockwise
without removing the second osteotome 36B from the surgical motor 38. Then, using a
similar pushing motion, the surgeon enlarges the third osteotomy site 32C by removing bone
material (which may, if desired, be harvested).
[0064]      Once the remaining two osteotomy sites 32B, 32C have been enlarged by the
second osteotome 36B, the surgeon locks or otherwise installs the third osteotome 36C into

                                               -14
the drill motor 38 and sets the rotational direction to counter-clockwise. Again skipping the
completed first osteotomy site 32A, the second 32B and third 32C osteotomy sites are
enlarged by burnishing. In both cases, the surgical motor 38 is set to turn in the counter
clockwise direction. The second osteotomy site 32B has now been expanded as much as
the surgeon desires; no further expansion is needed of the second osteotomy site 32C.
However, the third osteotomy site 32C still requires additional expansion. Therefore, the
surgeon installs the fourth osteotome 36D into the drill motor 38 and sets the rotational
direction to counter-clockwise. Skipping the completed first 32A and second 32B osteotomy
sites, the third 32C osteotomy site is enlarged by burnishing using the previously described
techniques. Implants 34 (or fixture portions of implants) can now be installed at each
osteotomy site 32A-32C. The surgeon places a 3.0-3.25 mm implant (not shown) into the first
osteotomy site 32A, a 5.0 mm implant (not shown) into the second osteotomy site 32B, and a
6.0 mm implant (not shown) in the third osteotomy site 32C. A surgeon may thus
concurrently prepare a plurality of osteotomy sites 32A, 32B, 32C ... 32n coupled with the
ability to expand one site by burnishing and another site by cutting without removing the
osteotome 36 from the drill motor 38. The rotary osteotome 36 is thus configured to be
turned at high speed in one direction to enlarge an osteotomy by burnishing and in an
opposite direction to enlarge an osteotomy by cutting.
[0065]      Turning now to Figure 6, an osteotome 36 according to one preferred embodiment
of this invention is shown including a shank 40 and a body 42. The shank 40 has an
elongated cylindrical shaft that establishes a longitudinal axis of rotation A for the rotary
osteotome 36. A drill motor engaging interface 44 is formed at the distal upper end of the
shaft for connection to the drill motor 38. The particular configuration of the interface 44 may
vary depending on the type of drill motor 38 used, and in some cases may even be merely a
smooth portion of the shaft against which a 3- or 4-jaw collet may grip. The body 42 joins to
the lower end of the shank 40, which joint may be formed with a tapered or domed transition
46. The transition 46 acts something like an umbrella as the surgeon irrigates with water
during a procedure. The gentle transition 46 facilitates the flow of water (not shown) onto the
osteotomy site with minimal splash or diversion, even while the osteotome 36 is spinning.
[0066]      The body 42 has conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter
adjacent the shank 40 to a minimum diameter adjacent an apical end 48. The apical end 48
is thus remote from the shank 40. The working length or effective length of the body is
proportionally related to its taper angle and to the size and number of osteotomes (36A, 36B,
36C, 36D ... 36n) in a kit. Preferably, all osteotomes 36 in a kit will have the same taper
angle, and preferably the diameter at the upper end of the body 42 for one osteotome (e.g.,

                                                 -15
36A) is approximately equal to the diameter adjacent the apical end of the body 42 for the
next larger size osteotome (e.g., 36B). Taper angles between about 10 and 50 (or more) are
possible depending upon the application. More preferably taper angles between about 20-30
will provide satisfactory results. And still more preferably, a taper angle of 2036' is known to
provide outstanding results for dental applications within the body 42 length typical
requirements (e.g., ~11-15 mm).
[0067]      The apical end 48 is defined by at least one, but preferably a pair of lips 50. The
lips 50 are in fact edges that are disposed on opposite sides of the apical end 48, but in the
illustrated embodiment do not lie within a common plane. In other words, as shown in
Figures 14 and 15, the lips 50 are slightly offset (in terms of a direct diametrical alignment) by
the short length of a chisel point 52 extending central through the longitudinal axis A. The
chisel point 52 is a common feature found in drilling tools, but alternative apical end 48
formations to the chisel point 52 are of course possible, including rounded and simple
pointed shapes, etc. As mentioned, the lips 50 are edges that angle upwardly and outwardly
(radially) from the apical end 48. The angle of the lips 50 may be varied to optimize
performance of the particular application. In practice, the lip angle may be approximately 600
measured relative to longitudinal axis A, or 1200 measured between the two opposing lips
50.
[0068]      Each lip 50 has a generally planar first trailing flank 54. The first trailing flanks 54
are canted from their respective lips 50 at a first angle. The first angle may be varied to
optimize performance and the particular application. In practice, the first angle may be
approximately 450 measured relative to longitudinal axis A, or 900 measured between the two
opposing first trailing flanks 54. It will be appreciated therefore that the two opposing first
trailing flanks 54 are set in opposite directions so that when the osteotome 36 is rotated in
use, the first trailing flanks 54 either lead or follow their respective lips 50. When first trailing
flanks 54 lead their respective lips 50, the osteotome is said to be turning in a burnishing
direction; and conversely when the first trailing flanks 54 follow their respective lips 50, the
osteotome is said to be turning in a cutting direction, i.e., with the lips 50 in the lead and
serving to cut or slice bone. In the burnishing direction, the first trailing flanks 54 form, in
effect, a large negative rake angle for the lips 50 so as to minimize chip formation and shear
deformation in the bone (or other host material) at the point of contact with the lips 50. (See
for example Figures 17 and 20.)
[0069]      A generally planar second trailing flank 56 is formed adjacent and falls away from
each first trailing flank 54 at a second angle that is smaller than the first angle. In an

                                                  -16
example where the first trailing flanks 54 are formed at 450 (relative to the axis A), the
second trailing flanks 56 may be 400 or less. A generally planar relief pocket 58 is formed
adjacent and falls away from each second trailing flank 56 at a third angle smaller than the
second angle. In an example where the second trailing flanks 56 are formed at 400 (relative
to the axis A), the relief pockets 58 (i.e., the third angle) may be 300 or less. Each relief
pocket 58 is disposed in a sector of the apical end 48 between a second trailing flank 56 and
a lip 50. A generally axially disposed lip face 60 extends between the relief pocket 58 and
the adjacent lip 50. This is perhaps best shown in the enlarged view of Figure 10. When the
osteotome 36 is rotated in the cutting direction, a significant amount of bone chips collect in
the relief pocket 58 region. When the osteotome 36 is rotated in the burnishing direction,
little to no bone chips collect in the relief pocket 58 region.
[0070]       Figure 15A is a highly simplified and exemplary semi-circular cross-section through
the apical end 48 of the osteotome 36, as taken along lines 15A-15A in Figure 15. In this
simplified illustration, small points are placed at the intersection of planar surfaces. The
points do not exist in reality, but are merely added in this view to help distinguish boundaries
of the different surfaces (54, 56, 58, 60).     In combination with the several other views and
descriptions, Figure 15A will help inform the skilled artisan as to the various facets (54, 56,
58, 60) and their relationships to one another and to the lips 50.
[0071]       A plurality of grooves or flutes 62 are disposed about the body 42. The flutes 62
are preferably, but not necessarily, equally circumferentially arranged about the body 42.
The diameter of the body 42 may influence the number of flutes 62. As an example, bodies
42 in the range of about 1.5- 2.8mm may be formed with three or four flutes; bodies 42 in the
range of about 2.5- 3.8mm may be formed with five or six flutes; bodies 42 in the range of
about 3.5- 4.8mm may be formed with seven or eight flutes; and bodies 42 in the range of
about 4.5- 5.8mm may be formed with nine or ten flutes. Of course, number of flutes 62 may
be varied more or less than the examples given here in order to optimize performance and/or
to better suit the particular application.
[0072]       In the illustrated embodiment, the flutes 62 are formed with a helical twist. If the
cutting direction is in the right-hand (clockwise) direction, then preferably the helical spiral is
also in the right hand direction. This RHS-RHC configuration is shown throughout the
Figures, although it should be appreciated that a reversal of cutting direction and helical
spiral direction (i.e., to LHS-LHC) could be made if desired with substantially equal results.
The diameter of the body 42 may influence the angle of the helical spiral. As an example,
bodies 42 in the range of about 1.5- 2.8mm may be formed with a 9.50 spiral; bodies 42 in

                                               -17
the range of about 2.5- 3.8mm may be formed with an 110 spiral; bodies 42 in the range of
about 3.5- 4.8mm may be formed with a 120 spiral; and bodies 42 in the range of about 4.5
5.8mm may be formed with a 12.50 spiral. Of course, the spiral angles may be varied more
or less than the examples given here in order to optimize performance and/or to better suit
the particular application.
[0073]     As perhaps best shown in Figures 15 and 16, each flute 62 has a burnishing face
64 and an opposing cutting face 66. A rib or land is formed between adjacent flutes 62, in
alternating fashion. Thus, a four-flute 62 osteotome 36 will have four lands, a ten-flute 62
osteotome 36 will have ten interleaved lands, and so forth. Each land has an outer land face
70 that extends between the burnishing face 64 of the flute 62 on one side and the cutting
face 66 of the flute 62 on its other side. The edge-like interface between each land face 70
and its associated cutting face 66 is referred to as a working edge 72. Depending on the
rotational direction of the osteotome 36, the working edge 72 either functions to cut bone or
burnish bone. That is, when the osteotome is rotated in the cutting direction, the working
edges 72 slice and excavate bone (or other host material). When the osteotome is rotated in
the burnishing direction, the working edges 72 compress and radially displace bone (or other
host material) with little to no cutting whatsoever. This compression and radial displacement
is exhibited as gentle pushing of the osseous structure laterally outwardly in a condensation
mechanism. Figure 15 depicts a web circle 74 superimposed as a broken circle. The web
circle 74, or simply web 74, is the root or central portion of the body 42 that joins all of the
lands. The diameter of the web circle 74 varies with the tapering diameter of the body 42.
[0074]     In the preferred embodiment, the working edges 72 are substantially margin-less,
in that the entire portion of each land face 70 is cut away behind the working edge 72 to
provide complete clearance. In standard prior art burs and drills, margins are commonly
incorporated behind the working edge to guide the drill in the hole and maintain the drill
diameter. Primary taper clearance angles, i.e., the angle between a tangent of the working
edge 72 and each land face 70 as shown in Figure 16, may fall anywhere between about 10
and 300 depending upon the application. More preferably primary taper clearance angles will
range between about 50-200. The diameter of the body 42 may influence the angle of the
primary taper clearance. As an example, bodies 42 in the range of about 1.5- 2.8mm may
have land faces 70 formed with a 150 primary taper clearance; bodies 42 in the range of
about 2.5- 3.8mm may have land faces 70 formed with an 150 primary taper clearance;
bodies 42 in the range of about 3.5- 4.8mm may have land faces 70 formed with a 120
primary taper clearance; and bodies 42 in the range of about 4.5- 5.8mm may have land
faces 70 formed with a 100 primary taper clearance. Of course, the primary taper clearance

                                                -18
angles may be varied more or less than the examples given here in order to optimize
performance and/or to better suit the particular application. As mentioned above in
connection with the angle of the helical twist, the substantially margin-less working edges 72
are shown, for example in Figure 14, turning away from the burnishing direction as the
conically tapered profile of the body 42 decreases in diameter. In other words, when the
burnishing direction is counter-clockwise as shown in Figure 14, the helical twist of the
working edges 72 winds in the counter-clockwise direction when viewed from the top of the
body 42 looking toward its apical end 48. Or conversely, as shown in Figure 14 when viewed
from the apical end 48 looking toward top of the body 42, the twist will appear to be in the
clockwise direction. Thus, when the burnishing direction is counter-clockwise, the working
edges 72 will "turn away from the burnishing direction" when all of the land faces 70 and
flutes 62 orbit counter-clockwise about the longitudinal axis A as one traces each land face
70 and flute 62 downwardly toward the apical end 48.
[0075]     The cutting face 66 establishes a rake angle for each respective working edge 72.
A rake is an angle of slope measured from the leading face of the tool (the working edge 72
in this case) to an imaginary line extending perpendicular to the surface of the worked object
(e.g., inner bone surface of the osteotomy). Rake angle is a parameter used in various
cutting and machining processes, describing the angle of the cutting face relative to the work.
Rake angles can be: positive, negative or zero. The rake angle for working edge 72 when
rotated in a cutting direction is preferably zero degrees (00). In other words, the cutting face
66 is oriented approximately perpendicular to a tangent of the arc scribed through the
working edge 72. As shown in Figure 16, this establishes a crisp cutting edge 72 well-suited
to cut/slice bone when the osteotome 36 is rotated in the cutting direction.
[0076]      However, when the osteotome 36 is rotated in the burnishing direction, the rake
angle is established between the working edge 72 and the land face 70, which as previously
stated by lie at a large negative rake angle in the order of 100-150 (for example). The large
negative rake angle of the working edge 72 (when rotated in a burnishing direction) applies
outward pressure at the point of contact between the wall of the osteotomy 32 and the
working edge 72 to create a compression wave ahead of the point of contact, loosely akin to
spreading butter on toast. Downward pressure applied by the surgeon is needed to keep the
working edge 72 in contact with the bone surface of the osteotomy being expanded, that is,
to keep it pushing on the compression wave. This is aided by the taper effect of the
osteotomy and tool 36 to create lateral pressure (i.e., in the intended direction of expansion).
The harder the surgeon pushes down, the more pressure is exerted laterally. This gives the
surgeon complete control of the expansion rate irrespective to a large degree on the rotation

                                                -19
speed of the osteotome 36. Thus, the burnishing effect's intensity depends on the amount of
force exerted on the osteotome 36. The more force exerted, the quicker expansion will
occur.
[0077]     As the working edge 72 drags across the bone, the force on the working edge 72
can be decomposed into two component forces: one normal to the bone's surface, pressing it
outwardly, and the other tangential, dragging it along the inner surface of the osteotomy. As
the tangential component is increased, the working edge 72 will start to slide along the bone.
At the same time, the normal force will deform the softer bone material. If the normal force is
low, the working edge 72 will rub against the bone but not permanently alter its surface. The
rubbing action will create friction and heat, but this can be controlled by the surgeon by
altering, on-the-fly, the rotation speed and/or pressure and/or irrigation flow. Because the
body 42 of the osteotome 36 is tapered, the surgeon may at any instant during the surgical
procedure lift the working edges 72 away from contact with the surface of the bone to allow
air cooling and/or irrigation. This can be done in a controlled "bouncing" fashion where
pressure is applied in short bursts with the surgeon continuously monitoring progress and
making fine corrections and adjustments. See Figures 7 and 8 which illustrate this variable
application of force and the ability for the osteotome to be lifted out of engagement - at any
time during a procedure - with the walls of the osteotomy 32. As the surgeon-applied
downward force increases, eventually the stresses in the bone's surface exceed its yield
strength. When this happens, the working edge 72 will plow through the surface and create a
trough behind it. The plowing action of the working edge 72 thus progressively enlarges the
osteotomy.
[0078]     Figure 9 depicts a Stress-Strain curve that is generally illustrative for bone and
other ductile materials including but not limited to foam metals of the type used in various
commercial, industrial and aerospace applications. The straight-line segment of the curve
from the point of origin (0,0) to B represents the material's elastic response region.
Reference point B indicates the elastic limit of the material. While the elastic properties of
bone are well-known, if the load imposed by the surgeon does not exceed the bone's ability
to deform elastically, i.e., beyond point B, the bone will promptly return to its initial (un
deformed) condition once the stress is removed. On the other hand, if the load imposed by
the surgeon exceeds the bone's ability to deform elastically, the bone will deform and change
shape permanently by plastic deformation. In bone, the permanent change in shape is
believed to be associated with micro-cracks that allow energy release, a compromise that is
a natural defense against complete fracture. If these micro-cracks are small, the bone
remains in one piece while the osteotomy expands. The region of plastic deformation

                                                 - 20
extends from the yield point of the material (C), all the way to the point of fracture (E). The
peak (D) of the curve between yield point (C) and fracture (E) indicates the material's
ultimate tensile strength. When a material (e.g., bone or foam metal) is subjected to stress in
the region between its yield point (C) and its ultimate tensile strength (D), the material
experiences strain hardening. Strain hardening, also known as work hardening or cold
working, is the strengthening of a ductile material by plastic deformation. This strengthening
occurs because of dislocation movements and dislocation generation within the crystal
structure of the material - which for bone materials corresponds with the above-mentioned
micro-cracks. The material tends to experience necking when subjected to stress in the
region between its ultimate tensile strength (D) and the point of fracture (E).
[0079]       The direction of helical twist can be designed so as to play a role in contributing to
the surgeon's control so that an optimum level of stress can be applied to the bone (or other
host material) throughout the expansion procedure. In particular, the RHS-RHC
configuration described above, which represents a right-hand spiral for a right-hand cutting
direction (or alternatively an LHS-LHC configuration, not shown) applies a beneficial
opposing axial reaction force (Ry) when the osteotome 36 is continuously rotated at high
speed in a burnishing direction and concurrently forcibly advanced (manually by the surgeon)
into an osteotomy 32. This opposing axial reaction force (Ry) is illustrated graphically in
Figures 11-13 as being directionally opposite to the forcibly advanced direction into the
osteotomy 32. In other words, if the surgeon operating the osteotome 36 is pushing the
osteotome 36 downwardly into an osteotomy 32, then the opposing axial reaction force (Ry)
works in the opposite direction to push the osteotome upwardly. The opposing axial reaction
force (Ry) is the vertical (or perhaps more accurately the "axial" vis-a-vis the longitudinal axis
A) component of the reaction force (R) that is the Newtonian "equal and opposite reaction
force" applied by the bone against the full length of the working edges 72 of the osteotome
36 (i.e., Newton's Third Law of Motion). An opposing axial reaction force (Ry) is also created
by the effective a large negative rake angle at the lips 50 when the osteotome 36 is rotated in
a burnishing direction, as shown in Figure 20 and easily perceived from Figure 15A. Those
of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments in which the opposing axial reaction
force (Ry) is created by either the configuration of the lips 50 alone or of the working edges
72 alone rather than by both (50, 72) acting in concert as in the preferred embodiment.
[0080]       In order for a surgeon to advance the apical end 48 toward the bottom of the
osteotomy 32 when the osteotome 36 is spinning in the burnishing direction, he or she must
push against and overcome the opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) in addition to supplying
the force needed to plastically displace/expand the bone as described above. The

                                                - 21
osteotome 36 is designed so that the surgeon must continually work, as it were, against the
opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) to expand an osteotomy by burnishing. Rather than being
a detriment, the opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) are a benefit to the surgeon by giving
them greater control over the expansion process. Because of the opposing axial reaction
forces (Ry), the osteotome 36 will not be pulled deeper into the osteotomy 32 as might occur
with a standard "up cutting" twist drill or burr that is designed to generate a tractive force that
tends to advance the osteotome towards the interior of the osseous site; such up-cutting
burrs have the potential to grab and pull the burr more deeply into the osteotomy, such that a
surgeon could unexpectedly find themselves pulling up on a spinning burr to prevent over
penetration.
[0081]      The intensity of the opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) is always proportional to the
intensity of force applied by the surgeon in advancing the body 42 into the osteotomy 32.
This opposing force thus creates real-time haptic feedback that is intuitive and natural to
inform the surgeon whether more or less applied force is needed at any given instant. This
concurrent tactile feedback takes full advantage of the surgeon's delicate sense of touch by
applying reaction forces (R, and in particular the axial component Ry) directly through the
osteotome 36. The mechanical stimulation of the opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) assists
the surgeon to better control the expansion procedure on the basis of how the bone (or other
host material) is reacting to the expansion procedure in real time.
[0082]       Thus, the controlled "bouncing" described above in connection with Figures 7-9 is
made more effective and substantially more controllable by the opposing axial reaction
forces (Ry) so that the surgeon can instinctively monitor progress and make fine corrections
and applied pressure adjustments on-the-fly without losing control over the rate of expansion.
The tactile feedback from the opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) allows a surgeon to
intuitively exert stress on the bone material so that its strain response preferably resides in
the strain hardening zone, that is, between its yield point (C) to its ultimate tensile strength
(D). In any event, the surgeon will endeavor to maintain the stress (as generated by the
force he or she applies through the rotating osteotome 36) above the elastic limit (B) and
below the point of fracture (E). Of course, until passing the applied stress passes the elastic
limit (B), the bone will not permanently deform at all; and to apply stress beyond the point of
fracture (E) will cause the bone (or other host material) to break - possibly catastrophically.
[0083]      The exemplary graph in Figure 8 plots the force applied by a surgeon to advance
the body 42 into an osteotomy 32 against its depth of penetration into the osteotomy 32 in
three separate procedures (A-B-C) to graphically show how the surgeon can make these on-

                                                - 22
the-fly adjustments depending on particular situation they encounter. The applied force is, as
mentioned above, the force manually generated by the surgeon and needed to overcome the
combined opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) plus the forces needed to expand/deform the
bone. The applied force creates stress in the bone (or other host material), so that it
develops a strain response like that shown in Figure 9. During an operation, the surgeon
uses his or her skill to manually vary the applied stress so that the strain response remains
within the plastic deformation region (B-E), and more preferably still within the more ideal
strain hardening region (C-D). The configuration of the osteotome 36 in this embodiment,
therefore, is designed to give a surgeon more control during an expansion (by burnishing)
procedure by generating proportional, opposing axial reaction forces (Ry) when the
osteotome 36 continuously rotated and concurrently forcibly advanced into an osteotomy 32.
[0084]     Turning now to Figures 17-21, another novel aspect of the present invention is
illustrated - namely the ability of the rotary osteotome 36 to simultaneously auto-graft and
compact bone when the osteotome 36 is continuously rotated at high speed in a burnishing
direction and concurrently forcibly advanced into an osteotomy 32. The compaction aspect
may be defined as the gentle push of osseous structure laterally outwardly so as to
condense the cells throughout the region surrounding the osteotomy 32. In Figure 17, an
osteotomy 32 formed by the present invention is shown with exaggerated taper on the order
of ~70 (as compared with the preferred taper angle in the range of about 20-30) in order to
highlight the necessary grinding of a small amount of bone (or other host material) with each
progressively larger osteotome 36.
[0085]      In Figure 17, surface 76 indicates the inner wall of the osteotomy 32 as prepared in
a preceding expansion operation by an osteotome 36 of smaller size. The apical end 48 of
the next incrementally larger size osteotome 36 is shown in solid about to enter the
osteotomy and again in phantom approximately 2/3 into the osteotomy 32. It is to be
understood that the osteotome 36 is continuously rotated at high speed in a burnishing
direction (e.g., counter-clockwise in the preceding examples) and concurrently forcibly
advanced into an osteotomy 32 by the surgeon's manual efforts. Construction line 78
indicates the cylindrical (i.e., non-tapering) path of the apical end 48 as it moves from top to
bottom within the osteotomy 32. In other words, the diameter of the apical end 48 remains
the same, and therefore the diameter of its path also remains constant over the distance it
travels. When the osteotome 36 first enters the osteotomy 32 as shown in solid, the internal
diameter of the prior osteotomy 76 is approximately equal to the diameter of the apical end
48. However the internal diameter of the prior osteotomy 76 progressively narrows (i.e.,
tapers inwardly) toward the bottom of the osteotomy. Yet as shown the cylindrical path of the

                                               - 23
apical end 48 remains constant. Therefore, as the osteotome 36 is advanced deeper toward
the bottom of the osteotomy 32, more and more bone is ground away and/or displaced to
make room for the advancing (larger) osteotome 36. Region 80, defined as the annular
space between surfaces 76 and 78 (plus a portion of the apical end 48), represents the bone
material that is milled by the outermost edges of the lips 50 as the apical end 48 makes its
way to the full depth of the osteotomy 32. The milled or ground region 80 includes not only
the side walls, but also the bottom end of the osteotom32. In a subsequent operation (not
shown), when another osteotome 36 of the next larger size is used to further expand the
osteotomy 32, a similar (but larger) region 80 will exist as its apical end is pushed to the
bottom of the osteotomy 32, and so on.
[0086]      Remaining within the context of Figure 17, surface 82 indicates the outer wall of
the osteotomy 32 as prepared by the expansion operation of osteotome 36 whose apical end
48 is illustrated in solid and phantom. The surface 82 is a substantially perfect negative of
the revolving osteotome body 42. In other words, the surface 82 will have a taper equal to
that of the osteotome body 42, and a bottom impression made by the spinning apical end 48
of the osteotome illustrated. Region 84, defined as the annular space between surfaces 78
and 82, represents the bone material that is plastically displaced by the working edges 72 of
the lands as the osteotome body 42 makes its way to the full depth of the osteotomy 32. All
of the bone material within region 84 is compressed radially outwardly into the surrounding
bone structure without cutting, and therefore represents a zone of densified bone.
[0087]      An important observation may be stated as: "What happens to the ground/milled
bone material that once occupied region 80?". As alluded to previously, the osteotome 36 is
configured to simultaneously auto-graft and compact the ground/milled bone from region 80
as it is rotated and forcibly advanced into the osteotomy 32. The auto-grafting phenomena
supplements the basic bone compression and condensation effects described above to
further densify the inner walls 82 of the osteotomy. Furthermore, auto-grafting - which is the
process of repatriating the patient's own bone material - enhances natural healing properties
in the human body to accelerate recovery and improve osseointegration.
[0088]      Turning to Figure 20, an enlarged view is shown of the interface between the apical
end 48 and the host bone material. At the point where the outermost edge of each rotating
and forcibly advancing lip 50 contacts the bone, attrition causes the bone to be ground away.
The bone debris collects mainly on the second trailing flanks 56, i.e., immediately behind the
respective first trailing flanks 54. Some of the accumulated bone debris migrates radially
inwardly along the lips 50 and is carried all the way to the very bottom of the osteotomy 32.

                                                - 24
The remainder of the accumulated bone debris is distributed along the flutes 62 which
directly intersect the second trailing flanks 56 by the pressure exerted through the surgeon's
manual pushing efforts. This is illustrated in Figure 21. It is possible that a small fraction of
bone debris could spill over into the relief pockets 58, but this is of minimal significance.
Bone debris that is distributed up the flutes 62 works its way toward the associated land
faces 70 where it is wiped and pressed into the cellular walls of the osteotomy 32 - i.e.
where it is grafted back into the patient's bone very near to the sight were it was harvested.
Bone debris that is carried to the bottom of the osteotomy 32 is wiped and pressed into the
bottom of the osteotomy 32. As a result, an auto-grafting zone 86 is developed around and
under the compaction region 84, as shown in Figure 17. Interestingly, the auto-grafting zone
86 is thinnest where the compaction zone 84 is thickest, and conversely the auto-grafting
zone 86 is thickest where the compaction zone 84 is thinnest. And at the osteotomy bottom
where this is little-to-no compaction at all, there is a significant zone of auto-grafting 86 which
serves to densify (and positively stimulate) an area of the osteotomy 32 which could
otherwise not be densified. It can therefore be appreciated that the auto-grafting phenomena
is an ideal complement to the basic bone compression and condensation effects in preparing
an osteotomy 32 to receive an implant 34 or other fixation device.
[0089]      To summarize, the present invention describes a method for enlarging an
osteotomy 32 by burnishing (and/or by cutting when rotation is reversed). The basic steps of
the method include: supporting a fluted body 42 for rotation about a longitudinal axis A, the
body 42 having an apical end 48 and a conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum
diameter to a minimum diameter adjacent the apical end 48. The body 48 is continuously
rotated in a burnishing direction while concurrently forcibly advancing the body 42 (by the
manual efforts of the surgeon) into an osteotomy 32. Notable improvements include:
grinding a progressively larger amount of bone material with the apical end 48 as the body
42 is advanced deeper into the osteotomy 32, auto-grafting the ground bone material into the
host bone within the osteotomy 32 and compacting the ground bone material into the host
bone with the fluted body 42, and also generating an opposing axial reaction force (Ry) in
opposition to the advancing direction of the body 42 into the osteotomy 32. The opposing
axial reaction force (Ry) is created by the configuration of the lips 50 and/or the working
edges 72.
[0090]      The tools and techniques of this invention are readily adaptable to the methods of
computer generated implant placement guides, like those described for example in US
6,814,575 to Poirier, issued November 9, 2004 (the entire disclosure of which is hereby
incorporated by reference). According to these methods, a computer model is created giving

                                                - 25
jawbone 30 structural details, gum surface shape information and proposed teeth or dental
prosthesis shape information. The computer model shows the bone structure, gum surface
and teeth images properly referenced to one another so that osteotomy 32 positions can be
selected taking into consideration proper positioning within the bone 30 as well as proper
positioning with respect to the implant 34.
[0091]      These and other benefits will be appreciated by the following details of exemplary
test details describing a mechanical validation of bone burnishing induced by the osteotome
36 and method described above for the surgical preparation and expansion of an implant site
in bone.
EXAMPLE
[0092]      The mechanical tests were conducted with a surgical drill motor 38 and materials
testing machine to control the rotary speed and depth penetration rate while measuring force
and torque during drilling/burnishing procedures in bone. In other words, the manual
influence of a surgeon was not involved in the following test report. The procedures using a
prior art burr drill, fluted osteotome 36 in "Burnishing Mode" (Burnishing Osteotome), and
fluted osteotome 36 in "Drilling Mode" (Osteotome Drill) were compared for insertion and
removal torque of a 3.8 mm or 6.0mm implant 34. Heat generation was measured during the
drilling procedure by inserting a thermocouple into the bone, 1 mm away from the edge of the
hole. Procedures included, drilling (900 RPM) without irrigation and burnishing (200, 400,
600, 900, and 1100 RPM), with and without irrigation. The implant 34 stability was also
measured with the Osstell resonance frequency analysis system. The morphology of bone
around the holes was imaged with optical microscopy and with an environmental scanning
electron microscopy (ESEM) and the bone mineral density (BMD) and bone volume fraction
(BVF) were quantified with micro-computed tomography (pCT) imaging. The final diameter of
the prepared osteotomy was measured at two depth levels, one cm apart.
[0093]      A detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was developed and followed
during all mechanical tests. Briefly, three porcine tibial plateau bone samples with the
articular surfaces and subchondral bone (approximately 5-10cm thickness) removed were
mounted in epoxy potting and a custom clamping system. The clamp was in turn fixed to an
ElectroPlus E10000 materials testing system by way of a biaxial load cell for measurement of
the applied force and torque during the drilling/osteotomy procedures. A surgical drilling
mechanism 38 with controllable motor speed and a torque limiter (3i Implant Innovations,
WS-75) was mounted to the crosshead of the materials testing system.

                                                - 26
[0094]     The testing system was programmed for displacement control with a constant
linear rate into and back out at progressive depths until the target depth of the
burr/osteotome of 13 mm was achieved. Five diameter steps were used to progressively
enlarge the hole. Prior art surgical drilling burrs with maximum diameters of 1.8, 2.8, 3.8, 4.8,
and 5.2 mm were used, while the Fluted Osteotomes had maximum diameters of 1.8, 2.8,
3.8, 4.8 and 5.8 mm. After these enlargement steps were completed, a 6.0 mm diameter
implant was inserted into seven of the holes. In three cases a 3.8mm diameter implant was
inserted into the holes after the 3.8 mm step was completed, and after removal of the 3.8 mm
implant the progressive hole enlargement continued.
[0095]     Heat generation was measured during the testing procedures by inserting a
thermocouple into the bone, approximately one mm away from the edge of the hole. The
maximum temperatures were recorded during the drilling/burnishing procedures in six of the
tests.
[0096]     After the procedure was completed, an implant was inserted into the hole while
measuring the force and torque required for insertion. The implant stability was measured
with resonance frequency analysis (RFA) with the Osstell measurement device.
[0097]     Additional implant holes were created with similar procedures, but with no insertion
of an implant 34. A total of 14 tests were completed with three holes (anterior, central, and
posterior) aligned in rows on the medial and lateral sides of the proximal tibias with a
minimum spacing of 6 mm between holes.
[0098]     Imaging and characterization of the compacted bone was conducted using
microcomputed tomography (p-CT). High resolution CT slices were aligned along the axis of
the holes at a voxel resolution of 90 pm. Regions of interest were selected and the bone
mineral density, and bone volume fraction was quantified as a function of distance from the
edge of the hole and depth using GE Microview software.
[0099]     Imaging and characterization of the compacted bone was conducted using an
optical and an ESEM. The bone samples were sectioned along the center axis of the implant
hole for microscopy imaging. Low-magnification images of the radial edges of the osteotomy
was taken at 20x-50x magnification with an optical microscope.
[00100]    The Fluted Osteotome burnishing technique was shown to increase the required
penetration force and torque compared with drilling (Table 1). Force and torque during

                                                -  27
burnishing were also correlated with the expansion step diameter, so that the highest values
(73 N and 18.9 Ncm) occurred during the 5.8 mm step. The 3.8 mm diameter implant was
inserted into drilled holes (the maximum torque was 15 and 20 Ncm) and in one burnished
hole (the maximum value could not be recorded due to damage to the implant).
TABLE 1.
MEASURED MAXIMUM PENETRATION FORCE AND TORQUE DURING THE FIVE
DIAMETER EXPANSION STEPS.
                                                Maximum Force (N)           Maximum Torque (Ncm)
          Test               Procedure     1.8   2.8  3.8  4.8  5.2/5.8 1.8   2.8  3.8  4.8   5.2/5.8
                                           mm   mm    mm   mm     mm    mm    mm  mm    mm      mm
  Porcinell1AntMed    Burr drilling        12.5   13   3   6.5     8    2.5   2.5   2   2.5       4
  PorcineOl CentMed   Osteotome drilling    13     7   14   11     10    2     3   3.5    5      6.5
  PorcineOl PostMed   Osteotome burnishing  20  20.5   40   60    70     3     5   10    18      24
  Porcine02 CentMed   Osteotome burnishing  10    10   60   50    24    1.5    1    4   8.5      28
  Porcine02_AntMed    Burr drilling          9     9   10   11    3.5    1    1.5  1.5    3      2.5
  Porcine02 PostMed   Osteotome burnishing         7   27   70    100         2.5  10    35      15
  Porcine02 Anttat    200 RPM burnishing    33    16  170   40    140   3.5   2.5  12    15      27
  Porcine02 CentLat   400 RPM burnishing     9    10   34   30    40     1    2.5   7    10     15.5
  Porcine02 PostLat   1100 RPM burnishing   11    11   38   20    27     1    1.5  5.5    6       9
  Porcine03_AntMed    Burr drilling         10    13   3    11     14    1    1.5   1   2.5       3
  Porcine03 CentMed   Osteotome drilling     9     4  3.5    5     5     1    1.5  2.5    3      4.5
  Porcine03 Post Med  Osteotome burnishing  10    14   23   11    110   1.5   1.5   6   2.5     13.5
                                           10.7   9.2 6.7  8.9    8.1   1.5    2   2.1  3.2      4.1
        Average       Drilling
                      Burnishing           15.5 12.6  56.0 40.1   73    1.9   2.4  7.8  13.6    18.9
[00101]     For the 6.0 mm diameter implant, the insertion and removal torques in drilled holes
were approximately 35 Ncm and 21 Ncm, respectively while burnishing greatly increased
these torques to 80 Ncm and 60 Ncm, respectively (Table 2). Bone burnishing produced
higher maximum temperatures than drilling when the irrigation was turned off. With irrigation
turned on burnishing only increased the maximum temperature by approximately 100 F. There
were no noticeable differences between temperature or implant insertion and removal
torques with different burnishing speeds. There was a trend for reduced maximum
penetration force and torque at higher burnishing speeds, such that at 1100 RPM the
Maximum Force was only 27 N and the Maximum Torque was only 9 Ncm.

                                                   - 28
TABLE 2.
MEASURED MAXIMUM TEMPERATURE, INSERTION AND REMOVAL TORQUES.
                                           Maximum                   Torque (Ncm)
             Test          Procedure     temperature        3.8 mm       6.0 mm   6.0 mm
                                                (*F)        implant      implant  implant
                                                           insertion    insertion removal
     PorcineOlAntMed     Burr drilling                                      30       30
                         Osteotome           150 (no
     Porcine02_CentMed   burnishing        irrigation)
     Porcine02 AntMed    Burr drilling 83 (no irrigation)
                         Osteotome
     Porcine02_PostMed   burnishing              91
                         200 RPM
     Porcine02_AntLat    burnishing              73                        120       61
                         400 RPM
     Porcine02_CentLat   burnishing              81                         76       45
                         1100 RPM
     Porcine02_PostLat   burnishing              81                         65       46
     Porcine03 AntMed    Burr drilling                         15           35       20
                         Osteotome
     Porcine03_CentMed   drilling                              20           35       22
     Porcine03_Post      Osteotome
     Med                 burnishing                       (stripped)        70       89
                         Drilling                                           35       21
           Average
                         Burnishing                                         80       60
[00102]    Osstell "Implant Stability Quotient" (ISQ) measurements were approximately 73 for
the 3.8 mm implant diameter in the drilled holes, but no measurement could be made on the
damaged implant in the burnished hole (Table 3). The 6.0 mm implant showed similar ISQ
measurements of approximately 82 for both the drilled and burnished holes.

                                                 - 29
TABLE 3.
ISQ MEASUREMENTS FOR VARIOUS ORIENTATIONS RELATIVE TO THE BONE.
                                                     3.8 mm Osstell (ISQ)    6.0 mm Osstell (ISQ)
                Test                Procedure
                                                    Ant   Med    Post  Lat  Ant   Med    Post  Lat
       PorcineOlAntMed       Burr drilling                                  81     80     81   80
       PorcineOl CentMed     Osteotome drilling                             85     82     85   82
       PorcineOlPostMed      Osteotome burnishing                           84     81     84   81
       PorcineOlCentCent     Summers Osteotome                              78     82     81   82
       Porcine03_AntMed      Burr drilling          72     76     72    72  80     81     81   81
       Porcine03_CentMed     Osteotome drilling     75     75     67    75  84     83     84   81
       Porcine03_Post Med    Osteotome burnishing                           82     80     82   80
                             Drilling                         73                      82
             Average
                             Burnishing                                               82
[00103]     There was not a noticeable difference in the diameter of holes created by the prior
art burr drill or the present osteotome 36 (in either of its drilling/cutting or burnishing modes),
however this may have been due to the insertion of the 6.0 mm implant into many of the
holes prior to Micro-CT imaging. The osteotome 36 had a larger apex and top diameter (4.8
mm and 5.8 mm, respectively) compared with the prior art burr (4.2 mm and 5.2 mm,
respectively). In the case of Porcine02 medial tibial plateau, no implant was inserted into the
holes created with the burr drilling or fluted osteotome burnishing techniques before pCT
imaging. The diameters of these holes are smaller than other holes and demonstrate that
although the osteotome 36 has a larger diameter than the prior art burr, there is more elastic
recovery after the osteotome 36 is removed and therefore ultimately creates a smaller
diameter hole. Even the osteotome drilling/cutting procedure seemed to make a smaller
diameter hole than the prior art burr, relative to the size of these two tools.
[00104]     Micro-CT imaging revealed compaction of bone around the periphery of holes
created with burnishing and relatively increased bone mineral density around these holes on
the other hand imaging showed relative constant bone mineral density around holes created
through drilling. For example, Figure 22 is a micro-CT image showing a transverse slice
through a Porcine03 medial tibial plateau with comparative holes created by: (A-left) a prior
art burr drill, (B-center) the rotary osteotome 36 rotated in a drilling/cutting direction, and (C
right) the rotary osteotome 36 rotated in a burnishing direction. There was bone mineral
density variation across the tibial plateau with the highest on the medial side, followed by the
lateral side and lowest in the central region. None of the holes were created into regions of

                                                   - 30
cortical bone, but one hole extended through the entire depth of the trabecular region and
into the bone marrow cavity. Axial projection through a 1 cm volume of bone demonstrated a
"halo" of compacted bone by averaging over the varying trabecular density. See for example
Figures 23A-D which are micro-CT images that show comparative axial slice views of
Porcine03 medial tibial plateau holes created with a prior art burr drill (Figure 23A) and the
rotary osteotome 36 rotated in a burnishing direction (Figure 23C). Also shown are
comparative axial slice views of average bone mineral density projection of 1cm volume
around Porcine02 medial holes created with a prior art burr drill (Figure 23B) and the rotary
osteotome 36 rotated in a burnishing direction (Figure 23D).
TABLE 4.
HOLE DIAMETER MEASUREMENTS AT LOCATIONS 1 CM APART.
                                                               Empty Diameter (mm)
                        Test                 Procedure
                                                                 Distal      Proximal
               PorcineflAntMed         Burr drilling              4.9           5.7
               PorcineOlCentMed        Osteotome drilling         4.4           5.5
               PorcineflPostMed        Osteotome burnishing       4.2           5.2
               Porcine02_CentMed       Osteotome burnishing       4.6           5.3
               Porcine02_AntMed        Burr drilling              4.4           5.6
               Porcine02_PostMed       Osteotome burnishing       4.5           5.3
               Porcine02_AntLat        200 RPM burnishing         4.7           5.4
               Porcine02_CentLat       400 RPM burnishing         5.1           5.3
               Porcine02_PostLat       1100 RPM burnishing        4.6           5.5
               Porcine03_AntMed        Burr drilling              4.7           5.7
               Porcinel3_CentMed       Osteotome drilling         4.7           5.9
               Porcine03_Post Med      Osteotome burnishing       4.8           5.5
                                       Burr Drilling              4.7           5.7
                     Average           Osteotome Drilling         4.6           5.7
                                       Osteotome Burnishing       4.6           5.4
[00105]     Scanning electron microscopic images showed relatively similar roughness on the
surface of holes created by the prior art burr drill and the osteotome 36 when rotating in the
cutting/drilling direction, while the burnishing osteotome technique produced a surface that
looked considerably smoother. Bone burnishing resulted in a layer of granulated bone
particles that were compacted onto the surface of the length of the osteotomy hole (i.e., auto
grafted) especially near the bottom surface of the holes.

                                               - 31
[00106]    The results of this mechanical validation study demonstrated that the burnishing
method greatly increases the insertion and removal torques and creates a region of
compacted bone particles and increased bone mineral density around the periphery of the
hole. The bone burnishing technique produces elastic strain around the burnished holes.
The burnishing technique follows a similar clinical procedure to the standard drilling
technique. Although penetration forces and torques were increased, there were only limited
increases in temperature around the hole when irrigation and a "bouncing" method (Figures
7 and 8) were used. Osstell did not indicate any differences between the ISQ of drilled
versus burnished holes, but all readings were considered to be in the "stable" range. The
lack of sensitivity of the Osstell measurements may be due to the inherent stability of the 6.0
mm diameter by 11 mm long implant.
[00107]    Test results showed that the bone burnishing technique of this invention increases
the bone mineral density around the periphery of the osteotome hole. The bone burnishing
technique increases the implant primary stability by generating higher insertion and removal
torques on the implant. The bone burnishing technique auto-grafts bone by reapplying
ground particles in a compacted manner along the entire depth of the osteotome hole,
particularly at the bottom of the hole. The bone burnishing technique has similar clinical
safety to prior art burr drilling when proper rotary speed, penetration speed and irrigation are
used. The bone burnishing technique creates a smaller hole than drilling due to recovery of
elastic strain when the osteotome is removed from the hole.
ALTERNATE EMBODIMENTS AND APPLICATIONS
[00108]    Figures 24-26 illustrate an alternative embodiment of this invention, namely an
ultrasonic osteotome 90 configured to enlarge an osteotomy without rotation. The ultrasonic
osteotome 90 includes a shank and an adjoined body 92. The body 92 having an apical end
94 remote from the shank. The body 92 is generally smooth (i.e., non-fluted) and has a
conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter adjacent the shank to a
minimum diameter adjacent the apical end 94. The overall proportion and dimensions of the
body 92 will be similar to those of the body 42 in the preceding examples. The apical end 94
includes a unidirectional grinding formation that may take the form of a roughed surface. As
the ultrasonic osteotome 90 is vibrated at a high frequency (as by a commercial off-the-shelf
surgical ultrasonic generator) the apical end 94 has the effect of grinding some small portion
of bone in a manner not too dissimilar from that of the apical end 48 in the earlier
embodiments. The body 92 further includes an auto-grafting ramp 96 configured to auto
graft and compact bone after the bone has been ultrasonically pulverized by the apical end

                                                - 32
94 as the body is forcibly advanced into an osteotomy concurrently with high-frequency
vibration. In this example, the auto-grafting ramp 96 is a frusto-conical member disposed
immediately below the smooth tapered portion of the body 92. The auto-grafting ramp 96
extends at a first angle that is larger than the taper of the body 92 so that the granular bone
debris will be packed into the surrounding walls of the osteotomy with wedge-like action.
[00109]     Figures 27-27B are intended to illustrate, for the benefit of the skilled artisan, that
the principles of this invention are not limited to dental applications, but any bone preparation
site within the human (or animal) body may be investigated for suitability. Initial indications
reveal that applications in the vertebrae and hand/wrist are prime candidates for the bone
burnishing techniques of this invention due to its potential for universally applicable increases
in implant primary stability, auto-grafting benefits, and inherent similarity to prior art
preparation techniques.
[00110]     Furthermore, as shown in Figure 28 the principles of this invention are not limited
to bone as the host material. Indeed, the rotary tool 36 of this invention may be configured to
enlarge a hole in almost any type of cellular material by burnishing. In this illustration, a
section of metal foam 98 may be of the type used extensively in aerospace, heat shielding
and other critical applications. The foam metal is shown including a hole 100 formed by
burnishing according to the methods described above. The resulting hole 100 is better
prepared to receive a screw or other fixation anchor because its inner walls have been
densified by the compressive displacement and auto-grafting effects of this invention. Some
experimentation has been made as well with hole formation in non-cellular inorganic
materials like plate aluminum and plastic. Certain benefits have presented as well in these
non-cellular materials, such that the potential to improve screw or anchor retention by hole
preparation using the principles of this invention are fully contemplated.
[00111]    The foregoing invention has been described in accordance with the relevant legal
standards, thus the description is exemplary rather than limiting in nature. Variations and
modifications to the disclosed embodiment may become apparent to those skilled in the art
and fall within the scope of the invention.

                                                  - 33
CLAIMS
1.          A rotary osteotome configured to be turned in one direction to enlarge an
osteotomy by burnishing, said rotary osteotome comprising:
            a shank, said shank establishing a longitudinal axis of rotation,
            a body joined to said shank, said body having an apical end remote from said
shank, said body having a conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter
adjacent said shank to a minimum diameter adjacent said apical end, said apical end
including at least one lip, a plurality of flutes disposed about said body,
            said lip configured to simultaneously auto-graft and compact bone when
continuously rotated in a burnishing direction and concurrently forcibly advanced into an
osteotomy.
2.          The rotary osteotome of claim 1, wherein said lip has a generally planar first trailing
flank, said first trailing flank canted from said lip.
3.          The rotary osteotome of claim 2, further including a generally planar second trailing
flank falling away from said first trailing flank at a second angle smaller than said first angle,
and a generally planar relief pocket falling away from said second trailing flank at a third
angle smaller than said second angle.
4.          The rotary osteotome of claim 1, wherein each said flute has a burnishing face and
an opposing cutting face, further including a plurality of lands, each said land formed
between adjacent flutes, each said land having a land face joining a burnishing face of one
said flute and a cutting face of an adjacent said flute, said cutting face establishing a rake
angle relative to said longitudinal axis.
5.          The rotary osteotome of claim 4, wherein each said land face intersects the
respective said cutting face along a substantially margin-less working edge, said rake angle
being approximately zero degrees.
6.          The rotary osteotome of claim 5, wherein said substantially margin-less working
edge has a helical twist that turns away from the burnishing direction as said conically
tapered profile decreases in diameter.

                                              - 34
7.         The rotary osteotome of claim 1, wherein said apical end includes a pair of said lips
opposing one another, said pair of lips offset from one another such that said lips do not lie
within a common plane.
8.         The rotary osteotome of claim 1, wherein said plurality of flutes are equally
circumferentially arranged about said body, said plurality of flutes comprising at least four
flutes, said flutes having a helical twist.
9.         An ultrasonic osteotome configured to enlarge an osteotomy, said ultrasonic
osteotome comprising:
           a shank,
           a body joined to said shank, said body having an apical end remote from said
shank, said body having a smooth and conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum
diameter adjacent said shank to a minimum diameter adjacent said apical end, said apical
end including a unidirectional grinding formation,
           said body including an auto-grafting ramp configured to auto-graft and compact
bone after the bone has been ultrasonically pulverized by said apical end as said body is
forcibly advanced into an osteotomy concurrently with high-frequency vibration.
10.        The ultrasonic osteotome of claim 9, wherein said auto-grafting ramp is generally
frusto-conical.
11.        A method for enlarging an osteotomy by burnishing, said method comprising the
steps of:
           continuously rotating a fluted body in a burnishing direction, the body having an
apical end and a conically tapered profile decreasing from a maximum diameter to a
minimum diameter adjacent the apical end,
           forcibly advancing the rotating body into an osteotomy,
           grinding a progressively larger amount of bone material with the apical end as the
body is advanced deeper into the osteotomy, and
           auto-grafting the ground bone material directly into the host bone within the
osteotomy and simultaneously compacting the ground bone material into the host bone with
the fluted body.
12.        The method of claim 11, further including the step of generating an opposing axial
reaction force in opposition to the advancing direction of the body into the osteotomy.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20/20

