                                                12
                                          ABSTRACT
A portable power drill (11) is disclosed having a chuck or drill collar (14) at one end
and a substantially cylindrical (or frusto-conical) twist throttle handle (25, 125, 225)
at the other end. Rotation of the handle in the direction of forward rotation of the
chuck decreases the drill speed and, conversely, rotation of the handle in the direction
of reverse rotation of the chuck increases the drill speed. Consequently, in the event of
an auger locked in the chuck becoming jammed, the reaction forces experienced by
the drill unit rotate the drill unit in a direction such that throttle decreases the drill
speed. In addition, the drill unit is provided with forward (44) and reverse gears (45)
and a forward/reverse selection mechanism (48, 50, 51) which is actuated by a
forward force, or a withdrawing force respectively being applied to the drill unit via
an operator who holds the handles (20, 25) of the drill unit.
 O'20 AT Al I MT

   -10
   cu
       CC
       Cu~
           tqo
J-t

                                                1
                                    Powered Drill Apparatus
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to portable powered drills and, in particular, to such
 5 drills  which are powered by internal combustion             engines.   Such drills     are
   predominantly used in rural activities such as fencing, building stockyards and general
   construction work utilising wood. Such drills are also used in the construction of
   wharfs, for example.
10 Background Art
   One type of drill used hitherto has been a chainsaw which is modified so as to remove
   the cutting blade and chain and attach an auger attachment. Essentially the engine of
   the chainsaw provides the power and the auger attachment creates the drill. Such
   modified chainsaws have been known for over 30 years.
15
   More recently, dedicated drills had been produced by a range of manufacturers
   including Tanaka, Stihl and Echo. Such drills comprise a chuck to hold an auger bit, a
   gearbox and a small internal combustion engine. One of the handles by which the drill
   is held by an operator in use, is a substantially vertical handle which is at the rear of
20 the machine. Typically an unbalanced second handle is provided which extends
   substantially horizontally and to the left (and occasionally selectively either the left or
   right) of the machine and is located towards the middle of machine. Thus in operation
   such prior art machines are held by the operator with the operator's left-hand on the
   second handle with the palm of the left hand horizontal, and with the operator's right
25 hand on the first handle with the palm of the right hand vertical. The first handle
   generally also contains a throttle control lever or trigger.
   Typically the gasoline engines of such prior art drills have an operational speed of
   approximately 7000-9000 rpm and the gearboxes have gear reduction ratios between
30 approximately 15:1 to 30:1.
   In rural fencing, it is common to use hardwood fence posts in which multiple holes for
   spaced apart multiple wires are drilled using a wood auger having a diameter of
   approximately 1% inch (32 mm) since this is a convenient size to receive a single
   OO'20A1  Al 1T M

                                                 2
   strand of the barbed wire which is almost universally used in rural fencing. A wood
   auger of this diameter produces a very strong reactive torque in the drill which tends
   to move the drill unit in the opposite direction of rotation to that of the drill auger.
   This reactive torque must be counteracted by the operator who must maintain a strong
 5 grip on both handles.
   Many fence posts, particularly fence posts used for corners and fence posts used for
   gates and stockyards, have a large cross-sectional size, typically with a transverse
   dimension of approximately 10 - 15 inches (250mm - 375mm). In order to drill a hole
10  10-15 inches in length, it is typically necessary to reverse the auger rotation every 2-3
   inches (50-75mm) of drilling (depending on the timber variety) to clear the drilled
   hole of wood chips, and also prevent the auger from binding up and thereby severely
   jamming.
15 Some prior art drill units are provided with a reverse gear. When drilling with these
   prior art units, in order to clear a drilled hole of woodchips, for example, it is
   necessary to undertake the following procedure:
        1. De-accelerate the throttle so as to reduce the engine speed to idle speed,
        2. Remove left hand from left handle whilst balancing the drill with the right
20          hand,
        3.  Using the left hand, manually engage the reverse gear lever and, if necessary,
            juggle the gear teeth so that they mesh and thus engage the reverse gear,
        4. Return left hand to left handle,
        5.  Accelerate the engine with the reverse gear engaged so as to extract the auger,
25      6. Repeat step 1,
        7. Repeat step 2,
        8.  Using the left hand, manually engage the forward gear lever and, if necessary,
            juggle the gear teeth so that they mesh and thus engage the forward gear,
        9. Repeat step 4, and
30      10. Accelerate the engine with the forward gear engaged so as to rotate and
            advance the auger.
   This operational procedure is very cumbersome and time-consuming. Furthermore,
   because the quickly rotating auger can hit a hidden knot, or a similarly hidden split in
   10'20AT   Al I MT

                                                3
   the wood, the auger is liable to suddenly jam without any warning. Such a jam causes
   a sudden reactive torque of severe magnitude which often causes the operator to lose
   his grip with his left hand. The consequence is that the drill unit suddenly spins out of
   control whilst the operator's right hand is still holding the trigger throttle control at a
 5 position near to, or at, its full rpm setting. This can cause injuries to the operator's
   hand, wrist or fingers, and broken bones are by no means unknown. The fundamental
   problem is that the suddenness with which a jam occurs does not give the operator
   sufficient time to release the trigger throttle of the engine, and thereby increase the
   operator's chance of avoiding injury.
10
   Genesis of the Invention
   The genesis of the present invention is a desire to produce a portable powered drill,
   preferably with an internal combustion engine, which has a much reduced likelihood
   of operator injury in the event of a jam.
15
   Summary of the Invention
   In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a portable
   power drill unit having an engine or motor, at least one handle able to be held by an
   operator, a gearbox including forward and reverse gears, and a forward/reverse
20 selection mechanism connected with said gearbox; said forward/reverse selection
   mechanism being actuated by a forward force, or a withdrawing force, respectively
   being applied to said drill unit by an operator holding said handle(s).
   In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
25 method of changing a direction of auger or drill rotation on a portable power drill unit;
   said drill unit having an engine or motor, a gearbox including forward and reverse
   gears, a forward/reverse selection mechanism connected with said gearbox, and at
   least one handle able to be held by an operator; said method comprising the steps of:
             actuating said forward/reverse selection mechanism by a forward force applied
30 to the drill unit by the operator to rotate the auger or drill in a first direction, and
             actuating said forward/reverse selection mechanism by a withdrawing force
   applied to the drill unit by the operator to rotate the auger or drill in a second
   direction.
    O'O AIAT Al 1T M

                                                   4
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example
   only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
 5          Fig. 1 is a perspective view from the front of a prior art drill unit,
            Fig. 2 is a perspective view from the rear of the drill unit of the preferred
   embodiment,
            Fig. 3 is a side elevation of the drill unit of Fig. 2,
            Fig. 4 is a plan view of the drill unit of Fig. 2
10          Fig. 5 is a partial longitudinal cross-sectional view of the drill unit of Fig. 2
   but with a different engine,
            Fig. 6 is an enlarged longitudinal cross-sectional view through the gearbox of
   the drill unit of Fig. 5 with the forward gear selected,
            Fig. 7 is a view similar to Fig. 6 but with the reverse gear selected,
15          Fig. 8 is a perspective view from the front of the drill unit of Fig. 5 and with
   the gearbox illustrated,
            Fig. 9 is a perspective view of a rear handle of a second embodiment having a
   T-grip, and
            Fig. 10 is a side view of a rear handle of a third embodiment having a pistol
20 grip.
   Detailed Description
   As seen Fig. 1, a prior art drill unit 1 is illustrated, the drill unit being sold under the
   trade name TANAKA. The drill unit has an internal combustion engine 2, and a
25 gearbox 3 which drives a chuck 4. The gearbox has a forward or reverse gear selector
   lever 5. The drill unit 1 has a left handle 7 (which is to say a handle held by the left
   hand of the operator), a right handle 8 (which is to say a handle held by the right hand
   of the operator), and a trigger throttle control 9 (also operated by the right hand of the
   operator). The drill unit 1 suffers from all the disadvantages referred to in the
30 introductory portion of the specification, particularly in relation to the danger of injury
   in the event of the auger (not illustrated) jamming and in relation to the slow
   procedure to move from forward to reverse gear, and vice versa.
    O'010AT Al I MT

                                                 5
   Turning now to Figs. 2-4, the drill unit 11 of the preferred embodiment has an internal
   combustion engine 12, a gearbox 13, and a chuck equivalent in the form of a bit
   holding collar 14 which releasably retains an auger 15. The drill unit 11 is provided
   with two handles, namely a dorsal handle 20 supported by two uprights 21, 22 and
 5 intended to be held by the operator's left hand, and a cylindrical (or slightly frusto
   conical) rear handle 25 intended to be held by the operator's right hand. The dorsal
   handle extends transversely to the longitudinal axis of the drill and is located near to
   the centre of gravity and thus is substantially balanced. The rear handle 25 is rotatable
   in the direction of arrow A in Fig. 2 through an arc of 10' - 40' so as to increase the
10 speed of the internal combustion engine 12. In this respect the handle 25 is similar to
   the accelerator of a conventional motorbike. Preferably the handle 25 has a more
   limited 15'-20' arc of movement than a conventional motor bike accelerator, but this
   is not essential. Rotating the rear handle 25 in a clockwise direction opposite to that
   of the arrow A in Fig. 2, reduces the speed of the internal combustion engine 12 until
15 a rest position corresponding to an idle speed is achieved. A cutout switch 26 for the
   internal combustion engine 12 is mounted at the junction of the handle 25 and the
   throttle housing 27. The drill unit 11 has a longitudinal axis 30 as illustrated in Fig. 2.
   In view of the above handle arrangement, prior to operation, the drill unit 11 is able to
20 be conveniently held in a substantially balanced position by the handle 20 and carried
   from place to place. This carrying action can be undertaken by either hand of the
   operator. However, during drilling, the operator's left hand holds the handle 20 and
   assists to provide the forward pull of the auger 15 through the workpiece, whilst the
   rear handle 25 is held in the operator's right-hand. By slightly twisting the wrist of the
25 right hand, the operator can control the speed of the internal combustion engine 12
   and hence the speed of the auger 15.
   In the event of the auger 15 suddenly jamming, the entire drill unit 11 rotates about
   the longitudinal axis 30 of the drill unit 11 so as to move the handle 20 in an
30 anticlockwise direction as seen in Fig. 2 and as indicated by arrow B in Fig. 2. The
   magnitude of this reaction force is generally greater than the operator is able to resist
   and as a consequence, the entire drill unit 11 turns in an anticlockwise direction as
   seen in Fig. 2. Since the operator is still holding the handle 25, the handle 25 is
   effectively turned in a clockwise direction relative to the drill unit throttle housing 27
   10'20AT  Al I MT

                                                  6
   (that is to say, in the direction opposite to the direction of the arrow A in Fig. 2). This
   has the effect of immediately or instantaneously reducing the throttle setting of the
   internal combustion engine 12, preferably back to idling speed.
 5 The consequence of the reduction of the throttle is that the drill unit 11 does not spin
   round and round in an anticlockwise direction as shown in Fig. 2 about the stationary
   auger 15, as is sometimes the case with some prior art drill units when the auger jams.
   Turning now to Figs. 5-8, the internal mechanisms of the drill unit 11 will now be
10 described. The internal combustion engine 12 is connected to a substantially
   conventional centrifugal clutch which drives a clutch drum 32 mounted on a
   horizontal shaft 33. A helix gear 34 is mounted on the shaft and meshes with another
   helix gear 35 mounted on a second horizontal shaft 36. The forward end of the shaft
   36 carries a first pinion gear 37 which drives an intermediate vertical shaft 38 by
15 means of a crown gear 39.
   As seen in Fig. 6, the vertical shaft 38 carries a pinion crown gear 42 which meshes
   with two permanently rotating final crown gear wheels 44 and 45 respectively. The
   gear wheels 44 and 45 rotate in opposite directions and have recesses on their non
20 gear faces to receive the projections of dog clutches. Slidably mounted within the
   crown gear wheels 44, 45 is the driveshaft 46 which carries the collar 14 to lock the
   auger 15. In the situation where the driveshaft 46 is driven forwardly (that is the auger
   15 rotates in a clockwise direction as seen in Fig. 2) the driveshaft 46 is moved
   rearwardly by means of a spring 48 which is compressed between a bearing 49 and a
25 (forward) dog clutch 50. The dog clutch 50 engages the recesses of the crown wheel
   44 and thereby rotates the drive shaft 46 in the clockwise direction (as seen in Fig. 2).
   In the reverse drive configuration, as shown in Fig. 7, the driveshaft 46 is moved
   forwardly by the operator pulling the drill unit towards the operator whilst the auger
30 15 is engaged in the workpiece, thereby further compressing the spring 48 so as to
   disengage the forward dog clutch 50 from the recesses of the crown gear wheel 44 and
   simultaneously engaging a reverse dog clutch 51 with the recesses of the crown gear
   wheel 45. This has the effect of rotating the drive shaft 46 in the opposite, or reverse,
   direction so as to extract the auger 15 from the workpiece.
   10'20AT   Al I MT

                                                7
   The strength of the spring 48 is selected so that the driveshaft 46 is driven towards the
   rear of the drill unit 11 thereby engaging the forward dog clutch 50 and forward
   crown gear wheel 44. Thus when the auger 15 not engaged in any workpiece, the drill
 5 unit is always in forward gear. However, with the auger 15 engaged in the workpiece,
   the drill unit 11 can be moved rearwardly by the operator pulling on the handle 20.
   This moves the driveshaft 46 forwardly so as to disengage the recesses of the forward
   crown gear wheel 44 with the forward clutch 50, and engage the recesses of the
   reverse crown gear wheel 45 with the reverse dog clutch 51.
10
   The operational consequence of this construction is that during drilling, the auger 15
   can be easily and quickly reversed by the operator merely by pulling backwardly on
   the drill unit via the handle 20. This means that the auger 15 immediately reverses
   direction and clears the hole being drilled of wood chips and similar debris. Thus,
15 unlike in the prior art arrangement described above, there is no need to reduce the
   speed of the internal combustion engine to idle to change gears, and the clearing of
   wood chips can take place momentarily and drilling can be resumed immediately
   thereafter by pushing the handle 20 forwardly.
20 Turning now to Fig. 9, the rear handle 25 can be replaced and a handle 125 of a
   second embodiment including a T-grip 126. The handle 125 has a shorter cylindrical
   body than the handle 25 which is not grasped since the operator grasps the T-grip 126
   instead. However, the T-grip 126 can enable the operator's right hand to apply either
   a forward force, or a rearward force, to the drill unit 11.
25
   In addition, the T-grip 126 is rotated about the axis 30 in the direction of arrow A to
   increase the engine speed, and in the opposite direction to decreases the engine speed.
   In a third embodiment illustrated in Fig. 10, the rear handle 25 is replaced by a handle
30 225 which incorporates a pistol grip 226. The handle 225 also has a shorter cylindrical
   body than the handle 25. The pistol grip 226, like the T-grip 126, can enable the
   operator's right hand to apply either a forward force, or a rearward force, to the drill
   unit 11. The pistol grip 226 is similarly rotatable about the axis 30 in opposite
   directions to increase or decrease the engine speed.
   OO'2 AT  Al I MT

                                              8
  The foregoing describes only some embodiments of the present invention and
  modifications, obvious to those skilled in the portable powered drill arts, can be made
  thereto without departing from the scope of the present invention.
5
  The term "comprising" (and its grammatical variations) as used herein is used in the
  inclusive sense of "including" or "having" and not in the exclusive sense of
  "consisting only of'.
   O'010AT Al I MT

                                            9
CLAIMS
    1. A portable power drill unit having an engine or motor, at least one handle able
       to be held by an operator, a gearbox including forward and reverse gears, and
       a forward/reverse selection mechanism connected with said gearbox; said
       forward/reverse selection mechanism being actuated by a forward force, or a
       withdrawing force, respectively being applied to said drill unit by an operator
       holding said handle(s).
    2. The drill unit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drill unit has a chuck means.
    3. The drill unit as claimed in claim 2 wherein said chuck means is mounted on a
       driveshaft which is slidably mounted between a pair of contra rotating crown
       gear wheels, each of said gear wheels having a first face with teeth and a
       reverse face with recesses arranged to mate with a cooperating corresponding
       dog clutch, and a spring interposed between said gear wheels and said drill
       unit to urge a forward rotating one of said dog clutches into engagement with
       the corresponding gear wheel, whereby a drill bit or auger mounted in said
       chuck means is rotated forwardly by said gearbox when said drill bit or auger
       is not engaged with a workpiece, and is rotated rearwardly when a rearward
       force is applied by an operator via said handle(s) to said spring when said drill
       bit or auger is engaged with the workpiece.
    4. The drill unit as claimed in claim 2 or 3 wherein said chuck means is powered
       by an internal combustion engine.
    5. The drill unit as claimed in claim 4 when dependent upon claim 3, wherein
       said internal combustion engine has a centrifugal clutch, which is connected to
       a first pinion gear which rotates said contra rotating gear wheels.
    6. The drill unit as claimed in claim 5 wherein a second pinion gear is interposed
       between said clutch and said first pinion gear.
2939AL-AU-D1

                                             10
    7. The drill unit as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein the drill unit has a
        twist throttle handle.
    8.  The drill unit as claimed in claim 7 wherein said twist throttle handle is similar
        to that of a conventional motorbike accelerator.
    9. The drill unit as claimed in claim 7 or 8, when dependent upon claim 2 or 3,
        wherein said throttle handle is a substantially cylindrical or frusto-conical
        handle and is substantially aligned with said chuck means.
    10. The drill unit as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein said twist throttle
        handle is able to be twisted about its longitudinal axis through an arc of
        approximately 10 -40'.
    11. The drill unit as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein said twist
        throttle handle includes a T-grip at its free end.
    12. The drill unit as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein said twist
        throttle handle includes a pistol grip.
    13. The drill unit as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 12 when dependent upon
        claim 2, wherein the drill unit comprises an operational axis having said chuck
        means at one end and said twist throttle handle at the other end, and wherein
        with said forward/reverse selection mechanism actuated in a forward state,
        rotation of the twist throttle handle in the direction of forward rotation of the
        chuck means decreases the drill speed, and rotation of the handle in the
        direction of reverse rotation of the chuck means increases the drill speed,
        whereby reaction forces created by a jammed auger rotated by said chuck
        means decrease the drill speed.
    14. The drill unit as claimed in any one of claims 7 to 13 wherein the drill unit has
        a dorsal handle located in a position above said gearbox, said dorsal handle
        extending transversely to said twist throttle handle between a pair of uprights
        extending one to either side of the drill unit.
2939AL-AU-D1

                                              11
    15. A method of changing a direction of auger or drill rotation on a portable power
        drill unit; said drill unit having an engine or motor, a gearbox including
        forward and reverse gears, a forward/reverse selection mechanism connected
        with said gearbox, and at least one handle able to be held by an operator; said
        method comprising the steps of:
                   actuating said forward/reverse selection mechanism by a forward force
        applied to the drill unit by the operator to rotate the auger or drill in a first
        direction, and
                   actuating said forward/reverse selection mechanism by a withdrawing
        force applied to the drill unit by the operator to rotate the auger or drill in a
        second direction.
Dated this  3 0 th day of September 2017
                                          John Arthur NOTARAS &
                                         Angelo Lambrinos NOTARAS
                                         By:
                                         FRASER OLD & SOHN
                                         Patent Attorney for the Applicants
2939AL-AU-D1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
