ABSTRACT
Capsule for producing gas in a device for providing carbon dioxide gas, the capsule comprising:
        sodium bicarbonate in one of solid, dry powder, wet powder, solution, emulsion and
suspension form.

      SYSTEM, METHOD AND CAPSULES FOR PRODUCING SPARKLING DRINKS
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[001]   Sparkling drinks are manufactured by dissolving carbon dioxide in liquid, typically by
pressurizing the liquid with carbon dioxide. When pressure of the sparkling drink is low, bubbles of
carbon dioxide may be formed and come out of the solution.
[002]   Carbon dioxide is typically provided as pressurized gas in pressurized tanks or cartridges.
For example, Carbonated water may be made by rechargeable soda siphon, or a disposable carbon
dioxide cartridge. The soda siphon may be filled with chilled water and carbon dioxide may be
added under pressure. Sparkling drinks produced this way tend to be only slightly gassy.
[003]   Alternatively, carbonators or carbonation machines may be used. Carbonators range from
home scale machines such as SodastreamTm to large scale carbonators. Carbonators pump water
into a pressurized chamber where it is combined with CO 2 from pressurized tanks. The pressurized,
carbonated water may be mixed with flavorings, typically in the form of syrups.
[004]   However, pressurized CO 2 tanks are expensive to manufacture and require careful handling.
Transportation of the pressurized CO 2 tanks is complicated due to their high weight and high
pressure. Also, it is not allowed to send pressurized CO 2 tanks by air in plains. In addition, refill of
a pressurized CO 2 tank requires that the tank will be taken to a service site, which is a burden.
[005]   CO 2 may also be provided by chemical reaction of, for example, sodium bicarbonate and
citric acid. However, this method is impractical since the chemical reaction results in other
materials such as salts that may influence and degrade the taste of the drink. Separating the liquid
from the salt is complicated and renders this approach impractical.
[006]   US Patent No. 5,182,084 to Plester discloses a portable carbonator which includes a built-in
CO 2 supply system operated on disposable gas generating cartridges. CO 2 is generated by a
chemical reaction between reagents which carbonates and/or propels the water. The system
disclosed in US 5,182,084 is meant to maintain a constant gaseous pressure whenever carbonated
water is drawn. The carbonator disclosed in US 5,182,084 is very complicated, involves a lot of
mechanical elements, stationary and movable (dynamic), as depicted for example in Fig. 4.
[007]   US Patent No. 5,350,587 to Plester discloses a CO 2 gas generator which chemically
generates the gas from a chemical reaction between two reagents contained within a common
container. The generator aims to automatically provide gas so as to maintain the gas headspace
pressure in constant reference to a reference pressure. While claiming to provide a device that is
easy to use by non-professional users based on disposable gas generator units, in practice the device
                                               1

according to this patent, as may be seen for example in Figs. 3A - 3L, involves highly complicated
mechanical elements including containers within containers, mechanical valves made to control the
disposing of the gas and the releasing of the reagents, etc.
[008]   US Patent No. 4,636,337 to Gupta discloses device and method for dispensing gas CO 2 to
carbonate water. The device and method employ gas generator using two chemically active reagents
in the presence of water. The device teaches a bleed to maintain the pressure in the headspace at
sufficiently high levels while allowing continuous flow of CO 2 through the carbonated liquid.
[009]   US Patent No. 5,192,513 to Stumphauzer discloses device and method for rapid
carbonation of water using chemical reaction taking place in one pressure vessel, transferring the
CO 2 to a second pressure vessel. One object of the disclosed device and method is to provide a
simple, inexpensive and efficient process for rapidly generating CO 2 and carbonating water.
However the apparatus, as disclosed for example in Fig. 1, is very complicated and includes a large
number of parts, which drives it away from being simple.
[0010] US Patent No. 5,021,219 to Rudick discloses device and method for self regulating CO 2 gas
generator for carbonating liquids. The gas generator consists of two liquid chambers for containing
to liquid reagents that when chemically adjoined react and produce the gas. Here also the devices
disclosed are complicated, include large number of parts and do not operate with disposable reagent
packages.
[0011] GB Patent No. 323102 to Blaxter discloses carbonating apparatus pumping carbonated
water together with carbon dioxide to a carbonating vessel which is also supplied with de-aerated
water pumped into that vessel and to a mixing pump that provide the water and the carbon dioxide
to a carbonating vessel.
[0012] International Patent Application Publication No. WO 94/10860 to Stumphauzer discloses
device and method for rapid carbonation of liquids. The device consists of two vessels connected
together in which gas is produced using carbon dioxide compound and water that when chemically
reacting with the compound produces gas. The device is very bulky and involves large number of
parts (valves, seals, springs, conduits and the like).
[0013] International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2011/094677 to Novak discloses
system, method and cartridge for carbonating liquid. Carbon dioxide may be provided in a cartridge
used to generate CO 2 gas to be dissolved into the liquid.
[0014] US Patent Publication No. 2011/226343 to Novak et al. discloses system method and
cartridge for carbonating a precursor liquid to form a beverage. The system and method disclosed
by Novak et al. requires charging Zeolite with carbon dioxide by exposing the zeolite to a
                                                2

temperature of 550'C for a period of 5 hours in a furnace and then immediately transferring the
zeolite beads to a sealed metal container, flooding the container with carbon dioxide and
pressurizing the container to 5-32 psig for 1 hour. During this process the zeolite beads are charged
with carbon dioxide which may be released when exposed to water or other fluids as well as water
vapor and humidity. Accordingly, the charged zeolite must be packed in a humidity free facility and
in a humidity resistant packaging. It may be appreciated that the above charging process makes the
preparation of a cartridge for the preparation of a carbonated beverage relatively expensive. Another
disadvantage of the above system and method is the charged zeolite is highly sensitive to humidity
and any interaction with humidity or fluids activates the release of carbon dioxide from the
cartridge. Thus, the shelf life of such cartridges is limited and requires handling with care to avoid
mechanical damage to the sealed packaging of the zeolite in the cartridge.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015] A device for providing carbon dioxide gas is disclosed, the device comprising a pressure
sealed pressure chamber adapted to be filled with substance that includes carbon dioxide, a gas
conduit connected at its proximal end to said chamber to provide said gas from said chamber, heat
energy unit to provide energy to heat said substance in said chamber and a safety pressure outlet to
relief pressure from said chamber when said pressure exceeds predefined pressure level, wherein
said chamber comprising a base element and a cap element, said base element and said cap element
are adapted to keep pressure inside said chamber in closed position and to open and allow inserting
and removing substance when in opened position. The method may further comprise activating
circulating means to pump liquid from said bottle and to spray it back into the bottle. The method
may be characterized so that the providing of heat is done by energizing electrical heater located
around said chamber, by using a microwave based heating element, or by providing induction
heating energy to the substance.
[0016] Also is disclosed a method for producing sparkling drinks, the method comprising
providing pressure chamber and a pressure-sealable bottle-feeding pipe connectable to a bottle,
attaching a bottle filled with liquid to the pressure-sealed bottle-feeding pipe in a pressure sealed
manner, placing substance that includes carbon dioxide in the chamber, pressure sealing the
chamber and providing heat to the substrate. The device may further comprise container cap
disposed so that the conduit passes via the cap in a pressure-sealed manner, and the cap is disposed
in a distance from the distal end of the conduit so as to ensure that when a container filled with
liquid is adapted to and secured said container cap said distal end of said conduit is submerged in
                                                3

said liquid. The device may further comprise circulating means comprising that comprise
circulating pump, inlet conduit connected to said pump at its inlet port and made to have its free
end submerged in said liquid in said container when said container is attached to said device and
filled with liquid and outlet conduit connected to said pump at its outlet port and made to spray
liquid received from said pump in the headspace of said container.
[0017] Further is disclosed a capsule for producing gas in a device for providing carbon dioxide
gas, the capsule comprising sodium bicarbonate in one of solid, powder, wet powder, solution,
emulsion and suspension form. The capsule may further comprise at least one additive form the list
comprising: taste additive, flavor additive, and color additive. The additive(s) may be in either solid
state or fluid state. The capsule may comprise, additionally or alternatively, chips of ferrous or other
material with high magnetic permeability. The capsule may be encapsulated in a thin envelope of
non-ferrous material, where the envelope has one or more punctures made in its wall to allow
releasing of gas produced in the envelope. The envelope may have more than one compartment. At
least one of the compartments may comprise a carbon dioxide carrier material in a solid or powder
form and at least one additional compartment may comprise a fluid to wet the carbon dioxide
carrier material prior to heating the envelope in order to initiate the gas release from the carbon
dioxide carrier material.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0018] The subject matter regarded as the invention is particularly pointed out and distinctly
claimed in the concluding portion of the specification. The invention, however, both as to
organization and method of operation, together with objects, features, and advantages thereof, may
best be understood by reference to the following detailed description when read with the
accompanying drawings in which:
[0019] Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration of a carbonating system, according to embodiments of the
present invention;
[0020] Fig. 2 is a schematic illustration of a system for providing pressurized gas for the production
of sparkling drinks according to embodiments of the present invention;
[0021] Fig. 3 is a schematic illustration of a system for providing gas for the production of
sparkling drinks according to embodiments of the present invention;
[0022] Fig. 4 is schematic illustration of a system for providing gas for the production of sparkling
drinks according to embodiments of the present invention;
                                                4

[0023] Fig. 5 is schematic illustration of a system for providing gas for the production of sparkling
drinks according to embodiments of the present invention;
[0024] Figs. 6A and 6B are cross section views of two forms of gas production units made across
the middle of the gas production units, according to two embodiments of the present invention;
[0025] Fig. 7 is a cross section view of a gas production unit made across the middle of the gas
production unit, according to embodiments of the present invention; and
[0026] Figs. 8A and 8B are flowchart illustrations of methods for providing gas, such as C0 2, for
the production of, for example, sparkling drinks, according to embodiments of the present
invention.
[0027] It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration, elements shown in the
figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the dimensions of some of the
elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further, where considered
appropriate, reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or
analogous elements.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0028] In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to
provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be understood by those skilled
in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other
instances, well-known methods, procedures, and components have not been described in detail so
as not to obscure the present invention.
[0029] Although embodiments of the present invention are not limited in this regard, the terms
"plurality" and "a plurality" as used herein may include, for example, "multiple" or "two or more".
The terms "plurality" or "a plurality" may be used throughout the specification to describe two or
more components, devices, elements, units, parameters, or the like. Unless explicitly stated, the
method embodiments described herein are not constrained to a particular order or sequence.
Additionally, some of the described method embodiments or elements thereof can occur or be
performed at the same point in time.
[0030] Heating of compositions to a temperature that is higher than the thermal decomposition
temperature of that composition, in order to decomposite it is well known. Similarly heating
compositions to a temperature that is higher than the phase transition temperature, in order to cause
the composition to undergo phase transition is well known. For example, heating a composition that
includes CO 2 to a temperature that is higher than the thermal decomposition temperature may
                                               5

decomposite it and thus may cause the decomposed material to release CO 2. In many cases such a
process that is known as calcination, or calcination reaction. For example, when limestone is
calcinated the chemical reaction is expressed:
              CaCO3 -> CaO+CO2 (g)
That is, the calcination process decomposed the lime stone to lime (calcium oxide) and carbon
dioxide. Well known examples of calcination processes, mostly held in large (industrial) scales are
meant to remove certain undesired components from the composition. One example is
decomposition of hydrated minerals, as in the calcination of bauxite and gypsum, to remove
crystalline water. Another example is the decomposition of volatile matter contained in raw
petroleum coke and yet another example is the removal of ammonium ions in the synthesis of
zeolites.
[0031] Many devices and methods for carbonating liquids are known. Some require complicated
and bulky apparatuses and multi stage methods, even for the production of carbonated beverage for
personal use. Several known devices and methods disclose the use of pairs of reagents that when
chemically activated release carbon dioxide that may be used for the carbonation of the liquid, to
create gaseous beverage. Other devices and methods make use of pre-pressurized CO 2 that is
contained in high pressure containers from which the pressurized CO 2 may be released into a
container holding the beverage in order to carbonate it. Use of pairs of reagents for the production
of CO 2 requires means for keeping the reagents apart from each other until the chemical reaction
takes place and in many devices known in the art complicated and bulky carbonating apparatuses
are required in order to control the process of the carbonation. Use of pressurized CO 2 containers is
typically less complicated then the use of carbonating devices based on chemical reaction of pairs
of reagents, however handling the containers of the pressurized CO 2 is typically inconvenient and
with non-disposable containers there is the burden of carrying the filled containers from the store
and the empty ones back there.
[0032] The inventor of the invention embodiments of which are described herein below has
discovered that the amount of CO 2 that may be released from a relatively small amount of sodium
bicarbonate during calcination process is relatively very large. For example, from a tablet of sodium
bicarbonate weighing 35 grams, when calcinated at temperatures of about 60-200 degrees
centigrade CO 2 is released in an amount that is enough to carbonate water or similar liquid in the
amount of 1.5 liter having carbonation level of about 2 to 4 volumes, and temperature of 2 to 15
degrees. This ratio of CO 2 production is very high compared to other known methods. This allows
                                               6

producing, at the desire of a user, amount of CO 2 that is enough for a 1 liter container from a
sodium bicarbonate tablet weighing about 25g.
[0033] Heating of materials such as sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3) or other substances that
include Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), herein after referred to as CO 2 carrier, may release CO 2 gas. For
example, when heating sodium bicarbonate in solid form in a closed vessel to temperature higher
than the decomposition temperature the following applies:
            2NaHCO,(s) -+ Na2CO,(s) + H O(g) + CO 2 (g)
The same applies, with the required changes, to sodium bicarbonate in other states and forms, such
as in dry or wet powder or in solution or emulsion state.
[0034] According to embodiments of the present invention, sparkling drinks, also referred to as
carbonated drinks, may be produced by heating CO 2 carrier and by dissolving the released CO 2 gas
in water or other liquid such as juice or wine.
[0035] At temperatures above 70 'C (degrees Celsius) sodium bicarbonate gradually decomposes
into sodium carbonate, water and carbon dioxide. The conversion is fast at 200 'C. For example,
heating 8 grams of sodium bicarbonate at 180 degrees Celsius may produce 1.5 liters of CO 2 gas.
To reach high carbonation level of commercial sparkling drinks, 3 to 4 liters of gas are needed for
each 2 liters of liquid. Therefore, heating of about 16 - 35 grams of sodium bicarbonate may
produce enough gas for 2 liters of sparkling drink.
[0036] According to experiments conducted by the inventor of the present invention, the use of wet
powder, suspension or solution of CO 2 carrier, such as sodium bicarbonate, may allow the
production of similar amounts of CO 2 gas, at the same production rate, while heating the solution,
suspension or wet powder to a lower temperature compared to production from dry powder. For
example, heating 25 grams of dry sodium bicarbonate powder to a temperature of 180'C will yield
2 liters of CO 2 gas in approximately 100-130 seconds. Using the same amount of sodium
bicarbonate in a solution form will produce the same volume of CO 2 gas, in similar rate, when
heated to a temperature lower than 180'C. It would be appreciated that heating the solution to
higher temperatures will provide a higher gas production rate. It should be noted, however, that
heating sodium bicarbonate to a temperature of over 200'C (degrees Celsius) may cause the sodium
bicarbonate particles to be sealed and the CO 2 may then be trapped within the particles of the
powder.
[0037] According to embodiments of the present invention, when using a CO 2 carrier in a solution,
a suspension, an emulsion or a wet powder state, the solvent used for the solution or suspension or
                                                7

the fluid used to wet the powder may be water, edible oil or aromatic oils. Alternatively or
additionally, the fluid used as a solvent or to wet the powder may be a flavored fluid.
[0038] Reference is made now to Fig. 1, which is a schematic illustration of carbonating system 10,
according to embodiments of the present invention. System 10 may comprise CO 2 production unit
20 which is connected via gas conduit 23 and through gas disposing plug 24 to gas disposing port
23A. Gas production unit 20 may comprise a gas production base element 20B, gas production cap
element 20A, heat energy supply unit 20C and pressure safety valve 20D. Base element 20B and
cap element 20A are designed to form a pressure tight chamber 21 having two outlets. First outlet is
the connection to gas conduit 23. This outlet is used for providing pressurized CO 2 when system 10
in use for carbonating. A second outlet is possible via safety valve 20D, when the pressure inside
chamber 21 is higher than a predefined value. Gas conduit 23 may have, close to its distal end, gas
disposing plug 24 that may be adapted to tightly and securely attach a container, such as liquid
container 100, and gas disposing port 23A adapted to be submerged in the liquid in container 100,
in order to provide CO 2 to it. Chamber 21 is designed to accommodate certain amount of CO 2
carrier material, for example in the form of a tablet (or capsule), such as tablet 15.When chamber
21 contains CO 2 carrier material, such as sodium bicarbonate and is tightly closed, the carrier
material may be heated by heat energy supply unit 20C when energized by electrical energy. When
the temperature of carrier material 15 reaches decomposition values heat energy supply unit 20C
may be released and when its pressure climbs high enough (higher than the idle pressure in conduit
23 and container 100) CO2 starts flowing into container 100 and carbonation of the liquid in
container 100 begins. The rate of CO 2 production and supply may be controlled, for example, by
the control of the temperature of the decomposition.
[0039] Reference is made to Fig. 2 which is a schematic illustration of system 200 for providing
pressurized gas for the production of sparkling drinks according to embodiments of the present
invention. According to embodiments of the present invention, system 200 may include high
pressure chamber 204 comprising chamber cap element 204A and chamber base element 204B.
Pressure chamber 204 is connectable to liquid container (or bottle) 201 through pressure-sealed
bottle-feeding pipe 202. Pipe 202 may connect to chamber 204 at one end and to bottle 201,
through pipe outlet 202B, at the other end. Pipe outlet 202B may be inserted to bottle 1, and bottle
cap 202A may be assembled onto pipe 202 to enable sealing the connection of pipe 202 to bottle
201. CO 2 carrier material unit 205 may be placed in chamber 204 before its cap element 204A and
base element 204B are tightly closed to each other. System 200 may also include heating device
207 for heating pressure chamber 204 and its carrier material unit 205 contained in it. When
                                                 8

pressure chamber 204 is closed and heated, CO 2 carrier material unit 205 inside pressure chamber
204 is heated, and CO2 gas is released into pressure chamber 204. The released gas may flow from
pressure chamber 204 into bottle 201 through pipe 202, bottle cap 202A and pipe outlet 202B.
When at work system 200 may be under pressure of 20 - 150 psi, or higher. Hence bottle cap 202A
and pipe outlet 202B forming the connection of system 200 to bottle 201 should sustain the
pressure levels of system 200 and be pressure-sealed at these pressure levels, and so should be
pressure chamber 204, bottle 201, and pipe 202.
[0040] As is well known in the art, the boiling point of a substance is the temperature at which the
vapor pressure of the liquid equals the pressure surrounding the liquid and the liquid changes into a
vapor. Thus, raising the pressure surrounding the liquid will result in raising the temperature in
which the fluid reaches the boiling point. That is, a liquid at high surrounding pressure has a higher
boiling point than when that liquid is at atmospheric pressure.
[0041] According to some embodiments of the present invention, CO 2 carrier material may be
placed within CO 2 carrier material unit 205 inside pressure chamber 204 and may be wet prior to
heating. When heating CO 2 carrier material in wet form, the fluid serves as a thermal conductor as
long as the fluid that wets the CO 2 carrier material remains in a liquid state. Since pressure chamber
204 is pressure sealed, heating of CO 2 carrier material in pressure chamber 204 raises the pressure
in the chamber 204, and thus raises the temperature in which the fluid in chamber 204 vapors.
Thus, the fluid preserves its thermal conducting characteristics at higher temperatures than under
atmospheric pressure and thus remains effective as a thermal conductor during the heating process
of the CO2 carrier material to temperatures of over 100'C.
[0042] According to some embodiments of the present invention, heating device 207 may be an
induction heating device. According to other embodiments heating device 207 may be a microwave
heater.
[0043] System 200 may include a temperature regulator 206 that may include a temperature sensor
to measure the temperature inside chamber 204 and provide feedback to heating device 207 so as to
regulate the temperature to be, for example, between 150 to 400 degrees Celsius. It would be
appreciated that when CO 2 carrier material in unit 205 is in a wet form lower temperatures may be
required. Furthermore, as noted above, when carrier material is sodium bicarbonate, heating to a
temperature of over 200 degrees Celsius is not beneficial.
[0044] CO 2 carrier material unit 205 may be provided in any suitable form such as powder (either
dry or wet), tablet, capsule etc. CO 2 carrier material unit 205 may be mixed or otherwise provided
                                               9

with various other flavoring materials that may be released as gas and mix with the drink. For
example, a tablet may include a layer of sodium bicarbonate and a plurality of layers of additives.
[0045] Reference is now made to Fig. 3 which is a schematic illustration of system 300 for
providing gas for the production of sparkling drinks according to embodiments of the present
invention. System 300 may be very much similar to system 200 of Fig. 2, however it may further
comprise a fan 303 to cool the gas flowing in pipe 320 which may be, for example, spiral shaped to
enable more efficient cooling of the produced gas.
[0046] Reference is made now to Fig. 4, which is schematic illustration of system 400 for
providing gas for the production of sparkling drinks according to embodiments of the present
invention. System 400 may comprise CO 2 production unit 20 which is connected via gas conduit 23
and through gas disposing plug 24 to gas disposing port 23A. Gas production unit 20 may comprise
a gas production base element 20B, gas production cap element 20A, heat energy supply unit 20C
and pressure safety valve 20D. Base element 20B and cap element 20A are designed to form a
pressure tight chamber 21 having two outlets. First outlet is the connection to gas conduit 23. This
outlet is used for providing pressurized CO 2 when system 400 is in use for carbonating. A second
outlet is enabled via safety valve 20D, when the pressure inside chamber 21 is higher than a
predefined value. Gas conduit 23 may have, close to its distal end, gas disposing plug 24 that may
be adapted to tightly attach a container, such as liquid container 100, and gas disposing port 23A
adapted to be submerged in the liquid in container 100, in order to provide CO2 to it. Chamber 21
may be designed and may function similarly to chamber 21 described with respect to Fig. 1.
[0047] According to one embodiment of the present invention, gas production unit 20 may further
have an inlet (not shown) for introducing fluid from a source (such as liquid container 100),
external to gas production unit 20, into pressure tight chamber 21, to wet a CO2 carrier material
placed within chamber 21 in solid or dry powder form. It would be appreciated by those skilled in
the art that the inlet into chamber 21 may further comprise a unidirectional valve (not shown) to
prevent gas produced in chamber 21 to exit through the unidirectional valve.
[0048] According to some embodiments, fluid introduced into chamber 21 may be water.
According to other embodiments the fluid introduced into chamber 21 may be water with additives,
such as flavor and/or color additives. In yet additional embodiments of the present invention, fluid
introduced into chamber 21 may be edible oil and/or aromatic oil. According to other embodiments,
the fluid may be an emulsion of water and oil such as aromatic oil. It would be appreciated that
other fluids may be used.
                                              10

[0049] System 400 may further comprise circulation means 40, such as a pump, that is adapted to
pump liquid from container 100 via conduit 40A, the distal end of which is adapted to be
submerged in the liquid in container 100 and to return that liquid via conduit 40B into container
100. According to one embodiment conduits 40A and 40B may pass via disposing plug 24,
however other embodiments may be utilized. According to another or additional embodiment,
conduits 40A and 40B may pass through a heat exchanger (not shown) to cool down the fluid in
conduits 40A and 40B to a desired temperature. The end of conduit 40B that is distal from
circulation means 40 may be in a distance from plug 24 that will ensure that it will remain out of
the liquid in container 100 when container 100 is substantially in upright position. The liquid that is
returned via conduit 40B may be sprayed into the headspace of container 100, for example by
forming the distal end of conduit 40B to provide liquid in the form of a spray. Circulation caused by
the operation of circulation means 40 may improve (i.e. expend the amount of CO 2 gas dissolved in
the container) and speed up the dissolving of CO 2 in the liquid. The inventor of the invention
described in this application has discovered that when system 400 is in pressure equilibrium with
the pressure inside container 100, after certain amount of gas was dissolved, the activation of
circulation means 40 so that carbonated liquid is pumped from container 100 and sprayed back to
its headspace enhances the rate of dissolving the gas in the liquid so that the pressure inside
container 100 drops, due to the additional gas that was dissolved in the liquid and therefore the
pressure produced by CO 2 production unit 20 is now higher than that inside container 100, and
therefore additional amount of gas is provided to container 100. Thus, circulation means 40 may be
activated continuously or periodically during the production of gas by gas production unit 20 to
enable dissolving of larger amounts of gas in the liquid. An acidity indicator that was placed in
container 100 indicated repeating raise of acidity of the liquid in container 100 as the activation of
circulation means continued, which indicates that the amount of CO 2 gas in container 100 grew
with the activation of circulation means 40. It would be appreciated that any other system and
method known in the art for dissolving CO 2 gas in the liquid in container 100 may be used.
[0050] Reference is made now to Fig. 5, which is schematic illustration of system 500 for
providing gas for the production of sparkling drinks according to embodiments of the present
invention. Chamber 20, conduit 23, plug 24 and gas disposing port 23A are built and may function
very much like their respective elements in the embodiment of Fig. 1. System 500 may further
comprise pressure control unit 30, comprising pressure transmitter/gauge reading 30A, pressure
control unit 30B and heat control line 30C. The pressure of the produced gas may be measured in
the gas conduit 23 or in similar location. The gas pressure indication may be provided by pressure
                                              11

control unit 30B. Pressure control unit may be acting as a simple ON/OFF unit that may turn off
heat energy supply unit 20C when the measured gas pressure exceeds a first predefined value and
resume heating when that pressure falls below a second predefined pressure value. In other
embodiments control unit 30B may perform more complicated control functions, such a
combination of one or more of proportional, derivative and integral (PID) of the difference between
the measured pressure and a reference value. Other control functions may also be utilized, to
achieve faster response, more accurate resulting pressure, and the like. It will be apparent to one
skilled in the art that the amount of heat transferred to the active material, such as tablet 15 of Figs.
1, 4 and 5 or tablet 205 of Figs 2 and 3, has an effect on the total amount and rate of release of
produced gas, so that when the amount of heat provided causes tablet 15 or tablet 205 to reach
temperature that is higher than the decomposition temperature gas will begin to release and
temperature higher than that will increase the rate of release.
[0051] Heat may be transferred to tablets, according to embodiments of the present invention, in
one or more from a list various heating methods. Reference is made now to Figs. 6A and 6B,
which are cross section side views of two different forms of gas production units 620 and 630,
respectively, made across the middle of the gas production units, and to Figs. 6C, 6D and 6E, 6F
which are optional top views of same, according to two embodiments of the present invention. Gas
production units 620 and 630 are designed to transfer heat to respective tablets 650 and 652 in heat
conduction mechanism. Heat is produced in heat energy supply unit 620C, 630C, which may be
formed as heat generators (e.g. one or more electrical heater elements) and is conducted to tablets
650, 652 via heating chamber base unit 620B, 630B. In order to enable high heat conduction
capacity the size of surface area that interfaces with tablets 650, 652 the inner bottom face of base
unit 520B, 630B is made with heat fins protruding from the bottom towards the inside of chamber
620, 630 respectively. These protrusions form heat fins 622, 632 respectively which in views
perpendicular to the plane of view of Figs. 6A, 6B may have the form as depicted in Figs. 6C/6D or
Figs. 6E/6F respectively, in which the protruding fins are described by the thick black lines. Tablets
650, 652 will then be formed respectively with recesses to fit loosely to their respective fins 622,
632. Further improvement in the heat transfer may be achieved by using CO2 carrier material in a
wet form, such as sodium bicarbonate solution or wet powder. As detailed above with reference to
Fig. 4, according to some embodiments, C02 carrier material in tablets 650, 652 may be in a dry
form and may be wet prior to heating by a fluid introduced into gas production units 620 and 630
via a fluid inlet (not shown).
                                               12

[0052] Heat may be produced, according to embodiments of the present invention, inside the tablet
in the gas production unit, using induction heating mechanism. Reference is made now to Fig. 7,
which is a cross section view of gas production unit 720 made across the middle of the gas
production unit, according to embodiments of the present invention. In this embodiment heat
energy supply unit 720C of gas generating unit 720 is formed as an induction AC electromagnetic
generator, as is known in the art for induction heating. Tablet 750 includes, spread substantially
evenly inside it, iron or ferrous alloys chips. According to some embodiments these chips may be
made of other material having high magnetic permeability. When heat energy supply unit 720C is
energized the electromagnetic energy invokes heating of the iron/ferrous chips inside tablet 750,
which in turn heats the active material of the tablet. In experiments carried out by the inventor of
the current invention it was observed that power supplied to heat energy supply unit 720C was
equal to power supplied to heater working in heat conduction mechanism yet the heating of the
tablet having same amount of sodium bicarbonate resulted heating to same temperature within time
that was shorter compared with heat conduction mechanism, and the amount of produced CO 2 gas
was larger compared than the gas produced using heat conduction mechanism.
[0053] Tablets made for use with induction heating may comprise certain amount of ferrous chips
calculated to provide enough heating within defined period of time. According to another
embodiment the heat generating material may be carbon chips. The size, spherical density and the
level of unity of dispersion of the chips in the tablet may be selected to achieve the required level of
heating and the time required for that heating. According to some embodiments tablets for the
production of CO 2 gas may further comprise taste additives, flavor additives, color additives, and
the like.
[0054] In experiments carried out by the inventor of the present invention he discovered that when
heating the tablet using induction mechanism the rate of decomposition of the tablet and the rate of
gas production may be kept same as in conduction heating with lower temperatures of the heating
chamber.
[0055] Heating chamber units 720A and 720B may be made of non-ferrous metals which will
minimize its heating when electromagnetic energy is activated.
[0056] Reference is now made to Figs. 8A and 8B, which are flowchart illustrations of methods
for providing gas, such as CO 2, for the production of, for example, sparkling drinks, according to
embodiments of the present invention. In block 810 a system including a pressure chamber and a
pressure-sealed bottle-feeding pipe connectable to a bottle is provided. In block 820 the bottle is
filled with liquid and is attached to the system in a pressure sealed manner. In block 830 CO 2
                                                13

carrier such as sodium bicarbonate or other substance that includes carbon dioxide is placed in the
pressure chamber. In block 840 the pressure chamber is pressure sealed and in block 850 the
pressure chamber is heated. As may be seen in block 845 in Fig. 8B, according to some
embodiments of the present invention, after the pressure chamber is pressure sealed, fluid may be
introduced into the pressure chamber from an external fluid source, such as from the bottle. The
fluid introduced into the chamber, may wet the CO 2 carrier in the pressure chamber and may serve
as a thermal conductor. In block 860 the CO 2 gas that is released from the carrier (that is placed in
the pressure chamber) flows through the pipe into the bottle. Optionally circulating means may be
activated to pump liquid from the container and spray them back to the headspace in the container.
The gas is then dissolved in the liquid found in the bottle in block 870 to create sparkling drink.
[0057] According to some embodiments of the method according to the present invention,
introducing fluid into the pressure chamber may precede the heating of the C02 carrier within the
pressure chamber.
[0058] While embodiments of the present invention were described with relation to preparation of
sparkling drinks, embodiments of the present invention are not limited to this application.
Carbonated liquids may be produced according to embodiments of the present invention for any
other suitable application in which carbonated liquids are required.
                                               14

                                         CLAIMS
1. A method for producing sparkling drinks, the method comprising:
           providing    pressure   chamber    and    a pressure-sealable   bottle-feeding  pipe
   connectable to a bottle;
           attaching a bottle filled with liquid to the pressure-sealed bottle-feeding pipe in a
   pressure sealed manner;
           placing substance that includes carbon dioxide in the chamber;
           pressure sealing the chamber; and
           providing heat to the substrate.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising activating circulating means to pump liquid
   from said bottle and to spray it back into the bottle.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein said providing of heat is done by energizing electrical
   heater located around said chamber.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein said providing of heat is done by providing induction
   heating energy to said substance.
5. A device for providing carbon dioxide gas, the device comprising:
           a pressure-sealed pressure chamber adapted to be filled with substance that
   includes carbon dioxide;
           a gas conduit connected at its proximal end to said chamber to provide said gas
   from said chamber; and
           heat energy unit to provide energy to heat said substance in said chamber; wherein
   said chamber comprising a base element and a cap element, said base element and said
   cap element are adapted to keep pressure inside said chamber in closed position and to
   open and allow inserting and removing substance when in opened position.
6. The device of claim 5 further comprising container cap disposed so that said conduit
   passes via said cap in a pressure-sealed manner, said cap is disposed in a distance from
   the distal end of said conduit so as to ensure that when a container filled with liquid is
   adapted to and secured said container cap said distal end of said conduit is submerged in
   said liquid.
7. The device of claim 6 further comprising circulating means comprising:
           circulating pump;
                                          15

            inlet conduit connected to said pump at its inlet port and made to have its free end
    submerged in said liquid in said container when said container is attached to said device
    and filled with liquid; and
            outlet conduit connected to said pump at its outlet port and made to spray liquid
    received from said pump in the headspace of said container.
8.  The device of claim 6 wherein said base element is formed with heating fins protruding
    from the inner face of the element.
9.  The device of claim 6 wherein said heat energy unit comprising one or more electrical
    heating elements to provide heat to said substance.
10. The device of claim 6 wherein said heat energy unit comprising electromagnetic element
    to provide electromagnetic energy to said substance by induction heating mechanism.
11. The device of claim 6 wherein said heat energy unit is a microwave heater.
12. The device of claim 6 further comprising pressure control unit comprising;
            heat control unit;
            pressure indicator to provide indication of the pressure in said pressure conduit;
    and
            temperature control signal provided by said pressure control unit to said heat
    energy unit, to control said pressure by said heat energy unit.
13.  The device of claim 6 wherein said gas conduit is shaped as a cooling element, further
    comprising:
            cooling fan adapted to flow air on said cooling element shaped conduit.
14. The device of claim 5 further comprising a safety pressure outlet to relief pressure from
    said chamber when said pressure exceeds predefined pressure level;
15. Capsule for producing gas in a device for providing carbon dioxide gas, the capsule
    comprising:
             sodium bicarbonate in one of solid, dry powder, wet powder, solution, emulsion
    and suspension form.
16. The capsule of claim 15 further comprising at least one additive form the list comprising:
    taste additive, flavor additive, color additive.
17. The capsule of claim 15 further comprising chips of ferrous material.
18. The capsule of claim 15 encapsulated in a thin envelope of non-ferrous material, said
    envelope having one or more punctures made in its wall to allow releasing of gas
    produced in the envelope.
                                           16

19. The capsule of claim 15 wherein one face of it is formed with protrusions and recesses to
    fit onto an inner face of a base element of a pressure chamber made with suitable recesses
    and protrusions.
20. The capsule of claim 18 wherein said thin envelope comprises more than one
    compartment.
21. The capsule of claim 20 wherein at least one of said compartments comprise a carbon
    dioxide carrier material in a dry form and at least another of said compartments comprise
    a fluid to wet the dry form carbon dioxide carrier prior to heating.
22. The capsule of claim 21 wherein said fluid is one or more of a group consisting of: water,
    edible oil and aromatic oil.
                                          17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
