ABSTRACT
Disclosed is a media sharing system that provides shared experiencing of licensed media
content such as movies. The system includes a web server that communicates with multiple
client devices over the internet whereby a user' s multiple social contacts can participate in a
synchronized stream of licensed media content such as movies. The system is able to schedule
the multi-user experiencing of the licensed media content and further synchronize the
streaming of the licensed content so the participating users receiving the media streams in a
substantially synchronized manner. The system still further provides for social content
interaction amongst the multiple recipients so that the multiple users can interact in a time
contextual manner consistent with the substantially synchronized receipt of the licensed media
content.
Fig 1

WO 2014/120803                                                PCT/US2014/013646
                                        1/7
                                                                  102
                                                                   1.)
           MOVIE SYSTEM              EXTERNAL SOCIAL                   SCHEDULING
                100                1MEDIA INTERFACE
                                          SERVER                          SERVER
                                       I     13017
     ----- - -1                                            10
                                                    USER PROFILE            --
                  E---  E--               E--         DATABASE
                w--                      -------
                                             o                         to*
           140
    EXTERNAL SOCIAL
      SITE SERVERS
                                                                        o        150
                                                                             MERCHANDISE
                                                                             FULFILLMENT
                                                                               SERVER
                                                   108
                                         ---------  W EB
                                            o       SERVER                   1RM
                                                                             DRM
                                                                I.           SERVER
                                                             ----         112
                                                             ;;;;;        PRIMARY MEDIA
                                                               *          SERVER
                                                 *A
                                            115
                                       MEDIATION
                                   I     SERVER
                                                   --                       MOVIE
          106                 104>
   CLIENT DEVICES         SERVICE                          12512
                         GATEWAY                  4------120
                                                          ANCILLARY
                                                          CONTENT / GAME
                               FIG. I                     CONTENT SERVER

    WO 2014/120803                                                                PCT/US2014/013646
     System and method for interactive remote movie watching, scheduling, and
                                            social connection
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
           This application claims priority to U.S. Application No. 13/756,444, filed on January 31,
 5 2013, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
           The present disclosure relates generally to an interactive movie system that enables group
   scheduling, digital rights management, and social connection.
   BACKGROUND
10         Certain online/internet-based video systems are known in the art. Such known systems
   include YouTube, which allows users to post video content that other users can "stream" from
   and provides a comment section beneath the video window for users to comment upon the video.
   Many other social and news sites having video operate in similar ways -- Facebook, Hulu, and
   public media outlets such as NBC, CBS, Fox, etc., provide for video streaming and comments
15 below by registered users. Such sites also provide the ability to "share" links to observed videos,
   such that someone on Facebook can share a video to another user's video stream via email. And
   public news media outlets typically provide "share" links whereby an observed video / news
   story can be "shared" to a user's social media circles via quick links to, e.g., Google+, Twitter,
   Facebook, Linkedln, and Pinterest.
20         Other known internet video systems include those that provide videoconferencing, such
   as Google+ Hangouts, WebEx, and Skype. These types of systems typically provide for multi
   user video interaction through live audio and video streamed from one user to multiple other
   users or in some cases from multiple users to multiple other users. These video systems typically
   also provide for chat interaction (text instant messaging ancillary to the video stream) from one
25 user to multiple other users or to select other users.
           Still other known video systems comprise those that provide for the downloading of
   copies of licensed media content. Systems like this include ParamountMovies.com, Amazon,
   Netflix, or the like. Through these sites, users can purchase and download licensed media
   content and then post notifications to other users' social media feeds that they have
30 purchased/downloaded the indicated content. The sites also sometimes provide for
                                                     -1-

    WO 2014/120803                                                              PCT/US2014/013646
   comments/reviews to be provided at the purchase site, but that is typically the extent of the
   possible social interaction available.
   SUMMARY
            The above-described known online/internet sites have a number of shortcomings. In the
 5 context of providing for an interactive movie experience, it is desired for multiple friends or
   family to participate together in a movie watching experience and to accordingly socially engage
   in real-time and contextually with the movie. Such interactions are ideally made in-time with the
   scenes appearing in the movie. In sum, none of the prior systems replicate, across the internet,
   the personal experience of watching a movie together with friends and loved ones.
10          The presently described embodiments provide for the purchasing of licensed media
   content, such as movies and songs, and the digital rights management tools for managing the
   number of playbacks and/or group purchases encompassing multiple users, viewers, and
   purchasers for the licensed media content. The described embodiments further provide for group
   scheduling of common watching times for the licensed media content and for the sharing of
15 comments as the movie occurs and in the context of the movie viewing itself. Further, the
   described embodiments allow for time-indexing of the movie such that the real-time comments
   around the movie-watching experience can be shared and recorded in the context of the movie
   watching experience so that a friend who is in the viewer's social group or family can later watch
   a recorded version of a movie and see the contextual social commentary provided by the later
20 viewer's friend and/or family.
            In other words, the disclosed systems and methods provide for synchronization of
   recorded media delivery to multiple parties while providing for contextual social chat about the
   media delivery. The described embodiments include technology to keep any synchronized video
   stream to a watching party from getting too far ahead or too far behind. This synchronization
25 can be provided, for example, by providing a feedback loop through internet communications
   from the receiving clients' media players back to servers operating on the main system, slowing
   down or speeding up one or more media streams to provide for simultaneous delivery of the
   same media context, and indexing of the media stream itself can be used to help confirm the
   relative synchronicity. The described systems further are operable to use the time encoding for
30 tie-in trivia and voting games related to favorite movie scenes and characters. This and other
   second-screen content can be provided to play along in real time with a movie for a more
   engaging interactive experience in addition to the previously discussed features.
                                                     -2-

    WO 2014/120803                                                              PCT/US2014/013646
            Generally speaking, the described systems provide for a shared experiencing of licensed
   media content such as movies or proprietary live video streams. Such systems can include a web
   server that communicates with multiple client devices over the internet whereby a user's multiple
   social contacts can participate in a synchronized stream of licensed media content such as
 5 movies. The system is able to schedule the multi-user experiencing of the licensed media
   content and further synchronize the streaming of the licensed content so the participating users
   receiving the media streams in a substantially synchronized manner. The system still further
   provides for social content interaction amongst the multiple recipients so that the multiple users
   can interact in a time-contextual manner consistent with the substantially synchronized receipt of
10 the licensed media content.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           For a more complete understanding of the present disclosure, example embodiments, and
   their advantages, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with
   the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numbers indicate like features, and:
15         FIGURE 1 is an architectural diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a system for
   interactive remote movie watching, scheduling, and social connection;
           FIGURE 2 is a screenshot of a landing site of an exemplary system such as the one set
   forth in FIGURE 1;
           FIGURE 3 is another screenshot of an exemplary system as described herein;
20         FIGURE 4 is another screenshot providing for promotional viewing of a movie or other
   shared media content and inviting purchase of the content and social interaction around the
   content;
           FIGURE 5 is another screenshot providing an exemplary media content player (e.g.,
   video player) that combines the playback screen along with time-contextual social interaction;
25         FIGURE 6 is a screenshot illustrating the social viewing scheduling feature; and
           FIGURE 7 is a screenshot illustrating the synchronized user chat feature in more detail.
           Although similar reference numbers may be used to refer to similar elements for
   convenience, it should be appreciated that each of the various example embodiments may be
   considered to be distinct variations.
30                                                  -3-

    WO 2014/120803                                                                PCT/US2014/013646
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Illustrated in FIGURE 1 is an architecture of an exemplary embodiment of a system 100
   for interactive remote movie watching, scheduling, and social connection. In the illustrated
   embodiment, various exemplary servers, client machines, and external services are illustrated for
 5 such an interactive system 100. The system elements for an exemplary service provider 102
   configuration are provided behind a service gateway 104, which serves as the firewall and/or
   external connection from the service provider 102 to the "cloud" internet connection(s) shown in
   the figure. It should be appreciated that the connections through the service gateway can
   comprise one or more physical network connections via one or multiple servers (e.g., web
10 server(s) 108 and mediation server(s) 115, described further below) and that multiple virtual
   tunnels can be formed through these one or multiple physical network connections.
            In the illustrated embodiment, it should be appreciated that the "service provider" 102
   may comprise multiple related/interconnected systems and subsystems, which could be
   administrated through one or more business partnerships or vendor relationships, but a single
15 connected system is illustrated in the present embodiment for ease of understanding. In the
   illustrated embodiment, web server(s) 108 generally provide for the top-level interaction with the
   various client devices 106. The web server 108 accordingly communicates with the client
   devices 106 to provide for user logins through their client devices, to keep track of and update
   user profiles or information about user preferences, as well as to facilitate purchase of licensed
20 media content and/or physical merchandise.
            Still referring to FIGURE 1, the user's preferences, purchases, and the like are stored via
   the web server 108 into the user profile database 110. While the embodiment illustrated in the
   figure shows the user profile database 110 directly connected to the web server 108, it should be
   appreciated that there could be database servers or other intermediate servers interposed between
25 the web server 108 and the user profile database 110. Also provided in the illustrated
   embodiment is a merchant fulfillment server 150, which is in communication with the web
   server 108 and is operable to facilitate user payments for purchased content, such as online
   media content and/or physical merchandise to be shipped via traditional ground shipping. The
   merchant fulfillment server 150 would be used, when the user purchases content, to process the
30 credit card payment, PayPal payment, or payment from another payment system.
            Once a purchase is approved, the system proceeds to "license" the media for online
   distribution to the user or to process physical goods for shipment. As to the licensing of the
                                                     -4-

    WO 2014/120803                                                              PCT/US2014/013646
   media for online delivery, the merchandise fulfillment server 150 connects directly or indirectly
   to the digital rights management (DRM) server 114, which using secure cryptography means is
   operable to "unlock" delivery of media from the primary media server 112, which in turn
   accesses and streams or facilitates the streaming of the unlocked media content that is stored on
 5 the movie or other media database 120.
            It should be appreciated also that the fulfillment server 150, DRM server 114, and web
   server 108 would remain in communication with each to ensure that the proper licensing rights
   are synchronized and recorded in the user profile database 110. It should be further appreciated
   that licensed media content includes media content for which digital rights are intended to be
10 maintained, and that multiple technologies exist for protecting the proprietary rights in streams
   of such media, including watermarking and various types of digital rights management (DRM).
   Currently known commercial implementations of such technologies for protecting licensed
   media content include Digital Entertainment Content Ecosystem's "UltraViolet" (see
   www.uvvu.com) and Microsoft's "Silverlight." These techniques and other techniques
15 according to design choice are appreciated to be operable to create licensed media content as
   described in the present application.
            As to the primary media server 112 shown in FIGURE 1, while this may be provided by
   a traditional server machine (computer), as with other servers and computing machines described
   herein, the described server might be a collection of servers or distributed servers or the like.
20 Such collections of servers might be content delivery networks or CDNs, such as are provided by
   companies like Akamai. These types of networks provide for or facilitate the streaming and
   multicasting of media content over the internet. Such CDNs include not only distributed
   computing machinery but also storage for buffering the content being delivered.
            Also provided in FIGURE 1 is an ancillary content / game content server 125. This
25 ancillary content could include second screen content that would be available to users in parallel
   to the media content being played. The "Scene It?" franchise could be one possible
   implementation of this ancillary content. With further regard to the second screen content, this
   additional content can be delivered in a different window on the viewing clients 106, or separate
   clients 106 can be used for the streaming media content and the second screen content (e.g., the
30 main streaming could be on a personal computer and smart TV and the second screen content
   could be on a tablet computer or smart phone). More generally, both the media content and the
   second-screen content can be displayed across multiple platforms, including interactive/IP TVs,
   personal computers, console gaming devices, tablet devices, netbooks, laptops, and mobile
                                                      -5-

    WO 2014/120803                                                              PCT/US2014/013646
   phones, and all of these could be presented on these various devices whatever their operating
   system.
            Still referring to FIGURE 1, provided is an external social media interface server 130 for
   providing updates and otherwise interacting with external social media sites such as Facebook,
 5 Linkedln, Google+, Pinterest and the like. The present implementation provides as an
   embodiment a tight integration with one or more of these external social media sites whereby
   any activity you are performing can be posted and integrated into your "wall" or other newsfeed.
   For example, if you invite your friends to watch a movie or are watching a movie with friends,
   there can be an "event" posted to your wall or newsfeed. Purchases can be shared as well as
10 news items, which can help to drive additional content sales revenue. For example, the newsfeed
   item could include a link to a trailer which would in turn provide an option to purchase the
   content through the service provider's website.
            One possible social networking approach, which can be done through an external social
   network or one managed by the service provider directly to a social network of its customers, or
15 some combination of the foregoing, is to allow a purchaser to send an "event" invitation to
   multiple of his or her social network connections whereby the system can schedule a social
   viewing for the multiple invitees who accept the invitation. The DRM server 114 in connection
   with the web server 108 or other described servers would be operable to manage the digital
   rights for the social viewing to ensure that only the permitted number of digital media download
20 streams are provided.
            As for the scheduling and payment for the social viewing, a possible approach would be
   to charge a certain fee that would include a multiple viewer license, such as including the ability
   to invite up to ten friends to do a scheduled, one-time social viewing. The scheduling server 117
   is provided to communicate with the web server and external social media sites (servers 140) to
25 facilitate the scheduling of an interactive group media stream or social viewing for a user's social
   network. At the end of the social viewing, the system is enabled to offer that one or more of the
   invited friends can purchase a similar license or even a regular DVD for shipment through
   traditional ground shipping, or of course to provide other possible promotional offers to the
   participants.
30          As with other embodiments described herein, the "ten friends" mentioned above for the
   schedule invitation is merely exemplary, and the number of invites could be a single invite, up to
   ten invites, up to 100 invites, or any other number according to the type of implementation
                                                     -6-

    WO 2014/120803                                                               PCT/US2014/013646
   considered. For example, the described system would further enable wide-scale events for
   purchase (revenue) purposes or for free (promotional) purposes. Thus, you could have a
   corporate sponsored "event" where hundreds or thousands of viewers could sign up for a live
   stream with commentary, second stream content, and/or gaming content or interaction. These
 5 hundreds or thousands of attendees could be by scheduled invitation, or it could be an "open"
   invitation.
            As another example, for a motion picture hit there could be a public viewing of a
   "Director's Cut," in which the director could provide commentary between major themes of a
   playback and/or during the playback. Thus, for example, the showing could be scheduled for
10 Sunday night at 6pm (e.g., Central Time) and there could potentially be hundreds of thousands of
   viewers watching simultaneously.
            There could be provided a competitive trivia contest on a second screen, and because of
   the synchronization enabled by the presently described embodiments, risks of someone trying to
   cheat the game (e.g., by communicating with someone on a slightly differently timed stream)
15 would be substantially mitigated. Particular issues that the disclosed system solves with respect
   to syncing are differing latencies between viewers/clients and multiple bandwidth issues among
   the clients/viewers. The disclosed embodiments are capable not just of delaying playback in
   certain instances but actually increasing playback (compressing time) in order to let feeds that
   have gotten behind catch up. Further, when the system detects that playbacks have gotten out of
20 synch, it could disable certain functionalities (e.g., real-time games) that would be greatly
   affected by the lack of sync. To facilitate the synchronization of the multiple users participating
   in the feed of the media content, there could be provided a feedback from each of the users'
   video or media players through internet communications whereby the primary media server 112
   or mediation server 115 is able to speed up or slow down respective streams to the different
25 players in order to facilitate the syncing or re-syncing of the connections according to the
   received feedback. It should be appreciated that although internet communications for this
   feedback loop has been described, this is a design choice and other communications methods
   (such as other wired networks, wireless phone networks, cable television networks, etc.) may be
   appropriate according to design considerations.
30          The disclosed systems are further enabled to implement an approach where a group of
   people all owning a license to a particular media title want to watch the content together but
   through the internet at different locations. Again, the present DRM server 114 and associated
   servers that are a part of the present service provider 102 would be operable to confirm the rights
                                                      -7-

    WO 2014/120803                                                               PCT/US2014/013646
   of each person in the group, and the scheduling server 117 would be operable to schedule a
   viewing by all of the users where they would be given a synchronized common media streaming
   experience.
           In any of the above implementations, although a first user may initiate and schedule a
 5 social viewing experience, in certain embodiments any of the participating viewers may be able
   to control the playback or any other aspects of the social interaction around the playback. As far
   as other types of control, there could be moderator roles for the "chat" or other "second screen"
   or other type of function outside of the media playback. Further, the control could be open
   where any user can control at anytime (e.g., any user could pause the movie playback at
10 anytime). Or the control could be serially passed from one user to another.
           With further reference to FIGURE 1, a mediation server 115 is shown interposed
   between the primary media server 112 and the gateway 104 to the internet. The mediation server
   115 is operable to synchronize the media streams coming out of the primary media server 112 so
   the receiving parties (clients 106) all receive the media streams substantially in synchronicity.
15 Although this streaming and synchronizing is shown as being formed by the collective activity of
   both servers 112, 115, this described embodiment should not detract from the generality of any
   claims that may issue from the present case, and the primary media server 112 may be a
   collection of servers or a cloud-based content delivery network (CDN) as previously discussed,
   further, the functionality of synchronization might be integrated into the primary media server
20 112 such that a separate mediation server 115 would not be not required.
           By "substantially in synchronicity," as stated above, depending on the application, this
   phrase might mean synchronized within 5 minutes, 1 minute, 30 seconds, 5 seconds, or 1 second,
   depending on design needs. In particular, if certain chat features or game features are enabled,
   the clients should receive media streams synchronized in such a fashion that users all have about
25 the same number of seconds to react to the film such as by responding to a trivia question in the
   same number of whole seconds (or not being off by more than 1 second) or not seeing "spoilers"
   in the chat window while friends are watching the movie with them. Thus, the need for
   synchronicity will depend on whether the lack of it would end up detracting from the features
   being employed by the users.
30         All of the foregoing functionality can be distributed amongst servers and/or vendors
   according to system design choices, and it is expressly contemplated that all of the described
   functionality can be incorporated into a single server, web server, and/or vendor hosting a server
                                                      -8-

    WO 2014/120803                                                                PCT/US2014/013646
   or servers, and by the same token all of the described functionality can be distributed amongst
   various servers, web servers, and/or vendors hosting multiple servers. The described divisions of
   servers can be physical or virtual divisions, and the various servers can be in the same or
   different physical locations.
 5         Referring now to FIGURE 2, provided here is an illustrative user interface screenshot for
   an exemplary embodiment system 100 as described above. The screenshot represents an
   example of what would be displayed on the client devices 106 of FIGURE 1 through interaction
   of those client devices with the web server(s) 108. As set forth in FIGURE 2, when a user is
   directed to this landing page for the service, such as from a movie site (e.g.,
10 www.next*big*movie.com) the user would be welcomed to a branded service site for the service
   described herein. In the present example, the service site is referred to generically as "social
   movie system," so the landing page simply says in this example "Welcome to Social Movie
   System." From this page, by the button 202 the user is given the option to return to the original
   movie site from which they came, or login (per buttons 204, 206) to begin interacting with the
15 site with their personalized profile (as stored in the user profile database 110). Having the user
   login allows for the system to pull up the user profile and allows the users to make purchases and
   share (per button 208) their social movie system activities with their social networks. This login
   will further enable the scheduling of interactive movie viewing with the scheduling server 117 to
   enable the user to watch licensed media content in synchronized fashion with her friends.
20         Referring now to FIGURE 3, illustrated in this figure is an exemplary screenshot of the
   present system at a subsequent level from the landing site. In this version, in some instances,
   perhaps because a user had logged in although there could be other bases for advancing to this
   screen from the landing page, rotating movie promotional spots are being displayed in the center
   window 310. As an enticement for the user to click on one of these promotions, the user is being
25 offered 10 minutes of free viewing of one of the movies being promoted. Of course, the amount
   of free viewing offered or even the type of promotion is merely exemplary and should not in any
   way be argued to limit the coverage of the claims to accused systems only having this same
   promotion offer.
           Still referring to FIGURE 3, and as previously described with respect to FIGURE 2, a
30 button 302 is provided to return the user to the original movie site or other originating site that
   directed the user to the site for the presently described system. In this case, there is also a button
   304 that provides a user pull-down menu for user-oriented functions. Site navigation menus 306
   are further provided to the left of the promotional window 310. These navigation menus 306 can
                                                      -9-

    WO 2014/120803                                                              PCT/US2014/013646
   take the user, for example, to a "feature movie" page that would include photos of scenes from
   the movie, social sharing features, purchasing options, and scheduling options whereby the user
   would be able to purchase a movie and schedule a social viewing for the movie with him and all
   his friends. Other options on the site navigation menu include image and video page buttons 306
 5 that could have a number of thumbnails and would provide for "click through" and/or possible
   purchase of corresponding media or merchandise relating to the images. As with FIGURE 2, a
   "share" button 308 is provided such that the user can share their activities with their social
   circles.
            Referring now to FIGURE 4, this figure has much in common with FIGURE 3. The
10 buttons referencing the feature move home page 402 and the user menu 404 would have similar
   functions to that described for the corresponding buttons with respect to FIGURE 3. The
   navigation menus 406 and the "share" button 408 also have the same or similar function as was
   described for menus/button 306, 308 in FIGURE 3. The new aspects illustrated in FIGURE 4
   relate to presenting a video player window 410, where the video player window 410 is now
15 playing (again, as an example) the first 10 minutes of a movie to encourage purchase of the
   movie. New social buttons 412, 414, 416 are further provided beneath the video player window
   410.
            Still referring to FIGURE 4, the new social buttons presented in this figure relate to
   actually purchasing the promotional content (by button 412), which as previously described
20 would initiate a user purchase through the merchandise fulfillment server 150 (see FIGURE 1).
   Also provided is a Share/Schedule button 414, which would interface with internal or external
   social media functions to invite or inform other users about the user's
   purchasing/viewing/sharing/scheduling of online media content. Disclosed embodiments herein
   provide via scheduling server 117 for the scheduling of multiple users to simultaneously watch
25 and engage with each other during the remote screening of licensed media content while being in
   different physical locations through parallel media streaming. Further provided is the "auxiliary
   content" button 416, which brings up options for providing "second screen" content such as
   "Scene It?," IMDb, or similar movie review and information content, or other movie-oriented
   games, chat windows or any number of other possible second screen options.
30          Referring now to FIGURE 5, this figure provides an exemplary screenshot of a video
   player window 510 when the user has proceeded through purchasing or otherwise securing video
   rights to licensed content and is engaged in actually viewing the content. This video window
   would have video controls (e.g., play, fast-forward, rewind, stop, etc.) and could be enlarged
                                                   -10-

    WO 2014/120803                                                               PCT/US2014/013646
   compatibly with the display it was being played upon. As previously discussed, the video
   controls could be "open" such that any user could make a change to the video playback, or it
   could be "closed" such that only one user at a time could do so, but with another possible
   embodiment that a first master user could pass control to another user, and so forth.
 5         The social elements in this figure are provided to fully engage the user with his or her
   friends and family that are watching the content with him or her. Specifically, as described in
   FIGURE 4, there is a "second screen" option button 516 to pull up additional information about
   the movie being watched, or to play games relating to the movie (e.g., "Scene It?" or other movie
   trivia or themed action games). There is also a "Share" button 508 on this screen to inform a
10 user's social network of their activities, and as illustrated in this embodiment, the share button
   508 has essentially been promoted from the screen behind the video screen that has been
   previously discussed.
            Still referring to FIGURE 5, there is provided a chat window 520 or other window for
   interacting with a user's friends who are watching the movie with the user. The present system
15 also provides for marking / annotating the video images through marking tools or other devices,
   and through the indexing of the video content all of this interaction can be stored and recalled in
   certain embodiments through later viewings by the same or different system users who are in the
   original users' social circles and have been given rights to view the licensed content.
           In other words, the recorded social viewing can be archived and played back complete
20 with social interactions occurring during the original watching as if the later watcher of the
   content had been there observing in real-time. This feature allows for friends and family on
   another side of the world to still enjoy the conversation occurring around a scene and see the
   conversation in context of the parts of a movie that inspired the comments.
           With respect to the discussion of video players, it should be noted that the means for
25 providing these video players and second screen and other social interaction features can be
   accomplished by different means. One approach would be to embed a standard video player
   window as a frame within the web pages served through this system and provide for compatible
   synchronized content through a standard video player. Another approach would be to provide a
   customized player. The way the system would serve video to the system and combine second
30 screen content could be effected according to the choices made in this regard. In other words,
   for "framed" content there could be established separate tunnels for delivering both original
   media and second screen content to the webpage. For a customized player, it would be possible
                                                     -11-

    WO 2014/120803                                                                 PCT/US2014/013646
   (though not necessary) to combine the feeds at a server behind the firewall and provide them as a
   single stream to the customized player. One of ordinary skill in the art would be able to adapt
   the architecture according to system design needs along either of these paths.
            In other words, and still referring to the video player design, some portions of the player
 5 functionality can be handled in servers provided by the overall service, whereas the players
   themselves can include embedded functionality to accomplish some of the features described
   above. Thus, various functionalities exist in the system 100 and can be distributed among
   different components within the system.
            With further reference to the social interaction facilitated by the social overlay 520 and
10 associated tools described with respect to FIGURE 5, the presently described embodiments open
   very new ways of socially sharing the movie viewing experience even beyond those described
   for socially viewing a movie in real-time and remotely with friends and family. Because of the
   time-indexing and tracking capabilities of the present video system, the system provides an
   unprecedented ability to share screenshots and comments on favorite movie scenes with one's
15 social circles, while watching the movie in real-time. Again, this type of social media sharing,
   particularly when coupled with links that can take social network contacts to a place to purchase
   referenced content, fundamentally provides excitement around media content available for
   license/sale. This functionality basically takes the time code of a movie and takes a snapshot or
   a clip of the film, sharing it with a user's social network, along with the user's commentary,
20 reviews, or invitation to watch the movie with them or others at a social viewing event.
            Referring now to FIGURE 6, illustrated in this figure is an exemplary embodiment of the
   scheduling feature described herein. The screenshot here would be provided in an embodiment
   by the web server 108, and the scheduling information would be established and coordinated
   through the web server 108 by the scheduling server 117 (see FIGURE 1). As previously
25 discussed, there might at the same time be provided a player window 610 that could be
   illustrating a promotional video or actually be presently showing a regular, licensed media
   stream. Various other menu options are shown above as menu items 620. And the scheduling
   options provided include calendar 630, time 640, friends list 650, and send invite 660. In
   embodiments, the calendar 630 would provide the calendar date for the social viewing and the
30 time 640 would be the time established for the social viewing (per a reference time zone, which
   would be adjusted according to the invited friends' time zones in order to provide a consistent
   invitation). Further, the "My Friends" button 650 may be a complete list of friends showing the
   status of all friends (invited, accepted, pending, etc.) for a given event, whereas the "Send Invite"
                                                       -12-

    WO 2014/120803                                                                PCT/US2014/013646
   button 660 might be to invite an existing friend or a presently unconnected friend known by their
   email or other online identification.
           As to the various options shown for in the menu items 620, many of these have been
   previously discussed, but by way of quick summary the presented options in this embodiment are
 5 as follows:
       a. "Watch & Buy" - Watch promotional portions of movies and be presented with options
           to purchase and schedule social viewing events.
       b. "Images" - Get access to various image captures from movies and share those movie
           images with your social network, coupled with you and your network being able to use
10         those images to establish and schedule viewing events.
       c. "Apps" - Access and/or download various apps that may be second-screen coordinated
           with the social viewing events.
       d. "Characters" - Gather social information around various movie characters and establish
           viewing events themed around those characters.
15     e. "Cast & Crew" - Limited screenings associated with movie releases. This could also be
           provided consistent with various promotions in which selected members of the general
           public would get access to the limited screenings. As previously described with respect
           to functions like a "Director's Cut" screening, the time-indexing of the presently
           described embodiments provide a heightened ability to provide in-depth background
20         information in the context of the movie and as a part of the screening.
       f. "Shop" - Shop for online or physical merchandise.
       g. "Music" - Similar to the "Images" feature, allows users to share musical clips or songs
           from movies with their social networks, whereby the users can comment and interact
           around the song (and potentially metadata placing the song in context) and providing for
25         a link that could return the social users back to the interactive movie site from where the
           songs came. As with the other described features, this interaction may lead to group
           watch scheduling either directly at the social site or back at the interactive movie site or
           both.
                                                     -13-

    WO 2014/120803                                                                PCT/US2014/013646
       h. "Social" - Various social network connections all provided in a coordinated area of the
           system.
        i. "Logged In" - The login area that gives a user access to their purchased content, friends
           list and the like, which may be provided through the user records stored in the user
 5         profile database 110 (see FIGURE 1).
           Referring now to FIGURE 7, this figure illustrates in greater detail the social chat
   functionality. As previously described, there is a player window 710 and the above-described
   menu options 720. The present figure also shows, however, a group of friends discussing a
   particular scene as that scene occurs in the movie. Prior video players have not been able to
10 stream licensed content and allow multiple users to provide comments to each other while all
   users are seeing essentially the same scenes. Further, the present system allows for the archiving
   of the playback with commentary, such that one of the participants or another user in one of their
   social circles is able to at a later time view the licensed content and the comments left by their
   friends as in the same context (while the same scene is playing in the movie) that their friend
15 made the comments. FIGURE 7 also illustrates a "Current Viewers" bar 740 that shows who is
   presently watching a movie and gives an "<<invite>>" button to invite others to join.
           With general reference to all of the figures described above and in general description of
   the features and functionalities described herein, the system described also includes functionality
   whereby either through second screen data or through superimposed data on the media player,
20 popular scenes or images can be suggested to users for sharing through their social networks
   while the real-time video stream is being watched. Thus, during that live media viewing, a
   prompt could show up for the users to share an image or a song, and that image or song clip, and
   the user's commentary, can be posted to Facebook or another social media site.
           As another specific embodiment for interacting with a social media site, there exist
25 virtual "pinboards" on the internet as a means for socially interacting and posting pictures or
   links of interest and allowing your social network to further comment on them and add to the
   posts. One current such system is Pinterest (www.pinterest.com). The present system would
   allow for the posting of authorized movie images, along with official or unofficial metadata
   about the movies and/or particular movie scenes. With included hyperlinks, the social media site
30 could take social network users directly, e.g., to movie landing pages and/or some of the
   webpages described in the present application whereby users can, for example, be given
                                                       -14-

    WO 2014/120803                                                                PCT/US2014/013646
   promotional offers, played portions of the movies relating to the image posted, and purchase and
   schedule social viewings.
           The same real-time index information being synced with second screen type data enables
   the present system to show video clips of behind-the-scenes footage and alerting the consumer
 5 during real-time playback when such scenes are available. Thus, on the primary or second
   screen there could be an alert (e.g., stoplight) letting the user know that behind-the-scenes
   footage is available. By this same token, second screen descriptive data can be synchronized to
   the video playback and contextually relevant information may be provided in this manner in
   described embodiments. Similarly, soundtrack and score information is also available in sync
10 with the real-time movie play and can be made available for sale and/or sharing through social
   networks.
           With further general reference to all of the embodiments described herein, it should be
   appreciated that the above-described chat features and/or second screen functionality can be
   implemented through the web server 108, or through the separate ancillary content server 125 or
15 through another server. Further, the chat features, second screen features, metadata information
   feeds, or other additional functionality described herein can be implemented within or integrated
   within the video player itself and/or served through the media server 112 or mediation server
   115. The described functionalities can be divided among hardware and software elements in
   various ways according to business or design needs, and such variations may remain within the
20 scope of the claims to any patent issuing from the present application.
           While various embodiments in accordance with the disclosed principles have been
   described above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only,
   and are not limiting. Thus, the breadth and scope of the example embodiments described herein
   should not be limited by any of the above-described exemplary embodiments, but should be
25 defined only in accordance with the claims and their equivalents issuing from this disclosure.
   Furthermore, the above advantages and features are provided in described embodiments, but
   shall not limit the application of such issued claims to processes and structures accomplishing
   any or all of the above advantages.
           As used in the disclosures and the appended claims, the terms "example embodiment,"
30 "exemplary embodiment," and "present embodiment" do not necessarily refer to a single
   embodiment, although they may, and various example embodiments may be readily combined
   and interchanged, without departing from the scope or spirit of example embodiments.
                                                      -15-

    WO 2014/120803                                                              PCT/US2014/013646
   Furthermore, the terminology as used herein is for the purpose of describing example
   embodiments only and is not intended to be limitations. In this respect, as used herein, the term
   "in" may include "in" and "on", and the terms "a", "an" and "the" may include singular and
   plural references. Furthermore, as used herein, the term "by" may also mean "from", depending
 5 on the context. Furthermore, as used herein, the term "if" may also mean "when" or "upon",
   depending on the context. Furthermore, as used herein, the words "and/or" may refer to and
   encompass any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.
           For example, as referred to herein, a machine or engine may be a virtual machine,
   computer, node, instance, host, or machine in a networked computing environment. Also as
10 referred to herein, a networked computing environment is a collection of machines connected by
   communication channels that facilitate communications between machines and allow for
   machines to share resources. Network may also refer to a communication medium between
   processes on the same machine. Also as referred to herein, a server is a machine deployed to
   execute a program operating as a socket listener and may include software instances.
15         Resources may encompass any types of resources for running instances including
   hardware (such as servers, clients, mainframe computers, networks, network storage, data
   sources, memory, central processing unit time, scientific instruments, and other computing
   devices), as well as software, software licenses, available network services, and other non
   hardware resources, or a combination thereof.
20         A networked computing environment may include, but is not limited to, computing grid
   systems, distributed computing environments, cloud computing environment, etc. Such
   networked computing environments include hardware and software infrastructures configured to
   form a virtual organization comprised of multiple resources which may be in geographically
   disperse locations. Although various computer elements have been illustrated herein as single
25 computer servers or machines, such elements may operate over several different physical
   machines, or they may be combined as operating code instances running on a single physical
   machine. The claims in the present application comprehend such variation in physical machine
   configurations
           Although various computer elements have been illustrated herein as single computer
30 servers or machines, such elements may operate over several different physical machines, or they
   may be combined as operating code instances running on a single physical machine. The claims
   in the present application comprehend such variation in physical machine configurations.
                                                    -16-

    WO 2014/120803                                                               PCT/US2014/013646
            Various terms used herein have special meanings within the present technical field.
   Whether a particular term should be construed as such a "term of art," depends on the context in
   which that term is used. "Connected to," "in communication with," or other similar terms should
   generally be construed broadly to include situations both where communications and connections
 5 are direct between referenced elements or through one or more intermediaries between the
   referenced elements, including through the internet or some other communicating network.
   "Network," "system," "environment," and other similar terms generally refer to networked
   computing systems that embody one or more aspects of the present disclosure. These and other
   terms are to be construed in light of the context in which they are used in the present disclosure
10 and as those terms would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art would understand
   those terms in the disclosed context. The above definitions are not exclusive of other meanings
   that might be imparted to those terms based on the disclosed context.
            Words of comparison, measurement, and timing such as "at the time," "equivalent,"
   "during," "complete," and the like should be understood to mean "substantially at the time,"
15 "substantially equivalent," "substantially during," "substantially complete," etc., where
   "substantially" means that such comparisons, measurements, and timings are practicable to
   accomplish the implicitly or expressly stated desired result.
            Additionally, the section headings herein are provided for organizational cues. These
   headings shall not limit or characterize the invention(s) set out in any claims that may issue from
20 this disclosure. Specifically, a description of a technology in the "Background" is not to be
   construed as an admission that technology is prior art to any invention(s) in this disclosure.
   Furthermore, any reference in this disclosure to "invention" in the singular should not be used to
   argue that there is only a single point of novelty in this disclosure. Multiple inventions may be
   set forth according to the limitations of the multiple claims issuing from this disclosure, and such
25 claims accordingly define the invention(s), and their equivalents, that are protected thereby. In
   all instances, the scope of such claims shall be considered on their own merits in light of this
   disclosure, but should not be constrained by the headings herein.
                                                     -17-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1.     A media sharing system providing for a shared experiencing of licensed media content,
the media sharing system comprising:
                a) a web server connected to an internet gateway, the web server operable
        to communicate with client devices connected to the internet;
                b) a user profile database in communication with the web server, the user
        profile database operable to store user profile data, including user social network
        data and user media content selections;
                c) a media server in communication with the web server, the media server operable
                to provide a licensed media stream to multiple user participants, the media server
                operable to synchronize playback for the multiple participants such that the
                multiple participants receive
        the licensed media stream in a substantially synchronized manner;
                d) a media database in communication with the media server, the media
        database comprising the licensed media content to be streamed by the media
        server; and
                e) a social content server in communication with the web server, the social
        content server operable to provide for social interaction among the multiple
        participants, whereby the social interactions occur in a context that is in time with
        the multiple participants' substantially synchronized receipt of the licensed media
        content by preventing the social interactions when at least one of the playbacks to
        the multiple participants is out of synchronization.
2.      The system of claim 1 and further comprising a scheduling server in communication
with the web server, the user profile database, and the media server, the scheduling server
                                                 - 18 -

operable in response to a user request to schedule a multi-user shared experiencing of
licensed media content, establishing a schedule and a participant list for the multi-user
shared experiencing of licensed media content, and wherein the media server is operable to
provide the substantially synchronized licensed media stream to the scheduled multiple user
participants in accordance with the established schedule and participant list.
3.       The system of claim 2 wherein the web server and the scheduling server are separate
servers.
4.       The system of claim 2 wherein the web server and the scheduling server are operating
functions on the same physical server.
5.       The system of claim 2 wherein the web server and the scheduling server are distributed
computing instances.
6.       The system of claim 1 wherein the media server and the social content server are separate
servers.
7.       The system of claim 1 wherein the media server and the social content server are
operating functions on the same physical server.
8.       The system of claim 1 wherein the media server and the social content server are
distributed computing instances.
9.       The system of claim 1 wherein the media server provides a channel for communications
from the social content server along with the licensed media stream.
10.      The system of claim 1 wherein the licensed media content is a movie.
11.      The system of claim 1 wherein the licensed media content is a song.
12.      The system of claim 1 wherein "substantially synchronized" means that the same scenes
                                                - 19 -

are received by the multiple participants within 1 second of each other.
13.     The system of claim 1 wherein the media server is a content delivery network.
14.     The system of claim 1 wherein the social interactions provided by the social content
server is a chat window amongst the participants.
15.     The system of claim 1 wherein the social interaction provided by the social content server
is an interactive game.
16.     The system of claim 15 wherein the interactive game is a trivia game.
17.     The system of claim 1 wherein the substantially synchronized receipt of the licensed
media content is effected in part by receipt of synchronization feedback signals received from
video players associated with the multiple participants.
18.     The system of claim 1 wherein the media server provides chat functionality into an
integrated data stream to be displayed with the licensed media content on a video player window.
19.     The system of claim 18 wherein the media server also provides ancillary content into the
integrated data stream to be displayed with the licensed media content on the video player
window.
                                                - 20 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
