                                     ABSTRACT
     Disclosed is an intelligent gate lock, which includes a lock box, a control unit, a
machine core, a gate and an auxiliary equipment, wherein, the control unit and the
machine core are installed in the lock box. The control unit includes a main control
module, a power supply module, a motor control module, and an auxiliary
equipment control module. The control unit also has a wireless communication
module and an information comparison module connected to the main control
module. The wireless communication module and an intelligent mobile terminal are
connected through wireless signal. Wireless data information received by the
wireless communication module is sent to the background server through the
information comparison module to communicate with the background server. The
intelligent gate lock can improve the security and convenience of gate locks.

                                4
                                                    5
                                                    2
                                                    11
                                                    12
                                                    3
                            Fig. 1
   outer          power               auxiliary
   power     --  supply              equipment
 supply 10      module 7               control
                                      module   9
                               g
                            main
                           control
                          module 6
                 wireless           .nomto
 intelligent    communic           cnomaion       background
   mobile    --    ation           cmasnserver           16
terminal 15     module 13            module14
                         motor control
                           module 8
                                   control unit 2
                          Motor 11I
                            Fig. 2

                         An I ntelligent Gate Lock
       This application claims the benefit of priority to Chinese Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>93.3 titled "an intelligent gate lock", filed with the Chinese State
Intellectual Property Office on March 1, 2017, the entire disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference as if it were reproduced in full.
                               TECHNI CAL FI ELD
[0001]        The present technology relates to an intelligent path blocking device,
which finds particularly effective use, in some particular applications, as a gate
lock.
                                 BACKGROUND
[0002]       With the development of social economy, the construction speed of
urbanization has been accelerated and the number of office workers in office
buildings has been increasing. In order to ensure the safety of personnel and
property of those personnel in the office buildings, and to strengthen the security
level, the installation of access doors and gates has become the necessary
hardware of modern office buildings.
[0003]       Most of the existing gate locks are opened by swiping card, and the
office building is equipped with a magnetic card for the office staff. The gate is
equipped with a card reader. When the user swipes the card, the latch will open and
allow the user to pass. In this way, there are following disadvantages: (1) the
                                          1

number of office workers in office buildings is large, and the purchase of large
number of magnetic cards increases the cost of security. (2) the magnetic cards
are not associated with the owners, easily lost and duplicated, therefore, it's not
safe; (3) during rush hour, due to the low efficiency of the credit card, the gate is
often congested.
[0004]       The present technology seeks to ameliorate one or more of the
abovementioned disadvantages.
                                      SUMMARY
[0005]       Embodiments of the present technology, provide a smart gate lock
which has advantages of increased security of gate locks while increasing the level
of intelligent control, improved convenience of operation, reduced cost of security
and improved traffic efficiency.
[0006]       The technology adopts the following technical solution:
[0007]       An intelligent gate lock, includes a lock box, a control unit, a machine
core, a gate and an auxiliary equipment, wherein, the lock box has an installation
cavity for the control unit and an installation cavity for the machine core, which is
respectively used for installing the control unit and the machine core. The control
unit includes a main control module, a power supply module, a motor control
module, an auxiliary equipment control module connecting to the main control
module. The input of the power supply module is connected to an outer power
supply, and the output of the power supply module connected to the main control
module supplies power for the main control module. The machine core includes a
                                            2

motor and a gearbox, wherein,         the output of the motor control module is
connected to the motor, and the output shaft of the motor is connected to the
power input of the gearbox, wherein the control unit also has a wireless
communication module and an information comparison module connected to the
main control module, the wireless communication module and an intelligent mobile
terminal are configured to communicate with one another by wireless signal, and
the information comparison      module is connected to a background server to
communicate with the background server.
[0008]      Convenient to control, the wireless communication module in the
control unit is a Bluetooth module or a NFC module. The intelligent mobile terminal
is a smart phone or a smart tablet with a Bluetooth module or a NFC module. The
gate can be controlled by the intelligent mobile terminal with the Bluetooth module
or the NFC module.
[0009]      The auxiliary equipment includes a password input keyboard or a
fingerprint collector; the password input keyboard is a keypad or a touch password
keyboard.    The    auxiliary equipment    control  module    includes  a  password
comparison module or a fingerprint identification module, which can open the gate
when the wireless communication module fails.
[0010]      The gate is a wing gate, a translation gate or a swing gate.
[0011]      The auxiliary equipment includes an alarm, which is good for alerting
security when people are illegally passed.
[0012]      The significant effect of the utility model is: (1) By setting up the
wireless communication module in the control unit, the intelligent mobile terminal
can be controlled by remote control, without the need to carry a magnetic card,
                                           3

and improve the convenience of daily operation, while also reducing the cost. (2)
By setting up the information comparison         module in the control unit and
connecting it to the background server, the holder's identity information is entered
into the intelligent mobile terminal database in advance, realizing the comparison
of the identity information, and its security mechanism is higher than the open
mode of the swiping card and the security of the gate is improved. And it can
quickly confirm the information, shorten the time of entering the gate, and improve
the efficiency of access.
                 BRIEF DESCRI PTI ON OF THE DRAW NGS
[0013]      Various objects and advantages and a more complete understanding of
the present invention are apparent and more readily appreciated by reference to
the following Detailed Description and to the appended claims when taken in
conjunction with the accompanying Drawings, wherein:
[0014]       Figure 1 shows the schematic diagram of the utility model.
[0015]       Figure 2 shows the connection diagram of the control unit of the utility
model.
[0016]      Wherein: 1- lock box , 2- control unit , 3- machine core , 4- gate , 5
auxiliary equipment , 6- main control module , 7- power supply module , 8- motor
control module , 9- auxiliary equipment control module , 10- outer power supply
11-  motor , 12- gearbox , 13- wireless communication module , 14- information
comparison module , 15- intelligent mobile terminal , 16- background server
                                          4

                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0017]       The following combination of the implementation example and the
attached drawing illustrate the utility model.
[0018]       See figure 1 and figure 2, the utility model of the intelligent gate lock,
including a lock box 1, a control unit 2, a machine core 3, a gate 4 and a auxiliary
equipment 5, the lock box 1 has a installation cavity for the control unit and a
installation cavity for the machine core, respectively used for installing the control
unit 2 and the machine core 3. The machine core 3 includes a motor 11 and a
gearbox 12, the output shaft of the motor 11 connected to the power input of the
gearbox 12. The power output of the gearbox 12 is engaged to the transmission
shaft, which opens and closes the gate 4 with the drive shaft. The gate 4 is a wing
gate, a translation gate or a swing gate.
[0 0 19]     The control unit 2 includes a main control module 6, and a power supply
module 7, a motor control module 8, an auxiliary equipment control module 9,
which connected to the main control module 6. The input of the power supply
module 7 is connected to an outer power supply 10.
[0020]       The output is connected to the main control module 6, and the output
voltage is the power supply for the main control module 6. The output of motor
control module 8 is connected to the motor 11, and the motor control module 8
drives the working and stopping of motor 11 according to the control signal issued
by the main control module 6.
[00 21]      The control unit 2 also has a wireless communication module 13 and an
information comparison module 14, which connected to the main control module 6.
                                            5

The wireless communication module 13 is connected to the intelligent mobile
terminal 15 through the wireless signal. By setting up the wireless communication
module     13  in  the control   unit.   The   wireless communication    module    13
communicates with the intelligent mobile terminal 15 through the wireless signal,
realizing the gate open of the intelligent mobile terminal by remote control. The
information comparison module 14 is connected to a background server 16 to
communicate with the background server 16.
[0022]       Wireless data information received by the wireless communication
module 13 is sent to the background server 16 through the control information
comparison     module   14,  and     the   information  received  by   the   wireless
communication module 13 is compared with staff identity information which stored
in a backend server 16. If authentication is successful, then the gate will be
unlocked, and the main control module 6 sent open gate control signal to the motor
control module 8. If authentication is failed, then gate will be locked, and blocks
pass.
[0023]       Through   comparing      the   information  between   the   information
comparison module 14 and backend server 16, the gate can be controlled, which
compared with the means of swiping the card sensor to open gate, improve the
security of the door lock, and can quickly identify information,        improve the
efficiency of access.
[0024]       Convenient to control, the wireless communication module 2 in the
wireless communication module 13 is a Bluetooth module or a NFC module. The
intelligent mobile terminal 15 is a smart phone or a smart tablet with a Bluetooth
module or a NFC module. The gate can be controlled by the wireless data
                                            6

information sent by the wireless communication module 13 from a smart phone or
a smart tablet through the Bluetooth module or the NFC module of theirs.
[0025]       The auxiliary equipment 5 includes an alarm, which used to alert
security personnel when authentication fails or when a person passes illegally. The
auxiliary equipment 5 also includes a password input keyboard or a fingerprint
collector, and the password input keyboard is a keypad or a touch keyboard, which
can open the gate when the wireless communication module fails.
[0026]       The foregoing description of embodiments of the disclosure has been
presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be
exhaustive or     to limit the  disclosure to the      precise form  disclosed, and
modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be
acquired from practice of the disclosure. The embodiments were chosen and
described in order to explain the principals of the disclosure and its practical
application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the disclosure in various
embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use
contemplated.
                                          7

                                        CLAIMS
     1. An intelligent gate lock, includes a lock box, a control unit, a machine core,
a gate and an auxiliary equipment, wherein, the lock box has an installation cavity
for the control unit and an installation cavity for the machine core, which is
respectively used for installing the control unit and the machine core, the control
unit including a main control module, and a power supply module, a motor control
module, an auxiliary equipment control module connecting to the main control
module, the input of the power supply module connected to an outer power supply,
and the output of the power supply module connected to the main control module
supplying power for the main control module, the machine core including a motor
and a gearbox, wherein, the output of the motor control module connected to the
motor, and the output shaft of the motor connected to the power input of the
gearbox, wherein the control unit has a wireless communication module and an
information comparison module connected to the main control module, and the
wireless communication module and an intelligent mobile terminal are configured
to  communicate with       each   other by wireless signal,     and    the information
comparison module is connected to a background server to communicate with the
background server.
    2.   The intelligent gate lock according to claim       1, wherein the wireless
communication module in the control unit is a Bluetooth module or an NFC module,
and the intelligent mobile terminal is a smart phone or a smart tablet with a
Bluetooth module or an NFC module.
    3. The intelligent gate lock according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
                                            8

auxiliary equipment includes a password input keyboard or a fingerprint collector,
the password input keyboard is a keypad or a touch keyboard, and the auxiliary
equipment control module includes a password comparison module or a fingerprint
identification module.
    4. The intelligent gate lock according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
auxiliary equipment includes alarms.
    5. The intelligent gate lock according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
gate is a wing gate, a translation gate or a swing gate.
                                          9

<removed-date>
              1/ 1
                 <U+2702>
                       <U+260E>
<removed-apn>
                       <U+2701>
                       <U+2701>
                       <U+2704>
              Fig. 1
              Fig. 2

