                                             ABSTRACT
        In one example embodiment, a dressing connector is described that provides a first
fluid path between a first connector and a second connector, and a second fluid path between a
third connector and a fourth connector. A liquid barrier may be disposed in the first fluid path.
The first fluid path and the second fluid path are generally exposed to an exterior surface of
the dressing connector.       In some embodiments, a tube may also be bonded to the third
connector to provide a third fluid path between the dressing connector and another component.
In more particular embodiments, the liquid barrier may be a filter, such as a hydrophobic
bacterial filter, a sintered polymer filter, and/or a charcoal filter.
        FIG. 2

          219
                      0
             C.0
             CN*)
                  CNI
0        N
                            CI
                        C)I
  Co
  0
                      0
     0.
     041

                                              -1
              SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR COLLECTING EXUDATES
                           IN REDUCED-PRESSURE THERAPY
                                 RELATED APPLICATION
        [0001] The present invention claims the benefit, under 35 USC § 119(e), of the filing
of U.S. Provisional Patent Application serial number 61/700,217, entitled "SYSTEMS AND
METHODS FOR COLLECTING EXUDATES IN REDUCED-PRESSURE THERAPY                                    ,"
filed 12 September 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
                                       BACKGROUND
        [0002] The present invention relates generally to tissue treatment systems and more
particularly to systems and methods for collecting exudates in reduced-pressure therapy.
        [0003] Clinical studies and practice have shown that reducing pressure in proximity to
a tissue site can augment and accelerate growth of new tissue at the tissue site.            The
applications of this phenomenon are numerous, but it has proven particularly advantageous for
treating wounds. Regardless of the etiology of a wound, whether trauma, surgery, or another
cause, proper care of the wound is important to the outcome.       Treatment of wounds with
reduced pressure may be commonly referred to as "reduced-pressure wound therapy," but is
also known by other names, including "negative-pressure therapy," negative-pressure wound
therapy," and "vacuum therapy," for example         Reduced-pressure therapy may provide a
number of benefits, including migration of epithelial and subcutaneous tissues, improved
blood flow, and micro-deformation of tissue at a wound site.      Together, these benefits can
increase development of granulation tissue and reduce healing times.
        [0004] While the clinical benefits of reduced-pressure therapy are widely known, the
cost and complexity of reduced-pressure therapy can be a limiting factor in its application, and
the development and operation of reduced-pressure systems, components, and processes
continues to present significant challenges to manufacturers, healthcare providers, and
patients.

                                                -2
                                        BRIEF SUMMARY
         [0005] In one example embodiment, a dressing connector is described herein that
provides a first fluid path between a first connector and a second connector, and a second fluid
path between a third connector and a fourth connector. A liquid barrier may be disposed in the
first fluid path.   The first fluid path and the second fluid path are generally exposed to an
exterior surface of the dressing connector. In certain embodiments, the first connector may be
a fitting, the second connector may be a receptacle, the third connector may be a port, and the
fourth connector may be another receptacle.         In some embodiments, a tube may also be
bonded to the third connector to provide a third fluid path between the dressing connector and
another component. In more particular embodiments, the liquid barrier may be a filter, such as
a hydrophobic bacterial filter, a gel-blocking sintered polymer filter, and/or a charcoal filter.
         [0006] Alternatively, an example embodiment may provide a fitting fluidly coupled to
a first receptacle through an inline liquid barrier, a port fluidly coupled to a second receptacle,
and a tube fluidly coupled to the port. The fitting may be adapted to engage a downstream
component, such as a reduced-pressure source. The first receptacle and the second receptacle
each may provide a cavity exposed to an exterior surface adapted to engage a container fitting.
         [0007] A reduced-pressure treatment system is also described herein, wherein one
example embodiment includes a downstream component, such as a reduced-pressure source, a
reusable container, and a disposable dressing connector.          The dressing connector may be
coupled to the container and to an upstream component, such as a dressing.            The dressing
connector provides a first fluid path between the downstream component and the container,
and a second fluid path between the container and the upstream component. A liquid barrier
can be disposed in the first fluid path between the container and the downstream component.
In some embodiments, a tube may couple the dressing connector to the downstream
component, the upstream component, or both.
         [0008] A method of manufacturing a dressing component is also described herein,
wherein one example embodiment includes forming a first interface comprising a first port, a
second port, a first receptacle, and a second receptacle. A first channel may be formed from
the first port to the first receptacle. A second channel may be formed from the second port to
the second receptacle. A tube may be coupled to the first port, such as by bonding the tube to
the first port with an adhesive. A second interface may be formed with a third port and a
fitting.   The second port and the third port may be aligned and a liquid barrier disposed

                                               -3
between the second port and the third port before coupling the first interface to the second
interface.
         [0009] A method of operating a reduced-pressure system to provide reduced-pressure
therapy is also described. In one example method of providing reduced-pressure therapy, a
dressing may be coupled to a first dressing connector. For example, a dressing may be applied
to a tissue site and a tube may be coupled to the dressing and to the first dressing connector.
The first dressing connector may then be coupled to a reusable fluid container, such as by
pressing receptacles of the first dressing connector onto fittings of the fluid container. In some
embodiments, orientation recesses of the first dressing connector may also be aligned with
corresponding orientation fittings on the fluid container. The fluid container and the first
dressing connector can then be coupled to a reduced-pressure source or other downstream
component, such that a liquid barrier in the first dressing connector can be positioned between
the fluid container and the reduced-pressure source. Reduced pressure can be applied to a
tissue site through the dressing.
         [0010] Reduced-pressure may be applied and exudates collected from the tissue site in
the fluid container. Exudates may be emptied from the fluid container and the first dressing
connector may be replaced with a second dressing connector having a second (and preferably
unused) liquid barrier. The first dressing connector can be disposed of with the dressing,
which encourages regular changes of liquid barriers.
         [0011] Other objects, features, and advantages of the embodiments described herein
will become apparent with reference to the drawings and detailed description that follow.

                                               -4
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0012] Figures 1A-1B are functional block diagrams of example embodiments of a
reduced-pressure   therapy   system that can collect      exudates in accordance     with this
specification;
        [0013] Figure 2 is a schematic diagram illustrating additional details that may be
associated with an example embodiment of the reduced-pressure therapy system;
        [0014] Figure 3 is an exploded diagram illustrating additional details that may be
associated with an example embodiment of a dressing connector that may be associated with
the reduced-pressure therapy system;
        [0015] Figure 4 is perspective view of a container that may be associated with example
embodiments of the reduced-pressure therapy system;
        [0016] Figure 5 is a partial cross-sectional view of the dressing connector of Figure 3
and the container of Figure 4 illustrating additional details that may be associated with some
embodiments of the reduced-pressure therapy system;
        [0017] Figure 6 is a perspective view of another example embodiment of a reduced
pressure therapy system;
        [0018] Figure 7 is a partial cross-sectional view of another example embodiment of a
dressing connector that may be associated with the reduced-pressure therapy system; and
        [0019] Figures 8A-8B      are partial cross-sectional views of yet other example
embodiments of a dressing connector engaged with a canister that may be associated with the
reduced-pressure therapy system.

                                                -5
                      DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
         [0020] New and useful systems and methods for collecting exudates in a reduced
pressure therapy environment are set forth in the appended claims. Objectives, advantages,
and a preferred mode of making and using the systems and methods may be understood best
by reference to the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings.    The description provides information that enables a person skilled in the art to
make and use the claimed subject matter, but may omit certain details already well-known in
the art.   Moreover, descriptions of various alternatives using terms such as "or" do not
necessarily require mutual exclusivity unless clearly required by the context. The claimed
subject matter may also encompass alternative embodiments not specifically described in
detail.   The following detailed description is, therefore, to be taken as illustrative and not
limiting.
         [0021] The example embodiments may also be described herein with reference to
spatial relationships between various elements or to the spatial orientation of various elements
depicted in the attached drawings. In general, such relationships or orientation assume a frame
of reference consistent with or relative to a patient in a position to receive treatment.
However, as should be recognized by those skilled in the art, this frame of reference is merely
a descriptive expedient rather than a strict prescription.
         [0022]   Figures  1A-1B    are simplified functional block diagrams of example
embodiments of a reduced-pressure therapy system 100 that can collect exudates in
accordance with this specification. As illustrated, reduced-pressure therapy system 100 may
include a dressing 102 fluidly coupled to a reduced-pressure source 104.         A regulator or
controller, such as regulator 106, may also be fluidly coupled to dressing 102 and reduced
pressure source 104.     Dressing 102 generally includes a drape, such as drape 108, and a
manifold, such as pressure distribution manifold 110. Reduced-pressure therapy system 100
may also include fluid container, such as container 112, coupled to dressing 102 and reduced
pressure source 104.
         [0023]   In general, components of reduced-pressure therapy system 100 may be
coupled directly or indirectly.   For example, reduced-pressure source 104 may be directly
coupled to regulator 106 and indirectly coupled to dressing 102 through regulator 106.
Components may be fluidly coupled to each other to provide a path for transferring fluids (i.e.,
liquid and/or gas) between the components.          In some embodiments, components may be

                                                -6
fluidly coupled with a tube, for example. A "tube," as used herein, broadly refers to a tube,
pipe, hose, conduit, or other structure with one or more lumina adapted to convey fluids
between two ends.         Typically, a tube is an elongated, cylindrical structure with some
flexibility, but the geometry and rigidity may vary. In some embodiments, components may
additionally or alternatively be coupled by virtue of physical proximity, being integral to a
single structure, or being formed from the same piece of material. Coupling may also include
mechanical, thermal, electrical, or chemical coupling (such as a chemical bond) in some
contexts.
         [0024]    In operation, pressure distribution manifold 110 may be placed within, over,
on, or otherwise proximate to a tissue site.          Drape 108 may be placed over pressure
distribution manifold 110 and sealed to tissue proximate the tissue site. The tissue proximate
to the tissue site is often undamaged epidermis peripheral to the tissue site. Thus, dressing 102
can provide a sealed therapeutic environment proximate to a tissue site, substantially isolated
from the external environment, and reduced-pressure source 104 can reduce the pressure in the
sealed therapeutic environment.        Reduced pressure applied uniformly through pressure
distribution manifold 110 in the sealed therapeutic environment can induce macrostrain and
microstrain in the tissue site, as well as remove exudates and other fluids from the tissue site,
which can be collected in container 112 and disposed of properly.
         [0025]     The fluid mechanics of using a reduced-pressure source to reduce pressure in
another component or location, such as within a sealed therapeutic environment, can be
mathematically complex.        However, the basic principles of fluid mechanics applicable to
reduced-pressure therapy are generally well-known to those skilled in the art, and the process
of reducing pressure may be described illustratively herein as "delivering," "distributing," or
"generating" reduced pressure, for example.
         [0026] In general, exudates and other fluids flow toward lower pressure along a fluid
path. This orientation is generally presumed for purposes of describing various features and
components of reduced-pressure therapy systems herein.           Thus, the term "downstream"
typically implies something in a fluid path relatively closer to a reduced-pressure source, and
conversely, the term "upstream" implies something relatively further away from a reduced
pressure source. Similarly, it may be convenient to describe certain features in terms of fluid
"inlet" or "outlet" in such a frame of reference. However, the fluid path may also be reversed
in some applications (such as by substituting a positive-pressure source for a reduced-pressure
source) and this descriptive convention should not be construed as a limiting convention.

                                                -7
         [0027]    The term "tissue site" in this context broadly refers to a wound or defect
located on or within tissue, including but not limited to, bone tissue, adipose tissue, muscle
tissue, neural tissue, dermal tissue, vascular tissue, connective tissue, cartilage, tendons, or
ligaments. A wound may include chronic, acute, traumatic, subacute, and dehisced wounds,
partial-thickness burns, ulcers (such as diabetic, pressure, or venous insufficiency ulcers),
flaps, and grafts, for example. The term "tissue site" may also refer to areas of any tissue that
are not necessarily wounded or defective, but are instead areas in which it may be desirable to
add or promote the growth of additional tissue. For example, reduced pressure may be used in
certain tissue areas to grow additional tissue that may be harvested and transplanted to another
tissue location.
         [0028]    "Reduced pressure" generally refers to a pressure less than a local ambient
pressure, such as the ambient pressure in a local environment external to a sealed therapeutic
environment provided by dressing 102. In many cases, the local ambient pressure may also be
the atmospheric pressure at which a patient is located. Alternatively, the pressure may be less
than a hydrostatic pressure associated with tissue at the tissue site. Unless otherwise indicated,
values of pressure stated herein are gauge pressures.       Similarly, references to increases in
reduced pressure typically refer to a decrease in absolute pressure, while decreases in reduced
pressure typically refer to an increase in absolute pressure.
         [0029]    A reduced-pressure source, such as reduced-pressure source 104, may be a
reservoir of air at a reduced pressure, or may be a manual or electrically-powered device that
can reduced the pressure in a sealed volume, such as a vacuum pump, a suction pump, a wall
suction port available at many healthcare facilities, or a micro-pump, for example.           The
reduced-pressure source may be housed within or used in conjunction with other components,
such as sensors, processing units, alarm indicators, memory, databases, software, display
devices, or user interfaces that further facilitate reduced-pressure therapy. While the amount
and nature of reduced pressure applied to a tissue site may vary according to therapeutic
requirements, the pressure typically ranges between -5 mm Hg (-667 Pa) and -500 mm Hg (
66.7 kPa). Common therapeutic ranges are between -75 mm Hg (-9.9 kPa) and -300 mm Hg (
39.9 kPa).
         [0030]    Pressure distribution manifold 110 can be generally adapted to contact a
tissue site. Pressure distribution manifold 110 may be partially or fully in contact with the
tissue site. If the tissue site is a wound, for example, pressure distribution manifold 110 may
partially or completely fill the wound, or may be placed over the wound. Pressure distribution

                                                -8
manifold 110 may take many forms, and may have many sizes, shapes, or thicknesses
depending on a variety of factors, such as the type of treatment being implemented or the
nature and size of a tissue site.     For example, the size and shape of pressure distribution
manifold 110 may be adapted to the contours of deep and irregular shaped tissue sites.
         [0031]   More generally, a manifold is a substance or structure adapted to distribute
reduced pressure to and/or remove fluids from a tissue site, or both. In some embodiments,
though, a manifold may also facilitate delivering fluids to a tissue site, if the fluid path is
reversed or a secondary fluid path is provided, for example. A manifold may include flow
channels or pathways that distribute fluids provided to and removed from a tissue site around
the manifold.     In one illustrative embodiment, the flow channels or pathways may be
interconnected to improve distribution of fluids provided to or removed from a tissue site. For
example, cellular foam, open-cell foam, porous tissue collections, and other porous material
such as gauze or felted mat generally include structural elements arranged to form flow
channels.    Liquids, gels, and other foams may also include or be cured to include flow
channels.
         [0032]   In one illustrative embodiment, pressure distribution manifold 110 may be a
porous foam material having interconnected cells or pores adapted to uniformly (or quasi
uniformly) distribute reduced pressure to a tissue site.      The foam material may be either
hydrophobic or hydrophilic. In one non-limiting example, pressure distribution manifold 110
can be an open-cell, reticulated polyurethane foam such as GranuFoam* dressing available
from Kinetic Concepts, Inc. of San Antonio, Texas.
         [0033]   In an example in which pressure distribution manifold 110 may be made from
a hydrophilic material, pressure distribution manifold 110 may also wick fluid away from a
tissue site, while continuing to distribute reduced pressure to the tissue site.  The wicking
properties of pressure distribution manifold 110 may draw fluid away from a tissue site by
capillary flow or other wicking mechanisms. An example of a hydrophilic foam is a polyvinyl
alcohol, open-cell foam such as V.A.C.           WhiteFoam* dressing available from Kinetic
Concepts, Inc. of San Antonio, Texas. Other hydrophilic foams may include those made from
polyether.    Other foams that may exhibit hydrophilic characteristics include hydrophobic
foams that have been treated or coated to provide hydrophilicity.
         [0034]   Pressure distribution manifold 110 may further promote granulation at a
tissue site when pressure within the sealed therapeutic environment is reduced. For example,
any or all of the surfaces of pressure distribution manifold 110 may have an uneven, coarse, or

                                               -9
jagged profile that can induce microstrains and stresses at a tissue site if reduced pressure is
applied through pressure distribution manifold 110.
         [0035]   In one embodiment, pressure distribution manifold 110 may be constructed
from bioresorbable materials.        Suitable bioresorbable materials may include, without
limitation, a polymeric blend of polylactic acid (PLA) and polyglycolic acid (PGA).           The
polymeric blend may also include without limitation polycarbonates, polyfumarates, and
capralactones. Pressure distribution manifold 110 may further serve as a scaffold for new cell
growth, or a scaffold material may be used in conjunction with pressure distribution manifold
 110 to promote cell-growth. A scaffold is generally a substance or structure used to enhance
or promote the growth of cells or formation of tissue, such as a three-dimensional porous
structure that provides a template for cell growth. Illustrative examples of scaffold materials
include calcium phosphate, collagen, PLA/PGA, coral hydroxy apatites, carbonates, or
processed allograft materials.
         [0036]   Drape 108 is an example of a sealing member. A sealing member may be
constructed from a material that can provide a fluid seal between two components or two
environments, such as between a therapeutic environment and a local external environment.
The sealing member may be, for example, an impermeable or semi-permeable, elastomeric
material that can provide a seal adequate to maintain a reduced pressure at a tissue site for a
given reduced-pressure source.      For semi-permeable materials, the permeability generally
should be low enough that a desired reduced pressure may be maintained. An attachment
device may be used to attach a sealing member to an attachment surface, such as undamaged
epidermis, a gasket, or another sealing member. The attachment device may take many forms.
For example, an attachment device may be a medically-acceptable, pressure-sensitive adhesive
that extends about a periphery, a portion, or an entire sealing member.           Other example
embodiments of an attachment device may include a double-sided tape, paste, hydrocolloid,
hydrogel, silicone gel, organogel, or an acrylic adhesive.
         [0037] Container 112 is representative of a container, canister, pouch, or other storage
component that can be used to manage exudates and other fluids withdrawn from a tissue site.
In many environments, a rigid container may be preferred or required for collecting, storing,
and disposing of fluids. In other environments, fluids may be properly disposed of without
rigid container storage, and a re-usable container could reduce waste and costs associated with
reduced-pressure therapy.      Liquid barriers are usually an integral part of most reduced
pressure therapy containers, though. For example, certain filters can reduce odor and prevent

                                                - 10
exudates from entering the reduced-pressure source and other components downstream from
the container. In general, liquid barriers allow air to flow from the container to the reduced
pressure source while preventing contamination. However, protein deposits can accumulate
on the liquid barriers and gradually reduce the volume of air flowing from the container,
which can adversely affect therapy and cause false blockage alarms. Consequently, filters can
be a limiting factor for re-using a container.
        [0038] As disclosed herein, reduced-pressure therapy system 100 can overcome these
shortcomings and others by providing a re-usable container for collecting exudates that
ensures filter changes at regular intervals. For example, in some embodiments of reduced
pressure therapy system 100, container 112 may be a re-usable fluid container, and a single
use dressing connector, such as connector 114, may couple container 112 to dressing 102 and
reduced-pressure source 104. In one particular embodiment, the dressing connector includes
an integrated, inline liquid barrier and provides two pneumatic pathways. In general, the first
pneumatic pathway can connect the dressing to the fluid container, and the second pneumatic
pathway can connect the fluid container to the reduced-pressure source or other downstream
components, through the liquid barrier.        The dressing connector may also include a tube
having one end bonded or semi-permanently coupled to the first pneumatic pathway. The
other end of the tube can be connected to the dressing during therapy. In some embodiments,
the second pneumatic pathway may be directly coupled to a reduced-pressure source through a
port adapted for mating with the reduced-pressure source, while in other embodiments the
second pneumatic pathway may be indirectly coupled to a reduced-pressure source through
one or more intermediate components. The fluid container may also include a drain port with
a drain cover that may be removed and replaced. The fluid container may be a rigid canister in
some embodiments, but may be a flexible container such as a soft-sided pouch in other
embodiments.
        [0039] In general, reduced-pressure therapy may be applied until a dressing requires
replacement or therapy is complete. When the dressing requires replacement or therapy is
complete, the fluid container may be emptied and the dressing connector (with the integrated
liquid barrier) can be disposed of with the dressing. Consequently, the liquid barrier may only
be used for a fixed duration or for a fixed volume of exudates, which substantially reduces or
eliminates cross-contamination between patients (as a dressing should not be used on multiple
patients) and blockages due to extended use by a single patient.

                                              - 11
         [0040] Figure 2 is a schematic diagram illustrating additional details that may be
associated with an example embodiment of reduced-pressure therapy system 100.            In this
example embodiment, reduced-pressure therapy system 100 generally includes a dressing 202
fluidly coupled to a container, such as canister 204, through a tube 206 and dressing connector
208. In some embodiments, a dressing interface (not shown) may facilitate coupling dressing
202 and tube 206. For example, such a dressing interface may be a T.R.A.C.* Pad or Sensa
T.R.A.C.* Pad available from KCI of San Antonio, Texas. In some embodiments, the dressing
interface may be a portion of tube 206 extending into the sealed therapeutic environment, or
may be a vacuum port on a micro-pump that extends into the sealed therapeutic environment.
         [0041] Dressing connector 208 in this example embodiment can be directly coupled to
a reduced-pressure source 210. Thus, canister 204 can be fluidly coupled to both dressing 202
and reduced-pressure source 210.        Canister 204 and reduced-pressure source 210 may
additionally be mechanically coupled to increase stability, such as with a fastener or
interlocking features. As illustrated in Figure 2, dressing 202 may be applied to a tissue site
212, and exudates 214 may be removed from the tissue site 212 and collected in canister 204
as reduced-pressure therapy is applied. In general, exudates and other fluids flow toward
lower pressure along a fluid path 216.
         [0042] Figure 3 is an exploded diagram illustrating additional details that may be
associated with an example embodiment of dressing connector 208.               In this example
embodiment, dressing connector 208 generally includes interfaces 302-304 and a liquid barrier
306.    Interface 302 may be generally described as a "container interface" that provides
connectors, fasteners, or fittings adapted to mate with corresponding connectors, fasteners, or
fittings of another component, particularly a fluid container.       In Figure 3, for example,
interface 302 is illustrated with three female connectors, i.e., receptacles 308-310 and a port
312, but other combinations of male and female connectors are also possible. Interface 302
may additionally provide one or more orientation guides, such as orientation recesses 314a
314b.     Receptacles 308-310, port 312, and orientation recesses 314a-314b are generally
exposed to an exterior surface 315 of dressing connector 208. For example, in the example
embodiment of Figure 3, receptacles 308-310 are exposed on a first side of exterior surface
315 and port 312 is exposed on a second, adjacent side.
         [0043] In more particular embodiments, receptacles 308-310 may be generally
described as cavities exposed to exterior surface 315 and adapted to receive and hold a male
connector.    In yet more particular embodiments, receptacle 308 may be an inlet receptacle

                                               - 12
adapted to receive fluid flow from an outlet fitting of a container, and receptacle 310 may be
an outlet receptacle adapted to exhaust fluid flow into the container. A channel 316 may
fluidly couple receptacle 308 to an aperture 317, and a channel 318 may fluidly couple
receptacle 310 to port 312. Tube 206 may be bonded or semi-permanently attached to port
312 to prevent separation under expected therapeutic conditions. For example, tube 206 may
be bonded to port 312 with an adhesive, glue, or cement, or tube 206 and port 312 may be
sized to provide a press fit.
        [0044] Interface 304 may be generally described as a "downstream interface" that
provides an aperture 320 adapted for fluid communication with channel 316 and a connector
adapted to engage a downstream component.            In Figure 3, for example, the connector is
represented as a fitting 322 that may be adapted to mechanically couple with reduced-pressure
source 210. In the illustrated embodiment, fitting 322 is a male fitting (i.e., a part bearing one
or more protrusions) adapted to engage a female fitting or receptacle, but in other
embodiments, fitting 322 may be a female fitting adapted to engage a male fitting, for
example. Interface 304 may additionally include a recess 324 adapted to receive liquid barrier
306.
        [0045] In this example embodiment, tube 206 can be fluidly coupled to port 312 (i.e.,
through a lumen in tube 206) and port 312 can be fluidly coupled to receptacle 310 (i.e.,
through channel 318). When assembled, aperture 320 may be aligned with aperture 317 to
fluidly couple fitting 322 to receptacle 316 through liquid barrier 306.
        [0046] In more particular embodiments, liquid barrier 306 may be a hydrophobic,
bacterial filter. A charcoal filter may also be co-located or placed inline with the hydrophobic,
bacterial filter to reduce odor. In yet more particular embodiments, liquid barrier 306 may be
a gel-blocking sintered polymer filter that swells on contact with water, which can block the
fluid path between a reduced-pressure source and a canister. Suitable polymers include, for
example, fluoropolymers such as polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), polyvinylidene fluoride
(PVdF),      or   fluorinated   ethylenepropylene     (FEP);   chlorofluoropolymers,     such   as
polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE); polyolefins such as high density polyethylene (HDPE),
polypropylene (PP), cyclic olefin copolymer (COC), or polymethylpent-1-ene (PMP);
polyvinyl acetate (PVAc) or ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA); polycarbonate (PC); polyesters
such as polyethylene terephthalate (PET) or PET copolymers (PETG); or polysulphones or
polyethersulphones.      The polymer may also contain charcoal to reduce odor. Additionally,
filters may be coated to enhance hydrophobicity in some embodiments. Polymers may be

                                               - 13
formed into membranes or sintered           (particularly for PVAc, EVA,       polyolefin's, and
fluoropolymers).
         [0047] In the example embodiment of Figure 3, interface 302 and interface 304 are
illustrated as separate components that may be bonded together to enclose liquid barrier 306.
In other embodiments, dressing connector 208 may be fabricated from a single mold in which
interface 302 and interface 304 form a unitary structure. Liquid barrier 306 in this instance
may be formed from a sintered polymer, for example, that can be inserted into port 322 of the
unitary structure consisting of 302 and 304. This type of assembly may also suit a more
common sheet filter welded or glued to a molded carrier that can also be pushed into port 322.
Liquid barrier 306 may also be welded or glued directly to a singular unitary structure
consisting of 302 and 304.
         [0048] In an example embodiment of manufacturing a dressing connector such as
dressing connector 208, a first interface (such as interface 302) may be formed with a first port
(such as port 312), a second port, a first receptacle (such as receptacle 310), and a second
receptacle (such as receptacle 308). A first channel, such as channel 318, may be formed from
the first port to the first receptacle. A second channel, such as channel 316, may be formed
from the second port to the second receptacle. A tube such as tube 206 may be coupled to the
first port, such as by bonding the tube to the first port with an adhesive. A second interface
(such as interface 304) may be formed with a third port (such as aperture 320) and a fitting
(such as fitting 322). The second port and the third port may be aligned and a liquid barrier
disposed between the second port and the third port before coupling the first interface to the
second interface.
         [0049] Figure 4 is a perspective view of a container that may be associated with
example embodiments of reduced-pressure therapy system 100. In this example embodiment,
the container may be a rigid canister 400 that generally includes an interface 402, an alignment
recess 404, a drain port 406, and a drain cover 408. Interface 402 may be described as a
"connector interface" that can be recessed in the body 414 of rigid canister 400 and adapted
for fluidly coupling with a dressing connector, such as interface 302 of dressing connector
208.    For example, interface 402 may provide fittings 410-412, which can be adapted for
coupling to receptacles 308-310, and may be dimensioned and recessed within body 414 of
canister 400 to minimize the profile of dressing connector 208. Similarly, alignment recess
404 may be dimensioned to receive tube 206 to minimize the profile of tube 206.             More
particularly, in one embodiment, alignment recess 404 may have a depth that is substantially

                                              - 14
equivalent to an outside diameter of a longitudinal portion of tube 206. In some embodiments,
rigid canister 400 may additionally include orientation fittings (not shown) adapted to mate
with orientation recesses 314a-314b to facilitate proper orientation of dressing connector 208.
In more particular embodiments, fitting 410 may be an outlet fitting adapted to sealingly
engage and exhaust fluid flow to an inlet receptacle of a dressing connector, and fitting 412
may be an inlet fitting adapted to sealingly engage and receive fluid flow from a dressing
connector, such as dressing connector 208. In the particular example embodiment illustrated
in Figure 4, canister 400 also provides a shoulder 416, a ridge 418 fixed to shoulder 416, and
an end surface 418. Shoulder 416 and ridge 418 are adapted to abut a counterpart ridge and
shoulder, respectively, on another component, such as a reduced-pressure source.            Thus,
shoulder 416 and ridge 418 can be used as a structural support for coupling to other
components, as well as providing clearance for drain port 406 and drain cover 408 positioned
on end surface 418, as shown in Figure 4.
        [0050] In one example method of providing reduced-pressure therapy, a dressing may
be coupled to a first dressing connector. For example, a dressing may be applied to a tissue
site and tube 206 may be coupled to the dressing and to dressing connector 208. Dressing
connector 208 may then be coupled to canister 400, such as by pressing receptacles 308-310
onto fittings 410-412, respectively. In some embodiments, orientation recesses 314a-314b
may also be aligned with corresponding orientation fittings on canister 400. Canister 400 and
dressing connector 208 can then be coupled to reduced-pressure source 210, such that liquid
barrier 306 is disposed in the fluid path between canister 400 and reduced-pressure source 210.
Tube 206 may be placed in alignment recess 404, and therapy may be initiated (reduced
pressure source 210 may be activated and reduced pressure applied through the dressing, for
example). In some embodiments, reduced-pressure therapy system 100 may include a leak
detector and can be programmed to activate an alarm or alert if drain cover 408 is not replaced
properly or if dressing connector 208 is not properly coupled to reduced-pressure source 210.
        [0051] Reduced-pressure may be applied and exudates collected from the tissue site in
canister 400 until canister 400 is substantially full, the dressing needs changing, or therapy is
complete, for example. Exudates may be emptied from canister 400, and dressing connector
208 may be replaced with a second dressing connector having a second (and preferably
unused) liquid barrier. For example, the dressing may be removed from the tissue site, and
dressing connector 208 may be removed from canister 400. A second dressing can be coupled
to the second dressing connector, which can be coupled to canister 400 and reduced-pressure

                                               - 15
source 210. Dressing connector 208 (with liquid barrier 306) can (and should) be disposed of
with the dressing, which encourages regular changes of liquid barrier 306.
        [0052] These operations are merely illustrative, however, and some of these operations
may be consolidated or omitted, where appropriate, and these operations may be modified or
changed considerably without departing from the scope of teachings provided herein.           In
addition, a number of these operations may be executed concurrently with, or in parallel to,
one or more additional operations.         The sequence of these operations may be altered
considerably, as reduced-pressure therapy system 100 provides substantial flexibility.
        [0053] Figure 5 is a partial cross-sectional view of dressing connector 208 and canister
400 illustrating additional details that may be associated with some embodiments of reduced
pressure therapy system 100. Dressing connector 208 is shown engaged with canister 400 in
Figure 5, such that fittings 410-412 are inserted into receptacles 308-310, respectively. In the
example embodiment of Figure 5, receptacles 308-310 and fittings 410-412 are tapered
(chamfered) to guide the relative movement between receptacles 308-310 and fittings 410
412. Receptacles 308-310 may also provide recesses 502-504 adapted to engage and retain
ridges 506-508 on fittings 410-412. In some embodiments, recesses 502-504 and ridges 506
508 may be annular recesses and ridges. In other example embodiments, ridges 506-508 may
be flexible pins or pegs. In some embodiments, only a single pin or peg may be preferable,
while in other embodiments several pins or pegs may be annularly spaced (regularly or
irregularly) about fittings 410-412. Additionally or alternatively, recesses 502-504 and ridges
506 may be configured to allow dressing connector 208 to engage canister 400 in only one
orientation.   Recesses 502-504 may be adapted to mate with ridges 506-508 accordingly.
Fitting 322 may also provide a chamfered surface and a ridge 510 adapted to engage a
receptacle 512, which may be associated with a conduit to or a housing of a reduced-pressure
source or other downstream component, for example.
        [0054] When engaged, as illustrated in the example embodiments of Figure 5, dressing
connector 208 and canister 400 provide fluid path 216 between an upstream component, such
as a dressing, and receptacle 512. Fluid path 216 in this example can be generally described as
having several parts. For example, a lumen through tube 206 provides a fluid path between
the upstream component and port 312, and channel 318 provides a fluid path between port 312
and receptacle 310. A channel 516 through fitting 412, a chamber 518 in canister 400, and a
channel 520 through fitting 410 provide a fluid path between receptacle 310 and receptacle
308.   Channel 316 and a channel 522 through fitting 322 provide a fluid path between

                                               - 16
receptacle 308 and an aperture 524 exposed on exterior surface 315. Liquid barrier 306 in this
example can be disposed inline, i.e., in fluid path 216, between aperture 317 and aperture 320.
The components of dressing connector 208 and canister 400 are preferably adapted to provide
an airtight seal when coupled. For example, fittings 410-412 and receptacles 308-310 may be
sized to provide a press fit or an interference fit that substantially seals fluid path 216 from
external environments.
         [0055] Figure 6 is a perspective view of an example embodiment of a reduced-pressure
therapy system 600.      This example embodiment illustrates a reduced-pressure source 602
adapted to mate with a canister 604 to provide a convenient system for applying reduced
pressure therapy. A fluid connection between reduced-pressure source 602 and canister 604
may be provided through a dressing connector 606. Moreover, dressing connector 606 may be
adapted to fit in a recess of reduced-pressure source 602 and canister 604 to minimize the
profile of the assembly. Tubing 608 may similarly be adapted to fit in a recess of canister 604
to minimize the profile of the assembly, as well as provide additional stability of the fluid
connection.
         [0056] Figure 7 is a partial cross-sectional view of another example embodiment of a
dressing connector, illustrated as dressing connector 702.          Dressing connector 702 is
illustrated engaged with a canister, such as canister 400.     Dressing connector 702 may be
similar to dressing connector 208 in many respects, but may also provide one or more
feedback or sensing conduits, such as sensing conduit 704, which can fluidly connect a
dressing to a controller or regulator, such as regulator 106. The controller or regulator regulate
pressure in the dressing, and may also be adapted to detect improper connections, such as an
inadequate connection between the dressing connector and the reduced-pressure source, or an
inadequate seal between the drain port and the drain cover. As illustrated, dressing connector
702 can provide fluid path 216 between a downstream component and an upstream
component, and also provides another fluid path 706.          Fluid path 706 may include, for
example, sensing conduit 704 fluidly coupled to a sensing lumen 708 in a multi-lumen tube
710, which can be coupled to a dressing or other upstream component. Fluid path 216 may
include a delivery lumen 712 in multi-lumen tube 710 between the upstream component and
port 312.
         [0057] Figures 8A-8B      are partial cross-sectional views of yet other example
embodiments of a dressing connector engaged with a canister. In these examples, a dressing
connector 802 is illustrated engaged with a canister, such as canister 400. Dressing connector

                                                - 17
802 may be similar to dressing connector 208 and dressing connector 702 in many respects,
but is illustrative of an alternative positioning of liquid barrier 804a-804b in fluid path 216. In
some embodiments, liquid barrier 804a-804b may be formed from a sintered polymer.
Dressing connector 802 in this example may be a unitary structure, and liquid barrier 804a
804b may be welded or glued to port 302. For example, an adhesive may be applied to an
exterior surface of liquid barrier 804a, which may be inserted into port 322. Alternatively or
additionally, an adhesive may be applied to an exterior surface and/or an interior surface of
port 322 before receiving liquid barrier 804a. In other embodiments, liquid barrier 804a may
be coupled to port 322 with an interference fit. Adhesive may also be applied to an exterior
surface of liquid barrier 804b and/or port 322 to secure liquid barrier 804b in position. Thus,
liquid barriers 804a-804b may be disposed in fluid path 216, but may be disposed at least
partially external to dressing connector 208, which may reduce part count and manufacturing
complexity.
         [0058] Yet     other components      may    be provided     in alternative  or additional
embodiments. For example, a secondary inline filter may also be provided downstream of the
dressing connector. A one-way control valve may be included to control the flow of exudates
from the wound, which may be particularly advantageous while emptying the canister to
prevent exudates in the tube and air from the surrounding environment from being drawn into
the wound. A Vortis pump may additionally be integrated into the dressing connector, which
can maintain reduced pressure after drawdown to significantly extend the life of the reduced
pressure therapy system.
         [0059] In another example embodiment, a drain plug or cover may be integrated with
the dressing connector such that the dressing connector must be removed to empty fluid from
the canister.    The dressing connector may also provide a sacrificial fastener adapted to be
broken or rendered inoperable in the process of either fitting the dressing connector to the
canister or removing the dressing connector from the canister so that the dressing connector
may not be re-used.
         [0060] The systems and methods described herein may provide significant advantages,
some of which have already been mentioned. For example, reduced-pressure therapy system
100 provides a canister that can be re-used, which in turn can lead to significant reduction in
cost and environmental impact over the duration of therapy. Moreover, such a canister may be
manufactured through a low-cost process such as blow molding, substantially reducing errors
in welding filters and potentially leading to yet additional cost savings.        Reduced-pressure

                                             - 18
therapy system may also provide redundant liquid barriers, while promoting regular
replacement of the primary liquid barrier without adding a mental burden to therapy.
         [0061] It should be apparent from the foregoing that an invention having significant
advantages has been provided. While shown in only a few forms, the systems and methods
illustrated are susceptible to various changes and modifications without departing from the
spirit thereof.

                                                  - 19
                                                CLAIMS
1. A dressing connector, comprising:
             a first fluid path between a first connector and a second connector;
             a liquid barrier disposed in the first fluid path; and
             a second fluid path between a third connector and a fourth connector;
             wherein the first fluid path and the second fluid path are exposed to an exterior
                       surface of the dressing connector.
2. The dressing connector of claim 1, wherein:
             the first connector is a fitting;
             the second connector is a first receptacle;
             the third connector is a port; and
             the fourth connector is a second receptacle.
3.  The dressing connector of any preceding claim, further comprising a tube bonded to the
    third connector.
4. The dressing connector of claim 3, wherein the tube comprises a delivery lumen and a
    sensing lumen, and further comprising a third fluid path adapted for fluidly coupling with
    the sensing lumen.
5. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the liquid barrier is a filter.
6. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the liquid barrier comprises a
    hydrophobic bacterial filter.
7. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the liquid barrier comprises a gel
    blocking sintered polymer filter.
8.  The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the liquid barrier comprises a
    charcoal filter.
9. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the first connector is a tapered
    fitting.
10. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the second connector and the
    fourt connector each comprises a cavity exposed to the exterior surface.

                                                  - 20
11. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the second connector and the
    fourth connector each comprises a tapered cavity exposed to the exterior surface.
12. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the second connector and the
    fourth connector each comprises a recess within a cavity adapted to engage a ridge on a
    container fitting.
13. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the second connector and the
    fourth connector each comprises an annular recess adapted to engage a ridge on a
    container fitting.
14. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the first fluid path comprises a
    channel through the first connector and a port exposing the channel to the exterior surface.
15. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the first connector comprises a
    ridge adapted to engage a downstream component.
16. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, further comprising an orientation recess
    adjacent to the second connector and the fourth connector.
17. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, further comprising a one-way valve in the
    second fluid path.
18. The dressing connector of any preceding claim, wherein the liquid barrier is disposed at
    least partially external to the first connector.
19. A dressing connector, comprising:
            a fitting fluidly coupled to a first receptacle through an inline liquid barrier;
            a port fluidly coupled to a second receptacle; and
            a tube fluidly coupled to the port;
           wherein the fitting is adapted to engage a downstream component, and the first
                     receptacle and the second receptacle each comprises a cavity exposed to an
                     exterior surface adapted to engage a container fitting.

                                                 - 21
20. The dressing connector of claim 19, wherein:
            the fitting comprises a male fitting and an annular ridge adapted to engage the
                     downstream component; and
            each cavity comprises an annular recess adapted to engage the container fitting.
21. A reduced-pressure treatment system comprising:
            a downstream component;
            a container;
            a tube coupled to an upstream component; and
            a dressing connector coupled to the container and to the tube;
            wherein the dressing connector comprises a first fluid path between the container
                     and the downstream component, a second fluid path between the container
                     and the tube, and a liquid barrier disposed in the first fluid path.
22. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21, wherein:
            the container comprises a connector interface;
            the dressing connector comprises a container interface; and
            the container interface is fluidly coupled to the connector interface.
23. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21, wherein:
            the container comprises two fittings;
            the dressing connector comprises two receptacles; and
            the two receptacles are fluidly coupled to the two fittings.
24. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21 or any of claims 22-23, wherein the downstream
    component is a reduced-pressure source.
25. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21 or any of claims 22-24, wherein the downstream
    component is a vacuum pump.
26. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21 or any of claims 22-25, wherein the upstream
    component is a manifold.
27. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21 or any of claims 22-26, wherein the container is
    a rigid canister comprising a drain port and an alignment recess adapted to receive a
    longitudinal portion of the tube.

                                                 - 22
28. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21, wherein:
          the downstream component is a reduced-pressure source;
          the upstream component is a manifold;
          the container is a rigid canister comprising a drain port, an alignment recess adapted
                   to receive a longitudinal portion of the tube, and two fittings;
          the dressing connector comprises two receptacles; and
          the two receptacles are fluidly coupled to the two fittings.
29. The reduced-pressure system of claim 21 or any of claims 22-28, wherein:
          the tube comprises a delivery lumen and a sensing lumen;
          the dressing connector further comprises a third fluid path;
          the second fluid path is in fluid communication with the delivery lumen; and
          the third fluid path is in fluid communication with the sensing lumen.
30. A system for collecting exudates in a reduced-pressure therapy environment, the system
    comprising:
           a dressing connector comprising:
                   a first interface adapted to couple the dressing connector to a downstream
                   component,
                   a second interface,
                   a tube,
                   a first fluid path between the first interface and the second interface,
                   a second fluid path between the second interface and the tube, and
                   a liquid barrier in the first fluid path; and
           a container comprising:
                   a fluid chamber;
                   a third interface fluidly coupled to the fluid chamber,
                   an alignment recess on an external surface, and
                   a drain port fluidly coupled to the fluid chamber;
          wherein the second interface is adapted to couple to the third interface and fluidly
                   couple the first fluid path to the second fluid path through the fluid chamber.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein:
          the second interface comprises an inlet receptacle and an outlet receptacle;
          the third interface comprises an inlet fitting and an outlet fitting;

                                                   - 23
            the inlet fitting is adapted to sealingly engage the outlet receptacle; and
            the outlet fitting is adapted to sealingly engage the inlet receptacle.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein:
            the inlet fitting comprises an inlet channel fluidly coupled to the fluid chamber; and
            the outlet fitting comprises an outlet channel fluidly coupled to the fluid chamber;
            whereby the first fluid path can be fluidly coupled to the second fluid path through
                     the inlet channel and the outlet channel.
33. The system of claim 31 or claim 32, wherein:
            first interface comprises a fitting;
            the first fluid path comprises a fluid channel through the fitting; and
            the liquid barrier is in the first fluid path between the inlet receptacle and the fluid
                     channel.
34. The system of claim 30 or any of claims 31-32, wherein the liquid barrier is a hydrophobic
    filter.
35. The system of claim 30 or any of claims 31-34, wherein:
            the dressing connector further comprises an orientation recess;
            the container further comprises an orientation fitting having a shape and a depth
                     adapted to engage the orientation recess and orient the dressing connector
                     such that the second interface is adapted to sealingly engage the third
                     interface in only one orientation.
36. The system of claim 30 or any of claims 31-35, wherein the dressing connector further
    comprises a drain plug adapted to engage and seal the drain port.

                                               - 24
37. A method of operating a reduced-pressure therapy system, the method comprising:
          coupling a dressing to a first dressing connector;
          coupling the first dressing connector to a fluid container and a reduced-pressure
                  source, the first dressing connector comprising a first liquid barrier between
                  the fluid container and the reduced-pressure source;
          applying reduced-pressure from the reduced-pressure source to a tissue site through
                  the dressing;
          collecting exudate from the tissue site in the fluid container;
          emptying exudate from the fluid container; and
          replacing the first dressing connector with a second dressing connector comprising a
                  second liquid barrier.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein replacing the first dressing connector comprises:
          removing the dressing from the tissue site;
          removing the first dressing connector from the fluid container;
          coupling a second dressing to the second dressing connector;
          coupling the second dressing connector to the fluid container; and
          coupling the second dressing connector to the reduced pressure source.
39. The method of claim 37 or claim 38, wherein coupling the dressing to the first dressing
    connector comprises coupling a tube of the first dressing connector to the dressing.
40. A method of manufacturing a dressing connector, the method comprising:
          forming a first interface comprising a first port, a second port, a first receptacle, and
                  a second receptacle;
          forming a first channel from the first port to the first receptacle;
          forming a second channel from the second port to the second receptacle;
          coupling a tube to the first port;
          forming a second interface comprising a third port and a fitting;
          forming a third channel from the third port through the fitting;
          aligning the second port and the third port;
          disposing a liquid barrier between the second port and the third port; and
          coupling the first interface to the second interface.

                                             - 25
41. The method of claim 40, wherein coupling the tube to the first port comprises bonding the
    tube to the first port with an adhesive.
42. The method of claim 40, further comprising installing a one-way valve between the first
    port and the first receptacle.
43. The method of claim 40, further comprising installing a micropump within the dressing
    connector.
44. The connectors, containers, systems and methods described herein.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
