                                              Abstract
   This disclosure provides methods for formulating compositions comprising one or more
   peptide proteasome inhibitors and a cyclodextrin, particularly a substituted cyclodextrin. As
   well as cyclodextrin complexation methods of formulating a peptide proteasome inhibitor
 5 (e.g., a compound of formula (1) - (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) with one
   or more cyclodextrins. Such methods substantially increase the solubility and stability of
   these proteasome inhibitors and facilitate both their manufacture and administration. For
   example, homogenous solutions of a compound of formula (5) (carfilzomib) can be obtained
   at a pharmaceutically useful pH (e.g., about 3.5) and at higher concentrations (e.g., about
10 5 mg/mL) than could be obtained without one or more cyclodextrins and the processes of
   complexation between the compound and one or more cyclodextrins provided herein.

               Cyclodextrin Complexation Methods for Formulating Peptide
                                       Proteasome Inhibitors
                         CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
 5 No. 2013259573, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
           This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Application No.
   61/644, 122, filed on May 8, 2012 and United States Provisional Application No. 61/777,475,
   filed on March 12, 2013, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                          TECHNICAL FIELD
10         This disclosure provides cyclodextrin complexation methods for formulating
   compositions comprising one or more peptide proteasome inhibitors and a cyclodextrin, or a
   mixture of cyclodextrins, particularly a substituted cyclodextrin(s). Such methods
   substantially increase the solubility and stability of these proteasome inhibitors and facilitate
   both their manufacture and administration.
15                                          BACKGROUND
           The proteasome has been validated as a therapeutic target, as demonstrated by the
   FDA approval of bortezomib, a boronic acid proteasome inhibitor, for the treatment of various
   cancer indications, including multiple myeloma. However, other more highly proteasome
   specific inhibitors that could have fewer toxic side effects have recently been described.
20 These compounds include peptide epoxy ketones such as epoxomicin, described in U.S.
   Pat. No. 6,831,099, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference, and those
   described in U.S. Patent No. 7,232,818, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
   reference. However, the low aqueous solubility of some of these compounds makes it difficult
   to formulate compositions at sufficiently high concentration to enable practical administration
25 with desired antineoplastic or other pharmacological effects. Thus, additional methods of
   formulating peptide epoxy ketones are needed.

                                            SUMMARY
            Provided herein are cyclodextrin complexation methods of formulating a peptide
   proteasome inhibitor (e.g., a compound of formula (1) - (5) or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof) with one or more cyclodextrins. Many peptide proteasome
 5 inhibitors have been shown to have low solubility in water. This low solubility can be
   overcome through complexation of the compound with one or more cyclodextrins using
   the methods provided herein. For example, homogenous solutions of a compound of
   formula (5) (carfilzomib) can be obtained at a pharmaceutically useful pH (e.g., about
   3.5) and at higher concentrations (e.g., about 5 mg/mL) than could be obtained without
10 one or more cyclodextrins and the processes of complexation between the compound and
   one or more cyclodextrins provided herein. In addition to increasing the solubility of a
   peptide proteasome inhibitor in solution, the formulations prepared by the methods
   provided herein result in pharmaceutical solutions having surprising stability. The
   stability of a complexed inhibitor is reflected in the lack of precipitation from the
15 homogeneous complexed inhibitor solution over extended periods of time and thermal
   stresses. For example, the complexed inhibitor can remain soluble for periods of time
   and under thermal stresses exceeding those typical for practical use of aseptically
   manufactured injectable pharmaceutical products. Although the high concentrations
   achieved by the processing methods provided herein may not be expected to be
20 thermodynamically stable, the physical stability of the solutions have been shown to be
   unaffected by storage temperature (e.g., the solutions can be stable from -20 *C to 25 *C),
   freeze thaw cycling, and lyophilization and reconstitution. The stability of the
   supersaturated solutions of complexed peptide proteasome inhibitor and one or more
   cyclodextrins is sufficient to tolerate adjustments to pH following complexation without
25 precipitation. For example, performing complexation in the pH range 2.5 - 3, then
   titrating the pH with sodium hydroxide solution to pH 3.5. This solution physical
   stability allows for use of the complexed material in a pH range acceptable for injection
   and other pharmaceutical purposes, as well exhibiting stability in a pH range where
   suitable chemical stability and shelf life is obtained. Accordingly, the pharmaceutical
30 compositions prepared by the methods provided herein can be supersaturated solutions
                                                  2

    that do not precipitate or-decrease in concentration to a significant extent during their use
    in any number of medical applications (e.g., a bulk solution during sterile product
    manufacture may not precipitate for several days post sterile filtration while being held in
    a vial filling sterile hold tank. Likewise, final reconstituted pharmaceutical compositions
 5  may be stable for a range of hours to days facilitating their use as medicinal agents).
             In addition to producing stable, highly concentrated solutions of a peptide
    proteasome inhibitor, the formulations prepared by the complexation methods provided
    herein can be achieved without the chemical degradation and stability limitations of other
    methods of formulation. For example, the methods provided herein avoid the use of
10  strong acids (e.g., HCl) to lower the pH during complexation. Although decreasing the
    pH of the formulation to a value less than 2 can facilitate the dissolution of the peptide
    proteasome inhibitor and produce a homogenous solution prior to complexation, the
    acidity of the solution can result in degradation of the peptide proteasome inhibitor. For
    example, in the case of the peptide proteasome inhibitor carfilzomib, use of a strong acid
15  such as HCI can result in hydrolysis of the pharmacological epoxide, and through
    nucleophilic attack with chloride ions, result in formation of a chlorohydrin adduct as a
   degradant (CDP):
                                            H                    0              Cl
                            N         N        N (S)N                 (S)  (S) OH
                                               H             z      H           C
                    O'-'          O       -           O       -0
   Based on its structure, this degradant is classified as an alkylator, which is a class of
20 compound considered by the FDA to be a potentially genotoxic impurity. Importantly,
   from a regulated product safety standpoint, using the methods provided herein avoids
   such strong acids and therefore degradation reactions of the peptide proteasome inhibitor
   to such compounds can be significantly reduced and, in some cases, may even be
   eliminated.
25
                                                    3

           In one aspect, methods for preparing a pharmaceutical composition are featured,
   which include:
           (i) providing a first combination that includes:
                 (a) one (or more) peptide proteasome inhibitors (e.g., a compound of formula
 5               (1) - (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof);
                 (b) one or more cyclodextrins ("CDs"); and
                (c) water;
                           wherein the first combination is heterogeneous and the compound or
                salt has a low solubility in the first combination; and
10
           (ii) contacting the first combination with an acid to form a second combination,
   wherein the compound is more soluble in the second combination than in the first
   combination.
15         In another -aspect, methods for preparing a pharmaceutical composition are
   featured, which include:
           (i) providing a first combination that includes:
                (a) a compound:
                                         0                  0
                                  HHo
                                       N             N
                         N                   N                 N
                                             H                 H
                 0             0                  0      -           0
20              or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                (b) one or more cyclodextrins ("CDs"); and
                (c) water;
                wherein the first combination is heterogeneous and the compound or salt has a
                low solubility in the first combination; and
                                                    4

           (ii) contacting the first combination with an acid to form a second combination,
   wherein the compound is more soluble in the second combination than in the first
   combination.
 5         In a further aspect, methods for preparing a pharmaceutical composition are
   featured, which include:
           (i) providing a first combination that includes:
                (a) a compound:
                                         0                0
                                 H                 H
                                       N           N0
                       N                                     N
                                           H                 H
                0            o       -          o     -           0
10              or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
                (b) SBECD; and
                (c) water for injection;
                wherein the first combination is heterogeneous and the compound or salt has a
                low solubility in the first combination; and
15         (ii) contacting the first combination with an aqueous solution of citric acid to form
   a second combination, wherein the compound is more soluble in the second combination
   than in the first combination.
           In one aspect, pharmaceutical compositions are featured, which are prepared by
20 any one of the methods described herein.
           In one aspect, methods for treating cancer (e.g., multiple myeloma, e.g., multiple
   myeloma that is relapsed and/or refractory) in a patient are featured, which include
   administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical
   composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
                                                  5

           In another aspect, methods for treating autoimmune disease in a patient are
   featured, which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of
   a pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
           In another aspect, methods for treating graft or transplant-related condition in a
 5 patient are featured, which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective
   amount of a pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described
   herein.
           In another aspect, methods for treating neurodegenerative disease in a patient are
   featured, which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of
10 a pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
           In another aspect, methods for treating fibrotic-associated condition in a patient
   are featured, which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount
   of a pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
           In another aspect, methods for treating fibrotic-associated condition in a patient
15 are featured, which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount
   of a pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
           In another aspect, methods for treating ischemic-related condition in a patient are
   featured, which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of
   a pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
20         In another aspect, methods for treating an infection in a patient are featured,
   which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a
   pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
           In another aspect, methods for treating an infection in a patient are featured,
   which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a
25 pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
           In another aspect, methods for treating disease associated with bone loss in a
   patient are featured, which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective
   amount of a pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described
   herein.
                                                 6

            In another aspect, methods for treating an infection in a patient are featured,
    which include administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a
    pharmaceutical composition prepared by any one of the methods described herein.
 5          Embodiments can include one or more of the following features.
            The first combination does not include appreciable amounts of any organic
    solvent(s). In some embodiments, the first combination does not include any amount or
    kind of organic solvent(s) described in U.S. Patent 7,232,818 and/or 7,417,042 and/or
    7,737,112 and/or US-2009-0105156 and/or US-2011-0236428, each of which is
10  incorporated herein by reference. In some embodiments, the first combination is free of
   any organic solvent(s) (e.g., contains less than 5%, less than 4%, less than 3%, less than
   2%, less than 1% (w/w or w/v) of any organic solvent(s)). In some embodiments, the
   first combination is substantially free of any organic solvent(s) (e.g., contains less than
   0.5%, less than 0.2, less than 0.1, less than 0.05% (w/w or w/v) of any organic
15 solvent(s)). In certain embodiments, the first combination does not include a detectable
   amount of any organic solvent(s).
           The first combination does not include appreciable amounts of any buffer(s). In
   some embodiments, the first combination does not include any amount or kind of any
   buffer(s) described in U.S. Patent 7,232,818 and/or 7,417,042 and/or 7,737,112 and/or
20 US-2009-0105156 and/or US-2011-0236428, each of which is incorporated herein by
   reference. In some embodiments, the first combination is free of any buffer(s) (e.g.,
   contains less than 5%, less than 4%, less than 3%, less than 2%, less than 1% (w/w or
   w/v) of any buffer(s)). In some embodiments, the first combination is substantially free
   of any buffer(s) (e.g., contains less than 0.5%, less than 0.2, less than 0.1, less than 0.05%
25 (w/w or w/v) of any buffer(s)). In some embodiments, the first combination does not
   include a detectable amount of any buffer(s).
           The second combination includes a complex of the compound and the one or
   more cyclodextrins.
           The acid is added in the form of an aqueous solution.
                                                  7

              At least one of the one or more cyclodextrins is HPBCD or SBECD (e.g.,
      SBECD).
              The inventors have discovered that it can be advantageous to minimize the
     amount of chloride ion (or other nucleophilic anions) in the methods and pharmaceutical
  5  compositions described herein.
              In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more cyclodextrins (added to the
     first combination) is a low chloride cyclodextrin. As used herein, a "low chloride
     cyclodextrin" refers to a chloride-containing cyclodextrin having less than or equal to
     0.05% w/w sodium chloride, or if a chloride source(s) other than (or in addition to)
10   sodium chloride is/are present, a "low chloride cyclodextrin" refers to a chloride
     containing cyclodextrin having a chloride ion content that is less than or equal to the
     amount of chloride that would be present in a cyclodextrin having 0.05% w/w sodium
     chloride. In some embodiments, the low chloride cyclodextrin is a low chloride SBECD.
     The determination of chloride concentration can be determined by a variety of methods
15   known in the art (e.g., for commercially obtained cyclodextrans from the manufacturer's
     product specification, e.g., by gravimetric techniques, e.g., by potentiometric techniques).
              In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more cyclodextrins (added to the
     first combination) does not include a detectable amount of chloride ion.
             In some embodiments, the amount of chloride ion present (e.g., the mole ratio of
20  chloride ion to compound) is sufficiently low so as to provide a shelf life of 2 years when
     stored at 2-8 degrees C. In certain embodiments, chloride ion is present, and the amount
    of chloride ion present is sufficiently low so as to provide a shelf life of 2 years when
    stored at 2-8 degrees C.
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
25  combination is not more than 2.0. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 2.0).
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 1.5. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
                                                    8

     present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
     than 0, but less than 1.5).
              In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
     combination is not more than 1.2. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
  5  present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
     than 0, but less than 1.2).
              In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
     combination is not more than 1.0. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
     present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
 10  than 0, but less than 1.0).
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
     combination is not more than 0.9. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
     present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 0.9).
 15          In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 0.8. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 0.8).
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
20  combination is not more than 0.7. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 0.7).
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 0.6. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
25  present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 0.6).
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 0.5. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
30  than 0, but less than 0.5).
                                                     9

            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is not more than 0.4. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
   present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.4).
 5          In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is not more than 0.3. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
   present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.3).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
10 combination is not more than 0.2. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
   present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.2).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is not more than 0.1. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
15 present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.1).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is from 0.2 to 1.2 (e.g., 0.3 to 1.2, e.g., 0.2 to 0.4, e.g., 0.3 to 0.4, e.g., 0.32).
           In embodiments, the mole ratios of chloride ion to compound described herein
20 can also be present in the second and/or third combinations.
           In one aspect, pharmaceutical compositions are featured, which are prepared by
   any one of the methods described herein and have a mole ratio of chloride ion to
   compound that is not more than 2.0. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion
   is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the pharmaceutical
25 compositions is other than 0, but less than 2.0).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 1.5. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 1.5).
                                                   10

            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 1.2. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 1.2).
 5         In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 1.0. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 1.0).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
10 pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.9. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.9).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.8. In certain embodiments, at least some
15 chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.8).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.7. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
20 pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.7).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.6. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.6).
25         In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.5. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.5).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
30 pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.4. In certain embodiments, at least some
                                                  11

    chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
    pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.4).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
    pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.3. In certain embodiments, at least some
  5 chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
    pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.3).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
    pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.2. In certain embodiments, at least some
    chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
10  pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.2).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
    pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.1. In certain embodiments, at least some
    chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
    pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.1).
15          In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions do not include a
    detectable amount of chloride ion.
            By way of example, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound (e.g., in any one
    more of the following: the first combination, the second combination, the third
    combination, the pharmaceutical compositions prepared by the methods described herein)
20  can be calculated as shown below using a dry powder vial of carfilzomib ("CFZ") as the
    basis for the calculation:
                 Vial content mass = 3.212 g
                 CFZ mass = 61.8 mg
                 Chloride max mass (at 0.03 % w/w chloride ion)= 0.0009636 g
25               Chloride max mole mass = 2.714 x 10A-5
                 (atomic mass Cl = 35.5)
                 CFZ mole mass      = 8.584 x 10A-5
                 (MW CFZ = 719.9)
                 Mole ratio Cl/CFZ in solid state in a vial = 0.32
30
                                                   12

           This calculation can also be determined for the first combination using, e.g., the
   chloride content of the cyclodextran (and any other chloride ion source) and the mass of
   the compound that are added to make the first combination.
           As the skilled artisan can appreciate, this ratio would be expected to the same in
 5 the precursor bulk solution used to fill the vial (pre-lyophilization) as well as when the
   contents of said dry powder vial are reconstituted in sterile water for patient
   administration.
           Providing a first combination (step (i)) includes adding the compound to a
10 solution of the one or more cyclodextrins and the water.
           The compound is a crystalline solid. In embodiments, the crystalline form of the
   compound has an X-ray powder diffraction pattern comprising 2 to 8 characteristic peaks
   expressed in degrees 20 at 6.10, 9.32, 10.10, 12.14, 13.94, 18.44, 20.38, and 23.30.
           The method further includes mixing the first combination prior to contacting the
15 first combination with an acid.
           Steps (i) and (ii) are both performed in a single vessel.
           The method further includes mixing the second combination for a time sufficient
   to achieve a homogeneous third combination.
           The dissolved and complexed concentration of the compound in the third
20 combination is from 1 mg/mL to 20 mg/mL.
           The dissolved and complexed concentration of the compound in the third
   combination is from 4 to 8 mg/mL.
           The pH of the third combination is from 2 to 4.
           The method further includes filtering the third combination.
25         The method further comprises lyophilizing the third combination to provide a
   lyophilizate.
           The method further comprises mixing the lyophilizate with a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier.
           The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises sterile water for injection. In
30 embodiments, the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further includes citric acid.
                                                 13

             Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
     same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
    disclosure belongs. Methods and materials are described herein for use in the present
  5 disclosure; other, suitable methods and materials known in the art can also be used. The
    materials, methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
    All publications, patent applications, patents, sequences, database entries, and other
    references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of
    conflict, the present specification, including definitions, will control.
10           Other features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the
    following detailed description and figures, and from the claims.
                                 DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
             FIG 1 is a line graph showing complexation of CFZ-API by SBECD over time.
             FIG 2 illustrates the independence of the pharmaceutical compositions prepared
15  herein on physiochemical properties (e.g., particle size) of the proteasome inhibitor.
            FIG 3 is a line graph showing an increase in CFZ-API solubilization with
    increasing SBECD concentration.
            FIG 4 illustrates the independence of CFZ-API/SBECD complex solubility on
    processing or storage temperature.
20          FIG 5 illustrates the correlation between the levels of chlorohydrin degradation
    product (CDP) and the two-factor interaction of water and chloride content at pH 3.5.
            FIG 6 illustrates carfilzomib solubility in SBECD at pH 1.5 and pH 3.5, 25"C and
    5*C, (5.9 mg/mL Citric Acid).
            FIG 7 is a graph that illustrates that the aqueous solubility of carfilzomib
25  increased as a function of SBE-p-CD concentration. The concave-down phase solubility
    profile can be classified as An-type complexation behavior. Starting with low pH has a
    significant solubility enhancement, whereas temperature has negligible effect. See
    Example 5.
                                                   14

            FIG 8 is a graph that illustrates the solubilization data for carfilzomib during
   compounding as a function of time at pH values 1.5 and 3 (at 5*C), as well as for 5%
   ethanol. See Example 5.
            FIG 9 is a graph that illustrates molar solubilized carfilzomib versus
 5 complexation indexed free cyclodextrin.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Provided herein are cyclodextrin complexation methods of formulating a peptide
   proteasome inhibitor (e.g., a compound of formula (1) - (5) or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof) with a cyclodextrin. Also provided herein are pharmaceutical
10 compositions comprising a peptide proteasome inhibitor and a cyclodextrin, wherein the
   composition has a chloride ion as described anywhere herein (e.g., the composition is
   prepared using a low chloride cyclodextrin; e.g., the mole ratio of chloride ion to
   compound is 0.32). In some embodiments, formulations having low chloride ion content
   as described herein can result in decreased formation of undesired degradation products.
15
   Definitions
            The term "Cryalkyl" refers to substituted or unsubstituted saturated hydrocarbon
   groups, including straight-chain alkyl and branched-chain alkyl groups that contain from
   x to y carbons in the chain, including haloalkyl groups such as trifluoromethyl and 2,2,2
20 trifluoroethyl, etc. The terms "C 2 -yalkenyl" and "C 2 -yalkynyl" refer to substituted or
   unsubstituted unsaturated aliphatic groups analogous in length and possible substitution
   to the alkyls described above, but that contain at least one double or triple bond,
   respectively.
            The term "alkoxy" refers to an alkyl group having an oxygen attached thereto.
25 Representative alkoxy groups include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, tert-butoxy and the like.
   An "ether" is two hydrocarbons covalently linked by an oxygen. Accordingly, the
   substituent of an alkyl that renders that alkyl an ether is or resembles an alkoxy.
           The term "Ci-alkoxyalkyl" refers to a Cialkyl group substituted with an alkoxy
   group, thereby forming an ether.
                                                  15

           The term "C 1 .,aralkyl", as used herein, refers to a CI-6alkyl group substituted with
   an aryl group.
           The terms "amine" and "amino" are art-recognized and refer to both unsubstituted
   and substituted amines and salts thereof, e.g., a moiety that can be represented by the
 5 general formulae:
                                            R9                R9
                                    -N            or      -- N-RIO
                                          \                    l 0
                                            RR'
           where R9 , R'0 and R10' each independently represent a hydrogen, an alkyl, an
                            8
   alkenyl, -(CH     2)m-R ,   or R9 and R'0 taken together with the N atom to which they are
   attached complete a heterocycle having from 4 to 8 atoms in the ring structure; R8
10 represents an aryl, a cycloalkyl, a cycloalkenyl, a heterocyclyl or a polycyclyl; and m is
   zero or an integer from 1 to 8. In some embodiments, only one of R9 or RIO is a carbonyl,
   e.g., R9, R 10, and the nitrogen together do not form an imide. In some embodiments, R 9
   and R'0 (and optionally RIO') each independently represent a hydrogen, an alkyl, an
                                8
   alkenyl, or -(CH     2)m-R . In   certain embodiments, an amino group is basic, meaning its
15 protonated form has a pKa above 7.00.
           The terms "amide" and "amido" are art-recognized as an amino-substituted
   carbonyl and includes a moiety that can be represented by the general formula:
                                                       N
   wherein R 9 , R'0 are as defined above. In some embodiments, the amide will not include
20 imides which may be unstable.
           The term "aryl" as used herein includes 5-, 6-, and 7-membered substituted or
   unsubstituted single-ring aromatic groups in which each atom of the ring is carbon. The
                                                  16

   term "aryl" also includes polycyclic ring systems having two or more cyclic rings in
   which two or more carbons are common to two adjoining rings wherein at least one of the
   rings is aromatic, e.g., the other cyclic rings can be cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls,
   cycloalkynyls, aryls, heteroaryls, and/or heterocyclyls. Aryl groups include benzene,
 5 naphthalene, phenanthrene, phenol, aniline, and the like.
           The term "buffer" is a substance which by its presence in solution increases the
   amount of acid or alkali that must be added to cause a unit change in pH. Thus, a buffer is
   a substance that assists in regulating the pH of a composition. Typically, a buffer is
   chosen based upon the desired pH and compatibility with other components of a
10 composition. In general, a buffer has a pKa that is no more than I unit less than or greater
   than the desired pH of the composition (or that the composition will produce upon
   dissolution).
           The term "water" as used herein refers to a liquid solution of H2 0 having a pH of
   approximately 7.0.
15         The terms "carbocycle" and "carbocyclyl", as used herein, refer to a non-aromatic
   substituted or unsubstituted ring in which each atom of the ring is carbon. The terms
   "carbocycle" and "carbocyclyl" also include polycyclic ring systems having two or more
   cyclic rings in which two or more carbons are common to two adjoining rings wherein at
   least one of the rings is carbocyclic, e.g., the other cyclic rings can be cycloalkyls,
20 cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls, heteroaryls, and/or heterocyclyls.
           The term "carbonyl" is art-recognized and includes such moieties as can be
   represented by the general formulae:
                                   O                             O
                                            R 1    or        X        R
   wherein X is a bond or represents an oxygen or a sulfur, and R"' represents a hydrogen,
                                        8
25 an alkyl, an alkenyl, -(CH    2)m-R    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, R" represents
   a hydrogen, an alkyl, an alkenyl or -(CH2)m-R         , where m and R 8 are as defined above.
                                                   17

    Where X is an oxygen and R" or R" is not hydrogen, the formula represents an "ester".
    Where X is an oxygen, and R" is a hydrogen, the formula represents a "carboxylic acid".
            The term "C 1 -heteroaralkyl", as used herein, refers to a C1 -alkyl group
    substituted with a heteroaryl group.
  5         The term "heteroaryl" includes substituted or unsubstituted aromatic 5- to 7
    membered ring structures, for example, 5- to 6-membered rings, whose ring structures
    include one to four heteroatoms. The term "heteroaryl" also includes polycyclic ring
    systems having two or more cyclic rings in which two or more carbons are common to
    two adjoining rings wherein at least one of the rings is heteroaromatic, e.g., the other
10  cyclic rings can be cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls, heteroaryls, and/or
    heterocyclyls. Heteroaryl groups include, for example, pyrrole, furan, thiophene,
    imidazole, oxazole, thiazole, triazole, pyrazole, pyridine, pyrazine, pyridazine and
    pyrimidine, and the like.
            The term "heteroatom" as used herein means an atom of any element other than
15  carbon or hydrogen. For example, heteroatoms include nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus,
    and sulfur.
            The term "heterocyclyl" or "heterocyclic group" refers to substituted or
    unsubstituted non-aromatic 3- to 10-membered ring structures, for example, 3- to 7
    membered rings, whose ring structures include one to four heteroatoms. The term
20  "heterocyclyl" or "heterocyclic group" also includes polycyclic ring systems having two
    or more cyclic rings in which two or more carbons are common to two adjoining rings
    wherein at least one of the rings is heterocyclic, e.g., the other cyclic rings can be
    cycloalkyls, cycloalkenyls, cycloalkynyls, aryls, heteroaryls, and/or heterocyclyls.
    Heterocyclyl groups include, for example, piperidine, piperazine, pyrrolidine,
25  morpholine, lactones, lactams, and the like.
            The term "C 1 -hydroxyalkyl" refers to a C 1_alkyl group substituted with a
    hydroxy group.
            The term "thioether" refers to an alkyl group, as defined above, having a sulfur
    moiety attached thereto. In some embodiments, the "thioether" is represented by -S
30  alkyl. Representative thioether groups include methylthio, ethylthio, and the like.
                                                  18

           The term "substituted" refers to moieties having substituents replacing a hydrogen
   on one or more non-hydrogen atoms of the molecule. It will be understood that
   "substitution" or "substituted with" includes the implicit proviso that such substitution is
   in accordance with permitted valence of the substituted atom and the substituent, and that
 5 the substitution results in a stable compound, e.g., which does not spontaneously undergo
   transformation such as by rearrangement, cyclization, elimination, etc. As used herein,
   the term "substituted" is contemplated to include all permissible substituents of organic
   compounds. In a broad aspect, the permissible substituents include acyclic and cyclic,
   branched and unbranched, carbocyclic and heterocyclic, aromatic and non-aromatic
10 substituents of organic compounds. The permissible substituents can be one or more and
   the same or different for appropriate organic compounds. For purposes of this disclosure,
   the heteroatoms such as nitrogen may have hydrogen substituents and/or any permissible
   substituents of organic compounds described herein which satisfy the valences of the
   heteroatoms. Substituents can include, for example, a halogen, a hydroxyl, a carbonyl
15 (such as a carboxyl, an alkoxycarbonyl, a formyl, or an acyl), a thiocarbonyl (such as a
   thioester, a thioacetate, or a thioformate), an alkoxyl, a phosphoryl, a phosphate, a
   phosphonate, a phosphinate, an amino, an amido, an amidine, an imine, a cyano, a nitro,
   an azido, a sulfhydryl, an alkylthio, a sulfate, a sulfonate, a sulfamoyl, a sulfonamido, a
   sulfonyl, a heterocyclyl, an aralkyl, or an aromatic or heteroaromatic moiety. It will be
20 understood by those skilled in the art that the moieties substituted on the hydrocarbon
   chain can themselves be substituted, if appropriate.
                    In some embodiments, the compounds provided herein, or salts thereof,
   are substantially isolated or purified. By "substantially isolated" is meant that the
   compound is at least partially or substantially separated from the environment in which it
25 was formed or detected. Partial separation can include, for example, a composition
   enriched in the compounds provided herein. Substantial separation can include
   compositions containing at least about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at
   least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 97%, or at least
   about 99% by weight of the compounds, or salt thereof. Methods for isolating compounds
30 and their salts are routine in the art.
                                                  19

             As used herein, the term "peptide" refers to a chain of amino acids that is about
     two to about ten amino acids in length.
             As used herein, the term "natural" or "naturally occurring" amino acid refers to
     one of the twenty most common occurring amino acids. Natural amino acids are referred
  5  to by their standard one- or three-letter abbreviations.
             The term "non-natural amino acid" or "non-natural" refers to any derivative or
     structural analogue of a natural amino acid including D forms, and     p and y amino   acid
     derivatives. It is noted that certain amino acids, e.g., hydroxyproline, that are classified as
     a non-natural amino acid herein, may be found in nature within a certain organism or a
 10  particular protein. Non-limiting examples of non-natural amino acids include:      p-Alanine
     (p-Ala), y-Aminobutyric Acid (GABA), 2-Aminobutyric Acid (2-Abu), a,p-Dehydro-2
     aminobutyric Acid (A-Abu), 1-Aminocyclopropane- 1-carboxylic Acid (ACPC),
     Aminoisobutyric Acid (Aib), 2-Amino-thiazoline-4-carboxylic Acid, 5-Aminovaleric
     Acid (5-Ava), 6-Aminohexanoic Acid (6-Ahx), 8-Aminooctanoic Acid (8-Aoc), 11
 15  Aminoundecanoic Acid (1 I-Aun), 12-Aminododecanoic Acid (12-Ado), 2
    Aminobenzoic Acid (2-Abz), 3-Aminobenzoic Acid (3-Abz), 4-Aminobenzoic Acid (4
    Abz), 4-Amino-3-hydroxy-6-methylheptanoic Acid (Statine, Sta), Aminooxyacetic Acid
    (Aoa), 2-Aminotetraline-2-carboxylic Acid (Atc), 4-Amino-5-cyclohexyl-3
    hydroxypentanoic Acid (ACHPA), para-Aminophenylalanine (4-NH 2 -Phe),
20  Biphenylalanine (Bip), para-Bromophenylalanine (4-Br-Phe), ortho-Chlorophenylalanine
    (2-Cl-Phe), meta-Chlorophenylalanine (3-Cl-Phe),para-Chlorophenylalanine (4-Cl-Phe),
    meta-Chlorotyrosine (3-Cl-Tyr), para-Benzoylphenylalanine (Bpa), tert-Butylglycine
    (Tie), Cyclohexylalanine (Cha), Cyclohexylglycine (Chg), 2,3-Diaminopropionic Acid
    (Dpr), 2,4-Diaminobutyric Acid (Dbu), 3,4-Dichlorophenylalanine (3,4-Cl2-Phe), 3,4
25  Diflurorphenylalanine (3,4-F2-Phe), 3,5-Diiodotyrosine (3,5-12-Tyr), ortho
    Fluorophenylalanine (2-F-Phe), meta-Fluorophenylalanine (3-F-Phe),para
    Fluorophenylalanine (4-F-Phe), meta-fluorotyrosine (3-F-Tyr), Homoserine (Hse),
    Homophenylalanine (Hfe), Homotyrosine (Htyr), 5-Hydroxytryptophan (5-OH-Trp),
    Hydroxyproline (Hyp), para-lodophenylalanine (4-1-Phe), 3-lodotyrosine (3-1-Tyr),
30  Indoline-2-carboxylic Acid (Idc), Isonipecotic Acid (Inp), meta-methyltyrosine (3-Me
                                                  20

    Tyr), I-Naphthylalanine (1 -Nal), 2 Naphthylalanine (2-Nal),para-Nitrophenylalanine (4
    N0 2 -Phe), 3-Nitrotyrosine (3-NO2 -Tyr), Norleucine (Nle), Norvaline (Nva), Omithine
    (Orn), ortho-Phosphotyrosine (H 2PO3-Tyr), Octahydroindole-2-carboxylic Acid (Oic),
    Penicillamine (Pen), Pentafluorophenylalanine (F5-Phe), Phenylglycine (Phg), Pipecolic
 5  Acid (Pip), Propargylglycine (Pra), Pyroglutamic Acid (pGlu), Sarcosine (Sar),
    Tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic Acid (Tic), and Thiazolidine-4-carboxylic Acid
    (Thioproline, Th). Stereochemistry of amino acids may be designated by preceding the
    name or abbreviation with the designation "D" or "d" or "L" or "I"as appropriate.
    Alternately, chiral centers may be represented with conventional (S)-, or (R)
10  designations. Additionally, aN-alkylated amino acids may be employed, as well as amino
    acids having amine-containing side chains (such as Lys and Orn) in which the amine has
    been acylated or alkylated. See, for example, "Peptides and Mimics, Design of
    Conformationally Constrained" by Hruby and Boteju, in Molecular Biology and
    Biotechnology: A Comprehensive Desk Reference, ed. Robert A. Meyers, VCH
15  Publishers (1995), pp. 658-664, which is hereby incorporated by reference.
            The term "complexation" as used herein refers to the formation of an
    intermolecular inclusion complex, or an intermolecular association, in solution and
    between one or more peptide proteasome inhibitors and one or more cyclodextrin
   molecules. The inclusion and or the association provides utility as a mechanism of
20  substantially increasing the concentration of the inhibitor(s) that can be achieved in
   aqueous solution compared to aqueous phase dissolution in a similar pH range without
   the complexing agent (i.e., one or more cyclodextrin molecules). In some embodiments,
   the cyclodextrin (e.g.,SBECD, e.g., from a low chloride:cyclodextrin source, e.g., a low
   choride SBECD) : inhibitor (e.g., carfilzomib) ratio is 1:1. In other embodiments, more
25 than one cyclodextran (e.g.,each independently selected from SBECD, a low
   chloride:cyclodextrin and a low choride SBECD) can be complexed to a particular
   inhibitor (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6; e.g., 2 or 3) cyclodextrans (e.g.,each independently selected
   from SBECD, a low chloride:cyclodextrin and a low choride SBECD) can be complexed
   to a particular inhibitor (e.g., carfilzomib). In some embodiments, the cyclodextrin
30 (e.g.,SBECD, e.g., from a low chloride:cyclodextrin source, e.g., a low choride SBECD):
                                                     21

   inhibitor (e.g., carfilzomib) ratio is from 1-5:1 (e.g., 1-4:1; 1-3:1; 1-2:1; 2-5:1, 2-4:1, 2
   3:1). Complexation ratios can be determined using, e.g., the methods described herein.
            The term "prophylactic or therapeutic" treatment is art-recognized and includes
   administration to the host of one or more of the subject compositions. If it is administered
 5 prior to clinical manifestation of the unwanted condition (e.g., disease or other unwanted
   state of the host animal) then the treatment is prophylactic, (i.e., it protects the host
   against developing the unwanted condition), whereas if it is administered after
   manifestation of the unwanted condition, the treatment is therapeutic, (i.e., it is intended
   to diminish, ameliorate, or stabilize the existing unwanted condition or side effects
10 thereof).
            The term "proteasome" as used herein is meant to include immuno- and
   constitutive proteasomes.
            As used herein, the term "inhibitor" is meant to describe a compound that blocks
   or reduces an activity of an enzyme or system of enzymes, receptors, or other
15 pharmacological target (for example, inhibition of proteolytic cleavage of standard
   fluorogenic peptide substrates such as suc-LLVY-AMC, Box-LLR-AMC and Z-LLE
   AMC, inhibition of various catalytic activities of the 20S proteasome). An inhibitor can
   act with competitive, uncompetitive, or noncompetitive inhibition. An inhibitor can bind
   reversibly or irreversibly, and therefore the term includes compounds that are suicide
20 substrates of an enzyme. An inhibitor can modify one or more sites on or near the active
   site of the enzyme, or it can cause a conformational change elsewhere on the enzyme.
   The term inhibitor is used more broadly herein than scientific literature so as to also
   encompass other classes of pharmacologically or therapeutically useful agents, such as
   agonists, antagonists, stimulants, co-factors, and the like.
25          As used herein, "low solubility" refers to being sparingly soluble, slightly soluble,
   very slightly soluble, practically insoluble, or insoluble in, for example, water or another
   solution (e.g., a first combination); the terms "sparingly soluble, slightly soluble, very
   slightly soluble, practically insoluble, or insoluble" correspond in meaning to the United
   States Pharmacopeia (USP) general terms for approximate solubility expression. See,
30 e.g., DeLuca and Boylan in PharmaceuticalDosage Forms: ParenteralMedications, vol.
                                                  22

   1, Avis, K.E., Lackman, L. and Lieberman, H.A., eds; Marcel Dekkar: 1084, pages 141
   142:
                      USP term                         Relative amount of solvent to dissolve I
                                                                    part of solute
                  sparingly soluble                                     30-100
                   Slightly soluble                                   100-1,000
                very slightly soluble                               1,000-10,000
         practically insoluble, or insoluble                           >10,000
           "Heterogeneous" as used herein refers to a solution having a non-uniform
 5 (multiphase) composition. For example, a heterogeneous solution can include a
   suspension of solid particles in a liquid (e.g., a slurry).
           "Homogeneous" as used herein refers to a solution that is consistent or uniform
   throughout its volume (single phase, observed as clear solution).
           A "therapeutically effective amount" of a compound with respect to the subject
10 method of treatment, refers to an amount of the compound(s) in a preparation which,
   when administered as part of a desired dosage regimen (to a patient, e.g., a human)
   alleviates a symptom, ameliorates a condition, or slows the onset of disease conditions
   according to clinically acceptable standards for the disorder or condition to be treated or
   the cosmetic purpose, e.g., at a reasonable benefit/risk ratio applicable to any medical
15 treatment.
        - As used herein, the term "treating" or "treatment" includes reversing, reducing, or
   arresting the symptoms, clinical signs, and underlying pathology of a condition in manner
   to improve or stabilize a patient's condition.
20 Compounds
           Provided herein are methods for preparing formulations of peptide proteasome
   inhibitors that have low solubility characteristics in water. Peptide proteasome inhibitors
   comprise an epoxide- or aziridine-containing moiety, which contains groups proximate to
   the heteroatom-containing, three-membered rings, such that a ring-opening reaction of
25 the heteroatom-containing three-membered ring is facilitated. Such groups include, for
   example, electron withdrawing groups such as a carbonyl. In some embodiments, a
                                                  23

     peptide proteasome inhibitor is a peptide epoxy proteasome inhibitor. As used herein, a
     "peptide epoxy proteasome inhibitor" comprises a ketone moiety having an epoxy group
    on one side of the ketone with a peptide on the other.
             The peptide of a peptide proteasome inhibitor includes 2 to 10 amino acids. For
  5 example, the peptide can have 2 to 8 amino acids; 2 to 6 amino acids; 2 to 5 amino acids;
    2 to 4 amino acids; 3 to 10 amino acids; 4 to 10 amino acids; 6 to 10 amino acids; 8 to 10
    amino acids; 3 to 4 amino acids; 3 to 5 amino acids; and 4 to 6 amino acids. In some
    embodiments, the peptide has 3 or 4 amino acids.
             In some embodiments, a peptide proteasome inhibitor is a compound of formula
10  (1):
                                                          H2 C
                                                                   X
                                                  W-*
                                                                  R
                                                       O
    wherein:
    X is oxygen, NH, or N(C 1 - alkyl);
    W is a peptide comprising two to ten amino acids, wherein the amino acids can be
15       natural, non-natural, or a combination thereof; and
    R is a hydrogen atom or a C1A alkyl group, which can be substituted with one or more of
         a hydroxy, halogen, amino, carboxy, carbonyl, thio, sulfide, ester, amide or ether
         functionality;
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
20           In some embodiments, X is configured to facilitate interaction with an N-terminal
    nucleophilic group in an Ntn hydrolase. For example, irreversible interactions of enzyme
    inhibitors with the  p5/Pre2 subunit of 20S proteasome    which lead to inhibition appear to
    be facilitated by the configuration illustrated above. In the case of other Ntn hydrolases,
    the opposite stereochemistry of the a-carbon of the peptide epoxides or peptide aziridines
25  may be useful. In some embodiments, X is oxygen.
                                                   24

            The stereochemistry of the a'-carbon (that carbon forming a part of the epoxide or
   aziridine ring) can be (R) or (S). Note that a compound may have a number of
   stereocenters having the indicated up-down (or p-a, where       p as drawn herein   is above the
   plane of the page) or (R)-(S) relationship (that is, it is not required that every stereocenter
 5  in the compound conform to the preferences stated). In some embodiments, the
   stereochemistry of the a' carbon is (R), that is, the X atom is   p, or above the  plane of the
   molecule, when drawn as in formula (1).
            In the case of a compound of formula (1), the    p' carbon  is substituted with two
   hydrogen atoms. Regarding the stereochemistry, the chiral a' carbon is indicated with a
10 star, and the Cahn-Ingold-Prelog rules for determining absolute stereochemistry are
   followed. These rules are described, for example, in Organic Chemistry Fox and
   Whitesell; Jones and Bartlett Publishers, Boston, Mass. (1994); Section 5-6, pp 177-178,
   which section is hereby incorporated by reference. The stereochemistry of the a' carbon is
   (R) when the oxygen or nitrogen has the highest priority, the peptide-ketone group has
15 second highest priority, and the -CH    2 -X-    group has third highest priority. If the
   relative priorities of the peptide-ketone, -CH   2-X-,      and R groups change, the nominal
   stereochemistry can change, but the essential configuration of the groups can remain the
   same, for some embodiments. That is, referring to the general structure immediately
   above, the peptide-ketone is joined to the chiral a' carbon from the left, R is joined to the
20 chiral a' carbon from the right, and the X atom(s) project(s) from the plane of the page.
   The nitrogen atom of an aziridine ring can also, in principle, be chiral, as discussed in
   March, Advanced Organic Chemistry, 4th Ed. (1992) Wiley-Interscience, New York, pp.
   98-100, which pages are incorporated herein by reference.
            W is a peptide comprising two to ten amino acids, wherein the amino acids can be
25 natural, non-natural, or a combination thereof. For example, the peptide can have 2 to 8
   amino acids; 2 to 6 amino acids; 2 to 5 amino acids; 2 to 4 amino acids; 3 to 10 amino
   acids; 4 to 10 amino acids; 6 to 10 amino acids; 8 to 10 amino acids; 3 to 4 amino acids;
   3 to 5 amino acids; and 4 to 6 amino acids. In some embodiments, the peptide has 3 or 4
   amino acids. In some embodiments useful for inhibiting chymotrypsin-like (CT-L)
30 activity of the proteasome, between four and eight amino acids are present, and in some
                                                 25

    embodiments for CT-L inhibition, between four and six amino acids are present. In other
    embodiments useful for inhibiting the PGPH activity of the proteasome, between two and
    eight amino acids are present, and in some embodiments for PGPH inhibition, between
    three and six amino acids are present. The bond between W and the ketone moiety in the
  5 formula (1) can be made between either termini of the peptide. For example, in some
    embodiments, the ketone is bonded to carboxy terminus of the peptide. Alternatively, the
    ketone can be bonded to the amino terminus of the peptide. In some embodiments, the
    ketone can be bonded to a side chain of the peptide.
             Examples of a compound of formula (1) can be found in U.S. Patent No.
10  7,737,112, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. In some
    embodiments, a compound of formula (1) has a low solubility in water.
             A peptide proteasome inhibitor for inhibition of chymotrypsin-like (CT-L) activity
    of Ntn can include a peptide having at least four amino acids. In some CT-L inhibitor
    embodiments, the inhibitor has a peptide having at least four amino acids and an a',p'
15  epoxy ketone or a',p'-aziridine ketone moiety (tetrapeptide epoxy ketones or tetrapeptide
    aziridine ketones).
             In some embodiments, a peptide proteasome inhibitor having low water solubility
    can be a compound of formula (II):
                               0       R2                0
                                               H                               X
                    R5                         N
                                   N                          N
                                   H                          H
                          R'              0         R3                 0
20  wherein:
    each A is independently selected from C=O, C=S, and S02; or
    A is optionally a covalent bond when adjacent to an occurrence of Z;
    L in absent or is selected from C=O, C=S, and SO 2 ;
    M is absent or is CI-1 2alkyl;
25  Q is absent or is selected from 0, NH, and N(Ci-alkyl);
    X is selected from 0, NH, and N(Ci-alkyl);
                                                 26

     Y is absent or is selected from 0, NH, N(CI-6alkyl), S, SO, SO2 , CHOR'0 , and
         CHCO 2R' 0 ;
    each Z is independently selected from 0, S, NH, and N(Ci-6alkyl); or
    Z is optionally a covalent bond when adjacent to an occurrence of A;
  5 R', R2 , R3, and R 4 are each independently selected from CI-6alkyl, CI-6hydroxyalkyl,
         CI-6alkoxyalkyl, aryl, and Ci-6aralkyl, any of which is optionally substituted with
         one or more of amide, amine, carboxylic acid (or a salt thereof), ester, thiol, or
         thioether substituents;
    R5 is N(R 6)LQR 7 ;
 10 R6 is selected from hydrogen, OH, and Ci-6alkyl;
    R7 is selected from hydrogen, Ci-6alkyl, Ci-6alkenyl, CI.alkynyl, aryl, CI.aralkyl,
         heteroaryl, CI-6heteroaralkyl, R ZAZ-Ci-salkyl-, R"Z-CI-salkyl-,
        (R 8O)(R 90)P(=O)O-CI- 8alkyl-ZAZ-CI-6alkyl-, R8ZAZ-C1 .8alkyl-ZAZ-Ci
        8alkyl-,  heterocyclylMZAZ-C 1 .8alkyl-, (R 8O)(R 9 0)P(=O)O-CI-salkyl-,
15      (R' 0) 2N-CI- 12alkyl-, (R' 0) 3N*-Ci-12alkyl-, heterocyclylM-, carbocyclylM-,
        R" S0 2 C1 8alkyl-, and R" SO2NH; or
    R and R t ogether are CI-6alkyl-Y--CI-6alkyl, Ci-alkyl-ZAZ-C 1.-alkyl, ZAZ-C.
        6alkyl-ZAZ-CI- 6alkyl,   ZAZ-CI-6alkyl-ZAZ, or C 1.-alkyl-A, thereby forming a
        ring;
20  R and R9 are independently selected from hydrogen, metal cation, CI-6alkyl, C.
        6alkenyl, Cl-6alkynyl, aryl,   heteroaryl, Ci-6aralkyl, and CI-6heteroaralkyl, or R and
        R9 together are Ci-salkyl,  thereby forming a ring;
    each R' 0 is independently selected from hydrogen and Ci-6alkyl; and
    R" is independently selected from hydrogen, CI-6alkyl, CI-6alkenyl, Ci-6alkynyl,
25      carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, heteroaryl, CI-.aralkyl, and Ci-6heteroaralkyl,
    provided that when R6 is H or CH 3 and Q is absent, LR 7 is not hydrogen, unsubstituted
        CI-6alkylC=O, a further chain of amino acids, t-butoxycarbonyl (Boc), benzoyl
        (Bz), fluoren-9-ylmethoxycarbonyl (Fmoc), triphenylmethyl (trityl),
        benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz), trichloroethoxycarbonyl (Troc); or substituted or
30      unsubstituted aryl or heteroaryl; and
                                                    27

     in any occurrence of the sequence ZAZ, at least one member of the sequence must be
         other than a covalent bond;
     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
             In certain embodiments, when R is H, L is C=O, and Q is absent, R is not
  5  hydrogen, Ci-alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted aryl or heteroaryl. In certain
     embodiments, when R6 is H and Q is absent, R7 is not a protecting group such as those
     described in Greene, T. W. and Wuts, P. G. M., "Protective Groups in Organic
     Synthesis", John Wiley & Sons, 1999 or Kocienfski, P. J., "Protecting Groups", Georg
    Thieme Verlag, 1994.
10           In some embodiments, R', R2, R3 , and R 4 are selected from C1 -6alkyl or C1 .
    6aralkyl.  For example, R2 and R4 are CI-6alkyl and R' and R3 are CI-6aralkyl. In the
    some embodiments, R 2 and R4 are isobutyl, R' is 2-phenylethyl, and R3 is phenylmethyl.
             In some embodiments, L and Q are absent and R7 is selected from C 1.6alkyl, C1.
    6alkenyl,  Ci-6alkynyl, Ci-6aralkyl, and C 1-6heteroaralkyl. For example, R6 is C 1.6alkyl and
15  R7 is selected from butyl, allyl, propargyl, phenylmethyl, 2-pyridyl, 3-pyridyl, and 4
    pyridyl.
             In some embodiments, L is SO2, Q is absent, and R7 is selected from Ci-6 alkyl and
    aryl. For example, R7 can be selected from methyl and phenyl.
             In some embodiments, L is C=O and R7 is selected from C1.6 alkyl, C 1-6 alkenyl,
20  CI-.alkynyl, aryl, C 1.6aralkyl, heteroaryl, C 1.sheteroaralkyl, R8ZA-Ci-8 alkyl-R"Z-C.
    salkyl-, (R 8 0)(R 9 0)P(=O)O-C    1 -8alkyl-, (R 8 0)(R 90)P(=O)O-C -8alkyl-ZAZ-C.salkyl
      (R8 0)(R 9 0)P(=O)O-CI- 8alkyl-Z-CI-.alkyl-, R8ZA-C .salkyl-ZAZ-C1 .8alkyl-,
    heterocyclylMZAZ-CI- 8alkyl-, (R')2N-CI.8alkyl-, (R' 0)3N+-Ci- 8alkyl-, heterocyclyl
    M carbocyclylM-, R" SO2Cis8 alkyl-, and R"1SO2NH-, wherein each occurrence of Z and
25  A is independently other than a covalent bond. In some embodiments, L is C=0,          Q is
                    7
    absent, and R is H.
            In some embodiments, R is Ci-alkyl, R is C 1 -6alkyl, Q is absent, and L is C=0.
    In certain such embodiments, R7 is ethyl, isopropyl, 2,2,2-trifluoroethyl, or 2
    (methylsulfonyl)ethyl.
                                                     28

             In some embodiments, L is C=O, Q is absent, and R7 is C1.-aralkyl. For example,
   R' can be selected from 2-phenylethyl, phenylmethyl, (4-methoxyphenyl)methyl, (4
   chlorophenyl)methyl, and (4-fluorophenyl)methyl.
             In some embodiments, L is C=O, Q is absent, R6 is Ci-alkyl, and R7 is aryl. For
 5 example, R7 can be a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl.
             In some embodiments, L is C=O, Q is absent or 0, n is 0 or 1, and R 7 is
   (CH 2)ncarbocyclyl. For example, R7 can be cyclopropyl or cyclohexyl.
             In some embodiments, L and A are C=O, Q is absent, Z is 0, n is an integer from
    I to 8 (e.g., 1), and R7 is selected from R8 ZA-CI.8 alkyl-, R"Z-CI-8 alkyl-, R 8 ZA-CI-8 alkyl
10 ZAZ-CI- 8alkyl-, (R 8 0)(R 90)P(=0)O-C salkyl-ZAZ-CI-salkyl-, (R 8 0)(R 9 0)P(=O)O
   CI. 8alkyl-Z-CI- 8alkyl-, and heterocyclylMZAZ-Ci-salkyl-, wherein each occurrence of A
   is independently other than a covalent bond. For example, R7 can be
   heterocyclylMZAZ-C 1 8 alkyl- where heterocyclyl is a substituted or unsubstituted
   oxodioxolenyl or N(R 2 )(R"), wherein R and R13 together are C1-6alkyl-Y--CIalkyl,
15 such as C. 3alkyl-Y-CI. 3alkyl, thereby forming a ring.
             In some embodiments, L is C=O, Q is absent, n is an integer from 1 to 8, and R7
   is selected from (R O)(R90)P(=0)O-Csalkyl-, (R' )2NCI. 8 alkyl, (R' 0) 3N*(CH 2)n-,
   and heterocyclyl-M-. In certain such embodiments, R7 is -CosalkylN(R' 0 ) 2 or -Ci.
   8alkylN*(R'
                 0)
                    3, where R'0 is C1 -alkyl. For example, R7 is heterocyclylM-, where
20 heterocyclyl is selected from morpholino, piperidino, piperazino, and pyrrolidino.
             In some embodiments, L is C=O, R6 is Cisalkyl, Q is selected from 0 and NH
   and R7 is selected from Cisalkyl, cycloalkyl-M, CI-.aralkyl, and C1 sheteroaralkyl. In
   some embodiments, L is C=O, R6 is C 1 salkyl, Q is selected from 0 and NH, and R7 is C,
   6alkyl,  where C1 -alkyl is selected from methyl, ethyl, and isopropyl. In some
25 embodiments, L is C=0, R6 is C 1-alkyl, Q is selected from 0 and NH and R7 is C
   6aralkyl,   where aralkyl is phenylmethyl. In some embodiments, L is C=0, R6 is C1-alkyl,
   Q is selected from 0 and NH, and R7 is Ci-6heteroaralkyl, where heteroaralkyl is (4
   pyridyl)methyl.
            In some embodiments, L is absent or is C=0, and R6 and R7 together are C
30 6alkyl-Y-Csalkyl,        C1 salkyl-ZA-C1 salkyl, or C1 salkyl-A, wherein each occurrence of
                                                   29

   Z and A is independently other than a covalent bond, thereby forming a ring. In some
   embodiments, L is C=O, Q and Y are absent, and R6 and R7 together are CI_3alkyl-Y
                                                                6     7
   CI. 3alkyl. In some embodiments, L and Q are absent, and R and R together are Cj.
   3alkyl-Y--Ci- 3alkyl.   In some embodiments, L is C=O, Q is absent, Y is selected from
 5 NH and N-CI-6alkyl, and R6 and R7 together are C 1.3alkyl-Y--CI 3alkyl. In some
   embodiments, L is C=O, Y is absent, and R6 and R7 together are C 1 .3 alkyl-Y--C. 3alkyl.
   In some embodiments, L and A are C=O, and R6 and R7together are CI-2 alkyl-ZA-C1 .
   2alkyl. In some embodiments, L and A are C=O and R6 and R7 together are C 2-3alkyl-A.
            A compound of formula (2) can have the following stereochemistry:
                               0       R2               0       R4
                                  D       H     H                           IX
                     R5
                                               N            N
                                       H                    N
                          R        H      -        R3               O
10
            Further non-limiting examples of a compound of formula (2) can be found, for
   example, in U.S. Patent No. 7,232,818, which is incorporated by reference, in its entirety
   herein. In some embodiments, a compound of formula (2) has a low solubility in water.
            In some embodiments, a peptide proteasome inhibitor can be a compound of
15 formula (3):
                                       R1     0       R6     R3     0     R3
                     N     Z                N                     N
          Y                         O     R3     R2       0     R     R4
   wherein:
   X is oxygen, NH, or N(CI.6 alkyl);
   Y is NH, N(CI.6 alkyl), 0, or C(R9)2;
20 Z is 0 or C(R9)2;
   R1, R2, R3 , and R 4 are all hydrogen;
                                                 30

   each Rs, R6 , R7, R', and R9 is independently selected from hydrogen, C 1-alkyl, C1.
        6hydroxyalkyl,  C1 salkoxyalkyl, aryl, and C1 saralkyl, each of which is optionally
        substituted with one or more of an alkyl, amide, amine, carboxylic acid or a
        pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, carboxyl ester, thiol, and thioether;
 5 m is an integer from 0 to 2; and
   n is an integer from 0 to 2;
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
             In some embodiments, X is 0. In some embodiments, Y is N(C 1 s alkyl), 0, or
   C(R 9 ) 2. In some embodiments, Z is C(R 9)2. In some embodiments, R5, R6 , R7 , and R8 are
10 independently selected from C1.6alkyl, C1 shydroxyalkyl, and C 1.-aralkyl and each R 9 is
   hydrogen. For example, R6 and R8 are independently C 1-6alkyl, R5 and R7 are
   independently CI..aralkyl and each R9 is H. In some embodiments, n is 0 or 1.
             In some embodiments, X is 0 and R5 , R6 , R7 , and R8 are independently selected
   from C 1-6alkyl, C1 shydroxyalkyl, and C1 saralkyl. For example, R6 and R8 are
15 independently C 1-6alkyl and R5 and R7 are independently Ci-aralkyl.
             In some embodiments, X is 0, R6 and R8 are both isobutyl, R5 is phenylethyl, and
   R7 is phenylmethyl.
             In some embodiments, R', R6, R , and R8 are independently selected from
   hydrogen, Ci-alkyl, C1 4 hydroxyalkyl, CI-.alkoxyalkyl, aryl, and Caralkyl, each of
20 which is optionally substituted with a group selected from alkyl, amide, amine,
   carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, carboxyl ester, thiol, and
   thioether. In some embodiments, at least one of R5 and R7 is Cisaralkyl substituted with
   alkyl such as perhaloalkyl. For example, R7 is C 1 -aralkyl substituted with
   trifluoromethyl.
25           In some embodiments, Y is selected from N-alkyl, 0, and CH 2. In certain such
   embodiments, Z is CH 2, and m and n are both 0. In some embodiments, Z is CH 2 , m is 0,
   and n is 2 or 3. In some embodiments, Z is 0, m is 1, and n is 2.
             In some embodiments, a compound of formula (3) is a compound of formula (4):
                                                 31

                                      R'     O     R6     R3    o     R8
                                 N              NN
                   O,             O      RR2            O    R'    R4     0
   wherein:
   X is 0, NH, or N-alkyl, preferably 0;
 5 R', R 2, R 3 , and R 4 are all hydrogen; and
   R', R6 , R7, and R' are independently selected from hydrogen, C1 _6alkyl, C 1..hydroxyalkyl,
       Ci-6alkoxyalkyl, aryl, and C1.6aralkyl, each of which is optionally substituted with a
       group selected from amide, amine, carboxylic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable
       salt thereof, carboxyl ester, thiol, and thioether,
10 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
            In some embodiments, R', R6, R , and R 8 are independently selected from C1 .
   6alkyl,  CI-6hydroxyalkyl, and C 1_6aralkyl. For example, R6 and R8 are independently C1 .
   6alkyl  and R5 and R7 are independently C 1.6aralkyl.
            In some embodiments, X is 0 and R 5, R6 , R7 , and R8 are independently selected
15 from C 1.salkyl, C 1-6hydroxyalkyl, and C 1.6aralkyl. For example, R6 and R8 are
   independently Ci-salkyl and R' and R7 are independently Ci_6aralkyl.
            In some embodiments, X is 0, R and R are both isobutyl, R5 is phenylethyl, and
   R7 is phenylmethyl.
            In some embodiments, a compound of formula III has the following
20 stereochemistry:
                                      R'     0     R6     R3    0     R
                           N                          N           N
                                   O     RI     R2      0    R'   R4     0
            Non-limiting examples of a compound of formula (3) and (4) can be found, for
   example, in U.S. Patent No. 7,417,042, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety
                                                   32

     herein. In some embodiments, a compound of formula (3)*or (4) has a low solubility in
     water.
             In some embodiments, a peptide proteasome inhibitor is a compound of formula
     (5):
                                            0                  0
                                      H
                                      N
                                                        H
                                                        N
                                                                             o
                             N                 N                  N
                                               H           Z      H
                       0           0     =                 -           o
  5                                 N
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The compound of formula (5) is also
    known as carfilzomib.
             Any of the compounds described herein can be isolated in amorphous or
    crystalline form. Preparation and purification of crystalline compounds as provided
10  herein can be done as is known in the art, for example, as described in US Publication
    No. 2009/0105156, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
             In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) is substantially
    pure. In some embodiments, the melting point of the crystalline compound of formula
    (5) is in the range of about 200 to about 220*C, about 205 to about 215'C, about 211 to
15  about 213*C, or even about 212*C. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of
    formula (5) can have a melting point of about 205 to about 215*C. For example, the
    compound can have a melting point of about 211 to about 213*C. In some embodiments,
    the DSC of a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a sharp endothermic maximum
    temperature at about 2120 C., e.g., resulting from melting and decomposition of the
20  crystalline form of the compound.
             An X-ray powder diffraction pattern of a crystalline compound of formula (5) has
    characteristic diffraction peaks expressed in degress 2theta (20). For example, a
    crystalline compound of formula (5) can have a characteristic peak expressed in degrees
    20 at 6.10. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a
                                                 33

     characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at 9.32. In some embodiments, a crystalline
     compound of formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at 10.10. In
     some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a characteristic peak
     expressed in degrees 20 at 12.14. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of
 5 * formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at 13.94. In some
     embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed
     in degrees 20 at 18.44. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has
     a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at 20.38. In some embodiments, a
     crystalline compound of formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at
10   23.30. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has an X-ray
     powder diffraction pattern comprising 2 to 8 characteristic peaks expressed in degrees 20
     at 6.10, 9.32, 10.10, 12.14, 13.94, 18.44, 20.38, and 23.30. For example, a crystalline
     compound of formula (5) can have an X-ray powder diffraction pattern comprising
     characteristic peaks expressed in degrees 20 at 6.10, 9.32, 10.10, 12.14, 13.94, 18.44,
15   20.38, and 23.30.
              In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a characteristic
     peak expressed in degrees 20 at about 6.1. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound
     of formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at about 9.3. In some
     embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed
20   in degrees 20 at about 10.1. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula
     (5) has a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at about 12.1. In some
     embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed
     in degrees 20 at about 13.9. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula
     (5) has a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at about 18.4. In some
25   embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has a characteristic peak expressed
     in degrees 20 at about 20.4. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula
     (5) has a characteristic peak expressed in degrees 20 at about 23.3. In some
     embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has an X-ray powder diffraction
     pattern comprising 2 to 8 characteristic peaks expressed in degrees 20 at about 6.1, 9.3,
30   10.1, 12.1, 13.9, 18.4, 20.4, and 23.3. In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of
                                                  34

   formula (5) has an X-ray powder diffraction pattern comprising characteristic peaks
   expressed in degrees 20 at about 6.1, 9.3, 10.1, 12.1, 13.9, 18.4, 20.4, and 23.3.
             In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has an X-ray
   powder diffraction pattern having characteristic peaks expressed in degrees 20 at 6.10;
 5 8.10; 9.32; 10.10; 11.00; 12.14; 12.50; 13.64; 13.94; 17.14; 17.52; 18.44; 20.38; 21.00;
   22.26; 23.30; 24.66; 25.98; 26.02; 27.84; 28.00; 28.16; 29.98; 30.46; 32.98; 33.22; 34.52;
   and 39.46.
            In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has an X-ray
   powder diffraction pattern having characteristic peaks expressed in degrees 20 at 6.1;
10 8.1; 9.3; 10.1; 11.0; 12.1; 12.5; 13.6; 13.9; 17.1; 17.5; 18.4; 20.4; 21.0; 22.3; 23.3; 24.7;
   25.9; 26.0; 27.8; 28.0; 28.2; 30.0; 30.5; 33.0; 33.2; 34.5; and 39.5.
            X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) analysis was performed using a Shimadzu
   XRD-6000 X-ray powder diffractometer using Cu Ka radiation. The instrument is
   equipped with a long fine focus X-ray tube. The tube voltage and amperage were set to
15 40 kV and 40 mA, respectively. The divergence and scattering slits were set at I 'and and
   the receiving slit was set at 0.15 mm. Diffracted radiation was detected by NAI
   scintillation detector. A 0-20 continuous scan at 3'/min (0.4 sec/0.02') from 2.5 to 40' 20
   was used. A silicon standard was analyzed to check the instrument alignment. Data were
   collected and analyzed using XRD-6100/7000 v.5.0. Samples were prepared for analysis
20 by placing them in an aluminum holder with silicon insert.
            In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) is a crystalline salt
   of a compound of formula (5). For example, a crystalline salt of compound of formula
   (5) can be selected from the group consisting of: a citrate, tartrate, trifluoroacetate,
   methanesulfonate, toluenesulfonate, hydrochloride, and hydrobromide salts. In some
25 embodiments, a crystalline salt of a compound of formula (5) is a citrate salt. In some
   embodiments, the crystalline solid may exist as a cocrystal.
            In some embodiments, a crystalline citrate salt of a compound of Formula (5) is
   substantially pure. In some embodiments, the melting point of the crystalline citrate salt
   of a compound of Formula (5) is in the range of about 180 to about 190*C, for example,
30 about 184 to about 188*C. In some embodiments, the DSC of a crystalline citrate salt of
                                                 35

    a compound of Formula (5) has a sharp endothermic maximum at about 1870 C., e.g.,
    resulting from melting and decomposition of the crystalline form.
            In some embodiments, a crystalline compound of formula (5) has an X-ray
    powder diffraction pattern comprising two or more characteristic peaks expressed in
 5 degrees 20 at 4.40; 7.22; 9.12; 12.36; 13.35; 14.34; 15.54; 16.14; 16.54; 17.00; 18.24;
    18.58; 19.70; 19.90; 20.30; 20.42; 21.84; 22.02; 23.34; 23.84; 24.04; 24.08; 24.48; 24.76;
   25.48; 26.18; 28.14; 28.20; 28.64; 29.64; 31.04; 31.84; 33.00; 33.20; 34.06; 34.30; 34.50;
   35.18; 37.48; 37.90; and 39.48. For example, a crystalline citrate salt of a compound of
   Formula (5) can have an X-ray powder diffraction pattern having characteristic peaks
10 expressed in degrees 20 at 4.40; 7.22; 9.12; 12.36; 13.35; 14.34; 15.54; 16.14; 16.54;
    17.00; 18.24; 18.58; 19.70; 19.90; 20.30; 20.42; 21.84; 22.02; 23.34; 23.84; 24.04; 24.08;
   24.48; 24.76; 25.48; 26.18; 28.14; 28.20; 28.64; 29.64; 31.04; 31.84; 33.00; 33.20; 34.06;
   34.30; 34.50; 35.18; 37.48; 37.90; and 39.48.
   PharmaceuticalCompositions
15          The methods provided herein include the manufacture and use of pharmaceutical
   compositions, which include any of the compounds provided herein. Also included are
   the pharmaceutical compositions themselves.
            In some embodiments, the compounds provided herein can be formulated as
   described in U.S. Patent No. 7,737,112.
20          Also provided herein are cyclodextrin complexation methods for preparing a
   pharmaceutical composition of a peptide proteasome inhibitor (e.g., a compound of
   formula (1) - (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, solvate, hydrate, cocrystal, or
   polymorph thereof). The method comprises providing a first combination having a
   peptide proteasome inhibitor, one ore more cyclodextrins, and water, wherein the first
25 combination is heterogeneous and the peptide proteasome inhibitor or salt has a low
   solubility in the first combination. The method further comprises altering the pH of the
   first combination to form a second combination, wherein the solubility of the peptide
   proteasome inhibitor in the second combination is greater than the solubility of the
   peptide proteasome inhibitor in the first combination. For example, the method can
                                                36

    include contacting the first combination with an acid to form the second combination.
   The second combination may still be heterogeneous, yet can still facilitate a sufficient
    increase in solubility such that the complexation process can be initiated and progress.
   This can enable a majority of the inhibitor to be complexed, while as a heterogeneous
 5 mixture through partial complexation, or to complete complexation forming a
   homogeneous solution. In the case of a heterogeneous complexed mixture, once a desired
   extent of solubilization and complexation has been achieved, the excess solids can be
   filtered off to yield a homogeneous solution.
            The term "complexation" as used herein refers to the formation of an
10 intermolecular inclusion complex, or an intermolecular association, in solution and
   between one or more peptide proteasome inhibitors and one or more cyclodextrin
   molecules. The inclusion and or the association provides utility as a mechanism of
   substantially increasing the concentration of the inhibitor(s) that can be achieved in
   aqueous solution compared to aqueous phase dissolution in a similar pH range without
15 the complexing agent (i.e., one or more cyclodextrin molecules). In some embodiments,
   the cyclodextrin (e.g.,SBECD, e.g., from a low chloride:cyclodextrin source, e.g., a low
   choride SBECD): inhibitor (e.g., carfilzomib) ratio is 1:1. In other embodiments, more
   than one cyclodextran (e.g.,each independently selected from SBECD, a low
   chloride:cyclodextrin and a low choride SBECD) can be complexed to a particular
20 inhibitor (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6; e.g., 2 or 3) cyclodextrans (e.g.,each independently selected
   from SBECD, a low chloride:cyclodextrin and a low choride SBECD) can be complexed
   to a particular inhibitor (e.g., carfilzomib). In some embodiments, the cyclodextrin
   (e.g.,SBECD, e.g., from a low chloride:cyclodextrin source, e.g., a low choride SBECD):
   inhibitor (e.g., carfilzomib) ratio is 1-5:1 (e.g., 1-4:1; 1-3:1; 1-2:1; 2-5:1, 2-4:1, 2-3:1).
25 Complexation ratios can be determined using, e.g., the methods described herein.
           A complexed or associated state is apparent when a dissolved concentration of the
   inhibitor(s) is measurable, via an appropriate conventional analytical method such as
   HPLC, and the concentration substantially exceeds that achievable via dissolution of
   inhibitor(s) in water without cyclodextrin(s) present. The complexed or associated
30 solution of inhibitor(s) and cyclodextrin(s) can be prepared so as to exceed the
                                                     37

   concentration in aqueous solution where the cyclodextrin(s) are absent which is useful for
   formulating a medicinal compound of convenient injection volume and delivered dose.
   Further, the complexed or associated solution of inhibitor(s) exhibit physical stability (or
   otherwise described as metastability) where the inhibitor remains in a homogeneous
 5 solution (without precipitation or crystallization of solid particles) for longer time periods
   than typical for solutions of the inhibitor without a cyclodextrin present. Due to this
   extended duration of remaining a clear solution, crystal nucleation and subsequent
   depletion of supersaturation does not occur for all practical conditions of use as a
   medicinal formulation. An indexing approach described herein can be used to model and
10 determine cyclodextran : inhibitor ratios.
            Many small molecule organic compound drugs have pH dependent solubility. It
   is frequent that a pH range appropriate for administration of a drug (such as by injection
   where the tolerable pH range is generally considered from 3 - 10.5 for intravenous
   administration) is not in the same pH where sufficient solubility of the drug can be found
15 in aqueous solution (for example at or below pH 2). To enable a pharmaceutically useful
   concentration level of drug in solution at a pH range acceptable and tolerable for
   administration (e.g. by injection), complexation or association of the drug with
   cyclodextrin(s) as claimed here is a practical method. It can increase the concentration in
   solution that can be achieved within the pH range tolerable for administration. Such an
20 increase in concentration could be for example from initially 1 - 100 micrograms per
   milliliter without cyclodextrin(s), increased up to 500 - 10,000 micrograms per milliliter
   with cyclodextrin(s). Complexation or association is thereby a technology that enables an
   otherwise poorly water soluble compound to be sufficiently solubilized and developed as
   a pharmaceutically useful compound. Those skilled in the art understand that the amount
25 of cyclodextrin(s) required to achieve a desired concentration and physical stability state
   can vary. Accordingly, the amount of cyclodextrin may be determined on an individual
   combination basis using well-known methods.
            For basic drug molecules, solubility is usually enhanced at lower pH. This also
   presents stability and shelf life challenges in some instances if used without complexing
30 or associating agents such as cyclodextrin(s). For example, sufficient solubility may be
                                                  38

    achieved via lowering the pH of a solution with an acid, however such pH reduction may
     lead to degradation reactions from the acidic conditions. See Table 1 for intrinsic aqueous
    solubility data for carfilzomib, showing some moderate increase in solubility with
     lowering of pH.
  5 Table 1: Aqueous solubility of carfilzomib as a function of pH, without cyclodextrins
                                      Solvent          Solubility
                                                        (mg/mL)
                                       Water             0.002
                                   Water/pH 5            0.002
                                   Water/pH 3             0.02
                                   Water/pH 1              1.8
    Numerous acid mediated degradation reaction pathways exist for small molecule drugs
    and biological molecules, such as hydrolysis of amides in smaller inactive peptide
    fragments, or hydrolytic opening of functional epoxides moieties. The products of acid
10  mediated degradation may lack pharmacological activity, and may be toxic or genotoxic
    compounds even at trace levels. Complexing or associating compounds at pH conditions
    where significant degradation is avoided further expands the utility of cyclodextrins to
    facilitate the clinical and commercial development of compounds that are have pH
    dependent stability characteristics.
15           In order to balance the competing needs of avoiding acid mediated degradation
    side reactions which occur at low pH with increasing the rate of complexation via
    lowering the pH, a unique pH condition was found. Surprisingly, the pH of an aqueous
    solution achieved via the addition of certain concentrations of acids, for example citric
    acid (around pH 2.5 to 3.0), was found to be sufficient to decrease the pH to initiate
20  complexation without initiating significant levels of degradation side reactions. In this
    state, the inhibitor was partially solubilized by the pH condition, but not entirely. As a
    result, a heterogeneous mixture existed (e.g., a slurry) of the inhibitor partly dissolved in
    the aqueous solution of cyclodextrin and citric acid, and partly existing as solid particles
    (crystals) of the inhibitor. Over time (typically several hours to a day), the dissolved
25  fraction of inhibitor would become complexed or associated with the cyclodextrin. This
                                                   39

   process would enable more of the solid particles of inhibitor to dissolve and then become
   complexed. Over time, mass transfer can occur from initially solid phase inhibitor, to
   dissolved phase inhibitor, to a dissolved complexed state of the cyclodextrin-inhibitor.
   More commonly, cyclodextrin complexation is achieved via formation of a homogeneous
 5 solution of the compound to be complexed. For carfilzomib, the formation of a
   homogenous solution would require a very low pH where degradation reactions, such as
   those with the strong acid hydrogen chloride forming potential genotoxic impurities,
   would occur. In this instance, it was practical and useful to perform the complexation
   process in a heterogeneous state at the milder pH condition of 2.5 - 3.0 using citric acid,
10 a weak carboxylic acid. Once the target concentration of complexed inhibitor was
   achieved, the slurry complexation process was terminated by filtering off any undissolved
   solid particles of the inhibitor. The resulting homogeneous solution could then be
   adjusted for pH as necessary to a pH range suitable for intravenous administration (e.g.,
   pH 3.5 using aqueous sodium hydroxide). Further, the homogeneous pH adjusted
15 complexed solution could be diluted with water to the exact concentration desired for the
   next step of the product manufacture and to ensure the label strength of the medicinal
   product was precise.
           The combined effect of cyclodextrin concentration and pH on complexation has a
   greater solubilization capacity than if either technique was used alone. Solubilization
20 extents are relatively independent of temperature which is convenient for manufacture to
   maintain cold conditions more preferable for sterile product manufacture and minimizing
   any temperature accelerated degradation reactions.
            A second combination includes complexes of a peptide proteasome inhibitor and
   cyclodextrin(s). Such complexes have improved water solubility over the peptide
25 proteasome inhibitor alone. For example, homogenous solutions of a compound'of
   formula (5) (carfilzomib) can be obtained at a pharmaceutically useful pH (e.g., about
   3.5) and at higher concentrations (e.g., about 5 mg/mL) than could be obtained without
   one or more cyclodextrins and the processes of complexation between the compound and
   one or more cyclodextrins provided herein.
                                                  40

            In addition to increasing the solubility of a peptide proteasome inhibitor in
   solution, the formulations prepared by the methods provided herein result in
   pharmaceutical solutions having surprising stability. Although the high concentrations of
   proteasome inhibitor achieved by the processing methods provided herein may not be
 5 expected to be thermodynamically stable, the solutions have been shown to be unaffected
   by storage temperature (e.g., the solutions can be stable from -20 *C to 25 *C), freeze
   thaw cycling, and lyophilization and reconstitution. The stability of complexed peptide
   proteasome inhibitor and cyclodextrin is sufficient to tolerate adjustments to pH
   following complexation without precipitation. This solution stability allows for use of
10 the complexed material in a pH range acceptable for injection, stability of the product,
   and other pharmaceutical purposes. Accordingly, the pharmaceutical compositions
   prepared by the methods provided herein can, for pharmaceutical uses, be considered
   supersaturated solutions that do not precipitate or decrease in concentration to a
   significant extent during their use in any number of medical applications (e.g., a final
15 pharmaceutical composition may be stable for a range of at least 1-5 days, and potentially
   longer).
            A first combination can be prepared by adding a solid form of the peptide
   proteasome inhibitor to an aqueous solution of one or more cyclodextrins. In some
   embodiments, when the peptide proteasome inhibitor is a compound of formula (5) or a
20 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, the concentration of the one or more
   cyclodextrins in the solution is from less than about 1% up to potentially as high as the
   solubility limit of the cyclodextrins(s), for example, about 40%. In some embodiments,
   for purposes of manufacture, the concentration of the one or more cyclodextrins in
   solution is from about 15% to about 30%. In some embodiments, for purposes of
25 reconstitution of the finished drug product as a solution for therapeutic administration or
   ready for further dilution prior to administration, the concentration of the one or more
   cyclodextrins in solution is from about 5% to about 15%, for example, approximately
   10%. Upon further dilution, this concentration could be reduced further as deemed
   appropriate for injection or other routes of drug delivery. The mole ratio of the one or
30 more cyclodextrins in the solution to the compound of formula (5) is from about 0.5 to
                                                  41

   about 100. In some embodiments, this ratio exists as a molar excess of cyclodextrin to
   shift the complexation stability equilibrium to prefer the complexed state rather than the
   uncomplexed state. For example, the mole ratio (cyclodextrin moles divided by
   proteasome inhibitor moles) is from about 10 to about 20. In some embodiments, the
 5 weight/weight ratio of cyclodextrin to proteasome inhibitor is about 30 to about 60.
   Excessive foaming of cyclodextrin solutions can be a complication for robust
   manufacturing processes. Surprisingly, adding the peptide proteasome inhibitor to the
   aqueous solution of cyclodextrin(s) can control foaming of the solution in the first
   combination.
10          In some embodiments, a first combination consists essentially of a peptide
   proteasome inhibitor, a cyclodextrin, and water.
            The solid form of the peptide proteasome inhibitor added to the solution of
   cyclodextrin and water can be a crystalline form of the compound as described herein
   (e.g., the compound can be polymorphic.or a specific polymorph as described herein). In
15 some embodiments, the solid form of the peptide proteasome inhibitor is amorphous.
            The first combination is heterogenous (e.g., a suspension or slurry). Such a
   solution can be characterized by the weight percent total solids and particle size
   distribution of the solution. For example, when the peptide proteasome inhibitor is a
   compound of formula (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, the first
20 combination can have a weight percent total solids from about 1% to about 45% (e.g.,
   from about 1% to about 40%; from about 1% to about 35%; from about 1% to about
   30%; from about 1% to about 25%; from about 1% to about 20%; from about 1% to
   about 15%; from about 1% to about 10%; from about 5% to about 45%; from about 10%
   to about 45%; from about 12% to about 45%; from about 15% to about 45%; from about
25 20% to about 45%; from about 25% to about 45%; from about 30% to about 45%; from
   about 35% to about 45%; from about 5% to about 35%; from about 10% to about 40%;
   from about 15% to about 37%; and from about 18% to about 36%). In some
   embodiments, the first combination can.have a weight percent solids from about 20% to
   about 33%. In some embodiments, the first combination can have a weight percent solids
30 from about 30% to about 33 %. Over the time course of manufacture the proportion of
                                                42

   solids which are dissolved versus the proportion undissolved can vary depending on
   solubility and extent of complexation. Initially, the one or more cyclodextrins are very
   soluble in water, and the inhibitor is sparingly soluble, thereby remaining mostly as a
   heterogeneous mixture or slurry.
 5         In some embodiments, the first combination has a paritcle size distribution with
   primary particles of diameter ranging from less than about 1 micrometer to about 300
   micrometers or more (e.g., from about 1 pm to about 200 pm; from about I pm to about
    150 pm; from about I pm to about 125 jim; from about 1 pm to about 100 pm; from
   about 1 pm to about 50 pm; from about 1 pm to about 10 pm; from about 5 pm to about
10 300 pm; from about 25 pm to about 300 jim; from about 50 pm to about 300 pm; from
   about 60 pim to about 300 pm; from about 75 pm to about 300 pm; from about 100 pm to
   about 300 pm; from about 125 pm to about 300 pim; from about 150 jim to about 300
   pm; from about 200 pm to about 300 pm; from about 225 pm to about 300 pim; from
   about 250 jim to about 300 pm; from about 5 pm to about 150 pm; from about 25 Pm to
15 about 200 jim; from about 50 pm to about 125 pm; from about 10 jim to about 100 pm;
   from about 75 pm to about 225 jim; and from about 100 jim to about 200 pm). Primary
   particles may exist as discrete particles or as agglomerates comprised of one or many
   primary particles. Agglomerates of primary particles may have substantially larger sizes
   than primary particles. Thereby it is useful to incorporate a high energy mixing device,
20 such as a high shear mixer (often configured as a rotor stator mixer), in addition to a
   general suspending impeller mixer. The high energy mixer over the time course of about
   5 minutes to about 90 minutes (e.g., about 5 minutes to about 80 minutes; about 5
   minutes to about 75 minutes; about 5 minutes to about 60 minutes; about 5 minutes to
   about 45 minutes; about 5 minutes to about 30 minutes; about 10 minutes to about 90
25 minutes; about 15 minutes to about 90 minutes; about 30 minutes to about 90 minutes;
   about 45 minutes to about 90 minutes; about 50 minutes to about 90 minutes; about 75
   minutes to about 90 minutes; about 15 minutes to about 75 minutes; about 20 minutes to
   about 70 minutes; about 30 minutes to about 70 minutes; about 45 minutes to about 75
   minutes; and about 10 minutes to about 45 minutes), for example, over the time course of
30 about 60 minutes will break up large agglomerates into dispersed primary particles in the
                                                 43

     solution of cyclodextrin. Further mixing can assist by breaking up primary particles into
     smaller fragments of primary particles. This process design facilitates a robust method
    where the mixing system(s) achieve essentially dispersed primary particles of size
    distribution ranging from less than about 1 micrometer up to about 30 micrometers, for
  5 example, up to about 10 micrometers independent of the size distribution and degress of
    agglomeration of the proteosome inhibitor solids. Therefore batch to batch variability of
    particle size distribution of the proteosome inhibitor is not significant to process
    performance as the mixing system(s) reduce agglomerates and primary particles typically
    into the preferable particle size distribution range. For example, the first combination can
 10 have a particle size distribution initially from less than about 1 micrometer up to about
     10,000 micrometers to a size distribution of less than about 1 micrometer up to about 30
    micrometers after application of the high energy mixing step.
             In some embodiments, the first combination is substantially free of organic
    solvent. For example, the water in the first combination can be water for injection (WFI).
 15 In some embodiments, the first combination is substantially free of buffer (e.g., the first
    combination lacks a buffer acid or buffer base).
            The method can further comprise mixing the first combination prior to altering the
    pH of the first combination such as by use of a high shear mixer and a regular impeller.
    The general mixer can be operated, for example, at any rotational speed sufficient to
20  maintain suspension of particles off the bottom of the mixing tank. Mixing speed is a
    function of the tank and impeller geometry among other factors and is sufficiently
    determined by those skilled in the art via visual appearance of the mixing slurry or
    solution. Likewise, the speed of the high shear mixer is dependent on, for example, the
    diameter of the mixing element, the stator geometry, the gap width, and other factors.
25  Energy input to the slurry can be determined via theoretic calculations or via empirical
    measurements. Alternatively, the necessary high shear mixing speed and duration of high
    speed operation can be determined by those skilled in the art via microscopic observation
    of slurry samples following various mixing speeds and time combinations. Once
    disagglomeration and primary particles have been reduced, excess high shear mixing
30  speed and time may be applied without detriment to the process. For example, in some
                                                   44

   embodiments, the mixing can include stirring the first combination at a rate of from about
    500 rpm to about 10,000 rpm. For example, the high shear mixing can be carried out at a
    speed of about 2,000 rpm to about 3,500 rpm. For smaller and larger mixer and tank
   diameters, the relevant speeds can change significantly.
 5          Mixing of the first combination can be carried out at a temperature of from about
   0*C to about 30 *C (e.g., from about 5*C to about 25 *C; from about 10 'C to about 30
   *C; from about 15 *C to about 25 *C; from about 5 *C to about 20 *C; from about 2 *C to
   about 22 *C; and from about 20 *C to about 30 *C). In some embodiments, mixing of the
   first combination is carried out for a time sufficient to achieve a particle size distribution
10 ranging from less than about 1 micometer to about 30 micrometers in the first
   combination. Mixing of the first combination is carried out for a time period of from
   about 30 minutes to about 90 minutes, for example 60 minutes.
            Altering the pH of the first solution can include increasing or decreasing the pH of
   the first solution by addition of an acid or a base. In some embodiments, when the
15 peptide proteasome inhibitor is a compound of formula (5) or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof, the pH of the first combination is about 4 to about 7. In some
   embodiments, an acid.is added to alter the pH, such as an inorganic or an organic acid.
   Non-limiting examples of acids include lactic acid, acetic acid, formic acid, citric acid,
   oxalic acid, uric acid, succinic acid, maleic acid, fumaric acid, benzoic acid, tartaric acid,
20 glycine hydrochloride, bisulfate (existing, for example, as a sodium, potassium, or
   ammonium salt), and phosphoric acid or salts of phosphate. In some embodiments, the
   acid is an organic acid. In some embodiments, the acid is citric acid. A suitable acid can
   have one or more pKa values, with a first pKa of from about -6 to about +5. For
   example, the acid has a first pKa in the range of about +1 to about +4.5. In some
25 embodiments, the acid has a first pKa in the range of about +1.5 to about +3.5. See, for
   example, Handbook of PharmaceuticalSalts: Properties,Selection, and Use, Eds. P.
   Heinrich Stahl and Camille G. Wermuth, Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta (Switzerland)
   2002, 336-341, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
           In some embodiments, for compounds where the solubility and complexation is in
30 fact enhanced via increasing pH, the pH is altered by addition of a base, for example, an
                                                  45

   inorganic or an organic base. Non-limiting examples of inorganic bases include sodium
   hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide, calcium hydroxide, magnesium
   hydroxide, and carbonate or bicarbonate salts of sodium, potassium, or ammonium. Non
   limiting examples of organic bases include pyridine, methyl amine, triethyl amine,
 5 immidazole, benzimidazole, histidine, and a phosphazene base. An organic base can have
   a pKb or a first pKb of from about -6 to about +10. The relevant pKa or pKb of the acid
   or base respectively needs to be in a range sufficient to achieve some increase in the
   solubility of the inhibitor. In some embodiments, the acid or base is added in the form of
   an aqueous solution (e.g., an aqueous solution of an acid).
10         Altering the pH of the first solution results in the formation of a second
   combination where the peptide proteasome inhibitor is more soluble than in the first
   combination. For example, a peptide proteasome inhibitor can be at least about 10%
   more soluble (e.g., at least about 100%, at least about 150%, at least about 200%, at least
   about 250%, at least about 400%, at least about 500%, at least about 1000%, at least
15 about 1250%, at least about 1500%, at least about 2000%, at least about 2500%, at least
   about 3000%, at least about 4000%, at least about 5000%, at least about 5500%, at least
   about 6000%, at least about 7500%, at least about 8000%, at least about 9000%, and at
   least about 10,000% more soluble) in the second combination compared to the solubility
   of the inhibitor in the first combination.
20         Without being bound by theory, altering the pH of the first combination initiates
   complexation of the one or more cyclodextrins and the peptide proteasome inhibitor.
   Increasing complexation alters the equilibrium of the solution, triggering additional
   complexation, and ultimately results in the solubilization of the peptide proteasome
   inhibitor. Following addition of the additive, the second combination can be mixed for a
25 time sufficient to achieve either a heterogeneous mixture with sufficiently solubilized and
   complexed inhibitor, or a homogenous third combination where all the inhibitor has been
   complexed and none remains as undissolved solids. For example, the concentration of
   the proteasome inhibitor in the third combination can be from about 1 to about 18
   mg/mL, for example, about 2 to about 8 mg/mL, about 4 to about 6 mg/mL, or about 5 to
30 about 6 mg/mL. In some embodiments, the pH of the third combination is from about 1.5
                                                 46

     to about 4, for example, about 2 to about 3.5 or about 2.5 to about 3.5. Considering the
     instances where sufficient complexation can be achieved without necessarily dissolving
     and complexing the entire mass of inhibitor present as a slurry, it may be useful to
     terminate the complexing process once a target concentration has been achieved. In these
  5  instances, a homogeneous solution of desired concentration of the inhibitor can be
     achieved via filtration of the excess solid content of the inhibitor. This leaves the
     complexed inhibitor and cyclodextrin(s) in a functionally stable solution, even though the
     dynamic equilibrium of complexation and solubilization may imply a non
     thermodynamically stable state.
 10           Complexation of the peptide proteasome inhibitor in the third combination is at
     least about 50% (e.g., at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least
     about 70%, at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%,
     at least about 92%, at least about 94%, at least about 95%, at least about 96%, at least
     about 97%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%). In some embodiments, the
15   complexation of the peptide proteasome inhibitor in the third combination is at least
     about 99%. Conceivably, for some combinations of cyclodextrin concentration, inhibitor
     concentration, pH, and complexation time, a 100% complex solution of the inhibitor can
     be prepared, where the mixture becomes homogeneous.
              In some embodiments, the method described above is performed in a single
20   vessel. For example, mixing the complexing slurry in the method can be performed using
    a probe style high shear mixer (e.g., a homogenizer) inside a temperature controlled
    jacketed mixing tank.
              Provided herein is a method for preparing a pharmaceutical composition of a
    compound of formula (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt form thereof, the method
25  comprising providing a first combination of a compound of formula (5), one or more
    cyclodextrins, and water, wherein the first combination is heterogenous and the
    compound or salt has a low solubility in the first combination. In some embodiments, at
    least one of the one or more cyclodextrins is SBECD and the water is WFI. The method
    further comprises contacting the first combination with an acid to form a second
30  combination, wherein the compound is more soluble in the second combination than in
                                                   47

    the first combination. In some embodiments, the acid is an citric acid (e.g., an aqueous
    solution of citric acid).
             A non-limiting example of the method includes providing a first combination
    including water (e.g., WFI), SBECD, and the compound of formula (5) or a
  5 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a vessel. In some embodiments, the water and
    SBECD are mixed prior to addition of the compound. The first combination can be
    mixed until a heterogenous solution is achieved (e.g., from about 30 to about 90 minutes,
    from about 40 to about 80 minutes, and from about 50 to about 70 minutes). In some
    embodiments, the first combination is mixed for about 60 minutes. Should the compound
 10 agglomerate in the first combination, the particle size for any agglomterated compound
    can be reduced. Once a heterogenous mixture (e.g., a slurry) is achieved, an acid is
    added (e.g., an organic acid such as citric acid) to the first combination to prepare a
    second combination. In some embodiments the acid is added as an aqueous solution.
    Mixing can then be continued until a homogenous third combination is prepared, or for
15  lesser time periods remaining as a heterogeneous mixture with a desired extent of
    complexation and solubilization achieved. In some embodiments, mixing of the second
    combination is conducted for a time ranging from about 1 to about 48 hours, for example,
    up to 18 hours. In some embodiments, mixing of the second combination is conducted
    for about 12 hours. For example, mixing can be conducted for about six hours. In some
20  embodiments, a concentration of the compound in the third combination ranges from
    about I to about 15 mg/mL (e.g., from about 3 to about 12 mg/mL, from about 4 to about
    8 mg/mL, about 5 mg/mL). In some embodiments, the method is used to prepare a
    solution of the compound for injection. In other embodiments, the method is used to
    prepare a solution for lyophilization as an aseptic finished pharmaceutical product which
25  can be stored, trasnported, and reconstituted with water or other vehicle when ready for
    injection to a patient.
             The pharmaceutical compositions obtained as sterile products using the
    procedures described herein are typically manufactured applying aseptic techniques and
    sterile filtration before filling into the primary packaging unit (e.g. glass vials), unless the
30  preparation involved a sterilization step and no contamination occurs prior to use.
                                                    48

           The peptide proteasome inhibitor composition dissolved in aqueous buffer or in
   aqueous solution, for example, following sterile filtration, can optionally be lyophilized
   (in a contaminant-free and -proof container) and reconstituted in appropriate aqueous
   diluent just prior to use. In certain embodiments, a lyophilized pharmaceutical
 5 composition as provided herein includes e.g., carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which
   contains 60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric
   acid, and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)).
           In some embodiments, the diluent is sterile water for injection (WFI). In some
   embodiments, the diluent is a sterile buffer (e.g., a citrate buffer). In some embodiments,
10 the diluent comprises citric acid. In certain embodiments, reconstitution can be carried
   out according to the following protocol (e.g., to achieve a carfilzomib concentration of
   2 mg/mL):
            1.      Remove vial from refrigerator just prior to use.
           2.       Aseptically reconstitute each vial by slowly injecting 29 mL Sterile
15         Water for Injection, USP, directing the solution onto the INSIDE WALL
           OF THE VIAL to minimize foaming.
           3.       Gently swirl and/or invert the vial slowly for about 1 minute, or
           until complete dissolution of any cake or powder occurs.              DO NOT
           SHAKE to avoid foam generation. If foaming occurs, allow solution to
20         rest in vial for about 2 to 5 minutes, until foaming subsides.
           4.       After   reconstitution,  KYPROLIS        is  ready    for  intravenous
           administration.     The reconstituted product should be a clear, colorless
           solution. If any discoloration or particulate matter is observed, do not use
           the reconstituted product.
25         5.       When     administering   in an    intravenous    bag,   withdraw    the
           calculated dose from the vial and dilute into 50 mL 5% Dextrose Injection,
           USP intravenous bag.
           6.       Immediately discard the vial containing the unused portion.
                                                  49

            In the compositions provided herein, one source of pH control is a buffer.
   Typically, a buffer is present as an acid or a base and its conjugate base or acid,
   respectively. In one embodiment, the range of buffering salt is 1-100 mM. For example,
   the range of buffering salt can be 5-50 mM (e.g., about 10 mM (in solid formulations, the
 5 amount of buffer is selected to produce this concentration after reconstitution/dilution)).
   The concentration of buffer and the pH of the solution can be chosen to give optimal
   balance of solubility and stability.
            Examples of suitable buffers include mixtures of weak acids and alkali metal salts
   (e.g., sodium, potassium) of the conjugate base of weak acids such as sodium tartrate and
10 sodium citrate. In some embodiments, the buffer is sodium citrate/citric acid.
            The solubilization of poorly water-soluble drugs by cyclodextrin complexation
   has been extensively studied. Cyclodextrins are cyclic oligosaccharides consisting of 6,
   7, or 8 glucose units (a-CD, p-CD, and y-CD) joined by a-1,4 bonds. The internal
   diameters of a-CD, P-CD, and y-CD are approximately 5A, 6A, and 8A, respectively.
15 The interior cavity is relatively hydrophobic due to the CH 2 and ether groups, whereas
   the exterior, consisting of primary and secondary hydroxyl groups, is more polar. Water
   inside the cavity tends to get replaced by more non-polar molecules. The ability of
   cyclodextrins to form non-covalent inclusion complexes with molecules that partially fit
   inside its non-polar cavity leads to drug solubilization.
20          Two water-soluble   p-CD  derivatives of pharmaceutical interest are sulfobutyl
   ether beta-cyclodextrin (SBECD) and hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin (HPCD), both of
   which have been shown to be safe and well tolerated. Both SBECD (brand name
   Captisol@) and HPCD (brand name Kleptose@) are used in commercially available
   intravenous products.
25          Cyclodextrins, as provided herein, include alpha-, beta- and gamma-cyclodextrin.
   In one embodiment, the one or more cyclodextrins are either a substituted or non
   substituted p-cyclodextrin, present, for example, at from 5-35% (w/v). In some
   embodiments, the amount of a cyclodextrin is about 25% (w/v). In a certain
   embodiment, the amount of a cyclodextrin in a formulation suitable for injection is about
30 10% (w/v). In another embodiment, the one or more cyclodextrins are a substituted P
                                                 50

   cyclodextrin. Substituted cyclodextrins increase the solubility of the cyclodextrin and
   mitigate toxic effects associated with unsubstituted cyclodextrins. Examples of
   substituted p-cyclodextrins   include those substituted with one or more hydrophilic
   groups, such as monosaccharide (e.g., glucosyl, maltosyl), carboxyalkyl (e.g.,
 5 carboxylmethyl, carboxyethyl), hydroxyalkyl-substituted (e.g., hydroxyethyl, 2
   hydroxypropyl) and sulfoalkylether-substituted beta-cyclodextrin. Particularly suitable
   beta-cyclodextrins include hydroxypropyl beta-cyclodextrin (HPBCD) and
   sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin (SBECD). In some embodiments, the cyclodextrin is
   SBECD. However, it is understood that typically any substitution to the cyclodextrin,
10 including substitution by hydrophobic groups such as alkyls, will improve its aqueous
   solubility by disrupting the hydrogen-bonding network within the crystal lattice of the
   solid cyclodextrin, thereby lowering the lattice energy of the solid. The degree of
   substitution is not believed to be critical; however, in some embodiments, the degree of
   substitution is at least 1% and typically 2% to 10%, such as 3% to 6%.
15         In some embodiments, one or more cyclodextrins may be used. For example, a
   mixture of two or more cyclodextrins can be used to complex a peptide proteasome
   inhibitor provided herein. In some embodiments, captisol and kleptose may be used to
   complex a peptide proteasome inhibitor such as carfilzomib.
           The inventors have discovered that it can be advantageous to minimize the
20 amount of chloride ion (or other nucleophilic anions) in the methods and pharmaceutical
   compositions described herein.
           In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more cyclodextrins (added to the
   first combination) is a low chloride cyclodextrin. As used herein, a "low chloride
   cyclodextrin" refers to a chloride-containing cyclodextrin having less than or equal to
25 0.05% w/w sodium chloride, or if a chloride source(s) other than (or in addition to)
   sodium chloride is/are present, a "low chloride cyclodextrin" refers to a chloride
   containing cyclodextrin having a chloride ion content that is less than or equal to the
   amount of chloride that would be present in a cyclodextrin having 0.05% w/w sodium
   chloride. In some embodiments, the low chloride cyclodextrin is a low chloride SBECD.
30 The determination of chloride concentration can be determined by a variety of methods
                                                  51

    known in the art (e.g., for commercially obtained cyclodextrans from the manufacturer's
    product specification, e.g., by gravimetric techniques, e.g., by potentiometric techniques).
             In some embodiments, at least one of the one or more cyclodextrins (added to the
    first combination) does not include a detectable amount of chloride ion.
  5          In some embodiments, the amount of chloride ion present is sufficiently low so as
    to provide a shelf life of 2 years when stored at 2-8 degrees C.    In certain embodiments,
    chloride ion is present, and the amount of chloride ion present is sufficiently low so as to
    provide a shelf life of 2 years when stored at 2-8 degrees C.
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
 10 combination is not more than 2.0. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 2.0).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 1.5. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
15  present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 1.5).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 1.2. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
20  than 0, but less than 1.2).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 1.0. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 1.0).
25          In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 0.9. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 0.9).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
30  combination is not more than 0.8. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
                                                   52

    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 0.8).
             In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 0.7. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
 5  present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
    than 0, but less than 0.7).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 0.6. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
10  than 0, but less than 0.6).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
    combination is not more than 0.5. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
    present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.5).
15          In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is not more than 0.4. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
   present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.4).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
20 combination is not more than 0.3. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
   present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.3).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is not more than 0.2. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
25 present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
   than 0, but less than 0.2).
            In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is not more than 0.1. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion is
   present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first combination is other
30 than 0, but less than 0.1).
                                                   53

           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the first
   combination is from 0.2 to 1.2 (e.g., 0.3 to 1.2, e.g., 0.2 to 0.4, e.g., 0.3 to 0.4, e.g., 0.32).
           In embodiments, the mole ratios of chloride ion to compound described herein
   can also be present in the second and/or third combinations.
 5         In one aspect, pharmaceutical compositions are featured, which are prepared by
   any one of the methods described herein and have a mole ratio of chloride ion to
   compound that is not more than 2.0. In certain embodiments, at least some chloride ion
   is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the pharmaceutical
   compositions is other than 0, but less than 2.0).
10         In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 1.5. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 1.5).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
15 pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 1.2. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 1.2).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 1.0. In certain embodiments, at least some
20 chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 1.0).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.9. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
25 pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.9).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.8. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.8).
                                                  54

           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.7. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.7).
 5         In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the     '
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.6. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.6).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
10 pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.5. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.5).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.4. In certain embodiments, at least some
15 chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.4).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.3. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
20 pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.3).
           In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.2. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.2).
25         In some embodiments, the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is not more than 0.1. In certain embodiments, at least some
   chloride ion is present (i.e., the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
   pharmaceutical compositions is other than 0, but less than 0.1).
           In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions do not include a
30 detectable amount of chloride ion.
                                                  55

              In the methods described herein, the compositions provided herein (e.g., solutions
     of cyclodextrin, first combinations, second combinations, third combinations, and
     pharmaceutical compositions) have low concentrations of any strong nucleophilic ion
     (e.g., chloride ion, bromide ion, fluoride ion, and iodide ion). For example, a solution
  5 can have a nucleophilic ion concentration of up to and including 8.5x 10-3 M. In some
    embodiments, solutions having low nucleophilic ion can be purchased commercially or
    may be prepared using technology known in the art, including, for example,
    nanofiltration, ultrafiltration, diafiltration, ion exchange chromatography, reverse
    osmosis, and electrolysis.
10            In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein
    comprises up to and including 8.5x 10-3 M of a nucleophilic ion. In some embodiments,
    the nucleophilic ion is present as a salt, for example, a sodium salt, but the nucleophilic
    salt could exist in solution with other cations than sodium (e.g. hydrogen, potassium,
    magnesium, and calcium cations). In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition
15  as provided herein comprises up to 8.5x10~3 M of a nucleophlic ion. For example, a
    pharmaceutical composition comprises less than 8.5x10~3 M of a nucleophilic ion.
              In the methods described herein, the compositions provided herein (e.g., solutions
    of cyclodextrin, first combinations, second combinations, third combinations, and
    pharmaceutical compositions) have low concentrations of chloride ion. For example, a
20  solution can have a chloride ion concentration of up to and including 0.03% (w/v) (e.g., 0
    to 0.03%; 0.01 to 0.03%; 0.015 to 0.03%; 0.02 to 0.03%; 0.025 to 0.03%; 0 to 0.025%; 0
    to 0.2%; 0 to 0.01%; 0.005% to 0.025%; and 0.015% to 0.025%). In some embodiments,
    solutions having low chloride ion can be purchased commercially or may be prepared
    using technology known in the art, including, for example, nanofiltration, ultrafiltration,
25  diafiltration, ion exchange chromatography, reverse osmosis, and electrolysis.
              In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein
    comprises up to and including 0.03% (w/v) of a chloride ion. In some embodiments, the
    chloride ion is present as a salt, for example, sodium chloride, but the chloride salt could
    exist in solution with other cations than sodium (e.g. hydrogen, potassium, magnesium,
30  and calcium cations). In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided
                                                     56

     herein comprises up to 0.03% (w/v) of a chloride ion. For example, a pharmaceutical
     composition comprises less than 0.03% (w/v) of a chloride ion.
             In the methods described herein, the compositions provided herein (e.g., solutions
     of cyclodextrin, first combinations, second combinations, third combinations, and
  5  pharmaceutical compositions) have low concentrations of sodium chloride. For example,
    a solution can have a sodium chloride concentration of up to and including 0.05% (w/v)
    (e.g., 0 to 0.05%; 0.01 to 0.05%; 0.015 to 0.05%; 0.02 to 0.05%; 0.025 to 0.05%; 0.03 to
    0.05%; 0.04 to 0.05%; 0 to 0.045%; 0 to 0.04%; 0 to 0.035%; 0 to 0.03%; 0 to 0.025%; 0
    to 0.2%; 0 to 0.01%; 0.01% to 0.04%; 0.025% to 0.045%; and 0.02% to 0.03%). In some
10  embodiments, solutions having low sodium chloride can be purchased commercially or
    may be prepared using technology known in the art, including, for example,
    nanofiltration, ultrafiltration, diafiltration, ion exchange chromatography, reverse
    osmosis, and electrolysis.
             In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein
15  comprises up to and including 0.05% (w/v) of sodium chloride. In some embodiments, a
    pharmaceutical composition as provided herein comprises up to 0.05% (w/v) of sodium
    chloride. For example, a pharmaceutical composition comprises less than 0.05% (w/v) of
    sodium chloride.
             In some embodiments, a solution of a cyclodextrin having a low concentration of
20  any strong nucleophilic ion (e.g., chloride ion, bromide ion, fluoride ion, and iodide ion)
    is used to formulate a peptide proteasome inhibitor (e.g., a compound of formula (1) to
    (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) provided herein. For example,
    solutions of cyclodextrins used to formulate a peptide proteasome inhibitor can have a
    nucleophilic ion concentration of up to and including 8.5x10- 3 M. Such solutions can be
25  purchased commercially or may be prepared using technology as is known in the art. For
    example, nanofiltration, ultrafiltration, diafiltration, ion exchange chromatography,
    reverse osmosis, and electrolysis.
             In some embodiments, a solution of one or more cyclodextrins used to formulate a
    peptide proteasome inhibitor comprises up to and including 8.5x10- 3 M of a nucleophilic
30  ion. In some embodiments, the nucleophilic ion is present as a salt, for example, a
                                                     57

    sodium salt, but the nucleophilic salt could exist in solution with other cations than
    sodium (e.g. hydrogen, potassium, magnesium, and calcium cations). In some
    embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein comprises up 8.5x 10 3 M
    of a nucleophlic ion. For example, a pharmaceutical composition comprises less than
  5 8.5x10- M of a nucleophilic ion.
            In some embodiments, a solution of a cyclodextrin having a low concentration of
    chloride ion is used to formulate a peptide proteasome inhibitor (e.g., a compound of
    formula (1) to (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) provided herein. For
    example, solutions of cyclodextrins used to formulate a peptide proteasome inhibitor can
10  have a chloride ion concentration of up to and including 0.03% (w/v) (e.g., 0 to 0.03%;
    0.01 to 0.03%; 0.0 15 to 0.03%; 0.02 to 0.03%; 0.025 to 0.03%; 0 to 0.025%; 0 to 0.2%; 0
    to 0.01%; 0.005% to 0.025%; and 0.015% to 0.025%). Such solutions can be purchased
    commercially or may be prepared using technology as is known in the art. For example,
    nanofiltration, ultrafiltration, diafiltration, ion exchange chromatography, reverse
15  osmosis, and electrolysis.
            In some embodiments, a solution of one or more cyclodextrins used to formulate a
    peptide proteasome inhibitor comprises up to and including 0.03% (w/v) of a chloride
    ion. In some embodiments, the chloride ion is present as a salt, for example, sodium
    chloride, but the chloride salt could exist in solution with other cations than sodium (e.g.
20  hydrogen, potassium, magnesium, and calcium cations). In some embodiments, a
    pharmaceutical composition as provided herein comprises up to 0.03% (w/v) of a
    chloride ion. For example, a pharmaceutical composition comprises less than 0.03%
    (w/v) of a chloride ion.
            In some embodiments, a solution of a cyclodextrin having a low concentration of
25  sodium chloride is used to formulate a peptide proteasome inhibitor (e.g., a compound of
    formula (1) to (5) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) provided herein. For
    example, solutions of cyclodextrins used to formulate a peptide proteasome inhibitor can
    have a sodium chloride concentration of up to and including 0.05% (w/v) (e.g., 0 to
    0.05%; 0.01 to 0.05%; 0.015 to 0.05%; 0.02 to-0.05%; 0.025 to 0.05%; 0.03 to 0.05%;
30  0.04 to 0.05%; 0 to 0.045%; 0 to 0.04%; 0 to 0.035%; 0 to 0.03%; 0 to 0.025%; 0 to
                                                     58

   0.2%; 0 to 0.01%; 0.01% to 0.04%; 0.025% to 0.045%; and 0.02% to 0.03%). Such
   solutions can be purchased commercially or may be prepared using desalination
   technology as is known in the art. For example, nanofiltration, ultrafiltration,
   diafiltration, ion exchange chromatography, reverse osmosis, and electrolysis.
 5          In some embodiments, a solution of one or more cyclodextrins used to formulate a
   peptide proteasome inhibitor comprises up to and including 0.05% (w/v) of sodium
   chloride. In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein
   comprises up to 0.03% (w/v) of sodium chloride. For example, a pharmaceutical
   composition comprises less than 0.03% (w/v) of sodium chloride.
10          In addition to producing stable, highly concentrated solutions of a peptide
   proteasome inhibitor, the formulations prepared by the methods provided herein can be
   achieved without the chemical degradation and stability limitations of other methods of
   complexation and formulation. For example, the methods provided herein avoid the use
   of strong acids (e.g., HCI) to lower the pH during complexation. Although decreasing the
15 pH of the formulation to a value less than 2 can facilitate the dissolution of the peptide
   proteasome inhibitor and produce a homogenous solution prior to complexation, the
   acidity of the solution can result in degradation of the peptide proteasome inhibitor.
   Moreover, the peptide proteasome inhibitor contains a ketoepoxide functional group, and
   the inhibitor is susceptible to hydrolysis by strong nucleophilic ions such as chloride ion.
20 Hydrolysis of the epoxide ring and acid-catalyzed nucleophilic opening of the epoxide
   moiety is a route of compound degradation. For example, degradation of a compound of
   formula (5) results in the formation of a chlorohydrin degradation product (CDP)
   impurity. Based on its structure, this degradant is classified as an alkylator therefore
   global regulatory authorities consider this a potentially genotoxic impurity. In addition,
25 in some embodiments, chloride ion can also degrade the epoxide resulting in formation of
   a chlorohydrin adduct. As shown in Example 2, reduction of chloride ion levels in a
   formulation of a compound of formula (5) can minimize or eliminate such hydrolysis
   pathways resulting in enhanced product stability and quality. Using the methods
   provided herein, however, such strong acids and nucleophilic ions are avoided and
                                                 59

   therefore degradation of the peptide proteasome inhibitor to such degradation products
   can be significantly reduced and, in some cases, may even be eliminated.
           Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injection can include sterile aqueous
   solutions (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the
 5 extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersions. For
   intravenous administration, suitable carriers include sterile water for injection, sterile
   buffers, such as citrate buffer, bacteriostatic water, and Cremophor  ELTM   (BASF,
   Parsippany, NJ). In all cases, the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the
   extent that easy syringability exists. The composition should be stable under the
10 conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating
   action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or
   dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example,
   glycerol, propylene glycol, liquid polyetheylene glycol, and the like), and suitable
   mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a
15 coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of
   dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can
   be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens,
   chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be
   preferable to include isotonic agents, for example, sugars, polyalcohols such as mannitol,
20 sorbitol, and sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable
   compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent that delays
   absorption, for example, aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
           Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound
   in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients
25 enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions
   are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle, which contains a
   basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated
   above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions,
   the preferred methods of preparation is freeze-drying (lyophilization), which yields a
                                                  60

    powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously
    sterile-filtered solution thereof.
             Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. For the
   purpose of oral therapeutic administration, the active compound can be incorporated with
 5 excipients and used in the form of tablets, troches, or capsules, e.g., gelatin capsules.
   Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash.
   Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents, and/or adjuvant materials can be included
   as part of the composition. The tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain
   any of the following ingredients, or compounds of a similar nature: a binder such as
10 microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient such as starch or
   lactose, a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid, Primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant
   such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide; a
   sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring agent such as peppermint,
   methyl salicylate, or orange flavoring.
15          For administration by inhalation, the compounds can be delivered in the form of
   an aerosol spray from a pressured container or dispenser that contains a suitable
   propellant, e.g., a gas such as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizer. Such methods include those
   described in U.S. Patent No. 6,468,798.
            Systemic administration of a therapeutic compound as described herein can also
20 be by transmucosal or transdermal means. For transmucosal or transdermal
   administration, penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the
   formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art, and include, for example,
   for transmucosal administration, detergents, bile salts, and fusidic acid derivatives.
   Transmucosal administration can be accomplished through the use of nasal sprays or
25 suppositories. For transdermal administration, the active compounds are formulated into
   ointments, salves, gels, or creams as generally known in the art.
            The pharmaceutical compositions can also be prepared in the form of
   suppositories (e.g., with conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter and other
   glycerides) or retention enemas for rectal delivery.
                                                 61

            Additionally, intranasal delivery is possible, as described in, inter alia, Hamajima
   et al., Clin. Immunol. Immunopathol., 88(2), 205-10 (1998). Liposomes (e.g., as
   described in U.S. Patent No. 6,472,375) and microencapsulation can also be used.
   Biodegradable targetable microparticle delivery systems can also be used (e.g., as
 5 described in U.S. Patent No. 6,471,996).
            In one embodiment, the therapeutic compounds are prepared with carriers that
   will protect the therapeutic compounds against rapid elimination from the body, such as a
   controlled release formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery
   systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl
10 acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid.
   Such formulations can be prepared using standard techniques, or obtained commercially,
   e.g., from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Liposomal suspensions
   (including liposomes targeted to selected cells with monoclonal antibodies to cellular
   antigens) can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These can be
15 prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art, for example, as
   described in U.S. Patent No. 4,522,81 1.
            The pharmaceutical composition may be administered at once, or may be divided
   into a number of smaller doses to be administered at intervals of time. It is understood
   that the precise dosage and duration of treatment is a function of the disease being treated
20 and may be determined empirically using known testing protocols or by extrapolation
   from in vivo or in vitro test data. It is to be noted that concentrations and dosage values
   may also vary with the severity of the condition to be alleviated. It is to be further
   understood that for any particular patient, specific dosage regimens should be adjusted
   over time according to the individual need and the professional judgment of the person
25 administering or supervising the administration of the compositions, and that the
   concentration ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and are not intended to limit the
   scope or practice of the claimed compositions.
            Dosage forms or compositions containing a compound as described herein in the
   range of 0.005% to 100% with the balance made up from non-toxic carrier may be
30 prepared. Methods for preparation of these compositions are known to those skilled in
                                                   62

     the art. The contemplated compositions may contain 0.00 1%-100% active ingredient, in
     one embodiment 0.1-95%, in another embodiment 75-85%.
              The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack, or
     dispenser together with instructions for administration.
  5
    Methods of Use
             The biological consequences of proteasome inhibition are numerous. Proteasome
     inhibition has been suggested as a prevention and/or treatment of a multitude of diseases
    including, but not limited to, proliferative diseases, neurotoxic/degenerative diseases,
 10 Alzheimer's, ischemic conditions, inflammation, auto-immune diseases, HIV, cancers,
    organ graft rejection, septic shock, inhibition of antigen presentation, decreasing viral
    gene expression, parasitic infections, conditions associated with acidosis, macular
    degeneration, pulmonary conditions, muscle wasting diseases, fibrotic diseases, bone and
    hair growth diseases. Therefore, pharmaceutical formulations for very potent,
15  proteasome-specific compounds, such as the epoxy ketone class of molecules, provide a
    means of administering a drug to a patient and treating these conditions.
             At the cellular level, the accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins, cell
    morphological changes, and apoptosis have been reported upon treatment of cells with
    various proteasome inhibitors. Proteasome inhibition has also been suggested as a
20  possible antitumor therapeutic strategy. The fact that epoxomicin was initially identified
    in a screen for antitumor compounds validates the proteasome as an antitumor
    chemotherapeutic target. Accordingly, these compositions are useful for treating cancer.
             Both in vitro and in vivo models have shown that malignant cells, in general, are
    susceptible to proteasome inhibition. In fact, proteasome inhibition has already been
25  validated as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of multiple myeloma. This could be
    due, in part, to the highly proliferative malignant cell's dependency on the proteasome
    system to rapidly remove proteins (Rolfe et al., J. Mol. Med. (1997) 75:5-17; Adams,
    Nature (2004) 4: 349-360). Therefore, provided herein is a method of treating cancers
    comprising administering to a patient in need of such treatment a therapeutically effective
30  amount of a peptide proteasome inhibitor as provided herein.
                                                   63

            As used herein, the term "cancer" includes, but is not limited to, blood born and
    solid tumors. Cancer refers to disease of blood, bone, organs, skin tissue and the vascular
    system, including, but not limited to, cancers of the bladder, blood, bone, brain, breast,
    cervix, chest, colon, endrometrium, esophagus, eye, head, kidney, liver, lung, lymph
  5 nodes, mouth, neck, ovaries, pancreas, prostate, rectum, renal, skin, stomach, testis,
    throat, and uterus. Specific cancers include, but are not limited to, leukemia (acute
    lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), acute lyelogenous leukemia (AML), chronic lymphocytic
    leukemia (CLL), chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), hairy cell leukemia), mature B
    cell neoplasms (small lymphocytic lymphoma, B cell prolymphocytic leukemia,
 10 lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (such as Waldenstr6m's macroglobulinemia), splenic
    marginal zone lymphoma, plasma cell myeloma, plasmacytoma, monoclonal
    immunoglobulin deposition diseases, heavy chain diseases, extranodal marginal zone B
    cell lymphoma (MALT lymphoma), nodal marginal zone B cell lymphoma (NMZL),
    follicular lymphoma, mantle cell lymphoma, diffuse B cell lymphoma, mediastinal
15  (thymic) large B cell lymphoma, intravascular large B cell lymphoma, primary effusion
    lymphoma and Burkitt lymphoma/leukemia), mature T cell and natural killer (NK) cell
    neoplasms (T cell prolymphocytic leukemia, T cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia,
    aggressive NK cell leukemia, adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma, extranodal NK/T cell
    lymphoma, enteropathy-type T cell lymphoma, hepatosplenic T cell lymphoma, blastic
20  NK cell lymphoma, mycosis fungoides (Sezary syndrome), primary cutaneous anaplastic
    large cell lymphoma, lymphomatoid papulosis, angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma,
    unspecified peripheral T cell lymphoma and anaplastic large cell lymphoma), Hodgkin
    lymphoma (nodular sclerosis, mixed celluarity, lymphocyte-rich, lymphocyte depleted or
    not depleted, nodular lymphocyte-predominant), myeloma (multiple myeloma, indolent
25  myeloma, smoldering myeloma), chronic myeloproliferative disease,
    myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative disease, myelodysplastic syndromes,
    immunodeficiency-associated lymphoproliferative disorders, histiocytic and dendritic cell
    neoplasms, mastocytosis, chondrosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, fibrosarcoma, malignant
    giant cell tumor, myeloma bone disease, osteosarcoma, breast cancer (hormone
30  dependent, hormone independent), gynecological cancers (cervical, endometrial,
                                                 64

    fallopian tube, gestational trophoblastic disease, ovarian, peritoneal, uterine, vaginal and
    vulvar), basal cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), malignant
    melanoma, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, Merkel cell carcinoma, Kaposi's sarcoma,
   astrocytoma, pilocytic astrocytoma, dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor,
 5 oligodendrogliomas, ependymoma, glioblastoma multiforme, mixed gliomas,
   oligoastrocytomas, medulloblastoma, retinoblastoma, neuroblastoma, germinoma,
   teratoma, malignant mesothelioma (peritoneal mesothelioma, pericardial mesothelioma,
   pleural mesothelioma), gastro-entero-pancreatic or gastroenteropancreatic
   neuroendocrine tumor (GEP-NET), carcinoid, pancreatic endocrine tumor (PET),
10 colorectal adenocarcinoma, colorectal carcinoma, aggressive neuroendocrine tumor,
    leiomyosarcomamucinous adenocarcinoma, Signet Ring cell adenocarcinoma,
   hepatocellular carcinoma, cholangiocarcinoma, hepatoblastoma, hemangioma, hepatic
   adenoma, focal nodular hyperplasia (nodular regenerative hyperplasia, hamartoma), non
   small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) (squamous cell lung carcinoma, adenocarcinoma,
15 large cell lung carcinoma), small cell lung carcinoma, thyroid carcinoma, prostate cancer
   (hormone refractory, androgen independent, androgen dependent, hormone-insensitive),
   and soft tissue sarcomas (fibrosarcoma, malignant fibrous hystiocytoma,
   dermatofibrosarcoma, liposarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma leiomyosarcoma,
   hemangiosarcoma, synovial sarcoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath
20 tumor/neurofibrosarcoma, extraskeletal osteosarcoma).
            In some embodiments, a peptide proteasome inhibitor as provided herein, or a
   pharmaceutical composition comprising the same, can be administered to treat multiple
   myeloma in a patient. For example, multiple myeloma can include refractory and/or
   refractory multiple myeloma.
25          Many tumors of the haematopoietic and lymphoid tissues are characterized by an
   increase in cell proliferation, or a particular type of cell. The chronic myeloproliferative
   diseases (CMPDs) are clonal haematopoietic stem cell disorders characterized by
   proliferation in the bone marrow of one or more of the myeloid lineages, resulting in
   increased numbers of granulocytes, red blood cells and/or platelets in the peripheral
30 blood. As such, use of a proteasome inhibitor for the treatment of such diseases is
                                                   65

    attractive and being examined (Cilloni et al., Haematologica(2007) 92: 1124-1229).
    CMPD can include chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic neutrophilic leukemia,
    chronic eosinophilic leukemia, polycythaemia vera, chronic idiopathic myelofibrosis,
    essential thrombocythaemia and unclassifiable chronic myeloproliferative disease.
  5 Provided herein is a method of treating CMPD comprising administering to a patient in
    need of such treatment an effective amount of the proteasome inhibitor compound
    disclosed herein.
            Myelodisplastic/myeloproliferative diseases, such as chronic myelomonocytic
    leukemia, atypical chronic myeloid leukemia, juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia and
10  unclassifiable myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative disease, are characterized by
    hypercellularity of the bone marrow due to proliferation in one or more of the myeloid
    lineages. Inhibiting the proteasome with a composition described herein, can serve to
    treat these myelodisplatic/myeloproliferative diseases by providing a patient in need of
    such treatment an effective amount of the composition.
15          Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) refer to a group of hematopoietic stem cell
    disorders characterized by dysplasia and ineffective haematopoiesis in one or more of the
    major myeloid cell lines. Targeting NF-kB with a proteasome inhibitor in these
    hematologic malignancies induces apoptosis, thereby killing the malignant cell (Braun et
    al. Cell Death and Differentiation(2006) 13:748-758). Further provided herein is a
20  method to treat MDS comprising administering to a patient in need of such treatment an
    effective amount of a compound provided herein. MDS includes refractory anemia,
    refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts, refractory cytopenia with multilineage
    dysplasia, refractory anemia with excess blasts, unclassifiable myelodysplastic syndrome
    and myelodysplastic syndrome associated with isolated del (5q) chromosome
25  abnormality.
            Mastocytosis is a proliferation of mast cells and their subsequent accumulation in
    one or more organ systems. Mastocytosis includes, but is not limited to, cutaneous
    mastocytosis, indolent systemic mastocytosis (ISM), systemic mastocytosis with
    associated clonal haematological non-mast-cell-lineage disease (SM-AIHNMD),
30  aggressive systemic mastocytosis (ASM), mast cell leukemia (MCL), mast cell sarcoma
                                                66

   (MCS) and extracutaneous mastocytoma. Further provided herein is a method to treat
   mastocytosis comprising administering an effect amount of the compound disclosed
   herein to a patient diagnosed with mastocytosis.
           The proteasome regulates NF-KB, which in turn regulates genes involved in the
 5 immune and inflammatory response. For example, NF-KB is required for the expression
   of the immunoglobulin light chain     K gene, the IL-2 receptor a-chain gene, the class I
   major histocompatibility complex gene, and a number of cytokine genes encoding, for
   example, IL-2, IL-6, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and IFN-p (Palombella et al.,
   Cell (1994) 78:773-785). Thus, provided herein are methods of affecting the level of
10 expression of IL-2, MHC-1, IL-6, TNFa, IFN-p or any of the other previously-mentioned
   proteins, each method comprising administering to a patient an effective amount of a
   proteasome inhibitor composition disclosed herein.
           Also provided herein is a method of treating an autoimmune disease in a patient
   comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the compound described
15 herein. An "autoimmune disease" herein is a disease or disorder arising from and directed
   against an individual's own tissues. Examples of autoimmune diseases or disorders
   include, but are not limited to, inflammatory responses such as inflammatory skin
   diseases including psoriasis and dermatitis (e.g. atopic dermatitis); systemic scleroderma
   and sclerosis; responses associated with inflammatory bowel disease (such as Crohn's
20 disease and ulcerative colitis); respiratory distress syndrome (including adult respiratory
   distress syndrome; ARDS); dermatitis; meningitis; encephalitis; uveitis; colitis;
   glomerulonephritis; allergic conditions such as eczema and asthma and other conditions
   involving infiltration of T cells and chronic inflammatory responses; atherosclerosis;
   leukocyte adhesion deficiency; rheumatoid arthritis; systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE);
25 diabetes mellitus (e.g. Type I diabetes mellitus or insulin dependent diabetes mellitus);
   multiple sclerosis; Reynaud's syndrome; autoimmune thyroiditis; allergic
   encephalomyelitis; Sjorgen's syndrome; juvenile onset diabetes; and immune responses
   associated with acute and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T
   lymphocytes typically found in tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, polymyositis, granulomatosis
30 and vasculitis; pernicious anemia (Addison's disease); diseases involving leukocyte
                                                  67

   diapedesis; central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory disorder; multiple organ injury
   syndrome; hemolytic anemia (including, but not limited to cryoglobinemia or Coombs
   positive anemia); myasthenia gravis; antigen-antibody complex mediated diseases; anti
   glomerular basement membrane disease; antiphospholipid syndrome; allergic neuritis;
 5 Graves' disease; Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome; pemphigoid bullous; pemphigus;
   autoimmune polyendocrinopathies; Reiter's disease; stiff-man syndrome; Beheet disease;
   giant cell arteritis; immune complex nephritis; IgA nephropathy; IgM polyneuropathies;
   immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) or autoimmune thrombocytopenia.
            The immune system screens for autologous cells that are virally infected, have
10 undergone oncogenic transformation or present unfamiliar peptides on their surface.
   Intracellular proteolysis generate small peptides for presentation to T-lymphocytes to
   induce MHC class I-mediated immune responses. Thus, provided herein is a method of
   using a proteasome inhibitor provided herein as an immunomodulatory agent for
   inhibiting or altering antigen presentation in a cell, comprising exposing the cell (or
15 administering to a patient) to the compound described herein. Specific embodiments
   include a method of treating graft or transplant-related diseases, such as graft-versus-host
   disease or host versus-graft disease in a patient, comprising administering a
   therapeutically effective amount of the compound described herein. The term "graft" as
   used herein refers to biological material derived from a donor for transplantation into a
20 recipient. Grafts include such diverse material as, for example, isolated cells such as islet
   cells; tissue such as the amniotic membrane of a newborn, bone marrow, hematopoietic
   precursor cells, and ocular tissue, such as corneal tissue; and organs such as skin, heart,
   liver, spleen, pancreas, thyroid lobe, lung, kidney, tubular organs (e.g., intestine, blood
   vessels, or esophagus). The tubular organs can be used to replace damaged portions of
25 esophagus, blood vessels, or bile duct. The skin grafts can be used not only for burns, but
   also as a dressing to damaged intestine or to close certain defects such as diaphragmatic
   hernia. The graft is derived from any mammalian source, including human, whether from
   cadavers or living donors. In some cases, the donor and recipient is the same patient. In
   some embodiments, the graft is bone marrow or an organ such as heart and the donor of
30 the graft and the host are matched for HLA class II antigens.
                                                 68

            Histiocytic and dendritic cell neoplasms are derived from phagocytes and
    accessory cells, which have major roles in the processing and presentation of antigens to
    lymphocytes. Depleting the- proteasome content in dendritic cells has been shown to alter
    their antigen-induced responses (Chapatte et al. CancerRes. (2006) 66:5461-5468). In
 5  some embodiments, a composition provided herein can be administered to a patient with
    histiocytic or dendritic cell neoplasm. Histiocytic and dendritic cell neoplasms include
    histiocytic sarcoma, Langerhans cell histiocytosis, Langerhans cell sarcoma,
    interdigitating dendritic cell sarcoma/tumor, follicular dendritic cell sarcoma/tumor and
   non-specified dendritic cell sarcoma.
10          Inhibition of the proteasome has been shown to be beneficial to treat diseases
   whereby a cell type is proliferating and immune disorders; thus, in some embodiments,
   the treatment of lymphoproliferative diseases (LPD) associated with primary immune
   disorders (PID) is provided comprising administering an effective amount of the
   disclosed compound to a patient in need thereof. The most common clinical settings of
15  immunodeficiency associated with an increased incidence of lymphoproliferative
   disorders, including B-cell and T-cell neoplasms and lymphomas, are primary
    immunodeficiency syndromes and other primary immune disorders, infection with the
   human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), iatrogenic immunosuppression in patients who
   have received solid organ or bone marrow allografts, and iatrogenis immunosuppression
20 associated with methotrexate treatment. Other PIDs commonly associated with LPDs, but
   not limited to, are ataxia telangiectasia (AT), Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), common
   variable immunodeficiency (CVID), severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), X
   linked lymphoproliferative disorder (XLP), Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS), hyper
   IgM syndrome, and autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS).
25          Proteasome inhibition has also been associated with inhibition of NF-KB
   activation and stabilization of p53 levels. Thus, compositions provided herein may also
   be used to inhibit NF-KB activation, and stabilize p53 levels in cell culture. Since NF-KB
   is a key regulator of inflammation, it is an attractive target for anti-inflammatory
   therapeutic intervention. Thus, compositions provided herein may be useful for the
                                                 69

     treatment of conditions associated with inflammation, including, but not limited to
     COPD, psoriasis, asthma, bronchitis, emphysema, and cystic fibrosis.
             The disclosed compositions can be used to treat conditions mediated directly by
     the proteolytic function of the proteasome such as muscle wasting, or mediated indirectly
  5  via proteins which are processed by the proteasome such as NF-xB. The proteasome
     participates in the rapid elimination and post-translational processing of proteins (e.g.,
     enzymes) involved in cellular regulation (e.g., cell cycle, gene transcription, and
     metabolic pathways), intercellular communication, and the immune response (e.g.,
     antigen presentation). Specific examples discussed below include     p-amyloid protein  and
 10  regulatory proteins such as cyclins and transcription factor NF-KB.
             In some embodiments, a composition provided herein is useful for the treatment
     of neurodegenerative diseases and conditions, including, but not limited to, stroke,
     ischemic damage to the nervous system, neural trauma (e.g., percussive brain damage,
     spinal cord injury, and traumatic damage to the nervous system), multiple sclerosis and
15   other immune-mediated neuropathies (e.g., Guillain-Barre syndrome and its variants,
     acute motor axonal neuropathy, acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, and
     Fisher Syndrome), HIV/AIDS dementia complex, axonomy, diabetic neuropathy,
    Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis, bacterial, parasitic, fungal,
    and viral meningitis, encephalitis, vascular dementia, multi-infarct dementia, Lewy body
20  dementia, frontal lobe dementia such as Pick's disease, subcortical dementias (such as
    Huntington or progressive supranuclear palsy), focal cortical atrophy syndromes (such as
    primary aphasia), metabolic-toxic dementias (such as chronic hypothyroidism or B12
    deficiency), and dementias caused by infections (such as syphilis or chronic meningitis).
             Alzheimer's disease is characterized by extracellular deposits of p-amyloid protein
25  (p-AP) in senile plaques and cerebral vessels. p-AP is a peptide fragment of 39 to 42
    amino acids derived from an amyloid protein precursor (APP). At least three isoforms of
    APP are known (695, 751, and 770 amino acids). Alternative splicing of mRNA generates
    the isoforms; normal processing affects a portion of the P-AP sequence, thereby
    preventing the generation of p-AP. It is believed that abnormal protein processing by the
30  proteasome contributes to the abundance of p-AP in the Alzheimer brain. The APP
                                                  70

     processing enzyme in rats contains about ten different subunits (22 kDa-32 kDa). The 25
     kDa subunit has an N-terminal sequence of X-Gln-Asn-Pro-Met-X-Thr-Gly-Thr-Ser,
     which is identical to the  p-subunit of human macropain     (Kojima, S. et al., Fed. Eur.
     Biochem. Soc., (1992) 304:57-60). The APP-processing enzyme cleaves at the Gin 15-
  5  Lys16 bond; in the presence of calcium ion, the enzyme also cleaves at the Met-I--AspI
     bond, and the Asp 1--Ala2 bonds to release the extracellular domain of -AP.
             One embodiment, therefore, is a method of treating Alzheimer's disease, including
     administering to a patient an effective amount of a composition provided herein. Such
     treatment includes reducing the rate of p-AP processing, reducing the rate of p-AP plaque
 10  formation, reducing the rate of p-AP generation, and reducing the clinical signs of
     Alzheimer's disease.
             Also provided herein are methods of treating cachexia and muscle-wasting
     diseases. The proteasome degrades many proteins in maturing reticulocytes and growing
     fibroblasts. In cells deprived of insulin or serum, the rate of proteolysis nearly doubles.
15   Inhibiting the proteasome reduces proteolysis, thereby reducing both muscle protein loss
    and the nitrogenous load on kidneys or liver. Peptide proteasome inhibitors as provided
    herein are useful for treating conditions such as cancer, chronic infectious diseases, fever,
    muscle disuse (atrophy) and denervation, nerve injury, fasting, renal failure associated
    with acidosis, and hepatic failure. See, e.g., Goldberg, U.S. Pat. No. 5,340,736. Methods
20  of treatment include: reducing the rate of muscle protein degradation in a cell; reducing
    the rate of intracellular protein degradation; reducing the rate of degradation of p53
    protein in a cell; and inhibiting the growth of p53-related cancers. Each of these methods
    includes contacting a cell (in vivo or in vitro, e.g., a muscle in a patient) with an effective
    amount of a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein.
25           Fibrosis is the excessive and persistent formation of scar tissue resulting from the
    hyperproliferative growth of fibroblasts and is associated with activation of the TGF-P
    signaling pathway. Fibrosis involves extensive deposition of extracellular matrix and can
    occur within virtually any tissue or across several different tissues. Normally, the level of
    intracellular signaling protein (Smad) that activate transcription of target genes upon
30  TGF-p stimulation is regulated by proteasome activity. However, accelerated degradation
                                                    71

     of the TGF-p signaling components has been observed in cancers and other
     hyperproliferative conditions. Thus, in certain embodiments, a method for treating
     hyperproliferative conditions such as diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, diabetic
     nephropathy, glomerulosclerosis, IgA nephropathy, cirrhosis, biliary atresia, congestive
  5 heart failure, scleroderma, radiation-induced fibrosis, and lung fibrosis (idiopathic
    pulmonary fibrosis, collagen vascular disease, sarcoidosis, interstitial lung diseases and
    extrinsic lung disorders) is provided. The treatment of burn victims is often hampered by
    fibrosis, thus, in some embodiments an inhibitor provided herein may be administered by
    topical or systemic administration to treat burns. Wound closure following surgery is
 10 often associated with disfiguring scars, which may be prevented by inhibition of fibrosis.
    Thus, in certain embodiments, a method for the prevention or reduction of scarring is
    provided herein.
             Another protein processed by the proteasome is NF-KB, a member of the Rel
    protein family. The Rel family of transcriptional activator proteins can be divided into
 15 two groups. The first group requires proteolytic processing, and includes p50 (NF-KB 1,
     105 kDa) and p52 (NF-2, 100 kDa). The second group does not require proteolytic
    processing, and includes p65 (RelA, Rel (c-Rel), and ReB). Both homo- and
    heterodimers can be formed by Rel family members; NF-KB, for example, is a p50-p65
    heterodimer. After phosphorylation and ubiquitination of IKB and p105, the two proteins
20  are degraded and processed, respectively, to produce active NF-KB which translocates
    from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Ubiquitinated p105 is also processed by purified
    proteasomes (Palombella et al., Cell (1994) 78:773-785). Active NF-KB forms a
    stereospecific enhancer complex with other transcriptional activators and, e.g., HMG
    I(Y), inducing selective expression of a particular gene.
25          NF-KB regulates genes involved in the immune and inflammatory response, and
    mitotic events. For example, NF-KB is required for the expression of the immunoglobulin
    light chain K gene, the IL-2 receptor a-chain gene, the class I major histocompatibility
    complex gene, and a number of cytokine genes encoding, for example, IL-2, IL-6,
    granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and IFN-p (Palombella et al., Cell (1994) 78:773
30  785). Some embodiments include methods of affecting the level of expression of IL-2,
                                                 72

     MHC-I, IL-6, TNFa, IFN-p, or any of the other previously-mentioned proteins, each
     method including administering to a patient an effective amount of a composition
     disclosed herein. Complexes including p50 are rapid mediators of acute inflammatory
     and immune responses (Thanos, D. and Maniatis, T., Cell (1995) 80:529-532).
  5          NF-KB also participates in the expression of the cell adhesion genes that encode
     E-selectin, P-selectin, ICAM, and VCAM-1 (Collins, T., Lab. Invest. (1993) 68:499-508).
     In some embodiments, a method for inhibiting cell adhesion (e.g., cell adhesion mediated
     by E-selectin, P-selectin, ICAM, or VCAM-1) is provided, including contacting a cell
     with (or administering to a patient) an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition
 10 disclosed herein.
             Ischemia and reperfusion injury results in hypoxia, a condition in which there is a
    deficiency of oxygen reaching the tissues of the body. This condition causes increased
    degradation of lic-Ba, thereby resulting in the activation of NF-KB. It has been
    demonstrated that the severity of injury resulting in hypoxia can be reduced with the
 15 administration of a proteasome inhibitor. Thus, provided herein is a method of treating an
     ischemic condition or reperfusion injury comprising administering to a patient in need of
    such treatment an effective amount of a compound disclosed herein. Examples of such
    conditions or injuries include, but are not limited to, acute coronary syndrome (vulnerable
    plaques), arterial occlusive disease (cardiac, cerebral, peripheral arterial and vascular
20  occlusions), atherosclerosis (coronary sclerosis, coronary artery disease), infarctions,
    heart failure, pancreatitis, myocardial hypertrophy, stenosis, and restenosis.
            NF-KB also binds specifically to the HIV-enhancer/promoter. When compared to
    the Nef of mac239, the HIV regulatory protein Nef of pbjl4 differs by two amino acids in
    the region which controls protein kinase binding. It is believed that the protein kinase
25  signals the phosphorylation of IKB, triggering IKB degradation through the ubiquitin
    proteasome pathway. After degradation, NF-KB is released into the nucleus, thus
    enhancing the transcription of HIV (Cohen, J., Science, (1995) 267:960). Provided herein
    is a method for inhibiting or reducing HIV infection in a patient, and a method for
    decreasing the level of viral gene expression, each method including administering to the
30  patient an effective amount of a composition disclosed herein.
                                                  73

            Viral infections contribute to the pathology of many diseases. Heart conditions
   such as ongoing myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy have been linked to the
   coxsackievirus B3. In a comparative whole-genome microarray analyses of infected
   mouse hearts, specific proteasome subunits were uniformly up-regulated in hearts of mice
 5 which developed chronic myocarditis (Szalay et al, Am JPathol168:1542-52, 2006).
   Some viruses utilize the ubiquitin-proteasome system in the viral entry step where the
   virus is released from the endosome into the cytosol. The mouse hepatitis virus (MHV)
   belongs to the Coronaviridae family, which also includes the severe acute respiratory
   syndrome (SARS) coronvirus. Yu and Lai (J Virol 79:644-648, 2005) demonstrated that
10 treatment of cells infected with MHV with a proteasome inhibitor resulted in a decrease
   in viral replication, correlating with reduced viral titer as compared to that of untreated
   cells. The human hepatitis B virus (HBV), a member of the Hepadnaviridae virus family,
   likewise requires virally encoded envelop proteins to propagate. Inhibiting the
   proteasome degradation pathway causes a significant reduction in the amount of secreted
15 envelope proteins (Simsek et al, J Virol 79:12914-12920, 2005). In addition to HBV,
   other hepatitis viruses (A, C, D and E) may also utilize the ubiquitin-proteasome
   degradation pathway for secretion, morphogenesis and pathogenesis. Accordingly, in
   certain embodiments, a method for treating viral infection, such as SARS or hepatitis A,
   B, C, D and E, is provided comprising contacting a cell with (or administering to a
20 patient) an effective amount of the compound disclosed herein.
            Overproduction of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cytokines such as TNFa is
   considered to be central to the processes associated with septic shock. Furthermore, it is
   generally accepted that the first step in the activation of cells by LPS is the binding of
   LPS to specific membrane receptors. The a- and p-subunits of the 20S proteasome
25 complex have been identified as LPS-binding proteins, suggesting that the LPS-induced
   signal transduction may be an important therapeutic target in the treatment or prevention
   of sepsis (Qureshi, N. et al., J. Immun. (2003) 171: 1515-1525). Therefore, in certain
   embodiments, compositions as provided herein may be used for the inhibition of TNFa to
   prevent and/or treat septic shock.
                                                  74

            Intracellular proteolysis generates small peptides for presentation to T
    lymphocytes to induce MHC class I-mediated immune responses. The immune system
    screens for autologous cells that are virally infected or have undergone oncogenic
   transformation. One embodiment is a method for inhibiting antigen presentation in a cell,
 5  including exposing the cell to a composition described herein. A further embodiment is a
   method for suppressing the immune system of a patient (e.g., inhibiting transplant
   rejection, allergy, asthma), including administering to the patient an effective amount of a
   composition described herein. Compositions provided herein can also be used to treat
   autoimmune diseases such as lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and
10 inflammatory bowel diseases such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
            Another embodiment is a method for altering the repertoire of antigenic peptides
   produced by the proteasome or other Ntn with multicatalytic activity. For example, if the
   PGPH activity of 20S proteasome is selectively inhibited, a different set of antigenic
   peptides will be produced by the proteasome and presented in MHC molecules on the
15 surfaces of cells than would be produced and presented either without any enzyme
   inhibition, or with, for example, selective inhibition of chymotrypsin-like activity of the
   proteasome.
            Certain proteasome inhibitors block both degradation and processing of
   ubiquitinated NF-KB in vitro and in vivo. Proteasome inhibitors also block IKB-a
20 degradation and NF-KB activation (Palombella, et al. Cell (1994) 78:773-785; and
   Traenckner, et al., EMBOJ. (1994) 13:5433-5441). In some embodiments, a method for
   inhibiting IKB-a degradation is provided, including contacting the cell with a composition
   described herein. A further embodiment is a method for reducing the cellular content of
   NF-KB in a cell, muscle, organ, or patient, including contacting the cell, muscle, organ, or
25 patient with a composition described herein.
           Other eukaryotic transcription factors that require proteolytic processing include
   the general transcription factor TFIIA, herpes simplex virus VP 16 accessory protein (host
   cell factor), virus-inducible IFN regulatory factor 2 protein, and the membrane-bound
   sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1.
                                                  75

              Further provided herein are methods for affecting cyclin-dependent eukaryotic
     cell cycles, including exposing a cell (in vitro or in vivo) to a composition disclosed
     herein. Cyclins are proteins involved in cell cycle control. The proteasome participates in
     the degradation of cyclins. Examples of cyclins include mitotic cyclins, GI cyclins, and
  5  cyclin B. Degradation of cyclins enables a cell to exit one cell cycle stage (e.g., mitosis)
     and enter another (e.g., division). It is believed all cyclins are associated with p34cdc2
     protein kinase or related kinases. The proteolysis targeting signal is localized to amino
     acids 42-RAALGNISEN-50 (destruction box). There is evidence that cyclin is converted
     to a form vulnerable to a ubiquitin ligase or that a cyclin-specific ligase is activated
 10  during mitosis (Ciechanover, A., Cell, (1994) 79:13-21). Inhibition of the proteasome
     inhibits cyclin degradation, and therefore inhibits cell proliferation, for example, in
     cyclin-related cancers (Kumatori et al., Proc. Nati. Acad Sci. USA (1990) 87:7071-7075).
     Provided herein is a method for treating a proliferative disease in a patient (e.g., cancer,
     psoriasis, or restenosis), including administering to the patient an effective amount of a
15   composition disclosed herein. Also provided herein is a method for treating cyclin-related
     inflammation in a patient, including administering to a patient a therapeutically effective
     amount of a composition described herein.
             Additional embodiments include methods for affecting the proteasome-dependent
    regulation of oncoproteins and methods of treating or inhibiting cancer growth, each
20  method including exposing a cell (in vivo, e.g., in a patient, or in vitro) to a composition
    disclosed herein. HPV-16 and HPV-18-derived E6 proteins stimulate ATP- and ubiquitin
    dependent conjugation and degradation of p53 in crude reticulocyte lysates. The recessive
    oncogene p53 has been shown to accumulate at the nonpermissive temperature in a cell
    line with a mutated thermolabile El. Elevated levels of p53 may lead to apoptosis.
25  Examples of proto-oncoproteins degraded by the ubiquitin system include c-Mos, c-Fos,
    and c-Jun. One embodiment is a method for treating p53-related apoptosis, including
    administering to a patient an effective amount of a composition disclosed herein.
             In another embodiment, the disclosed compositions are useful for the treatment of
    a parasitic infection, such as infections caused by protozoan parasites. The proteasome of
30  these parasites is considered to be involved primarily in cell differentiation and
                                                    76

     replication activities (Paugam et al., Trends Parasitol.2003, 19(2): 55-59). Furthermore,
     entamoeba species have been shown to lose encystation capacity when exposed to
     proteasome inhibitors (Gonzales, et al., Arch. Med. Res. 1997, 28, Spec No: 139-140). In
     certain such embodiments, the disclosed compositions are useful for the treatment of
  5  parasitic infections -in humans caused by a protozoan parasite selected from Plasmodium
     sps. (including P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. malariae, and P. ovale, which cause malaria),
     Trypanosoma sps. (including T. cruzi, which causes Chagas' disease, and T. brucei which
     causes African sleeping sickness), Leishmania sps. (including L. amazonesis, L.
     donovani, L. infantum, L. mexicana, etc.), Pneumocystis carinii (a protozoan known to
10   cause pneumonia in AIDS and other immunosuppressed patients), Toxoplasma gondii,
     Entamoeba histolytica, Entamoeba invadens, and Giardia lamblia. In certain
    embodiments, the disclosed compositions are useful for the treatment of parasitic
     infections in animals and livestock caused by a protozoan parasite selected from
    Plasmodium hermani, Cryptosporidium sps., Echinococcus granulosus, Eimeria tenella,
15   Sarcocystis neurona, and Neurospora crassa. Other compounds useful as proteasome
     inhibitors in the treatment of parasitic diseases are described in WO 98/10779, which is
    incorporated herein in its entirety.
             In certain embodiments, the disclosed compositions inhibit proteasome activity
    irreversibly in a parasite. Such irreversible inhibition has been shown to induce shutdown
20  in enzyme activity without recovery in red blood cells and white blood cells. In certain
    such embodiments, the long half-life of blood cells may provide prolonged protection
    with regard to therapy against recurring exposures to parasites. In certain embodiments,
    the long half-life of blood cells may provide prolonged protection with regard to
    chemoprophylaxis against future infection.
25           Prokaryotes have what is equivalent to the eukaryote 20S proteasome, particle.
    Albeit, the subunit composition of the prokaryote 20S particle is simpler than that of
    eukaryotes, it has the ability to hydrolyze peptide bonds in a similar manner. For
    example, the nucleophilic attack on the peptide bond occurs through the threonine residue
    on the N-terminus of the P-subunits. In some embodiments, a method of treating
30  prokaryotic infections is provided, comprising administering to a patient an effective
                                                   77

   amount of the proteasome inhibitor composition disclosed herein. Prokaryotic infections
   may include diseases caused by either mycobacteria (such as tuberculosis, leprosy or
   Buruli Ulcer) or archaebacteria.
            It has also been demonstrated that inhibitors that bind to the 20S proteasome
 5 stimulate bone formation in bone organ cultures. Furthermore, when such inhibitors have
   been administered systemically to mice, certain proteasome inhibitors increased bone
   volume and bone formation rates over 70% (Garrett, I. R. et al., J. Clin. Invest. (2003)
    111: 1771-1782), therefore suggesting that the ubiquitin-proteasome machinery regulates
   osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. Therefore, the disclosed compositions may
10 be useful in the treatment and/or prevention of diseases associated with bone loss, such as
   osteoporosis.
            Provided herein is a method for treating a disease or condition selected from
   cancer, autoimmune disease, graft or transplant-related condition, neurodegenerative
   disease, fibrotic-associated condition, ischemic-related conditions, infection (viral,
15 parasitic or prokaryotic) and diseases associated with bone loss, comprising
   administering a proteasome inhibitor as provided herein. For example, a compound of
   formula (5).
            Bone tissue is an excellent source for factors which have the capacity for
   stimulating bone cells. Thus, extracts of bovine bone tissue contain not only structural
20 proteins which are responsible for maintaining the structural integrity of bone, but also
   biologically active bone growth factors which can stimulate bone cells to proliferate.
   Among these latter factors are a recently described family of proteins called bone
   morphogenetic proteins (BMPs). All of these growth factors have effects on other types
   of cells, as well as on bone cells, including Hardy, M. H., et al., Trans Genet (1992) 8:55
25 61 describes evidence that bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), are differentially
   expressed in hair follicles during development. Harris, S. E., et al., JBone Miner Res
   (1994) 9:855-863 describes the effects of TGF-p on expression of BMP-2 and other
   substances in bone cells. BMP-2 expression in mature follicles also occurs during
   maturation and after the period of cell proliferation (Hardy, et al. (1992, supra). Thus,
30 compounds provided herein may also be useful for hair follicle growth stimulation.
                                                 78

             Finally, the disclosed compositions are also useful as diagnostic agents (e.g., in
     diagnostic kits or for use in clinical laboratories) for screening for proteins (e.g.,
    enzymes, transcription factors) processed by Ntn hydrolases, including the proteasome.
    The disclosed compositions are also useful as research reagents for specifically binding
  5 the X/MB 1 subunit or a-chain and inhibiting the proteolytic activities associated with it.
    For example, the activity of (and specific inhibitors of) other subunits of the proteasome
    can be determined.
             Most cellular proteins are subject to proteolytic processing during maturation or
    activation. Enzyme inhibitors disclosed herein can be used to determine whether a
10  cellular, developmental, or physiological process or output is regulated by the proteolytic
    activity of a particular Ntn hydrolase. One such method includes obtaining an organism,
    an intact cell preparation, or a cell extract; exposing the organism, cell preparation, or cell
    extract to a composition disclosed herein; exposing the compound-exposed organism, cell
    preparation, or cell extract to a signal, and monitoring the process or output. The high
15  selectivity of the compounds disclosed herein permits rapid and accurate elimination or
    implication of the Ntn (for example, the 20S proteasome) in a given cellular,
    developmental, or physiological process.
    Administration
20           Compositions prepared as described herein can be administered in various forms,
    depending on the disorder to be treated and the age, condition, and body weight of the
    patient, as is well known in the art. For example, where the compositions are to be
    administered orally, they may be formulated as tablets, capsules, granules, powders, or
    syrups; or for parenteral administration, they may be formulated as injections
25  (intravenous, intramuscular, or subcutaneous), drop infusion preparations, or
    suppositories. For application by the ophthalmic mucous membrane route, they may be
    formulated as eye drops or eye ointments. These formulations can be prepared by
    conventional means in conjunction with the methods described herein, and, if desired, the
    active ingredient may be mixed with any conventional additive or excipient, such as a
30  binder, a disintegrating agent, a lubricant, a corrigent, a solubilizing agent, a suspension
                                                   79

   aid, an emulsifying agent, or a coating agent in addition to a cyclodextrin and a buffer.
   Although the dosage will vary depending on the symptoms, age and body weight of the
   patient, the nature and severity of the disorder to be treated or prevented, the route of
   administration and the form of the drug, in general, a daily dosage of from 0.01 to 2000
 5 mg of the compound is recommended for an adult human patient, and this may be
   administered in a single dose or in divided doses. The amount of active ingredient which
   can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will generally be
   that amount of the compound which produces a therapeutic effect. In general,
   compositions intended for parenteral use (e.g., intravenous, subcutaneous injection)
10 include a substituted cyclodextrin. Compositions administered via other routes,
   particularly the oral route, include a substituted or unsubstituted cyclodextrin.
             The precise time of administration and/or amount of the composition that will
   yield the most effective results in terms of efficacy of treatment in a given patient will
   depend upon the activity, pharmacokinetics, and bioavailability of a particular compound,
15 physiological condition of the patient (including age, sex, disease type and stage, general
   physical condition, responsiveness to a given dosage, and type of medication), route of
   administration, etc. However, the above guidelines can be used as the basis for fine
   tuning the treatment, e.g., determining the optimum time and/or amount of
   administration, which will require no more than routine experimentation consisting of
20 monitoring the patient and adjusting the dosage and/or timing.
             The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" is employed herein to refer to those
   ligands, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within the scope of
   sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and
   animals without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other problem or
25 complication, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
            The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" as used herein means a
   pharmaceutically acceptable material, composition, or vehicle, such as a liquid or solid
   filler, diluent, excipient, solvent or encapsulating material. Each carrier must be
   "acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the
30 formulation and not injurious to the patient. Some examples of materials which can serve
                                                  80

     as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include: (1) sugars, such as lactose, glucose, and
     sucrose; (2) starches, such as corn starch, potato starch, and substituted or unsubstituted
     p-cyclodextrin;   (3) cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl
     cellulose, ethyl cellulose, and cellulose acetate; (4) powdered tragacanth; (5) malt; (6)
  5  gelatin; (7) talc; (8) excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; (9) oils, such
     as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil, and soybean oil;
     (10) glycols, such as propylene glycol; (11) polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol,
     and polyethylene glycol; (12) esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; (13) agar; (14)
     buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; (15) alginic
 10  acid; (16) pyrogen-free water; (17) isotonic saline; (18) Ringer's solution; (19) ethyl
     alcohol; (20) phosphate buffer solutions; and (21) other non-toxic compatible substances
     employed in pharmaceutical formulations. In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical
     compositions provided herein are non-pyrogenic, i.e., do not induce significant
     temperature elevations when administered to a patient.
15           The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to the relatively non-toxic,
     inorganic and organic acid addition salts of the inhibitor(s). These salts can be prepared in
     situ during the final isolation and purification of the inhibitor(s), or by separately reacting
    a purified peptide proteasome inhibitor in its free base form with a suitable organic or
     inorganic acid, and isolating the salt thus formed. Representative salts include the
20  hydrobromide, hydrochloride, sulfate, bisulfate, phosphate, nitrate, acetate, valerate,
    oleate, palmitate, stearate, laurate, benzoate, lactate, phosphate, tosylate, citrate, maleate,
    fumarate, succinate, tartrate, naphthylate, mesylate, glucoheptonate, lactobionate,
    laurylsulphonate salts, and amino acid salts, and the like. (See, for example, Berge et al.
    (1977) "Pharmaceutical Salts", J. Pharm. Sci. 66: 1-19.)
25           In some embodiments, the peptide proteasome inhibitors provided herein may
    contain one or more acidic functional groups and, thus, are capable of forming
    pharmaceutically acceptable salts with pharmaceutically acceptable bases. The term
    "pharmaceutically acceptable salts" in these instances refers to the relatively non-toxic
    inorganic and organic base addition salts of an inhibitor(s). These salts can likewise be
30  prepared in situ during the final isolation and purification of the inhibitor(s), or by
                                                    81

     separately reacting the purified inhibitor(s) in its free acid form with a suitable base, such
     as the hydroxide, carbonate, or bicarbonate of a pharmaceutically acceptable metal
     cation, with ammonia, or with a pharmaceutically acceptable organic primary, secondary,
     or tertiary amine. Representative alkali or alkaline earth salts include the lithium, sodium,
  5  potassium, calcium, magnesium, and aluminum salts, and the like. Representative organic
    amines useful for the formation of base addition salts include ethylamine, diethylamine,
    ethylenediamine, ethanolamine, diethanolamine, piperazine, and the like (see, for
    example, Berge et al., supra).
              Wetting agents, emulsifiers, and lubricants, such as sodium lauryl sulfate and
10  magnesium stearate, as well as coloring agents, release agents, coating agents,
    sweetening, flavoring, and perfuming agents, preservatives and antioxidants can also be
    present in the compositions.
              Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable antioxidants include: (1) water soluble
    antioxidants, such as ascorbic acid, cysteine hydrochloride, sodium bisulfate, sodium
15  metabisulfite, sodium sulfite, and the like; (2) oil-soluble antioxidants, such as ascorbyl
    palmitate, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), lecithin,
    propyl gallate, alpha-tocopherol, and the like; and (3) metal chelating agents, such as
    citric acid, ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA), sorbitol, tartaric acid, phosphoric
    acid, and the like.
20            Formulations suitable for oral administration may be in the form of capsules,
    cachets, pills, tablets, lozenges (using a flavored basis, usually sucrose and acacia or
    tragacanth), powders, granules, or as a solution or a suspension in an aqueous or non
    aqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as an elixir or
    syrup, or as pastilles (using an inert matrix, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and
25  acacia) and/or as mouthwashes, and the like, each containing a predetermined amount of
    an inhibitor(s) as an active ingredient. A composition may also be administered as a
    bolus, electuary, or paste.
              In solid dosage forms for oral administration (capsules, tablets, pills, dragees,
    powders, granules, and the like), the active ingredient is mixed with one or more
30  pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate or dicalcium phosphate,
                                                   82

   and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches, cyclodextrins,
   lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example,
   carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, and/or acacia;
   (3) humectants, such as glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium
                  1
 5 carbonate, potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate;
   (5) solution retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as
   quaternary ammonium compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as, for example, acetyl
   alcohol and glycerol monostearate; (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9)
   lubricants, such a talc, calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols,
10 sodium lauryl sulfate, and mixtures thereof; and (10) coloring agents. In the case of
   capsules, tablets, and pills, the pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering
   agents. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and
   hard-filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugars, as well as
   high molecular weight polyethylene glycols, and the like.
15          A tablet may be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or more
   accessory ingredients. Compressed tablets may be prepared using binder (for example,
   gelatin or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose), lubricant, inert diluent, preservative,
   disintegrant (for example, sodium starch glycolate or cross-linked sodium carboxymethyl
   cellulose), surface-active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in
20 a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered inhibitor(s) moistened with an inert liquid
   diluent.
            Tablets, and other solid dosage forms, such as dragees, capsules, pills, and
   granules, may optionally be scored or prepared with coatings and shells, such as enteric
   coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical-formulating art. They may
25 also be formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient
   therein using, for example, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose in varying proportions to
   provide the desired release profile, other polymer matrices, liposomes, and/or
   microspheres. They may be sterilized by, for example, filtration through a bacteria
   retaining filter, or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid
30 compositions which can be dissolved in sterile water, or some other sterile injectable
                                                   83

     medium immediately before use. These compositions may also optionally contain
     opacifying agents and may be of a composition that they release the active ingredient(s)
     only, or preferentially, in a certain portion of the gastrointestinal tract, optionally, in a
     delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions which can be used include
  5  polymeric substances and waxes. The active ingredient can also be in micro-encapsulated
     form, if appropriate, with one or more of the above-described excipients.
             Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
     emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the
     active ingredient, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in
 10 the art, such as, for example, water or other solvents, solubilizing agents, and emulsifiers
     such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol,
     benzyl benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed,
    groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor, and sesame oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol,
    polyethylene glycols, and fatty acid esters of sorbitan, and mixtures thereof.
15           Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also include adjuvants such as
    wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening, flavoring, coloring,
    perfuming, and preservative agents.
             Suspensions, in addition to the active inhibitor(s) may contain suspending agents
    as, for example, ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol and sorbitan
20  esters, microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and
    tragacanth, and mixtures thereof.
             Formulations for rectal or vaginal administration may be presented as a
    suppository, which may be prepared by mixing one or more inhibitor(s) with one or more
    suitable nonirritating excipients or carriers comprising, for example, cocoa butter,
25  polyethylene glycol, a suppository wax or a salicylate, which is solid at room
    temperature, but liquid at body temperature and, therefore, will melt in the rectum or
    vaginal cavity and release the active agent.
            Formulations which are suitable for vaginal administration also include pessaries,
    tampons, creams, gels, pastes, foams, or spray formulations containing such carriers as
30  are known in the art to be appropriate.
                                                    84

              Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration of an inhibitor(s)
     include powders, sprays, ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, solutions, patches, and
     inhalants. The active component may be mixed under sterile conditions with a
     pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and with any preservatives, buffers, or propellants
  5  which may be required.
              The ointments, pastes, creams, and gels may contain, in addition to inhibitor(s),
     excipients, such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes, paraffins, starch, tragacanth,
     cellulose derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites, silicic acid, talc, and
     zinc oxide, or mixtures thereof.
 10           Powders and sprays can contain, in addition to an inhibitor(s), excipients such as
     lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates, and polyamide powder,
    or mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants,
     such as chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such as
     butane and propane.
15           A peptide proteasome inhibitor can be administered by aerosol. This is
    accomplished by preparing an aqueous aerosol, liposomal preparation, or solid particles
    containing the composition. A nonaqueous (e.g., fluorocarbon propellant) suspension
    could be used. In some embodiments, sonic nebulizers are preferred because they
    minimize exposing the agent to shear, which can result in degradation of the compound.
20           Ordinarily, an aqueous aerosol is made by formulating an aqueous solution or
    suspension of the agent together with conventional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers
    and stabilizers. The carriers and stabilizers vary with the requirements of the particular
    composition, but typically include nonionic surfactants (Tweens, Pluronics, sorbitan
    esters, lecithin, Cremophors), pharmaceutically acceptable co-solvents such as
25  polyethylene glycol, innocuous proteins like serum albumin, sorbitan esters, oleic acid,
    lecithin, amino acids such as glycine, buffers, salts, sugars, or sugar alcohols. Aerosols
    generally are prepared from isotonic solutions.
             Transdermal patches have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of
    an inhibitor(s) to the body. Such dosage forms can be made by dissolving or dispersing
30  the agent in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the
                                                  85

   flux of the inhibitor(s) across the skin. The rate of such flux can be controlled by either
   providing a rate controlling membrane or dispersing the inhibitor(s) in a polymer matrix
   or gel.
            Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral administration comprise one
 5 or more peptide proteasome inhibitors in combination with one or more pharmaceutically
   acceptable sterile aqueous or nonaqueous solutions, dispersions, suspensions or
   emulsions, or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into sterile injectable solutions
   or dispersions just prior to use, which may contain antioxidants, buffers, bacteriostats,
   solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient or
10 suspending or thickening agents.
            Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in
   the pharmaceutical compositions provided herein include water for injection (e.g., sterile
   water for injection), ethanol, polyols (such as glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene
   glycol, and the like), buffer (such as citrate buffer), and suitable mixtures thereof,
15 vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Proper
   fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of coating materials, such as lecithin,
   by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use
   of surfactants.
            Pharmaceutical compositions typically include a pharmaceutically acceptable
20 carrier. As used herein the language "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes
   buffer, sterile water for injection, solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and
   antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption delaying agents, and the like, compatible with
   pharmaceutical administration. In some embodiments, a pharmaceutically acceptable
   carrier is a buffer (e.g., citrate buffer). In some embodiments, a pharmaceutically
25 acceptable carrier is sterile water for injection. In some embodiments, a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier comprises citric acid.
           These compositions may also contain adjuvants such as preservatives, wetting
   agents, emulsifying agents, and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of
   microorganisms may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal
30 agents, for example, paraben, chlorobutanol, phenol sorbic acid, and the like. It may also
                                                    86

     be desirable to include tonicity-adjusting agents, such as sugars and the like into the
     compositions. In addition, prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form
     may be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption such as
     aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
  5          In some cases, in order to prolong the effect of a drug, it is desirable to slow the
    absorption of the drug from subcutaneous or intramuscular injection. For example,
    delayed absorption of a parenterally administered drug form is accomplished by
    dissolving or suspending the drug in an oil vehicle.
             Injectable depot forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of
10  inhibitor(s) in biodegradable polymers such as polylactide-polyglycolide. Depending on
    the ratio of drug to polymer, and the nature of the particular polymer employed, the rate
    of drug release can be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include
    poly(orthoesters) and poly(anhydrides). Depot injectable formulations are also prepared
    by entrapping the drug in liposomes or microemulsions which are compatible with body
15  tissue.
             The preparations of agents may be given orally, parenterally, topically, or rectally.
    They are, of course, given by forms suitable for each administration route. For example,
    they are administered in tablets or capsule form, by injection, inhalation, eye lotion,
    ointment, suppository, infusion; topically by lotion or ointment; and rectally by
20  suppositories. In some embodiments, administration is oral.
             The phrases "parenteral administration" and "administered parenterally" as used
    herein means modes of administration other than enteral and topical administration,
    usually by injection, and includes, without limitation, intravenous, intramuscular,
    intraarterial, intrathecal, intracapsular, intraorbital, intracardiac, intradermal,
25  intraperitoneal, transtracheal, subcutaneous, subcuticular, intraarticular, subcapsular,
    subarachnoid, intraspinal and intrastemal injection, and infusion.
            The phrases "systemic administration," "administered systemically," "peripheral
    administration" and "administered peripherally" as used herein mean the administration
    of a ligand, drug, or other material other than directly into the central nervous system,
                                                    87

   such that it enters the patient's system and thus, is subject to metabolism and other like
   processes, for example, subcutaneous administration.
            The peptide proteasome inhibitors described herein may be administered to
   humans and other animals for therapy by any suitable route of administration, including
 5 orally, nasally, as by, for example, a spray, rectally, intravaginally, parenterally,
   intracistemally, and topically, as by powders, ointments or drops, including buccally and
   sublingually.
            Regardless of the route of administration selected, a peptide proteasome inhibitor,
   which may be used in a suitable hydrated form, and/or the pharmaceutical compositions
10 provided herein, is formulated into a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form by
   conventional methods known to those of skill in the art.
           Actual dosage levels of the active ingredients in the pharmaceutical compositions
   provided herein may be varied so as to obtain an amount of the active ingredient which is
   effective to achieve the desired therapeutic response for a particular patient, composition,
15 and mode of administration, without being toxic to the patient.
           The concentration of a disclosed compound in a pharmaceutically acceptable
   mixture will vary depending on several factors, including the dosage of the compound to
   be administered, the pharmacokinetic characteristics of the compound(s) employed, and
   the route of administration. In general, the compositions provided herein may be provided
20 in an aqueous solution containing about 0.1-10% w/v of a compound disclosed herein,
   among other substances, for parenteral administration. Typical dose ranges are from
   about 0.01 to about 50 mg/kg of body weight per day, given in 1-4 divided doses. Each
   divided dose may contain the same or different compounds. The dosage will be an
   effective amount depending on several factors including the overall health of a patient,
25 and the formulation and route of administration of the selected compound(s).
           In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is an oral solution or a
   parenteral solution. Another embodiment is a freeze-dried preparation that can be
   reconstituted prior to administration. As a solid, this formulation may also include tablets,
   capsules or powders.
                                                  88

            Also provided herein is a conjoint therapy wherein one or more other therapeutic
    agents are administered with a peptide proteasome inhibitor or a pharmaceutical
    composition comprising a peptide proteasome inhibitor. Such conjoint treatment may be
    achieved by way of the simultaneous, sequential, or separate dosing of the individual
  5 components of the treatment.
            In certain embodiments, a composition provided herein (e.g., pharmaceutical
    compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains 60 mg of
    carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and sodium
    hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one or more
 10 other proteasome inhibitor(s).
            In certain embodiments, a composition provided herein (e.g., pharmaceutical
    compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains 60 mg of
    carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and sodium
    hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one or more
15  chemotherapeutics. Suitable chemotherapeutics may include, natural products such as
    vinca alkaloids (i.e. vinblastine, vincristine, and vinorelbine), taxanes (e.g., docetaxel,
    paclitaxel, e.g., docetaxel), epidipodophyllotoxins (i.e. etoposide, teniposide), antibiotics
    (dactinomycin (actinomycin D) daunorubicin, doxorubicin and idarubicin; e.g.,
    doxorubicin), anthracyclines, mitoxantrone, bleomycins, plicamycin (mithramycin) and
20  mitomycin, enzymes (L-asparaginase which systemically metabolizes L-asparagine and
    deprives cells which do not have the capacity to synthesize their own asparagine);
    antiplatelet agents; antiproliferative/antimitotic alkylating agents such as nitrogen
    mustards (mechlorethamine, ifosphamide, cyclophosphamide and analogs, melphalan,
    chlorambucil, e.g., melphalan), ethylenimines and methylmelamines
25  (hexaamethylmelaamine and thiotepa), alkyl sulfonates (busulfan), nitrosoureas
    (carmustine (BCNU) and analogs, streptozocin), ti-azenes-dacarbazinine (DTIC);
    antiproliferative/antimitotic antimetabolites such as folic acid analogs (methotrexate),
    pyrimidine analogs (fluorouracil, floxuridine, and cytarabine), purine analogs and related
    inhibitors (mercaptopurine, thioguanine, pentostatin and 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine);
30  aromatase inhibitors (anastrozole, exemestane, and letrozole); platinum coordination
                                                   89

    complexes (cisplatin, carboplatin), procarbazine, hydroxyurea, mitotane,
    aminoglutethimide; DNA binding /Cytotoxic agents (e.g., Zalypsis); histone deacetylase
    (HDAC) inhibitors (e.g., trichostatin, sodium butyrate, apicidan, suberoyl anilide
    hydroamic acid (SAHA (Vorinostat)), trichostatin A, depsipeptide, apicidin, A-161906,
  5 scriptaid, PXD-101, CHAP, butyric acid, depudecin, oxamflatin, phenylbutyrate, valproic
    acid, , MS275 (N-(2-Aminophenyl)-4-[N-(pyridine-3-ylmethoxy
    carbonyl)aminomethyl]benzamide), LAQ824/LBH589, C1994, MGCDO103, ACY-1215,
    Panobinostat); hormones (i.e. estrogen) and hormone agonists such as leutinizing
    hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) agonists (goserelin, leuprolide and triptorelin).
10  Other chemotherapeutic agents may include mechlorethamine, camptothecin, ifosfamide,
    tamoxifen, raloxifene, gemcitabine, navelbine, or any analog or derivative variant of the
    foregoing.
            In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein (e.g.,
    pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
15  60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
    sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
    or more histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors (e.g., trichostatin, sodium butyrate,
    apicidan, suberoyl anilide hydroamic acid ("SAHA" (Vorinostat)), trichostatin A,
    depsipeptide, apicidin, A-161906, scriptaid, PXD-101, CHAP, butyric acid, depudecin,
20  oxamflatin, phenylbutyrate, valproic acid, , MS275 (N-(2-Aminophenyl)-4-[N-(pyridine
    3-ylmethoxy-carbonyl)aminomethyl]benzamide), LAQ824/LBH589, C1994,
    MGCDO103, ACY-1215, Panobinostat; e.g., SAHA, ACY-1215, Panobinostat).
            In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein (e.g.,
    pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
25  60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
    sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
    or more nitrogen mustards (mechlorethamine, ifosphamide, cyclophosphamide and
    analogs, melphalan, chlorambucil, e.g., melphalan).
            In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein (e.g.,
30  pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
                                                 90

   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
   or more DNA binding /Cytotoxic agents (e.g., Zalypsis).
           In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein (e.g.,
 5 pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
   or more taxanes (e.g., docetaxel, paclitaxel, e.g., docetaxel).
           In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein (e.g.,
10 pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
   or more antibiotics (dactinomycin (actinomycin D) daunorubicin, doxorubicin and
   idarubicin; e.g., doxorubicin).
15
           In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition as provided herein (e.g.,
   pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
20 or more cytokines. Cytokines include, but are not limited to, Interferon-y, -a, and -p,
   Interleukins 1-8, 10 and 12, Granulocyte Monocyte Colony-Stimulating factor (GM
   CSF), TNF-a and -P, and TGF-p.
           In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
25 pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
   or more steroids. Suitable steroids may include, but are not limited to, 21
   acetoxypregnenolone, alclometasone, algestone, amcinonide, beclomethasone,
30 betamethasone, budesonide, chloroprednisone, clobetasol, clocortolone, cloprednol,
                                                91

   corticosterone, cortisone, cortivazol, deflazacort, desonide, desoximetasone,
   dexamethasone, diflorasone, diflucortolone, difuprednate, enoxolone, fluazacort,
   flucloronide, flumethasone, flunisolide, fluocinolone acetonide, fluocinonide, fluocortin
   butyl, fluocortolone, fluorometholone, fluperolone acetate, fluprednidene acetate,
 5 fluprednisolone, flurandrenolide, fluticasone propionate, formocortal, halcinonide,
   halobetasol propionate, halometasone, hydrocortisone, loteprednol etabonate,
   mazipredone, medrysone, meprednisone, methylprednisolone, mometasone furoate,
   paramethasone, prednicarbate, prednisolone, prednisolone 25-diethylaminoacetate,
   prednisolone sodium phosphate, prednisone, prednival, prednylidene, rimexolone,
10 tixocortol, triamcinolone, triamcinolone acetonide, triamcinolone benetonide,
   triamcinolone hexacetonide, and salts and/or derivatives thereof (e.g., hydrocortisone,
   dexamethasone, methylprednisolone and prednisolone; e.g., dexamethasone).
           In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions provided herein are
   conjointly administered with dexamethasone (e.g., pharmaceutical compositions that
15 include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains 60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg
   sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and sodium hydroxide for pH
   adjustment (target pH 3.5)). In certain embodiments, conjoint therapy includes the
   dosing regimens provided on the KYPROLIS label, e.g.,
           1.      KYPROLIS is administered intravenously over 2 to 10 minutes, on two
20 consecutive days, each week for three weeks (Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16), followed by a
   12-day rest period (Days 17 to 28). Each 28-day period is considered one treatment cycle
   (Table A).
           In Cycle 1, KYPROLIS is administered at a dose of 20 mg/m 2 . If tolerated in
   Cycle 1, the dose should be escalated to 27 mg/m 2 beginning in Cycle 2 and continued at
25 27 mg/m 2 in subsequent cycles. Treatment may be continued until disease progression or
   until unacceptable toxicity occurs.
           The dose is calculated using the patient's actual body surface area at baseline.
   Patients with a body surface area greater than 2.2 m 2 should receive a dose based upon a
   body surface area of 2.2 m2 . Dose adjustments do not need to be made for weight
30 changes of less than or equal to 20%.
                                                92

         Table Al: KYPROLIS Dosage Regimen for Patients with Multiple Myeloma
                                                         Cycle 1
                            Week 1                 Week   2                Week 3           Week 4
                    Day      Day        Days  Day   Day      Days    Day    Day     Days     Days
                      1        2         3-7   8     9      10-14    15      16     17-21    22-28
   KYPROLIS          20       20         No   20     20      No      20      20      No        No
    (20 mg/m 2):                       Dosing               Dosing                Dosing    Dosing
                                                  Cycles 2 and Beyonda
                            Week 1                 Week 2                  Week 3           Week 4
                    Day      Day        Days  Day   Day     Days    Day     Day     Days     Days
                      1        2         3-7   8     9      10-14    15      16    17-21     22-28
   KYPROLIS          27       27         No   27    27       No      27      27      No        No
    (27 mg/rn 2):                      Dosing               Dosing                Dosing   .Dosing
   a If previous cycle dosage is
                                 tolerated.
             2.       Hydrate patients to reduce the risk of renal toxicity and of tumor lysis
   syndrome (TLS) with KYPROLIS treatment. Maintain adequate fluid volume status
 5 throughout treatment and monitor blood chemistries closely. Prior to each dose in
   Cycle 1, give 250 mL to 500 mL of intravenous normal saline or other appropriate
   intravenous fluid. Give an additional 250 mL to 500 mL of intravenous fluids as needed
   following KYPROLIS administration. Continue intravenous hydration, as needed, in
   subsequent cycles. Also monitor patients during this period for fluid overload.
10           3.      Pre-medicate with dexamethasone 4 mg orally or intravenously prior to all
   doses of KYPROLIS during Cycle I and prior to all KYPROLIS doses during the first
   cycle of dose escalation to 27 mg/m 2 to reduce the incidence and severity of infusion
   reactions. Reinstate dexamethasone premedication (4 mg orally or intravenously) if these
   symptoms develop or reappear during subsequent cycles.
15
            In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
   pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
20 or more immunotherapeutic agents. Suitable immunotherapeutic agents may include, but
   are not limited to, MDR modulators (verapamil, valspordar, biricodar, tariquidar,
                                                   93

     laniquidar), cyclosporine, pomalidomide, thalidomide, CC-4047 (Actimid), lenalidomide
     (Revlimid) and monoclonal antibodies. The monoclonal antibodies can be either naked or
     conjugated such as rituximab, tositumomab, alemtuzumab, epratuzumab, ibritumomab
     tiuxetan, gemtuzumab ozogamicin, bevacizumab, cetuximab, erlotinib and trastuzumab.
  5  In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein is conjointly
     administered with lenalidomide (Revlimid).
              In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
     pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
 10  60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
     sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
    or more topoisomerase inhibitors (e.g., irinotecan, topotecan, camptothecin, lamellarin
    D, and etoposide).
             In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
15  pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
    60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
    sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
    or more m-TOR inhibitors (e.g., CCI-779, AP23573 and RAD-001).
             In.some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
20  pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
    60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
    sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
    or more protein kinase inhibitors (e.g., sorafenib, imatinib, dasatinib, sunitinib,
    pazopanib, and nilotinib; e.g., sorafenib).
25           In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
    pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
    60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
    sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
    or more CDK Inhibitors (e.g., Dinaciclib).
                                                  94

           In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
    pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
    60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
    sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
 5 or more KSP(Eg5) Inhibitors (e.g., Array 520).
           In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
   pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
10 or more PHl3 delta Inhibitors (e.g., GS-1 101 P13K).
          In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
   pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
15 or more Dual Inhibitor: P13K delta and gamma Inhibitors (e.g., CAL-130).
          In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
   pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
20 or more multi-kinase Inhibitors (e.g., TG02).
          In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
   pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
   sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with one
25 or more P13K delta Inhibitors (e.g., TGR-1202).
          In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition provided herein (e.g.,
   pharmaceutical compositions that include carfilzomib, e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains
   60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and
30 sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH 3.5)) is conjointly administered with
                                               95

             (i) one or more of the following:
                  *   one or more second chemotherapeutic agents (e.g., one or more HDAC
                      inhibitors, e.g., SAHA, ACY-1215, Panobinostat; one or more nitrogen
                      mustards e.g., melphalan; one or more DNA binding/cytotoxic agents,
 5                    e.g., Zylapsis; one or more taxanes, e.g., docetaxel; one or more antibiotics
                      (dactinomycin (actinomycin D) daunorubicin, doxorubicin and idarubicin;
                      e.g., doxorubicin);
                  e   one or more other proteasome inhibitor(s) (e.g., another compound of
                      formulae (1)-(5));
10                e   one or more cytokines;
                  e   one or more immunotherapeutic agents (e.g., Revlimid);
                  e   one or more topoisomerase inhibitors;
                 *    one or more m-TOR inhibitors;
                 e    one or more protein kinase inhibitors (e.g., sorafenib);
15               e    one or more CDK Inhibitors (e.g., Dinaciclib);
                 e    one or more KSP(Eg5) Inhibitors (e.g., Array 520);
                 e    one or more PI 13 delta Inhibitors (e.g., GS-1 101 P13K);
                 e    one or more Dual Inhibitor: P13K delta and gamma Inhibitors (e.g., CAL
                      130);
20                  . one or more multi-kinase Inhibitors (e.g., TG02);
                 *    one or more P13K delta Inhibitors (e.g., TGR-1202);
            and
            (ii) one or more steroids (e.g., dexamethasone).
25          In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition that includes carfilzomib
   (e.g, KYPROLIS, which contains 60 mg of carfilzomib, 3000 mg sulfobutylether beta
   cyclodextrin, 57.7 mg citric acid, and sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment (target pH
   3.5) is conjointly administered with
            (i) one of the following:
                                                   96

         0  one or more second chemotherapeutic agents (e.g., one or more HDAC
            inhibitors, e.g., SAHA, ACY-1215, Panobinostat; one or more nitrogen
            mustards e.g., melphalan; one or more DNA binding/cytotoxic agents,
            e.g., Zylapsis; one or more taxanes, e.g., docetaxel; one or more antibiotics
 5          (dactinomycin (actinomycin D) daunorubicin, doxorubicin and idarubicin;
            e.g., doxorubicin);
        *   one or more other proteasome inhibitor(s) (e.g., another compound of
            formulae (1)-(5));
        *   one or more cytokines;
10      e   one or more immunotherapeutic agents (e.g., Revlimid);
        e   one or more topoisomerase inhibitors;
        e   one or more m-TOR inhibitors;
        e   one or more protein kinase inhibitors (e.g., sorafenib);
        e   one or more CDK Inhibitors (e.g., Dinaciclib);
15      e   one or more KSP(Eg5) Inhibitors (e.g., Array 520);
        e   one or more PI13 delta Inhibitors (e.g., GS-1 101 P13K);
        e   one or more Dual Inhibitor: P13K delta and gamma Inhibitors (e.g., CAL
            130);
        *   one or more multi-kinase Inhibitors (e.g., TG02);
20      *   one or more P13K delta Inhibitors (e.g., TGR-1202);
   and
   (ii) dexamethasone.
                                         97

                                             EXAMPLES
    Example 1. Preparationof a suspension of carfilzomib-activepharmaceuticalingredient
    (CFZ-API) in sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin (SBECD)
            This Example describes the preparation of a suspension of CFZ-API in SBECD at
 5  400 L batch size. Smaller batch sizes were performed in equivalent proportions of the
    constituents, such as at 290 L, 90 L, and 1-3 L batch sizes.
            In a 525 L stainless steel jacketed cooled tank controlled to 2 *C - 8 *C, a
    suspension of 2.0 kg carfilzomib-API (CFZ-API), 246 kg water for injection (WFI), and
    100 kg sulfobutylether beta-cyclodextrin (SBECD) was prepared. Specifically, in the 525
10  L stainless steel jacketed cooled tank controlled to 2 *C - 8 *C, 100 kg SBECD was
    dissolved in 246 kg WFI. The Carfilzomib suspension was then prepared using 2.0 kg of
    CFZ-API. Mixing was performed using an impeller mixer to maintain suspension of the
    CFZ-API solids and dissolve the SBECD. In the same vessel, a probe style rotor-stator
    high shear mixer (homogenizer) was used as well as the low shear impeller. The high
15  shear mixer was operated for approximately 1 hour yielding an even suspension and
    reduction of particle size for any larger primary particles or agglomerated API. After a
    suspension was achieved, 1.96 kg of citric acid was added as a 16% aqueous solution.
   The pH of the solution was then lowered inducing partial solubilization of the CFZ-API
    followed by and complexation due to the presence of SBECD. Mixing was continued for
20 a further 24 hours with both the impeller and the high shear mixer and a dissolved
   concentration of CFZ-API of greater than 5.1 mg/mL was achieved. The suspension
   containing greater than 5.1 mg/mL of dissolved complexed CFZ-API was filtered with a
   0.45 micrometer clarifying filter, then accurately diluted to a dissolved concentration of
   5.0 mg/mL and pH adjusted with 1 N sodium hydroxide solution to achieve pH 3.5. The
25 solution was sterile filtered, with two sequential 0.22 micrometer sterilizing filters, then
   filled into vials 12.36 mL each, containing 61.8 mg per vial of CFZ-API. The vials were
   partially stoppered and loaded into a lyophilizer and freeze dried over 103 hours using a
   freezing temperature of -45 *C, primary drying temperature of -15 C, and secondary
   drying of +30 *C. The lyophilized vials were fully stoppered, and capped, then stored at
30 the product stability temperature of 2 *C - 8 *C for up to two years before use. Upon use,
                                                  98

   the vial was reconstituted with sterile water for injection to yield a 2 mg/mL reconstituted
   solution for injection, having pH 3.5 and tonicity acceptable for direct injection into
   patients. Alternately, the reconstituted solution was further diluted in an intraveneous bag
   for further dilution and infusion without inducing precipitation.
 5          As shown in Figure 1, the slurry based process of complexation results in
   increased solubilization of the CFZ-API over time (greater than 5 milligrams per
   milliliter, which is substantially higher than the intrinsic aqueous solubility of CFZ-API,
   which is less than 10 micrograms per milliliter). In addition, the process is less
   dependent on the physicochemical properties of the CFZ-API (e.g., particle size, surface
10 area, degree of agglomeration, polymorphic form, etc.). Unlike most pharmaceutical
   production or testing, dissolution rate (or solubilization rate) in this process is effectively
   independent on the particle size of the API (see, e.g., Figure 2) as the process delivers an
   equivalent extent of solubilization over the 24 hour period of time for complexation to
   occur regardless of whether the API initially had a large or small mean API particle size
15 (21.1 micrometers, and 7.5 micrometers respectively). It was further determined that in
   the process described above, higher concentrations of SBECD increased the solubility of
   the CFZ-API (see Figure 3). Finally, it has been observed that the complexed solubility
   of CFZ/SBECD was effectively independent of processing or storage temperature (see,
   e.g., Figure 4 where solubilized extent is shown as a function of SBECD concentration at
20 pH 3.5 for two temperatures 5 *C and 25 *C showing no apparent difference). Therefore
   lower processing temperatures are preferred (2 "C - 8 "C) to minimize potential for any
   thermally induced degradation reactions that may occur. In other processes, more
   commonly higher temperatures are necessary to increase solubility, however in this
   process, higher solubility is achieved via increasing cycloddextrin concentration and/or
25 pH rather than by increasing temperature and this enables thermal degradants to be
   minimized in this process.
   Example 2. Effect of Chloride ion on the stabilityof Carfilzomib
            A multivariate statistical design of experiments was conducted to assess factors
30 controlling the level of chlorohydrin degradation product as a function of processing
                                                  99

   parameters and storage time over six months. The complexation was performed in the
   proportion and parameters given in Example 1, with the following modifications: (i) the
   complexation process was performed at 2 L batch size; (ii) the final pH of solution before
   vial filling was varied for purposes of the experiment from 3.0, to 4.0; (iii) sodium
 5 chloride was spiked into SBECD in some experiments to create a high sodium chloride
   condition; (iv) water content of the lyophilized final product in stoppered vials was
   produced at high and low sodium chloride conditions via early termination and
   stoppering of vials to create a higher residual water content condition.
10 Materials.
     Table 2. Materials
                    Item                Manufacturer
       Carfilzomib drug substance     Cambridge Major
                                         Laboratories
          Citric acid, anhydrous          J.T. Baker
             Sulfobutylether-B-             CyDex
         cyclodextrin (Captisol*)    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
             Sodium Chloride         EMD Chemicals, Inc.
        Water for Injection (WFI)    EMD Chemicals, Inc.
       Sodium Hydroxide solution     EMD Chemicals, Inc.
                   1.000 N
        Overhead Mixer (impeller,        IKA Works
                 low shear)
                  Impeller                   NA
             High Shear Mixer             Silverson
        Recirculating Water Bath    Thermo Electron Corp
      50 mL 20 mm molded glass,           Wheaton
      20 mm single-vent flurotech       West Pharma
                  stoppers
        Genesis SQ 35 EL Freeze-            VirTis
                    Dryer
      0.22 pm syringe driven filter       Millipore
                                                   100

          0.22 pm PES filter system        Coming
                   pH meter                Beckman
                 pH electrode             Orion ROSS
                pH 1.68 buffer       ThermoElectron Corp.
                 pH 4.0 buffer               VWR
    Methods.
          Complexationprocess:
             The solution of complexed carfilzomib for injection bulk solution pre
  5 lyophilization included aqueous 5 mg/mL carfilzomib, 250 mg/mL Captisol@ (SBECD)
    and 4.86 mg/mL citric acid, pH adjusted with aqueous sodium hydroxide. Compounding
    of the bulk solutions for lyophilization followed the procedure detailed in Example I with
    the following manipulations to create solutions with different specific attributes:
              1. pH was adjusted to 3.0 and 4.0
10           2. Sodium chloride was spiked into the Captisol@ to create a "High Chloride"
                  condition
    Captisol@ manufactured by Cydex, a subsidiary of Ligand, has a standard product
    analysis range for sodium chloride from 0.05% to 0.2% (w/v). One lot of Captisol@ was
    available for experimentation which had a low chloride content of only 0.05% (w/v) as
15  sodium chloride. 400 g of this Captisol@ was required per batch for the process to be
    performed at 2 L scale batches of complexation processing (in same proportions and
    general parameters per Example 1). To create the "high chloride" condition, 0.6 g of
    NaCl was added to 399.4 g of Captisol@ which thus mimicked what a batch containing
    0.2% chloride Captisol@ would be comprised of.
20      Lyophilization:
             In order to generate two (2) moisture content conditions in the final lyophilized
    vials, two (2) sets of 61.8 mg/vial (of CFZ-API) samples were lyophilized. The first
    cycle generated the "dry" sample set of vials containing approximately 0.6% residual
                                                  101

   water per Example 1 lyophilization parameters. For the second sample set, lyophilization
   was terminated and vials stoppered earlier in the secondary drying phase to generate the
   "wet" condition vials, with residual moisture approximately 2.4% water per vial initially.
             One (1) lot of placebo was prepared as a control containing 250 mg/mL
 5 Captisol@ and 4.86 mg/mL citric acid, adjusted to pH 3.5 with NaOH.
       Analytical Testing:
            The bulk solution of complexed carfilzomib was analyzed during manufacture by
   High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) to accurately quantify the
   concentration of dissolved and complexed carfilzomib drug substance. Subsequently,
10 additional water was added to accurately dilute the bulk complexed solution. After this
   dilution step, HPLC was used again to ensure a target concentration of 5.0 mg/mL was
   achieved. Samples of the three (3) final bulk solutions were analyzed for potency and
   purity confirmation testing by HPLC. Stability samples were analyzed after six months
   of storage at 5 "C and 25 *C by HPLC for potency and purity. Karl Fischer Coulometry
15 method was used for the water content determination in the lyophilized drug product.
       Data Treatment:
            Stat-Ease DX7 was used to analyze the results.
   Results.
            The results for formation of a chlorohydrin degradation product (CDP) at 6
20 months for 5*C and 25*C are summarized in Table 3 below.
   Table 3. Results for CDP formation after 6 months at 5*C and 25*C
                                                                 % Area of CDP after 6 months
        pH            Water (%)        Sodium Chloride (%)                (HPLC data)
                                                                     0
                                                                    5 C               25 0 C
        4.00                2                    0.05                0.02              0.35
        3.00                2                    0.05                0.02              0.55
        3.00               0.7                   0.05                0.00              0.14
        4.00               0.7                   0.05                0.00              0.09
        4.00                2                    0.2                 0.18              1.71
                                                 102

         3.00                2                   0.2                   0.28            2.57
         4.00               0.7                  0.2                   0.08            0.36
         3.00               0.7                  0.2                   0.13            0.70
            The ANOVA analyses below (Table 4 and 5) for CDP shows that chloride content
   is the main factor in CDP formation. Higher chloride content leads to greater levels of the
   CDP. Even at the low level of chloride content (0.05% (w/v)), formation of the
 5 chlorohydrin is still observed but at acceptably low concentration compared to 0.2%
   chloride. In addition, drug product containing low levels of chloride ion showed
   unacceptable formation of chlorohydrin product at 25*C after 6 months of storage. Figure
   5 illustrates the relationship between CDP and the two-factor interaction of water and
   chloride content. The top line is high chloride content and the bottom line is low chloride
10 content. The x-axis represents water content, with 0.7% on the left and 2% on the right.
   At higher chloride levels, the levels of CDP production increases. This increase is more
   even more evident at higher water content conditions, as can be seen from the slope of
   the top curve. At low chloride levels, there is little difference seen between low or high
   water content conditions.
15
                                                103

    Table 4. ANOVA analysis - CDP (RRT 0.86) at 6 Months, 5*C
   Response 1              CDP (RRTO.87) PA 6M 5C
 5       ANOVA for selected factorial model
    Analysis of variance table [Partial sum of squares - Type III]
                           Sum of                        Mean       F     p-value
    Source                 Squares         df            Square     Value Prob> F
    Model                  0.028            1            0.028      6.88  0.0394  significant
      C-Chloride Content   0.028            1            0.028      6.88  0.0394
    Residual               0.024           6             4.013E-003
    Cor Total              0.052           7
10
                                                    104

Table 5. ANOVA analysis - CDP (RRT 0.86) at 6 Months, 25*C
 Response I                CDP (RRTO.87) PA 6M 25C
        ANOVA for selected factorial model
   Analysis of variance table [Partial sum of squares - Type 1II]
                           Sum of                       Mean      F     p-value
   Source                  Squares        df            Square    Value Prob> F
   Model                   4.81           3             1.60      14.42 0.0130  significant
    B-Water Content       2.05             1            2.05      18.43 0.0127
    C-Chloride Content    2.05             1            2.05      18.43 0.0127
    BC                     0.71            1            0.71      6.42  0.0644
   Residual               0.45            4             0.11
   Cor Total              5.26            7
                                                105

    Example 3. Effect of Hydrochloricand citric acids on chlorohydrinsdegradation
    product
             A study was conducted to determine the impact of using hydrochloric acid in the
  5 complexation process by comparing the the impurity levels of degradation product CDP
    over storage time to lot produced without HCl, and stored for the same period of time.
    During production, the pH of all lots was adjusted at the end of the process to 3.5 using
    sodium hydroxide.
             As presented in Table 6, lots produced with the addition of HCI (2, 3, and 4)
10  showed a clear formation of the chlorohydrin degradation product (CDP) over the course
    of storage time, whereas at the recommended storage temperature of 5 *C, CDP was
    mostly below the HPLC reporting limit (0.1%) or not detected (ND) in lots 1 and 5
    (where no HCl was used). Clearly, more chloride content coming from HCI as the acid
    for initiating complexation resulted in more (and unacceptable levels of)CDP formation.
15  Therefore, using the weaker acid citric acid alone to initiate complexation in SBECD
    minimized CDP formation.
    Table 6. Results for CDP formation (% Area) at 5'C and 25*C
                       Lot1             Lot2              Lot3             Lot4            Lot5
      Time          Citric acid    Hydrochloric      Hydrochloric     Hydrochloric      Citric acid
                     (no HCI)            acid              acid            acid          (no HCI)
     (month)
                  50 C     25 0 C  50 C      25 0 C  50 C      25 0 C 50C      25 0 C 50 C      25 0 C
         0        : 0.1      ND     0.16      0.16    0.26      0.26  0.15      0.15  5 0.1      : 0.1
          3       5 0.1     0.13    0.24      0.78    0.36       1.4  0.19      0.78  5 0.1      0.19
         6        < 0.1        0.1  0.26       1.1    0.37       1.9  0.22       1.1  : 0.1      0.31
         12       50.1         -    0.24              0.46         -  0.25         -  :0.1
         18       < 0.1        -    0.35              0.52         -  0.29         -  : 0.1
         24       < 0.1        -    0.33             0.64          -  0.32         -   0.12
20  Example 4.
                                                    106

            The solubility of carfilzomib as a function of SBECD cyclodextrin concentration
    was determined in aqueous solutions containing citric acid (30 mM), at pH 1.5 and pH
    3.5, and at temperatures including 5*C and 25*C. The solubility profile is shown in
    Figure 6. No significant differences in solubility were observed between the low and
  5 high temperatures tested. The experiments at acidic conditions below the target pH
    values and titrated to pH 1.5 or 3.5 using aqueous sodium hydroside solution.
    Measurements of solubilized concentration were those from samples analyzed after
    24 hours of time to equilibrate.
 10 Example 5
            An indexing approach was used to model and determine a surprising cyclodextran
    ("CD"):carfilzomib ("CFZ") complexation ratio.
            [11     Phase solubility study
            SBE-p-CD was dissolved in WFI to achieve different CD% concentrations.
 15         Excess CFZ-API solids were charged to the SBE-p-CD solution and homogenized
    for 1 hour via a probe style high-shear mixer to disperse API agglomerates prior their
    subsequent dissolution.
            The slurry pH was lowered using acid to initiate solubilization and thereby
    complexation. Overhead mixing with a marine style impellor was continued for up 48
20  hours. The was adjusted upward to pH 3.5 with NaOH(aq).
            Total dissolved CFZ as a function of SBE-p-CD concentration was determined
    via sampling, filtration and HPLC analysis.
            [21     Compounding study
            SBE-p-CD was dissolved in WFI to achieve 25% (w/v) solution. A suspension of
25  CFZ-API in the SBE-p-CD solution was prepared by homogenization per the solubility
    study
            API solids were added in all experiments to theoretically yield a ~ 6 mg/mL final
    solution to mimic the commercial process
            After homogenization, pH was lowered using citric acids to affect solubilization,
30  while continuing mixing up 24 hours. Then, all preparations were adjusted to pH 3.5.
                                                 107

   Dissolved concentration as a function of time was measured by sampling, filtration, then
   HPLC analysis to monitor the kinetics of complexation in the slurry based process.
           [31     Results (phase solubility)
           The phase solubility diagram (FIG. 7) shows that the aqueous solubility of CFZ
 5 increased as a function of SBE-p-CD concentration. The concave-down phase solubility
   profile can be classified as An-type complexation behavior. Starting with low pH has a
   significant solubility enhancement, whereas temperature has negligible effect.
           [4]     Results (compounding study)
           FIG. 8 shows the solubilization data of CFZ during compounding as a function of
10 time at pH values 1.5 and 3 (at 5*C), as well as for 5% ethanol.
           Very fast solubilization was observed when compounding started with lowest pH
           Solubilization during compounding and pH 3 showed a similarly rapid initial rate,
   which then slows remarkably and does not reaching equilibrium by 24 hours
           Addition of ethanol at pH 3 did not impact solubilization behavior, which
15 indicates micelle formation is unlikely a rate limiting step for this system.
           [51     Model Selection and Interpretation
           A first order mass transfer dissolution model ("The approach to solubility
   equilibrium in crystallizing and dissolving systems." Dalziel, S.M.; White, E.T. & Johns,
   M.R. 2002 Dev. Chem. Eng. Mineral Process 10(5/6) 521-537) was a poor fit to time
20 course data, indicating that the rate of overall solubilization is largely governed by a
   slower rate mechanism than dissolution.
           Micellar intermediate states were considered unlikely to be rate governing since
   time course complexation experiments in 5% aqueous ethanol were not substantially
   different in overall rates.
25         The Law of Mass Action was applied, as given by equation (1), with equilibrium
   state described by equation (3). Hence the driving force for complexation in the non
   dissolution limited state (equation 4) is the extent to which the system is away from
   equilibrium, and the overall kinetic rate becomes proportional to free cyclodextrin raised
   to the power x, which corresponds to its complexed stoichiometric ratio with the API.
30
                                                 108

             k,                       kz
    API(S)       API(aq) +     x. CDF     {x. CDBAPIcomplexl                          (1)
             k3                       k4
    CDT    =     CDF + CDe                                                            (2a)
 5  CT    = API(dissolved)       + API(complexed)                                     (2b)
                                      1
    Kstab    =
            K tb
              -
                  {X.CD9APIcompex1 '                                                  (3)
                   [ API( q))'.[cDFI
    Driving Forcefor complexation = (Kstab - Kt)                                      (4)
    If dissolution is not rate limiting, intrinsicsolubility is small, and no other intermediate state, then
    complexation rate = (k 2 - k 4 )
10
      CT oc [CDFIX                                                                    (5)
   At the boundary condition of CDT = 0,          CT= intrinsic solubility of CFZ at the given pH and temperature.
    Plotting CT on Y-axis and CDF on X-axis in Molar units should converge to a linear relationship if the X-axis
    is transformed to the power of 1x. Solving for x provides the stoichiometry of complexation
15 API(S)       active pharmaceuticalingredient,solid phase
   API(aq) active pharmaceuticalingredient,dissolved phase
   CDF          cyclodextrin,free (uncomplexed)
   CDB          cyclodextrin, bound (complexed)
   CDT          cyclodextrin, total
20 x            stoichiometriccoefficient
   kn           reactionrate constants
   Ksah         Complexation equilibriumstability constant
   Kt           Complexation reactioncoordinate and time t
25
   Experimental Data and modeling:
   *     Time course data for observed API concentration for various conditions such as CD%, pH, mixing
         speed, temperature.
   -     Multiple coordinates for CDT, and solubilized API (total: dissolved and complexed)
                                                              109

             [61    Transformation of Experimental Data
            Cyclodextrin and observed carfilzomib concentrations were converted to molar
    units.
            Intrinsic solubility of carfilzomib was small and maintained as a constant in the
 5  analysis rather than being corrected, due to precision limitations (equation 2b).
            Free and Bound concentrations of cyclodextrin were calculated from equation
    (2a), assuming multiple scenarios of complexation stoichiometries (x: 1).
            A plot was generated displaying observed solubilization as a function of free
   cyclodextrin (CDF), indexed to the inverse of its complexation stoichiometry (1lx). The
10 transformed data was evaluated to show where the plot approaches linearity (excluding
   the intrinsic solubility value). This was approximately x = 2 - 3. See FIG. 9.
            [71     Conclusions
            The aqueous solubility of CFZ increased as a function of SBE-p-CD
   concentration. The phase solubility profile can be classified as An-type.
15          A stoichiometric ratio of 2 or 3 cyclodextrins per API molecule in the complexed
   state was observed for CFZ with SBE-p-CD.
            The poor fit of a first order mass transfer dissolution model to this data, and the
   lack of significant change to the observed complexation rate in aqueous ethanolic
   solution (Self-assembled cyclodextrin aggregates and nanoparticles. Messner M., Jansook
20 P., Kurkov SV and Loftsson Int J Pharm. 2010 Mar 15;387(1-2):199-208) suggested that
   neither dissolution nor micelle formation are the rate limiting step. More likely the
   overall process rate is governed by the rate of complexation (k2). This implies that API
   physical properties such as particle size and surface area, as well as process variables
   such as mixer design and operation (which influence ki) may not be critical to process
25 performance and robustness. Commercial process design space and validation studies
   verified this.
            A power law relationship of complexation rate to free cyclodextrin concentration
   raised to the stoichiometric exponent correlates to the observed kinetic behavior: initially
   fast (0 -- 4.5mg/mL first 2 hours), then very slow to equilibrate (4.545.5 mg/mL in >20
30 hours).
                                                  110

                                   OTHER EMBODIMENTS
          It is to be understood that while the disclosure is read in conjunction with the
  detailed description thereof, the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not
5 limit the scope of the disclosure, which is defined by the scope of the appended claims.
  Other aspects, advantages, and modifications are within the scope of the following
  claims.
                                               111

    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1.      A method for preparing a pharmaceutical composition, the method comprising:
                     (i) providing a first combination comprising:
            (a) a compound:
                                    0                   0
                              H-                 H
                              N                  N        N
                   N                    N                 N
                                        H                 H
             0             0     -            0      -0                 '
 5          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
            (b) one or more cyclodextrins ("CDs"); and
            (c) water;
                          wherein the first combination is heterogeneous and the compound or
                salt has a low solubility in the first combination; and
10                  (ii) contacting the first combination with an acid to form a second
   combination, wherein the compound is more soluble in the second combination than in
   the first combination.
   2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the first combination is substantially free of
15 organic solvent.
   3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the first combination is substantially free of
   buffer.
20 4.       The method of claim i, wherein the second combination comprises a complex of
   the compound and the one or more cyclodextrins.
                                                   112

    5.      The method of claim 1, wherein the acid is added in the form of an aqueous
    solution.
    6.      The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more cyclodextrins is
  5 HPBCD or SBECD.
    7.      The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more cyclodextrins is a
    low chloride cyclodextrin.
 10 8.      The method of claim 7, wherein the low chloride cyclodextrin is a low chloride
    SBECD.
    9.      The method of claim 1, wherein the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in the
    first combination is not more than 0.32.
 5
    10.     The method of claim 1, wherein providing a first combination (step (i)) comprises
    adding the compound to a solution of the one or more cyclodextrins and the water.
    11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the compound is a crystalline solid.
 !0
    12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the crystalline form of the compound has an X
    ray powder diffraction pattern comprising 2 to 8 characteristic peaks expressed in degrees
    20 at 6.10, 9.32, 10.10, 12.14, 13.94, 18.44, 20.38, and 23.30.
25  13.     The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises mixing the first
    combination prior to contacting the first combination with an acid.
    14.     The method of claim 1, wherein (i) and (ii) are both performed in a single vessel.
                                                 113

     15.    The method of claim 1, wherein method further comprises mixing the second
    combination for a time sufficient to achieve a homogeneous third combination.
     16.    The method of claim 15, wherein the dissolved and complexed concentration of
  5 the compound in the third combination is from I mg/mL to 20 mg/mL.
     17.    The method of claim 16, wherein the dissolved and complexed concentration of
    the compound in the third combination is from 4 to 8 mg/mL.
 10  18.    The method of claim 15, wherein the pH of the third combination is from 2 to 4:
    19.     The method of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises filtering the third
    combination.
 15 20.     The method of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises lyophilizing the
    third combination to provide a lyophilizate.
    21.     The method of claim 20, wherein the method further comprises mixing the
    lyophilizate with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
20
    22.     The method of claim 21, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier
    comprises sterile water for injection.
    23.     The method of claim 22, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further
25  comprises citric acid.
    24.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 1.
    25.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 7.
30
                                                114

   26.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 9.
   27.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 15.
 5 28.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 20.
   29.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 21.
10 30.     A method for preparing a pharmaceutical composition, the method comprising:
                    (i) providing a first combination comprising:
           (a) a compound:
                                   0                     0
                             H                   H
                          -  N                   N                    0
                  N                    N               .   N
                        0                                  00
                                       H                   H
           o              o      -                   -         0
           or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof;
15         (b) SBECD; and
           (c) water for injection;
                         wherein the first combination is heterogeneous and the compound or
               salt has a low solubility in the first combination; and
                    (ii) contacting the first combination with an aqueous solution of citric acid
20 to form a second combination, wherein the compound is more soluble in the second
   combination than in the first combination.
   31.     The method of claim 30, wherein the first combination is substantially free of
   organic solvent.
                                                   115

    32.      The method of claim 30, wherein.the first combination is substantially free of
    buffer.
  5 33.      The method of claim 30, wherein the second combination comprises a complex of
    the compound and the SBECD.
    34.      The method of claim 30, wherein the SBECD is low chloride SBECD.
 10 35.      The method of claim 30, wherein the mole ratio of chloride ion to compound in
    the first combination is not more than 0.32.
    36.      The method of claim 30, wherein providing a first combination (step (i))
    comprises adding the compound to a solution of the one or more cyclodextrins and the
15  water.
    37.     The method of claim 36, wherein the compound is a crystalline solid.
    38.     The method of claim 37, wherein the crystalline form of the compound has an X
20  ray powder diffraction pattern comprising 2 to 8 characteristic peaks expressed in degrees
    20 at 6.10, 9.32, 10.10, 12.14, 13.94, 18.44, 20.38, and 23.30.
    39.     The method of claim 30, wherein the method further comprises mixing the first
    combination prior to contacting the first combination with an acid.
25
    40.     The method of claim 30, wherein (i) and (ii) are both performed in a single vessel.
    41.     The method of claim 30, wherein method further comprises mixing the second
    combination for a time sufficient to achieve a homogeneous third combination.
30
                                                 116

   42.     The method of claim 41, wherein the dissolved and complexed concentration of
   the compound in the third combination is from 1 mg/mL to 20 mg/mL.
   43.     The method of claim 42, wherein the dissolved and complexed concentration of
 5 the compound in the third combination is from 4 to 8 mg/mL.
   44.     The method of claim 41, wherein the pH of the third combination is from 2 to 4.
   45.     The method of claim 41, wherein the method further comprises filtering the third
10 combination.
   46.     The method of claim 41, wherein the method further comprises lyophilizing the
   third combination to provide a lyophilizate.
15 47.     The method of claim 46, wherein the method further comprises mixing the
   lyophilizate with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
   48.     The method of claim 47, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier
   comprises sterile water for injection.
20
   49.     The method of claim 48, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further
   comprises citric acid.
   50.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 30.
25
   51.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 34.
   52.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 35.
30 53.     A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 41.
                                                117

54. A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 46.
55. A pharmaceutical composition prepared by the method as claimed in claim 47..
                                     118

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
