ABSTRACT
         A pressure regulating device (30) for a writing tool has a deformable
member (32, 32A, 32B, 32C). Minor air pressure variations in a pen tube (10)
of the writing tool can be regulated by deformation of the deformable member
(32, 32A, 32B, 32C). Major air pressure variations in the pen tube (10) can also
be regulated by movement of the pressure regulating device (30). Thus, the pen
tube (10) of the writing tool can avoid internal air pressure imbalance caused
by external high temperature or low air pressure. Ink inside an internal chamber
(12) of the pen tube (10) does not spout out upon removal of a pen cap (40)
which caps the writing tool, and the ink will not be overly dispensed or leak
during writing.

        1111
31
 32             30
                  12
          _ ~ .~~~~  10
 24
 23
                      20
  2122
     FIG. 3

                                             1
        PRESSURE REGULATING DEVICE FOR WRITING TOOL AND
                       WRITING TOOL HAVING THE SAME
   1. Field of the Invention
            The present invention relates to a pressure regulating device for a
 5 writing tool that can directly supply ink, especially to a pressure regulating
   device that can regulate pressure by sliding relative to a writing tool and/or by
   deformation. The present invention also relates to a writing tool having the
   pressure regulating device.
   2. Description of the Prior Art(s)
10          A conventional writing tool that directly supplies ink has a pen tube
   and a slidable divider mounted in the pen tube and dividing an interior of the
   pen tube into an upper portion and a lower portion. The lower portion defines
   an internal chamber which is used for accommodating ink and contains a little
   air. The upper portion defines an external communication chamber which
15 communicates with an exterior of the pen tube via a vent hole formed at a distal
   end of the pen tube. When the ink is gradually consumed, the slidable divider
   gradually slides downward to fill space which was previously occupied by the
   consumed ink. However, the slidable divider is only able to slowly move
   slightly according to consumption of the ink and is unable to regulate an
20 internal pressure of the pen tube in response to larger pressure variations.
   Specifically, the larger pressure variations may happen in the following
   situations as examples.
            1. When the conventional writing tool is placed at a high temperature,
   air inside the pen tube may expand due to heat. Since the air inside the internal

                                             2
   chamber of the conventional writing tool does not communicate with the
   exterior of the pen tube when a pen cap caps the pen tube, an air pressure inside
   the internal chamber of the conventional writing tool is increased due to
   expansion of the heated air, thus causing a pressure difference between the
 5 internal chamber of the conventional writing tool and the exterior of the pen
   tube. At this moment, if the internal pressure of the pen tube of the
   conventional writing tool is not properly regulated, the ink may spout out upon
   removal of the pen cap. In another possible scenario, as the conventional
   writing tool is used under a high temperature, the air pressure that is formed by
10 thermal expansion of the air may cause the ink to be overly dispensed and leak.
   Moreover, when the ink is gradually consumed during writing, the slidable
   divider though gradually slides downward to fill the space occupied previously
   by the consumed ink, the slidable divider rubs against an inner sidewall of the
   pen tube, such that the consumption amount of the ink does not correspond to
15 movement amount of the slidable divider. Therefore, as the ink is gradually
   consumed, the air inside the internal chamber increases. Accordingly, the
   thermally expanded air has a greater influence on the air pressure inside the
   internal chamber, and ink leakage will become more.
            2. As the pen cap caps the pen tube, the air pressure inside the internal
20 chamber of the conventional writing tool also increases slightly, adversely
   affecting stability of the conventional writing tool during transportation.
   Variations in temperature and air pressure to a certain extent are inevitable
   during transportation, e.g. an airplane is taking off or landing, or a vehicle is
   undergoing shocks and vibrations over rough terrain. If the internal pressure of

                                             3
   the conventional writing tool is not properly regulated, owing to the air
   pressure variation, the pen cap might be detached or even ejected from the pen
   tube, or the ink might be overly dispensed and leak, thus causing stains on the
   goods.
 5          In view of the aforementioned shortcomings, the present invention
   provides a pressure regulating device for a writing tool and a writing tool
   having the pressure regulating device to overcome the shortcomings. The
   pressure regulating device is able to regulate an internal air pressure of the
   writing tool in response to minor and major pressure variations, thus ensuring
10 that the internal air pressure is balanced.
            In order to achieve the above-mentioned objective, the pressure
   regulating device for the writing tool in accordance with the present invention
   is slidably mounted in a pen tube of the writing tool and divides an interior
   space of the pen tube into an internal chamber and an external communication
15 chamber. The pressure regulating device has a tubular member provided with
   an outer periphery abutting on an inner sidewall of the pen tube; and a
   deformable member disposed in the tubular member. When a pressure
   difference between the internal chamber and the external communication
   chamber is larger than a first predetermined value, the deformable member
20 deforms toward the external communication chamber. When the pressure
   difference between the internal chamber and the external communication
   chamber is larger than a second predetermined value, the pressure regulating
   device slides, relative to the pen tube, toward the external communication
   chamber. The second predetermined value is larger than the first predetermined

                                            4
   value.
            In order to achieve the above-mentioned objective, the writing tool in
   accordance with the present invention has a pen tube, the pressure regulating
   device as described above, and a nib assembly mounted to an open end of the
 5 pen tube of the pressure regulating device and beside the internal chamber of
   the pen tube. The deformable member of the pressure regulating device is
   pressurized in advance, thereby the deformable member for resistance against
   its deformation toward the external communication chamber of the pen tube.
            The pressure regulating device and the writing tool of the present
10 invention have the following advantages. With the deformable member of the
   pressure regulating device, a minor air pressure variation can be regulated by
   deformation of the deformable member. When the air pressure variation is
   major, the air pressure variation can also be regulated by movement of the
   pressure regulating device. Thus, regardless of any degree of air pressure
15 variation, the pressure regulating device can regulate the air pressure inside the
   pen tube of the writing tool for balance of the air pressure, thereby avoiding
   internal air pressure imbalance caused by an external high temperature or an
   external low air pressure. Accordingly, ink inside the internal chamber will
   neither spout out upon removal of the pen cap nor be overly dispensed or leak
20 during writing.
            Moreover, before the writing tool of the present invention is shipped
   out from a manufacturer, the deformable member is pressurized in advance,
   thereby enabling the deformable member for resistance against its deformation
   toward the external communication chamber. For instance, the pressure

                                            5
   regulating device is pressurized to allow the deformable member to protrude
   toward the internal chamber. Thus, when a pen cap caps the writing tool, a
   minor air pressure variation that happens to offset the air pressure pre-applied
   to the deformable member, so the internal air pressure of the writing tool is
 5 balanced. Accordingly, the writing tool can be transported in such a state that
   the internal and external air pressures are balanced therebetween, and the
   influence resulting from the external temperature and the air pressure can be
   reduced to a minimum degree. Thus, the pen cap will not be detached or
   ejected from the pen tube due to the air pressure variation caused by shocks and
10 vibrations during transportation. The ink will not be overly dispensed for
   leakage, so the goods will not be stained and remain intact.
            Preferably, when the pressure difference between the internal chamber
   and the external communication chamber is smaller than the first
   predetermined value, the deformable member protrudes toward the internal
15 chamber; when the pressure difference between the internal chamber and the
   external communication chamber is larger than the first predetermined value,
   the deformable member protrudes toward the external communication chamber.
            Preferably, the deformable member is hemispherical in shape.
            Preferably, the deformable member is a diaphragm and has a first piece
20 and a second piece; an end of the first piece is connected to an end of the
   second piece; another end of the first piece is connected to an inner sidewall of
   the tubular member; another end of the second piece is formed as a closed end;
   and an inner diameter of the first piece is larger than that of the second piece.
   When the deformable member protrudes toward the internal chamber, both the

                                             6
   first piece and the second piece protrude toward the internal chamber. When the
   deformable member protrudes toward the external communication chamber,
   both the first piece and the second piece protrude toward the external
   communication chamber.
 5           Preferably, the deformable member protrudes toward the external
   communication chamber and encloses an inner space. When the pressure
   difference between the internal chamber and the external communication
   chamber is larger than the first predetermined value, the deformable member
   deforms to expand toward the external communication chamber, such that the
10 inner space in this state is volumetrically larger than the inner space when the
   pressure difference between the internal chamber and the external
   communication chamber is smaller than the first predetermined value.
             Preferably, the deformable member is a resilient bag that can be
   expanded by air pressure. When the pressure difference between the internal
15 chamber and the external communication chamber is smaller than the first
   predetermined value, the deformable member shrinks. When the pressure
   difference between the internal chamber and the external communication
   chamber is larger than the first predetermined value, the deformable member
   expands toward the external communication chamber.
20           Preferably, the deformable member is formed as a tubular bellows; an
   end of the deformable member is connected to the inner sidewall of the tubular
   member, and another end of the deformable member is formed as a closed end.
   When the pressure difference between the internal chamber and the external
   communication chamber is larger than the first predetermined value, the

                                             7
   deformable member expands and elongates, such that the deformable member
   in this state is longer than the deformable member when the pressure difference
   between the internal chamber and the external communication chamber is
   smaller than the first predetermined value.
 5          Preferably, an external temperature variation that corresponds to the
   first predetermined value ranges from 20 C to 4"C, and an external temperature
   variation that corresponds to the second predetermined value ranges from 50 C
   to 7C.
            Preferably, X is defined as a diameter of a widest part of the
10 deformable member, Y is defined as a thickness of the deformable member, and
   a relation between the diameter of the widest part of the deformable member
   and the thickness of the deformable member is expressed by a formula as
   follows:
            Y=0.09X-0. 1.
15          Preferably, the thickness of the deformable member ranges from 0.35
   mm to 0.8 mm, and the diameter of the widest part of the deformable member
   ranges from 5 mm to 10 mm.
            Preferably, the outer periphery of the tubular member includes an outer
   sidewall and two annular flanges. The annular flanges are spaced from each
20 other, are formed around and protrude from the outer sidewall of the outer
   periphery of the tubular member, and abut on the inner sidewall of the pen tube.
            Other objectives, advantages and novel features of the invention will
   become more apparent from the following detailed description when taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

                                             8
            Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a writing tool in accordance with the
   present invention;
            Fig. 2 is an exploded perspective view of the writing tool indicated in
   Fig. 1;
 5          Figs. 3 to 5 are operational schematic views of the writing tool;
            Figs. 6 and 7 are operational schematic views of a pressure regulating
   device of the writing tool in accordance with a first embodiment of the present
   invention;
            Fig. 8 is a perspective view of a pressure regulating device of the
10 writing tool in accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention;
            Figs. 9 and 10 are operational schematic views of the pressure
   regulating device indicated in Fig. 8;
            Fig. 11 is a perspective view of a pressure regulating device of the
   writing tool in accordance with a third embodiment of the present invention;
15          Figs. 12 and 13 are operational schematic views of the pressure
   regulating device indicated in Fig. 11;
            Fig. 14 is a perspective view of a pressure regulating device of the
   writing tool in accordance with a fourth embodiment of the present invention;
   and
20          Figs. 15 and 16 are operational schematic views of the pressure
   regulating device indicated in Fig. 14.
            With reference to Figs. 1 to 3, a writing tool in accordance with the
   present invention comprises a pen tube 10, a nib assembly 20, and a pressure
   regulating device 30 that is able to regulate air pressure. Specifically, the

                                            9
   writing tool in accordance with the present invention is a writing tool that
   directly supplies ink and may be, but not limited to, a marker pen, a whiteboard
   pen, or the like.
            In a preferred embodiment, the pen tube 10 has an interior space, an
 5 open end, and a vent hole. The open end and the vent hole are located at two
   opposite ends of the pen tube 10, respectively. In the preferred embodiment, a
   diameter of the pen tube 10 ranges from, but not limited to, 4 mm to 25 mm.
            The nib assembly 20 is mounted to the open end of the pen tube 10. In
   the preferred embodiment, the nib assembly 20 includes a nib housing 21, a nib
10 22, an internal wadding 23, and a nib holder 24. The nib housing 21 is mounted
   to the open end of the pen tube 10 and has an inner end extending into the pen
   tube 10. The nib 22 is mounted in the nib housing 21 and has an end extending
   out of the nib housing 21. The internal wadding 23 is mounted in the nib
   housing 21 and around another end of the nib 22. The nib holder 24 is mounted
15 to the inner end of the nib housing 21, inserted into the internal wadding 23,
   and securely holds the internal wadding 23. Detailed structure and structural
   relationships of the nib assembly 20 are conventional and not limited to the
   above-mentioned ones.
            With further reference to Figs. 2 and 6, the pressure regulating device
20 30 is slidably mounted in the pen tube 10 and divides the interior space of the
   pen tube 10 into an external communication chamber 11 and an internal
   chamber 12. The internal chamber 12 is disposed closer to the nib assembly 20
   than the external communication chamber 11 and is filled with ink and air. The
   external communication chamber 11 communicates with an exterior of the pen

                                             10
   tube 10 via the vent hole. Thus, an air pressure in the external communication
   chamber 11 and an air pressure of the exterior of the pen tube 10 are balanced.
   The pressure regulating device 30 includes a tubular member 31 and a
   deformable member 32.
 5          The tubular member 31 is provided with an outer periphery abutting on
   an inner sidewall of the pen tube 10. In the preferred embodiment, the outer
   periphery of the tubular member 31 includes an outer sidewall and two annular
   flanges 311. The annular flanges 311 are spaced from each other, are formed
   around and protrude from the outer sidewall of the outer periphery of the
10 tubular member 31, and abut on the inner sidewall of the pen tube 10.
   Specifically, the annular flanges 311 are disposed adjacent to two opposite open
   ends of the tubular member 3 1, respectively. However, the tubular member 31
   is not structurally limited to the above-mentioned one. For example, the annular
   flanges 311 could be omitted, and the tubular member 31 can make its outer
15 sidewall or other structures directly abut on the inner sidewall of the pen tube
   10.
            The deformable member 32 is a diaphragm and disposed in the tubular
   member 31. When an air pressure in the internal chamber 12 of the pen tube 10
   is larger than the air pressure in the external communication chamber 11, if the
20 pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external
   communication chamber 11 is larger than a first predetermined value, the
   deformable member 32 will deform toward the external communication
   chamber 11, as shown in Fig. 4; if the pressure difference between the internal
   chamber 12 and the external communication chamber 11 is larger than a second

                                              11
   predetermined value, the whole pressure regulating device 30 will slide relative
   to the pen tube 10 toward the external communication chamber 11, as shown in
   Fig. 5, wherein the second predetermined value is larger than the first
   predetermined value.
 5          With further reference to Figs. 3 to 5, in other words, when the pressure
   difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external communication
   chamber 11 gradually increases, the deformable member 32 gradually deforms
   toward the external communication chamber 11. As the deformable member 32
   deforms to an extreme extent, if the pressure difference continuously increases,
10 the whole pressure regulating device 30 will slide relative to the pen tube 10
   toward the external communication chamber 11. Thus, a minor air pressure
   variation can be regulated by deformation of the deformable member 32. When
   the air pressure variation is too large, the air pressure variation can also be
   regulated by movement of the pressure regulating device 30.
15          The deformable member 32 may have alternative structures which can
   achieve the above-mentioned effects. For example, there are two configurations
   for the deformable member 32 as recited below.
            With reference to Figs. 6, 7, 9, and 10, the deformable member 32, 32A
   of the first configuration protrudes toward the internal chamber 12 or protrudes
20 toward the external communication chamber 11 as the air pressure varies. More
   precisely, when the pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and
   the external communication chamber 11 is smaller than the first predetermined
   value, the deformable member 32, 32A protrudes toward the internal chamber
   12; when the pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the

                                            12
   external communication chamber 11 is larger than the first predetermined value,
   the deformable member 32, 32A protrudes toward the external communication
   chamber 11. Specifically, there are two preferred embodiments for the first
   configuration of the deformable member 32, 32A as set forth below.
 5          With reference to Figs. 2, 6, and 7, the deformable member 32 may be
   hemispherical in shape and a direction in which the hemispherical deformable
   member 32 protrudes varies with the circumstances mentioned in the previous
   paragraph.
            With further reference to Figs. 8 to 10, the deformable member 32A
10 may have a first piece 321A and a second piece 322A. An end of the first piece
   321A is connected to an end of the second piece 322A. Another end of the first
   piece 321A is connected to an inner sidewall of the tubular member 3 1A.
   Another end of the second piece 322A is formed as a closed end. An inner
   diameter of the first piece 321A is larger than that of the second piece 322A. As
15 shown in Fig. 10, when the deformable member 32A protrudes toward the
   internal chamber 12, both the first piece 321A and the second piece 322A
   protrude toward the internal chamber 12. As shown in Fig. 9, when the
   deformable member 32A protrudes toward the external communication
   chamber 11, both the first piece 32 1A and the second piece 322A protrude
20 toward the external communication chamber 11.
            With further reference to Figs. 11 to 16, in the second configuration of
   the deformable member 32B, 32C, an inner space enclosed by the deformable
   member 32B, 32C volumetrically varies with the air pressure. More precisely,
   the deformable member 32B, 32C keeps protruding toward the external

                                              13
   communication chamber 11 and encloses said inner space. When the pressure
   difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external communication
   chamber 11 is larger than the first predetermined value, the deformable member
   32B, 32C deforms to expand toward the external communication chamber 11,
 5 such that the inner space in this state is volumetrically larger than the inner
   space when the pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the
   external communication chamber 11 is smaller than the first predetermined
   value.
            In other words, when the pressure difference between the internal
10 chamber 12 and the external communication chamber 11 is smaller than the
   first predetermined value, the deformable member 32B, 32C shrinks; when the
   pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external
   communication chamber 11 is larger than the first predetermined value, the
   deformable member 32B, 32C expands. Specifically, the second configuration
15 of the deformable member 32B, 32C includes the following two embodiments.
            With reference to Figs. 11 to 13, the deformable member 32B may be a
   resilient bag that can be expanded by air pressure. As shown in Fig. 13, when
   the pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external
   communication chamber 11 is smaller than the first predetermined value, the
20 deformable member 32B shrinks. As shown in Fig. 12, when the pressure
   difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external communication
   chamber 11 is larger than the first predetermined value, the deformable member
   32B expands toward the external communication chamber 11.
            With further reference to Figs. 14 to 16, the deformable member 32C is

                                            14
   formed as a tubular bellows. An end of the deformable member 32C is
   connected to the inner sidewall of the tubular member 31 C. Another end of the
   deformable member 32C is formed as a closed end. As shown in Fig. 16, when
   the pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external
 5 communication chamber 11 is smaller than the first predetermined value, the
   deformable member 32C is compressed and shortened. As shown in Fig. 15,
   when the pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external
   communication chamber 11 is larger than the first predetermined value, the
   deformable member 32C expands and elongates.
10          All of the deformable members 32, 32A, 32B, 32C of the four
   aforementioned embodiments can slightly regulate the air pressure by their
   deformation toward the external communication chamber 11 when the pressure
   difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external communication
   chamber 11 is larger than the first predetermined value. However, the
15 deformable members 32, 32A, 32B, 32C are not limited to the aforementioned
   two configurations and four embodiments as long as the aforementioned
   objective of the present invention can be achieved.
            With further reference to Fig. 6 again, regarding a size of the
   deformable member 32, in the preferred embodiment, a relation between a
20 diameter of a widest part of the deformable member 32 and a thickness of the
   deformable member 32 is expressed by a formula: Y=0.09X-0.1, wherein X is
   the diameter of the widest part of the deformable member 32 and Y is the
   thickness of the deformable member 32. Preferably, the diameter of the widest
   part of the deformable member 32 ranges from 5 mm to 10 mm, and the

                                             15
   thickness of the deformable member 32 ranges from 0.35 mm to 0.8 mm.
   However, the size of the deformable member 32 is not limited to the
   above-mentioned ranges and can be adjusted as needed.
             Moreover, in the preferred embodiment, the deformable member 32 is
 5 made of silicon rubber. However, a material that the deformable member 32 is
   made of is, but not limited to, silicon rubber. The deformable member 32 may
   be made of any material that is able to achieve the above-mentioned effect of
   the present invention.
             With regard to when the deformable member 32 regulates the pressure
10 difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external communication
   chamber 11, the first predetermined value and the second predetermined value
   can be defined by external temperature variations in addition to the air pressure
   difference. Specifically, the external temperature variation that corresponds to
   the first predetermined value ranges from 2 C to 4C, and is preferably 30C;
15 the external temperature variation that corresponds to the second predetermined
   value ranges from 50 C to 7 C, and is preferably 6 C.
             For instance, when an external temperature rises from 18'C to 21 C,
   the pressure difference between the internal chamber 12 and the external
   communication chamber 11 can reach the first predetermined value; when the
20 external temperature rises from 18'C to 240 C, the pressure difference can reach
   the second predetermined value. For example, when the external temperature
   rises from 250 C to 280 C, the pressure difference between the internal chamber
   12 and the external communication chamber 11 can reach the first
   predetermined value; when the external temperature rises from 250 C to 31 0C,

                                             16
   the pressure difference can reach the second predetermined value.
            With further reference to Figs. 3 and 6, before the writing tool of the
   present invention is shipped from a manufacturer, the deformable member 32 is
   pressurized in advance, thereby enabling the deformable member 32 for
 5 resistance against its deformation toward the external communication chamber
   11. For instance, in the first configuration of the deformable member 32, 32A
   of the pressure regulating device 30, the pressure regulating device 30 is
   pressurized to allow the deformable member 32, 32A to protrude toward the
   internal chamber 12. Thus, with further reference to Figs. 4 and 7, when a pen
10 cap 40 caps the writing tool, a minor air pressure variation happens to offset the
   air pressure pre-applied to the deformable member 32, such that the internal air
   pressure of the writing tool is balanced. Accordingly, the writing tool can be
   transported in such a state that the internal and external air pressures are
   balanced therebetween, and the influence resulting from the external
15 temperature and the air pressure can be reduced to a minimum degree. Thus,
   the pen cap 40 will not be detached or ejected from the pen tube 10 due to the
   air pressure variation caused by shocks and vibrations during transportation.
   The ink will not be overly dispensed for leakage, such that goods will not be
   stained and remain intact.
20          Referring to Fig. 5 again, when the external temperature is so high that
   the air pressure variation inside the writing tool becomes overgreat, the whole
   pressure regulating device 30 slides relative to the pen tube 10 toward the
   external communication chamber 11, thereby regulating the air pressure inside
   the pen tube 10. Minor air pressure variations can be regulated by the

                                             17
   deformation of the deformable member 32 and major air pressure variations
   can be regulated by the movement of the pressure regulating device 30.
            Regardless of any degree of the air pressure variation, the pressure
   regulating device 30 for the writing tool of the present invention can regulate
 5 the air pressure inside the pen tube 10 of the writing tool for balance of the air
   pressure so as to avoid internal air pressure imbalance caused by an external
   high temperature or an external low air pressure. Accordingly, ink inside the
   internal chamber 12 will neither spout out upon removal of the pen cap 40 and
   nor be overly dispensed or leak during writing.
10          Even though numerous characteristics and advantages of the present
   invention have been set forth in the foregoing description, together with details
   of the structure and features of the invention, the disclosure is illustrative only.
   Changes may be made in details, especially in the matter of shape, size, and
   arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent
15 indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended
   claims are expressed.
            It will be understood that the term "comprise" and any of its derivatives
   (eg comprises, comprising) as used in this specification is to be taken to be
   inclusive of features to which it refers, and is not meant to exclude the presence
20 of any additional features unless otherwise stated or implied.
            The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not
   be taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art
   forms part of the common general knowledge.
            It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not

                                             18
  restricted in its use to the particular application described. Neither is the present
  invention restricted in its preferred embodiment with regard to the particular
  elements and/or features described or depicted herein. It will be appreciated
  that various modifications can be made without departing from the principles of
5 the invention. Therefore, the invention should be understood to include all such
  modifications in its scope.

                                         19
         The claims defining the invention are as follows:
         1. A pressure regulating device for a writing tool, the pressure
regulating device slidably mounted in a pen tube of the writing tool for
dividing an interior space of the pen tube into an internal chamber and an
external communication chamber, the pressure regulating device comprising:
         a tubular member provided with an outer periphery abutting on an
inner sidewall of the pen tube; and
         a deformable member disposed in the tubular member;
         wherein when a pressure difference between the internal chamber and
the external communication chamber is larger than a first predetermined value,
the deformable member deforms toward the external communication chamber;
and
         when the pressure difference between the internal chamber and the
external communication chamber is larger than a second predetermined value,
the pressure regulating device slides toward the external communication
chamber relative to the pen tube;
         wherein the second predetermined value is larger than the first
predetermined value.
         2. The pressure regulating device for the writing tool as claimed in
claim 1, wherein
         when the pressure difference between the internal chamber and the
external communication chamber is smaller than the first predetermined value,
the deformable member protrudes toward the internal chamber; and
         when the pressure difference between the internal chamber and the

                                          20
external communication chamber is larger than the first predetermined value,
the deformable member protrudes toward the external communication chamber.
          3. The pressure regulating device for the writing tool as claimed in
claim 2, wherein the deformable member has a first piece and a second piece,
an end of the first piece is connected to an end of the second piece, another end
of the first piece is connected to an inner sidewall of the tubular member,
another end of the second piece is formed as a closed end, and an inner
diameter of the first piece is larger than that of the second piece;
          wherein when the deformable member protrudes toward the internal
chamber, both the first piece and the second piece protrude toward the internal
chamber; and
          when the deformable member protrudes toward the external
communication chamber, both the first piece and the second piece protrude
toward the external communication chamber.
          4. The pressure regulating device for the writing tool as claimed in
claim 1, wherein the deformable member protrudes toward the external
communication chamber and encloses an inner space;
          wherein when the pressure difference between the internal chamber and
the external communication chamber is larger than the first predetermined
value, the deformable member deforms to expand toward the external
communication chamber, such that the inner space in this state is
volumetrically larger than the inner space when the pressure difference between
the internal chamber and the external communication chamber is smaller than
the first predetermined value.

                                        21
         5. A writing tool comprising:
         a pen tube;
         the pressure regulating device as claimed in claim 1; and
         a nib assembly mounted to an open end of the pen tube of the pressure
regulating device and beside the internal chamber of the pen tube;
         wherein the deformable member of the pressure regulating device is
pressurized in advance, thereby enabling the deformable member for resistance
against its deformation toward the external communication chamber of the pen
tube.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/10

