                                              ABSTRACT
Crowdcallect is an app-supported process for business case-based capital raising via larger numbers
of smaller stakeholders including community beneficiaries. Commitments by these beneficiaries are
substantiated in business cases by escrows related to their incentivized memberships, use purchases
and/or offers to invest. As a result community participation supports and drives investment by larger
stakeholders and also reduces investment risk. The published app informs the community and
collects data and commitments from an opt-in population expressing interest and preferences on
design options proposed and configured for community choosing by the would-be infrastructure
developer. The collected data applied to higher confidence business cases allows the committed
"small but many" to drive capital project design (plus resultant ongoing products and services) for
more sustainable outcomes better supporting the needs of specialised interests, government and/or
large investors. Community users will be asked to explicitly give permission allowing developers
and/or funders to apply data to measured outcomes relevant to the project, and to target programs
with incentives seeking those outcomes.
  Page 1                                                                            10-Feb-18 5:49 PM
     of 1
pages in
    total

CROWDCALLECT - AN APP THAT ALLOWS POTENTIAL COMMUNITY PROJECT
DEVELOPERS TO COLLECT: CREDIBLE PLEDGES FOR EQUITY PLUS LOAN OFFERS
AND CAPITAL DONATIONS AS WELL AS PRELIMINARY USAGE NOMINATIONS,
MEMBERSHIPS AND PURCHASE OFFERS FOR FUTURE GOODS OR SERVICES SUCH
THAT ALL THESE LIKELY PARTICIPATIONS CAN BE ESTIMATED AND MAPPED TO
DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS AND HIGHER CONFIDENCE SOCIAL IMPACTS FOR
DEVELOPING STRONGER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT BUSINESS CASES, INCLUDING
PROVISION OF PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE.
Current systems of government rely on political processes and occasionally less transparent business
case processes to allocate resources for public infrastructure of all kinds. As a result some quite
deserving and sometimes quite important public benefit projects remain unresourced because there
is either insufficient political will, insufficient preparation (eg lack of effective participation by
possible partners who can support and/or improve a business case), &/or insufficient levels of
credible information supporting the proposal. Especially where there is a political mindset suspicious
of privatisation or insufficient incentive for large private investors to establish and lead smaller
projects, lack of skills and knowledge about using business cases serves to further reduce access to
capital for many communities. The community needing such projects are therefore disempowered
while governments sometimes mistakenly implement white elephants, waste funds, and lose
credibility. Business cases continue to be based on smaller numbers of big winners instead of larger
numbers of small beneficiaries.
This invention expands capital raising ability in a similar way but well beyond "crowdfunding" by
having multiple structured blockchains configurable with escrowed funds as scaled commitments by
users and investors wanting to share in and therefore promote successful outcomes and inputs that
can be better substantiated. This invention reapplies so-called old art to the following solution needs
1. A configurable "retail" tool for collecting data from an opt-in population, allowing wider needs
     to drive project and business case development ahead of more specialised interests (This is also
     a new application of an old art as the re-ordering vastly improves design democracy, informs
     subsequent modelling of business cases for the larger investors that ensures risk can be
     distributed equitably by participants better positioned to manage it - ie not necessarily the
     general taxpayer) COMBINED WITH
2. A configurable "retail" escrow design operating on a set of prototyped benefit cases for mapping
     as both measured outcomes and incentives (This is a new use of an old art as it specifically
     includes process for obtaining measure of community commitments based on self-nomination to
     a wider set of different kinds of commitment (usage with take or pay penalties, purchase, loans,
 Page 1                                                                                    10-Feb-18 5:49 PM
      of 3
pages in
    total

     equity) to participate in future economy and facilities that puts 'skin in the game' while providing
     targeting information for support programs. The whole will enjoy increased quality and
     robustness making the future social proposition and infrastructure development more
     sustainable)
The app design extends existing "crowdfund" methods. Technology and education now allow
increased engagement of communities, and more efficient participation by small and large, public
and private entities involved in providing public infrastructure through a variety of roles : as owners,
paying users, investors and/or as non-paying users.
The best way of putting this invention into effect is as a piece of software that is configured by the
potential developer and then delivered to community participants "online" as firstly push
communication (eg newsletter survey delivered via email or message) that brings up linked panels
and dialogues through which respondents determine their subsequent input and interaction
(enabled by internet technologies). A series of probably hierarchically arranged prototype blocks
would be configured by the would be developers into the total set of recipient dialogues for a
proposed development according to the as yet un-designed solution space (if any) and in a manner
thought best to produce the sought social or health incentives and necessary investments.
Further, for purpose of good governance the configuration includes meta-data informing
respondents and controlling how subsequent analysis will access and use information provided by
respondents and how that data will be combined to obtain escrowed amounts and incentive levels.
For example after satisfying themselves that the data will be only used as the respondent intends,
the respondent in committing future revenues might trade a bigger escrow for a bigger discount and
or longer guaranteed ticket availability time.
It will not be part of the software package to do it but the data will be able to be used to create NPVs
and to measure bookbuild gaps for determining likely required loans, grants or equity from
government or senior equity partner/s.
 The data sought is of three main types (not necessarily in delivery order)
     "    Usage commitments which can test (and possibly reduce) the level of white elephant risk.
          These will be be testable for different products and at different levels and price points as
          applicable to the particular infrastructure eg User contracts with access to membership
          benefits (eg websites, service access levels, discounts, freebies) could variously include
          different summary specifications of service/admission for different specified prices.
     e    Test investor appetite as well as the level of their motivation for actively increasing their
          yields via incentivized participation in impacts (via size of U&L Rate spread and coupled
          existence of participation commitment);
  Page 2                                                                                 10-Feb-18 5:49 PM
      of 3
pages in
    total

     *    Possible government savings based on upfront commitments to active social/health/
          economic participation (comparing known needs to participation commitment ratios
          proxying as service need reductions);
Each development employing this app technology could be configured with a number of different
"designs" where each design can be tested via zero, one or more than one incentive proposition of
each type as appropriate to the particular design because each design has different propositions. It
will be up to the organisation employing the app to balance the ease of simplicity of offer against
preference to give greater choice. Such decisions are an art as much as a methodology but the app
will be built to be able to cater for facilities that will variously
     e    Be complex with multiple revenue streams,
     e    Be simple with NO revenue streams but with a variety of different government or other
          service cost saving benefits,
     e    Be target critical, requiring access to information gained from this stage of planning for the
          purpose of targeting social programs supporting advancement and /or measurement of
          some or all the benefit-making commitments that were made.
The "best way" for putting this invention into effect is to implement the template as a basic
framework for containing an expandable aggregation of any of the component types. The
configuration activities should be designable by developers as belonging to their main framework or
a relevant component within a larger framework. Auditability of changes will be maintainable for all
stages. Data components being deconstructable for further downstream analysis through addition of
foreign keys will ensure they remain accessible to their relevant blockchain as well as the relevant
user, relevant choice of design, relevant governance reporting and relevant escrow contracts.
  Page 3                                                                               10-Feb-18 5:49 PM
     of 3
pages in
    total

The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
 Page 1                                           10-Feb-18 5:49 PM
    of 1
pages in
   total

