                                               - 29
   ABSTRACT
   A metal oxide coated particle of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
   boron nitride is disclosed. The amount of metal oxide in particle is at least 5 wt% of
 5 the total weight of the particle, wherein the metal oxide coating comprises yttrium
   aluminium garnet. Also disclosed is a process for the preparation of a plurality of
   particles mentioned above. The process comprises (1)obtaining a plurality of
   particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride; (II)
   combining said particles of step (1)with an Al salt and an Y salt, in the presence of a
10 weak acid or weak base so as to form a hydroxide and/or carbonate coating on said
   particles; and (Ill) drying, such as spray drying of step (II). The method further
   comprises calcining and sintering the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a plurality
   of YAG coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron
   nitride.
15

                                               -1
                    Thermal spraying of ceramic materials
           This invention relates to a process for thermally spraying metal oxide coated
   silicon or boron carbide or metal oxide coated silicon or boron nitride particles onto
 5 a substrate so as to provide valuable substrates coated with these ceramics. The
   invention also relates to a process for making these oxide coated ceramics with
   sufficiently thick coatings so that the coatings are capable of protecting the ceramic
   particle core during the thermal spraying operation. The coated particles
   themselves form a still yet further aspect of the invention along with articles coated
10 using the process of the invention.
   Background
            Silicon and boron carbide and nitride-based materials had been widely used
15 in many industries due to their excellent combination of mechanical, thermal and
   chemical properties. These carbides and nitrides offer very good tribological
   properties and corrosion resistance and thus are generally used in coating
   applications requiring wear and abrasive resistance, e.g. in a corrosive
   environment. They compare favourably with more expensive materials such as
20 diamond in terms of these properties.
            Silicon carbide, for example, is widely used as protective coating in
   industrial applications such as in aerospace moving components, metal working
   tools and petrochemical pipes. This has made these ceramics an attractive
   synthetic target for inorganic chemists.
25          Most silicon and boron carbide and nitride coatings are generally deposited
   onto a substrate by physical vapour deposition (PVD) or chemical vapour
   deposition (CVD). These methods are expensive, time consuming, and limited to
   small articles which fit into the deposition chamber. The methods often require
   complex processing conditions.
30         Thermal and kinetic spray processes have been generally accepted as one
   of the most effective and economic methods for producing metallic and ceramic
   coatings on small to large scale components. However, these methods are not
   always suitable for depositing ceramic carbides or nitrides due to decomposition or
   sublimation of metal and carbide species at the temperatures necessary to

                                               -2
   thermally spray them. This is true for the cases of silicon and boron carbides and
   their nitrides.
             There are however some processes for thermal coating using SiC in the
   literature. Powders of 50 - 60 vol% SiC + Ni/Co can be mechanically alloyed with
 5 high energy milling. A high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF) process (a type of thermal
   spraying process) can then be used to produce SiC coatings (See Wielage, J. et al,
   International Thermal Spray Conference 2002, E. Lugscheider, eds., Dosseldorf,
   Germany: DVS-ASM International, (2002), pp. 1047-1051.) The components of this
   process exist however as separate phases within the blend. There is no particle
10 coating process here.
             Alternatively, powders of 67wt.% SiC + 21.2wt.% A12 0 3 & 11.8 wt.% Y2 0 3
   can be mixed, agglomerated and sintered. This mixture can be thermally sprayed
   using a detonation gun, atmospheric plasma spray or high velocity oxy-fuel (HVOF)
   process to produce SiC coatings (see WO 03/004718). The process involves
15 mixing these materials milling, spray drying to produce agglomerate particles and
   then sintering in an inert atmosphere. The formed particles can then be thermally
   sprayed. Note that the metal oxides and the ceramic component form separate
   phases in this process. There is no coating possible in this process.
             A more limiting process involves a blend of about 60 wt% SiC + 40 wt.%
20 boride binder selected from zirconium boride (ZrB 2), titanium boride (TiB 2) or
   hafnium boride (HfB 2) produced by spray drying (US20040258916). This process
   has to be carried out in the absence of oxygen so is impractical industrially.
             The major problems to be addressed when preparing a SiC coating are its
   sublimation (at around 25000 C) and its decomposition (also around the 25000 C
25 mark). The particles are exposed to these temperatures during thermal spraying.
   In order to prepare suitable particles of SiC and other ceramics, it is also necessary
   to sinter the ceramics and that also poses problems. Ensuring a homogenous
   distribution of sintering aid is key to ensuing a good particulate product and that is
   difficult.
30           The present inventors seek to avoid the problems of decomposition and
   sublimation of the ceramic material by encapsulating the ceramic in a relatively
   thick oxide coating.
              Metal oxide coated ceramic particles are disclosed in US5098740 which
   describes a process for coating ceramic particles such as SiC or silicon nitride with
35 a metal hydroxide or metal oxide coating. The coatings envisaged in US5098740

                                                 -3
   are however, purely for providing homogenous distribution of sintering aids. The
   idea is to provide sintering additives via a coating with as little additive content as
   possible. The coatings in US5098740 are not believed to be thick enough to
   protect the core particle during thermal spraying.
 5          It would be advantageous for the present invention to provide a method for
   forming silicon and boron carbide or nitride coatings on a substrate using thermal
   spray apparatus.
   Summary of Invention
10
            The present inventors have realised that oxide coated ceramic particles are
   key to allowing thermal spraying. The inventors have devised a process for the
   formation of metal oxide coated ceramic particles and shown that these can be
   thermally sprayed without decomposition or sublimation of the core ceramic
15 particle. The process of the invention therefore opens the door to comparatively
   cheap SiC type coatings on a wide variety of substrates.
            A key aspect in the formation of metal oxide coated ceramics is the
   formation of a non oxide coated intermediate particle whose coating is converted to
   an oxide via calcination and sintering. The present invention is based, inter alia, on
20 the formation of an intermediate coating based preferably on a metal hydroxide or
   metal carbonate or based on a mixture of metal hydroxide and metal carbonate.
   These species are preferably themselves generated from another salt such as a
   nitrate.
            Viewed from one aspect, the invention provides a metal oxide coated
25 particle of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride wherein the
   amount of metal oxide is at least 5 wt% of the total weight of the particle, wherein
   the metal oxide coating comprises yttrium aluminium garnet.
            Viewed from another aspect, there is provided a process for the preparation
   of a plurality of particles as according to the above aspect, said process comprising:
30          (1)obtaining a plurality of particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron
   carbide or boron nitride;
            (II)     combining said particles of step (1)with an Al salt and an Y salt, in
   the presence of a weak acid or weak base so as to form a hydroxide and/or
   carbonate coating on said particles;
35          (Ill)    drying, such as spray drying of step (II);

                                                -4
            (IV)    calcining and sintering the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a
   plurality of YAG coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
   boron nitride
            Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a process for thermally
 5 spraying metal oxide coated ceramic particles onto a substrate comprising:
   (i)      obtaining a plurality of metal oxide coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon
   nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride; and
   (ii)     thermally spraying the particles of step (1) onto a substrate,
            wherein the metal oxide is yttrium aluminium garnet.
10          Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a process for thermally
   spraying metal oxide coated ceramic particles onto a substrate comprising:
   (1)      obtaining a plurality of metal salt coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon
   nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride, such as metal hydroxide and/or metal
   carbonate coated particles;
15 (II)     calcining and sintering the particles of step (1)so as to form a plurality of
   metal oxide coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
   boron nitride; and
   (Ill)    thermally spraying the particles of step (II) onto a substrate.
            Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a process for thermally
20 spraying metal oxide coated ceramic particles onto a substrate comprising:
   (1)      obtaining a plurality of metal hydroxide coated particles of silicon carbide,
   silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride;
   (II)     calcining the particles of step (1)so as to form a plurality of metal oxide
   coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride; and
25 (Ill)    thermally spraying the particles of step (II) onto a substrate.
            Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a process for thermally
   spraying metal oxide coated ceramic particles onto a substrate comprising:
   (1)      obtaining a plurality of particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron
   carbide or boron nitride;
30 (II)     combining the particles of step (1)with at least one metal salt, such as two
   metal salts, in the presence of a weak acid or weak base so as to form a metal salt
   coating on said particles;
   (Ill)    drying, such as spray, drying the particles of step (II);

                                                -5
   (IV)    calcining and sintering the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a plurality of
   metal oxide coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
   boron nitride; and
   (V)     thermally spraying the particles of step (IV) onto a substrate.
 5         Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a process for thermally
   spraying metal oxide coated ceramic particles onto a substrate comprising:
   (1)     obtaining a plurality of particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron
   carbide or boron nitride;
   (II)    combining the particles of step (1)with at least one metal salt in the
10 presence of a weak base so as to form a metal hydroxide coating on said particles;
   (Ill)   drying, such as spray drying, the particles of step (II);
   (IV)    calcining the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a plurality of metal oxide
   coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride; and
   (V)     thermally spraying the particles of step (IV) onto a substrate.
15         Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a process for preparing
   metal oxide coated ceramic particles comprising:
   (1)     obtaining a plurality of particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron
   carbide or boron nitride;
   (II)    combining the particles of step (1)with at least one metal salt in the
20 presence of a weak acid or a weak base so as to form a metal salt coating on said
   particles;
   (Ill)   drying such as spray drying the particles of step (II); and
   (IV)    calcining and sintering the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a plurality of
   metal oxide coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
25 boron nitride.
           Viewed from another aspect the invention provides a process for preparing
   metal oxide coated ceramic particles comprising:
   (1)     obtaining a plurality of particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron
   carbide or boron nitride;
30 (II)    combining the particles of step (1)with at least one metal salt in the
   presence of a weak base so as to form a metal hydroxide coating on said particles;
   (Ill)   drying such as spray drying the particles of step (II); and
   (IV)    calcining the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a plurality of metal oxide
   coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride.

                                                -6
            Viewed from another aspect the invention provides an article which has a
   coating thereon applied by a thermal spraying process as hereinbefore defined.
            Viewed from another aspect the invention provides the use of yttrium
   aluminium garnet coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
 5 boron nitride for thermally spraying onto a substrate.
            Viewed from another aspect the invention provides metal oxide coated
   particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or boron nitride wherein the
   amount of metal oxide is at least 10 wt%, such as at least 20 wt%. The upper limit
   of metal oxide may be 40 wt% of the total weight of the particles, such as up to 35
10 wt%, especially up to 30 wt% such as those prepared by processes herein before
   defined.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a process for preparing metal
   oxide coated ceramic particles comprising:
   (1)      obtaining a plurality of particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron
15 carbide or boron nitride;
   (II)     combining the particles of step (1)with at least two metal nitrates in the
   presence of a weak acid or a weak base;
   (Ill)    drying, such as spray drying, the particles of step (II); and
   (IV)     calcining and sintering the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a plurality of
20 metal oxide coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
   boron nitride.
   Definitions
25          The term thermal spraying is used herein to cover either spraying using a
   combustion thermal spraying process, a detonation thermal spraying process (such
   as high frequency pulse detonation), or an electrical/plasma thermal spraying
   process. These techniques are not new and are familiar to workers in this field.
            The term weak base or weak acid is used to require the presence of a
30 chemical base or acid that does not ionize fully in an aqueous solution.           A metal
   salt is an ionic compound of at least one metal ion and at least one anion. That
   anion may be organic or inorganic, preferably inorganic.
            A metal hydroxide according to the invention is a compound containing a
   metal ion and OH- ion. It may contain other anions as well. Thus the compound
35 boehmite AIOOH, is considered an hydroxide herein.

                                                -7
            A metal carbonate according to the invention is a compound containing a
   metal ion and C03' ion. It may contain other anions as well.
   Detailed Description of Invention
 5
            This invention relates to silicon carbide (SiC), boron carbide (B4 C), silicon
   nitride (Si3 N4 ) and boron nitride (BN) particles coated with a metal oxide to enable
   their application onto a substrate via thermal spraying without sublimation or
   decomposition of the core ceramic. Whilst the invention will generally be described
10 herein with reference to the term ceramic particles, this will be taken to mean SiC,
   silicon nitride, boron nitride or boron carbide. The use of Si in the ceramic and most
   especially the use of SiC is the most preferred option.
            The metal oxide coating which we apply is thick enough to allow thermal
   spraying of the particles by protecting the core but of course, the oxide coating will
15 also act as a sintering additive during the sintering process. The metal oxide
   coating will provide a matrix phase and acts as a wetting agent that melts during the
   spraying process. The melted oxide bonds SiC particles together and onto a
   substrate. It also provides high cohesive strength between particles.
            The process of the invention begins with particles of ceramic such as SiC.
20 The particle size is typically of the order of 50 nm to 5 microns such as 200 nm to 5
   microns at this point, preferably 400 to 3500 nm. The particles are preferably not
   agglomerated at this time. The particles are preferably free flowing and therefore
   powder like or in the form of stable suspension. These particles are well known and
   can be bought on the open chemical market. These particles cannot however be
25 directly thermally sprayed as they would decompose and sublime at the
   temperatures to which the particles would be exposed during the spraying process.
   Even sintered SiC cannot generally be thermally sprayed.
            The inventors have realised that a solution to this problem exists by
   providing a sufficiently thick oxide coating on the particles. This coating must be
30 capable of preventing the decomposition or sublimation of the ceramic particle
   during thermal spraying. The coating is not just present as a homogeneous
   sintering aid therefore, although it also performs this function thus avoiding the
   need for any further sintering aids to be present.
            It is generally believed that in order to ensure that a sufficiently thick coating
35 is present on the ceramic particles that there should be at least 5 wt% of the coating

                                              -8
   present, preferably at least 10 wt%, especially at least 20 wt%, especially at least
   especially at least 30 wt% on a coated particle. Values in the range of 5 to 40 wt%,
   such as 7.5 to 35 wt%, especially 10 to 30 wt% are envisaged. Of course the
   thickness of the coating needed might depend on the thermal spraying conditions
 5 used.
            In order to introduce an oxide coating onto the ceramic particles the present
   inventors have realised that this can be achieved via calcination and sintering of a
   precursor coating. Ideally, the precursor coating is formed via precipitation of at
   least one metal salt onto the ceramic particle substrate, via precipitation of at least
10 one metal salt sol onto the ceramic particles or via spray drying of a mixture of at
   least one metal salt and ceramic particles. Ideally, there will always be two or more
   metal salts present however it is possible for one salt to be used. In the case of
   boron nitride for example, useful particles can be made with Y2 0 3 or MgO as the
   oxide coating so only one precursor metal salt could be used. In the case of boron
15 carbide, we can use only Al2 O3 so again, only one metal salt need be used.
           Thus, in order to introduce an oxide coating onto the ceramic particles the
   present inventors have realised that this can be effected during calcination of a non
   oxide coating. The metal salt used therefore is preferably not an oxide. In
   particular, the inventors sought to include a hydroxide or carbonate (or ideally a
20 mixture of hydroxide/carbonate) precursor coating on the particles. When the
   precursor coating is calcined in the presence of oxygen, this converts to an oxide
   coating.
           The inventors have also realised that there are various ways of providing a
   metal hydroxide and/or carbonate coating or other salt based coating onto the
25 ceramic particles. This can be achieved via co-precipitation of metal salt precursor
   onto the particles or via precipitation of metal salt sol onto the ceramic particles or
   via spray drying of an appropriate mixture.
           Thus, it is preferred if the ceramic particles are contacted with 5 to 50 wt%,
   preferably 7.5 to 40 wt%, such as 10 to 35 wt%, especially 11 to 30 wt% of a metal
30 salt(s) or metal salt sol. In some embodiments there should be more than 10 wt%
   of the metal salt(s) or metal salt sol present. Thus if there is 1 g of ceramic particles
   (solids in any carrier medium) 40 wt% of metal salts represents 400 mg.
           The metal in the salt or salts used in the invention can be any from the
   alkaline earth series, transition metals series or Al. Preferably, the metal is Al, Mg,

                                                   -9
   or a first or second row transition metal such as Y, Zr or Ti. The use of Al and Y is
   especially preferred.
              The counterion is preferably not an oxide but is a counterion that can
   preferably be converted to hydroxide or carbonate (if necessary) and then to an
 5 oxide during the process of the invention. Preferred counter ions are therefore
   nitrates, halides, sulphates, sulphides and nitrites. A hydroxide or carbonate can
   also be used directly. The use of nitrates is especially preferred.
              In order to ensure a successful coating operation, the salt is preferably one
   that deposits on the ceramic particles as a hydroxide or carbonate during the
10 coating process or at least converts to such a hydroxide or carbonate during the
   coating process. The presence of a hydroxide or carbonate precursor coating is the
   key to the subsequent formation of an oxide coating.
              In a further more preferred embodiment, it is preferred if a mixture of metal
   salts is used as an oxide coating precursor. In particular, the use of two different
15 salts is preferred.     Where two salts are used, it is preferred if the metal ions are
   different. It is also preferred if the two counterions are the same. Thus, the use of
   two different metal nitrates is especially preferred.
              Metal salt(s) of interest are preferably soluble in the solvent used during the
   process, especially water soluble.
20            Highly preferred metal salts of use in the invention are AI(NO 3 ) 3 , (gives
   A12 0 3 ), Y((N0 3)3 (gives Y 2 0 3 ), Mg (NO3 )2 (gives MgO on calcination). In particular,
   salts may be hydrates. Preferred salts are AI(NO 3) 3.nH20; Y(N0 3) 3 .nH20;
   AlC13.nH 2 O; YC13 .nH 20; Y 2(CO 3) 3 *nH  20.
              Ideally, when two metal salts are present, the combination of the metal salts
25 form a eutectic of metal oxides after calcination. Thus, the amount of metal salts
   added to the ceramic is carefully measured such that a eutectic system is formed.
   A eutectic system is a mixture of chemical compounds or elements that has a single
   chemical composition that solidifies at a lower temperature than any other
   composition made up of the same ingredients. In this field, the person skilled in the
30 art is aware of certain combinations of metal salts that form eutectics. For example,
   the use of certain proportions of aluminium nitrate and yttrium nitrate forms a
   eutectic of yttrium aluminium garnet after calcination (YAG, Y 3 Al50 1 2 ).
              In a first embodiment, metal oxide precursors are introduced onto the
   ceramic particles via co-precipitation. Metal salt(s) precursor co-precipitation may
35 be performed by mixing the ceramic particles with the precipitator compound(s) in

                                               - 10
   an aqueous suspension, such as one containing 3 to 10 wt% of solid contents,
   preferably about 5 wt%. The suspension can be stirred to breakdown any
   agglomerates and to homogenize and disperse the ceramic particles.
            The mixed suspension may then be heated to 500 to 1000C, preferably
 5 about 90 C to assist the precipitation process. The eutectic metal salt(s) solution
   can be delivered into the mixed suspension in any order. However, a reverse
   titration method where the eutectic salts are added in a controlled order is
   preferred. The use of a precipitator compound is preferred to ensure activation of a
   hydroxide or carbonate precipitation that ideally forms a coating onto silicon carbide
10 particles during the process.
            Alternatively, the metal salts, precipitator and particles can be combined
   and spray dried in order to introduce a coating onto the particles, in particular where
   a weak acid is used as the precipitator. Spray drying may provide more spherical
   particles and hence allow better flowability.
15          Thus, the key to a successful coating operation is the presence of a
   "precipitator" compound which enables precipitation of the metal salts onto the
   ceramic particles. This compound is a weak acid or a weak base. The precipitator
   compound can be present in a molar amount of around 1 to 30 times, preferably 3
   to 30 times such as 5 to 30 times the molar amount of metal salt(s) present,
20 preferably 6 to 20 times, especially 5 to 10 times, such as 8 to 10 times.
            Where a weak acid is used, the molar ratio of precipitator to total metal
   cation is preferably 1 to 3. Where a weak base is used, an ideal molar ratio of
   precipitator to total metal cation is 6 to 8.
            In some embodiments, it is preferred that the amount of precipitator
25 compound present is such that the pH of the mixture is basic, e.g. pH 9-11. Ideally,
   during the coating process, the pH of the suspension is 9 or more when a weak
   base is employed as the precipitator. When a weak acid is used, pH values as high
   as 1 to 2 can be employed.
            Precipitator compounds of interest are weak acids such as alkanoic acids
30 (ethanoic acid, methanoic acid), HF, formic acid and organic acids such as citric
   acid. The use of citric acid is especially preferred. Alternatively, preferred
   compounds are weak bases such as ammonium hydroxide, alkylamines, but in
   particular urea, ammonia solution and hydrogen carbonates such as ammonium
   hydrogen carbonate. Ideally, the precipitator compound is water soluble. The use
35 of urea or ammonium hydrogen carbonate is especially preferred.

                                               - 11
           When particles are spray dried, it is preferred that the precipitator compound
   is a weak acid such as citric acid as this gives the best final agglomerated SiC
   powders compared to when a weak base is used.
            In another embodiment, the metal oxide coating is produced via precipitation
 5 of a metal salt sol such as a hydroxide sol. The ceramic particles are mixed with the
   metal salt sol to form a mixed suspension, such as one containing total solid
   loading of 3 to 20 wt%, such as 3 to 10 wt% of the ceramic particles, such as about
   5 wt% or 10 wt% of ceramic particles. The solvent is preferably water. Stirring can
   again be used to homogenize the suspension. The precipitator compound is then
10 added in controlled order, preferably using titration to assist precipitation of metal
   salt sol layer onto the ceramic particles. The heating of the mixed suspension and
   control of the pH are part of the process that defines the successful metal salt sol
   precipitation. It is preferred to heat the suspension in between 500 to 100C,
   preferably about 900 C to assist the process. The pH can be maintained at levels of
15 lower than 2 if a weak acid is used or 9 or more, such as 9 to 11 if a weak base is
   used.
            Preferred metal sol precursors are inorganic metal salts or metal organic
   compounds such as metal alkoxides, boehmite [AIO(OH)] or basic yttrium
   carbonate [Y(OH)CO 3].
20         The amount of deposition is a function of the amount of metal salts or metal
   salt sol added according molar ratio to weight percentage calculation. More salt(s)
   in the system gives a thicker coating.
           This process can take place at ambient temperature. However, the
   temperature of precipitator activation is preferably from 500C to 100 C. For
25 ammonium hydrogen carbonate a temperature of about 500C is preferred. For urea
   and citric acid, a preferred temperature is about 900C. Also, the pressure can be
   ambient.
            It may, however, be necessary to use a dispersant in the mixed suspension
   to disperse the ceramic particles and avoid agglomeration in the presence of the
30 precipitator and during the addition of the metal salt(s). Conventional dispersants
   can be used such as those sold under trade names Dolapix A-88 or Dolapix CE-64.
   The dispersant is therefore a non reactive surfactant type material.
           Without wishing to be limited by theory, the inventors envisage that the
   precipitator compound causes the starting metal salts such as a nitrate to undergo
35 reaction to for example, corresponding hydroxide and carbonate salts. It may be

                                                - 12
   these salts that deposit on the surface of the ceramic particles and which are
   converted to the oxide during calcination.
                This process therefore allows the formation of a coating such as a hydroxide
   or carbonate coating on the ceramic particles. As the metal salt(s) are preferably
 5 water soluble, it is believed that there will be no free metal salt particles formed in
   the suspension. Moreover, it is also preferred if the precipitator compound is water
   soluble. There should therefore be no particles formed from metal salt or
   precipitator compound.
                In one embodiment, a metal sol such as boehmite [AIO(OH)] is used in the
10 precipitation methods or is generated during the precipitation process. Particles
   such as silicon carbide particles are mixed with metal sol precursor accordingly.
   The precipitate compound then added with titration, ideally until the suspension pH
   is between 9 to 11.
                In a most preferred embodiment, a mixture of AI(NO 3)3+Y(NO 3) 3 is used in
15 the method of the invention. The molar ratio of these metal salts may be 5:3 as this
   forms a eutectic and yields yttrium aluminium Garnet (YAG) upon calcination and
   sintering.
                Once coating has occurred the particles can be filtered from the rest of the
   suspension and the particles are dried, preferably spray dried using conventional
20 lyophilisation processes. The coated particles which form at this stage of the
   proceedings tend to agglomerate and can have particle sizes of 10 microns or
   more, such as 15 microns or more, such as 20 to 50 microns.
                Where an hydrogen carbonate precipitator is used, it is preferred if the
   particles are spray dried although conventional oven type drying is also possible.
25 Where however a urea precipitator is used, the coated particles are preferably oven
   dried before further treatment (such as calcination, sintering, sieving etc).
                The co-precipitation process using AHC can be spray-dried directly after the
   titration process without filtering. However, when a urea precipitator is used, it is
   preferred if filtration occurs and the filtrate combined with fresh distilled water (and
30 optional PVA and PEG addition). The solid content can be increased up to 20 to 40
   wt% to reduce drying cost.
                The coated particles are then calcined. Calcination can occur at
   conventional temperatures and using conventional techniques. A temperature of
   400 to 8000C is preferred such as 500-600*C. A temperature of 800 to 12000C is
   10420662_1 (GHMatters) P99860.AU.1

                                               - 13
   also possible such as 900 to 1000 C but is less preferred. The process takes place
   in the presence of air to ensure oxidation of the hydroxide to an oxide coating.
           After calcination, the particles can be sintered. The sintering of oxide
   coated SiC particles preferably takes place under argon atmospheric furnace with
 5 temperature up to 20000C such as up to 17500C. Ideally sintering takes place at a
   temperature of 1000 C to 20000C, such as 1300 to 18000C.
            Particles sizes are again around 20 to 100 microns at the end of the
   calcination and sintering process.
            Because the amount of metal salt(s) added to form the coating is relative
10 high, this means that the thickness of the coating and hence also the oxide coating
   is thicker than a coating that might occur if, for example, a coating is introduced
   simply as a sintering aid. The presence of a thick coating means that the oxide
   coating is capable of preventing degradation of the ceramic particle during thermal
   spraying. Rather than decomposing or subliming, the ceramic particle can be
15 successfully thermally sprayed.
            It is envisaged therefore that metal oxide coated ceramic particles of the
   invention will comprise at least 5 wt%, such as at least 10 wt%, preferably at least
   20 wt% of the oxide coating. The oxide coating ideally forms 11 to 40 wt% of the
   coated ceramic particles as a whole or 10 to 30 wt%. The coating wt.% on the SiC
20 particles can be quantitatively calculated based on the XRD pattern using Rietveld
   method.
           The thickness of the particulate oxide coating on the ceramic particles may
   preferably be in the range of 50 to 200 nm. It is generally observed of course that
   thicker coatings are present on larger particles.
25         The inventors envisage that the coating will form a complete coating around
   the ceramic particle. Any break in the coating could offer potential for
   decomposition. Our coating can therefore be considered continuous. That said,
   even if there is a possibility that the oxide coating may break down, perhaps during
   the manufacturing process or thermal spraying process, the desired result can still
30 be achieved. During the thermal spraying process, the oxide coating melts. The
   oxide coating can therefore cover up any breaks in the coating whilst bonding
   together layers of the spray coating material.
            It will be appreciated that before spray drying or before calcination and
   sintering some binders (additives) might be added as is known in the art to ensure
35 successful drying processes. Polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) might be added to assist

                                              - 14
   agglomeration to create round shaped powder. PEG might be added to increase
   the flowability of suspension preventing the clogging of the spray-drying nozzle and
   allowing easy transfer of the spray-dried powder and so on.
           The process of the invention leads to the formation of agglomerated and
 5 sintered ceramic powders containing, inter alia, yttrium aluminium garnet coated on
   each ceramic particle.
           After sieving (and before thermal spraying), the powder with size 20-45
   micron can preferably be used as feedstock for high frequency pulse detonation or
   high velocity oxy fuel thermal spray techniques. Bigger powders that have size of
10 45-90 micron may be used for atmospheric plasma spraying.
   Thermal Spraying
15
           The particles formed after calcination can then be thermally sprayed onto a
   substrate. Various thermal spray techniques could be used such as those based
   on combustion (e.g. flame spraying or HVOF), detonation (detonation gun or high
   frequency detonation gun) or electrical/plasma spraying (atmospheric plasma
20 spraying, wire arc spraying, low pressure plasma spray or vacuum plasma spray).
   Preferred spraying techniques involve a high frequency detonation gun, an HVOF
   technique or atmospheric plasma spray. As noted above, these techniques are well
   known and a complete summary of them is not required here.
           The use of a detonation gun is preferred and is explained in detail in
25 US6745951. A detonation gun for thermal spraying is formed by a combustion
   chamber and a barrel, with entrances for fuel and for oxidizer. It is also provided
   with one or more spark plugs for detonating the fuel-oxidizer mixture and one or
   more injectors for the introduction of the product into the barrel.
           High velocity oxy-fuel spraying involves a mixture of gaseous or liquid fuel
30 and oxygen which is fed into a combustion chamber, where they are ignited and
   combusted continuously. The resultant hot gas at a pressure close to 1 MPa
   emanates through a converging-diverging nozzle and travels through a straight
   section. The jet velocity at the exit of the barrel (>1000 m/s) exceeds the speed of
   sound. The feed stock is injected into the gas stream, which accelerates the
35 powder up to 800 m/s. The stream of hot gas and powder is directed towards the

                                               - 15
   surface to be coated. The powder partially melts in the stream, and deposits upon
   the substrate.
              In plasma spraying processes, the material to be deposited is introduced
   into the plasma jet, emanating from a plasma torch. In the jet, where the
 5 temperature is on the order of 10,000 K, the material is melted and propelled
   towards a substrate. There, the molten droplets flatten, rapidly solidify and form a
   deposit.
              The substrate onto which the coated particles are thermally sprayed is not
   limited and can therefore be any substrate of interest to the skilled person. The
10 present inventors have particular interest in spraying the particles onto the
   mechanical working parts of large industrial equipment such as wind turbines.
              The substrate is therefore preferably a metallic substrate such as steel and
   its alloy, aluminium and its alloy and other metal or a polymer substrate.
              The coating thickness on the substrate can vary depending on thermal
15 spray parameters. Thicknesses from 10 micron to 500 micron, preferably 100 to
   200 microns are possible.
              The coatings formed on the substrate have excellent wear and corrosion
   resistance properties. In general the coatings are rough (Ra= 4,2 micron) as
   sprayed. To improve performance for wear applications, it may be necessary to
20 polish the as sprayed surface until the surface is very smooth (Ra = 0.1 micron).
              In order to maximise the efficiency of the thermal spraying process, it might
   be necessary to prepare the substrate surface for coating. The substrate surface
   should be clean. It might also be blasted with grit or the like to create a rough
   surface that helps adhesion of the coating during thermal spraying.
25             The invention will now be further described with reference to the following
   non limiting examples and figures.
              Figure 1 shows a particle of the invention with metal oxide coated silicon
   carbide with 30 wt% YAG composition.
              Figure 2 shows the XRD spectra of powders after precalcination process at
30 5000C and sintering process at 17500C with respect to YAG phase content of 30
   wt% in weight.
              Figure 3 shows the scanning electron micrograph of coating cross section of
   sprayed powders of the invention to show the nature of the coating. Note that the
   top layer in these electron micrographs is simply an epoxy layer added to allow
35 images to be generated.
            (GHMatters)
   10420662_1        P99860.AU.1

                                             -16
            Figure 4 is an enlarged view of sprayed powders of the invention to show
   the nature of the coating.
            Figure 5 shows sintered and agglomerated SiC powders suitable for HFPD
   (24-45 microns).
 5
   Example 1 - (Oxide coated silicon carbide from metal salt)
   This example is based on the following presumed reactionswith Ammonium
   Hydrogen Carbonate(AHC):
10
    1.  Initial Hydrolysis of AHC in distilled water:
        NH 4HCO 3 + H 2 0 -NH    4 0H  + H2 CO3
        NH 40H    <-> NH4 + + O
        H2 CO 3 - H+ + HCO3
15      HCO3- 4 H+ + CO 3 2
   2.   Aluminum nitrate reaction
        Al(NO 3) 3 .9H 20 + 3 NH 4 HCO 3 = A100H + 3(NH 4 )NO 3 + 3CO 2 + 10H 2 0
                                       (boehmite or aluminium hydroxide)
20
        If the suspension is aged for several hours under ambient temperature, the
        hydroxide might react and form ammonium dawsonite
        Al(NO 3) 3 .9H 20 + 4 NH 4 HCO 3 = NH4A1(OH)2C03 + 3(NH 4 )NO 3 + 3CO 2 +
25            10H 20 (ammonium dawsonite)
        AlOOH + NH 4 HCO 3 = NH 4 Al(OH) 2 CO3
   3.   Yttrium nitrate reaction
30      2Y(NO 3) 3 .6H 2 0 + 6NH 4HCO 3 = Y2(CO3)3.6H20 + 6NH 4 NO 3 + 3CO 2 + 9H 20
                                       (normal carbonate hydrate)
        or

                                                -17
        Y(N0 3) 3 .6H20 + 3NH 4HCO 3 = Y(OH)CO3 + 3(NH 4 )NO 3 + 2CO 2 + 7H 20
                                       (basic carbonate)
 5         The following flow diagram explains the process:
                                        Reverse Titration
                                        3ml/min
                                      Co-precipitation process
                                     Precalcination process 500'C - 2h
                                     Sintering process 1750'C for 2 h
                                      Classification with sieving
                            For HFPD or HVOF                For APS
           A metal oxide coated silicon carbide agglomerated powder for thermal spray
10 feedstock containing 30 wt% in weight of YAG was prepared by a co-precipitation
   method of a metal salt precursor onto a silicon carbide particle. The silicon carbide
   particles used had a mean granulometry of 0.6 micron. The coated metal oxide
   was confirmed by the micrograph in FIG. 1 and FIG. 2 which show the YAG phase
   coated silicon carbide and an X-ray crystallogram of the coated silicon carbide
15 powder respectively.
           The YAG phases that coated onto the silicon carbide surface are an eutectic
   phase of A12 0 3 and Y 2 0 3 that result from calcination of a coated metal hydroxide co
   precipitation from mixed solution of AI(NO 3 )3 .9H 20 and Y(N0 3) 3 .6H 20 according to

                                              -18
   molar ratio Y:AI = 5 : 3. The designed stoichiometry composition leads to 30% in
   weight of YAG phases.
            The co-precipitation of YAG phase was started by dispersing 100 gram of
   silicon carbide particles in distilled water. About 0.4 wt% of dispersant is added to
 5 stabilise the silicon carbide suspension. The dispersant was Dolapix A-88
   dispersant from Zschimmer & Schwarz GmbH & Co KG. Magnetic stirring was
   utilized to homogenize the suspension. 721.96 ml of 6.4 M of ammonium hydrogen
   carbonate precipitator agent was added into SiC suspension. The suspension was
   heated to 500C before the mixed metal salt (formed from 721.96ml of 0.5 M
10 AI(NO 3 )3.9H20 and 721.96 ml of 0.3 M Y(N0 3)3 .6H 2 0) was titrated into the
   suspension mixture. The suspension now containing metal hydroxide/carbonate
   coated silicon carbide particles was then filtered and washed with distilled water.
            The treated powder was dried in the oven and pre-calcinated at 500 C for 2
   hour in air furnace. Sintering was employed to the agglomerated powders in
15 vacuum or argon environment at 17500C for 2h.
            In a second experiment, the treated SiC powders were spray dried by
   introducing distilled water to yield solid content of 20 - 40wt.%. Polyvinyl alcohol
   and polyethylene glycol are added to assist the spray drying process. The spray
   dried powders are then pre-calcinated at 5000C for 2 hours in air furnace before
20 performing sintering at 17500C for 2h in vacuum or argon environment.
            In both procedures, the agglomerated and sintered powders need to be
   sieved to assure exact powder size distribution based on the type of thermal
   spraying methods. After the spray drying we can get desired particles size.
   However, during the sintering, shrinkage and agglomeration occur causing the
25 particles size to deviate. Thus sieving is employed to make classification the
   agglomerated powders. Figure 5 shows the feedstock for HFPD.
            Example 2 - Substrate coating
            The powder of example 1 (oven dried) with powders size of 20-45 pm was
30 sprayed onto a carbon steel substrate with a high frequency pulse detonation gun
   according to the following parameters:
            Gas flow: 48 SLPM propylene plus 170 SLPM oxygen (SLPM = standard
            litres per minute)
            Frequency: 60 Hertz
35          Distance of the torch from the substrate: 40 mm

                                             - 19
            Powders feeding with Thermico CPF-2 employ nitrogen carrier gas 20
            SLPM and feeder disk 10 rpm rotation.
            Number of torch scan on substrate: 4 x 6 second.
 5          At the end of the deposition, the coating samples were characterized with x
   ray crystallography. FIG. 2 shows the crytallogram of the powder deposition
   containing SiC + 30wt% YAG. The X-ray crystallogram of the powder before
   deposition and the coating are practically identical. This means that no
   decomposition has occurred in the thermal spraying process. In FIG 2 the peak
10 positions of the two compounds are marked.
            A scanning electron micrograph of the coating cross section is performed
   resulting in the structure as shown in FIG 3. The typical structure where YAG
   phases (show as brighter area) are surrounding silicon carbide (show as darker
   area) as expected from the coating deposition produced with these powder
15 feedstocks.
            The agglomerated particles are around 45 micron in size. When they travel
   in the flame during thermal spraying, they deform as the oxide melts and flatten on
   contacting the substrate. As more particles contact the substrate a coating layer
   (with each layer perhaps only 5-10 micron in thickness) begins to form. Thus a
20 100+ micron coating on a substrate is easily achievable as shown in Figure 3.
            Careful study of the magnification of the coating shows that it composes of
   small SiC particles bonded by oxide phase (figure 4).
   Example 3
25
   The process of example 1 was repeated but this time using 3 micron silicon carbide
   particles.
30 Example 4 - (Oxide coated silicon carbide from metal salt precursor with Urea
   precipitator)
   The encapsulated oxide will protect SiC particles from direct interaction with the
   plasma thus inhibiting decomposition.
35

                                             - 20
   Ingredients:
       a. a-SiC particles with d5o = 0.6 pm supplied by Washington Mills AS,
           Orkanger, Norway
       b. AI(NO 3)3.9H20 (Merck KGaA, Germany)
 5     c. Y20 3 H.C. Starck Grade C (dissolved into HNO3 solution to produce
           2Y(NO 3)3.3H20 following reaction of Y2 0 3 + 6HN0 3 + 9H20    ->
           2Y(NO 3)3.6H20.
       d. Precipitator Weak base: Urea
       e. Dispersant : Dolapix A88 (Zschimmer & Schwarz GmbH & Co KG. ,
10         Germany)
       The following flow diagram explains the process:
                                     Reverse Titration
                                     3ml/min
                                   Co-precipitation process
                                   Precalcination process 500'C - 2h
                                   Sintering process 1750'C for 2 h
                                   Classification with sieving
                           For HFPD or HVOF              For APS
15
   Procedures:
       Total solid loading after co-precipitation process is approximately 5wt.%

                                                - 21
       Molar ratio of Urea/(A13+ + Y 3+) = 7.5
       1OOg of a-SiC particles was dispersed in 721.96 ml of 6 M Urea and stirred at
   600 rpm for 30 minutes. 0.4 wt.% Dolapix A88 was added to stabilize the SiC
 5 suspension containing urea stirred for 15 minutes. The mixture was heated to
   90 0C.Separately, a metal salt solution of YAG salt precursor (ratio of A13+ : y3+ = 5:
   3) was prepared by combining 721.96 ml of 0.5 M AI(NO 3)3 .9H 20 and 721.96 ml 0.3
   M Y(N0 3) 3.6H 20. This will gives yttrium aluminum garnet (Y3 Al5 0 12 ) content of
   30wt.% upon sintering. The metal salt precursor solution was reverse titrated into
10 the SiC suspension with flow rate 3ml/min. The pH of the suspension was kept at 9
   or higher with addition of NH 40H.
       After the titration process is finished, the suspension was aged for 1 hour (aging
   = stirring at 600 rpm with temperature kept at 900C for an hour). The aged
   suspension was filtered to remove excess NO32 - ion. The supernatant of SiC was
15 then dried in the furnace at 100 C for 24 hours.
       The dried SiC was pre-calcined at 5000C for 2 hours to remove the hydroxide
   and carbonate species which form the coating at this stage of the process. Further
   sintering at 17500C was performed in an argon atmospheric furnace to crystallize
   and sinter the agglomerated SiC powders.
20     The agglomerated and sintered powders are classified with sieving machine to
   produce 25- 45 pm and 45-90 pm powders. The agglomerated powders of 25 -45
   pm are mainly used for high frequency pulse detonation (HFPD) gun, while
   modified SiC powders of 45-90pm are used mainly for atmospheric plasma spray
   (APS) system.
25
    The following theoretical reactions may take place:
   Reactions with Urea:
       1. Initial Hydrolysis of urea in distilled water
30          CO(NH 2 )2   +  NH 4 + + OCN- (initial hydrolysis)
            OCN- + 2H+ + H2 0 + C02 + NH 4 + (in acidic medium)
            OCN- + OH- + H2 0 + NH3 + CO32- (in neutral or basic solution)
       2. Aluminum nitrate reaction
35          2Al(NO 3 )3 .9H 20 + 3CO(NH 2) 2     +   2AIOOH + 6(NH 4)NO3 + 3CO2   + 11 H2 0

                                             -  22
                                             (boehmite or aluminium hydroxide)
           Or
          AI(NO 3 )3 .9H 20 + 2CO(NH 2)2 + NH4Al(OH) 2 C0           3+ 3(NH 4)NO3 + C02  +
 5        4H 20
                                           (ammonium dawsonite)
       3. Yttrium nitrate reaction
10         2Y(NO 3) 3 .6H 20 + 3CO(NH 2)2     4  Y2 (CO 3 )3 .6H 2 0 + 6(NH 4)NO3 + C02 +
           5H 20
                                          (normal carbonate)
          y3++ H20 = (Y(OH)) 2+ + H+
15         (Y(OH)) 2+ + C02 + 2H 20  =  Y(OH)CO 3 .H20 + 2H+
                                   (basic carbonate)
          The powders formed by oven or spray drying in examples 1, 3 and 4 can be
   thermally sprayed by HFPD, HVOF or APS.
20
   Example 5 Thermal spray process
   Atmospheric plasma spray process
          The powder of example 1 (oven dried) with powders size of 45-90 pm was
25 sprayed onto carbon steel substrate with atmospheric plasma spray gun F4-MB
   plasma gun with 6 mm anode diameter installed in a plasma spray system A3000S
   (Sulzer Metco, Wolhen, Switzerland) according to the following parameters:
           Gas flow: 45 SLPM Argon plus 12 SLPM Hydrogen (SLPM = standard litres
           per minute)
30         Current: 700 Ampere
           Voltage: 47 Volt
           Injector diameter = 1.8 mm
           Distance of the plasma torch from the substrate: 100 mm
           Digital powder feeding rotation: 20 rpm with Ar carrier gas at 2.8 SLPM
35         Robot movement 0.2 m/sec

                                             - 23
            Number of torch scan on substrate: 4 x 6 second.
            At the end of the deposition, the coating samples were characterized with x
   ray crystallography. FIG. 2 shows the crytallogram of the powder feedstock
 5 containing 30wt.% YAG and the SiC composite coating produced using HFPD and
   APS. The X-ray crystallogram of the SiC phase before deposition and in the coating
   are practically identical. This means that no decomposition of SiC has occurred in
   the thermal spraying process.
            When the agglomerated powders travel in the flame during thermal
10 spraying, they deform as the oxide melts and flatten on contacting the substrate.
   As more particles contact the substrate a coating layer (with each layer perhaps
   only 5-10 micron in thickness) begins to form. Thus a 100+ micron coating on a
   substrate is easily achievable.
            Careful study of the magnification of the coating shows that it composes of
15 small SiC particles bonded by oxide phase.
   Example 6 - (Oxide coated silicon carbide from spray dried process)
   The spray-dried metal salt precursor mixed with SiC particles will produce
20 hydroxide or carbonate metal precursor encapsulated SiC particles. As this process
   creates agglomerated SiC powders with nano precipitate of metal precursor, the
   sintering process create YAG coated SiC powders feedstock
   Ingredients:
25 a.   a-SiC particles with d5 o = 1 pm supplied by Saint Gobain Ceramic Materials AS
        Lillesand, Norway
   b.   AI(NO 3)3 .9H 20 (Merck KGaA, Germany)
   c.   Y2 0 3 from H.C. Starck Grade C (dissolved into HNO3 solution to produce
        Y(N0 3) 3.6H 20 following reaction of Y2 0 3 + 6HN0 3 + 9H 20 -> 2Y(NO 3) 3.6H 20.
30 d.   Precipitator Weak acid : Citric acid
   e.   Dispersant : Dolapix A88 (Zschimmer & Schwarz GmbH & Co KG. , Germany)
    The flow diagram below explains the process:

                                                - 24
                           Mix at 80'C and stir for lhr
                              Spray dry process
                             Precalcination process 500'C - 2h
                             Sintering process 1750'C for 2 h
                              Classification with sieving
                     For HFPD or HVOF                For APS
   Procedures:
         Total solid loading after co-precipitation process is approximately 10 wt.%
 5       Molar ratio of Citric Acid/(A 3 + + Y3+) = 3
         100g of a-SiC particles were dispersed in 360,98 ml of 4.8 M citric acid and
   stirred at 600 rpm for 30 minutes. 0.4wt.% Dolapix A88 was added to stabilize the
   SiC suspension containing citric acid and stirred for 15 minutes. The suspension
   was heated to 800C.
10       Separately, a metal salt solution of YAG salt precursor (ratio of A13+ : y3+ = 5:
   3) was prepared by mixing 360,98 ml of 1 M AI(NO 3) 3 .9H 20 and 360,98 ml 0.6 M
   Y(N0 3)3 .6H 20. This will gives yttrium aluminum garnet (Y3 Al50 12 ) content of 30wt.%
   upon sintering. The metal salt solution was poured stepwise into SiC suspension
   and stirred for 1 hour.
15       A spray drier was heated until the inlet temperature reached 210 C and the
   outlet temperature was stable at between 90 to 110 C. The SiC/metal salt solution
   mixture was spray dried, with adjustment of the suspension feed and the aspirator
   to produce spherical agglomerated SiC with desired particles size in between 25
   90 micron.

                                              - 25
        These particles were calcined at 5000C for 2 hours in the atmospheric furnace
   to remove the hydroxide and carbonate species that form during spray drying.
   Further sintering at 17500C is performed in an argon atmospheric furnace to
   crystallize and sinter the agglomerated SiC powders. The agglomerated and
 5 sintered powders are classified with sieving machine to produce 25- 45 pm and 45
   90 pm powders. The agglomerated powders of 25 -45 pm are mainly used for high
   frequency pulse detonation (HFPD) gun, while modified SiC powders of 45-90pm
   are used mainly for atmospheric plasma spray (APS) system.
        It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein or any
10 information referred to herein as being "known", such reference does not constitute
   an admission that the publication or information forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
        In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
15 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments
   of the invention.
20

                                            -  26
   Claims:
   1.      A metal oxide coated particle of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide
 5 or boron nitride wherein the amount of metal oxide is at least 5 wt% of the total
   weight of the particle, wherein the metal oxide coating comprises yttrium aluminium
   garnet.
   2.       A particle as claimed in claim 1 in which the metal oxide coating comprises
10 at least 10 wt% of the coated particle weight.
   3.       A particle as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 in which the metal oxide coating
   comprises at least 20 wt% of the coated particle weight.
15 4.      A particle as claimed in any preceding claim in which the metal oxide
   coating comprises 11 to 40 wt% of the coated particle weight.
   5.      A particle as claimed in any preceding claim in which the metal oxide
   coating comprises 10 to 30 wt% of the coated particle weight.
20
   6.      A particle as claimed in any preceding claim in which the metal oxide
   coating is 50 to 200 nm in thickness.
   7.      A particle as claimed in any preceding claim which is 20 to 100 microns in
25 size.
   8.      A particle as claimed in any preceding claim in which the metal oxide
   coating consists of yttrium aluminium garnet.
30 9.      A particle as claimed in any preceding claim in which the particle comprises
   silicon carbide.
   10.     A process for the preparation of a plurality of particles as according to claim
   1 to 9, said process comprising:

                                                - 27
            (1)obtaining a plurality of particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron
   carbide or boron nitride;
            (II)    combining said particles of step (1)with an Al salt and an Y salt, in
   the presence of a weak acid or weak base so as to form a hydroxide and/or
 5 carbonate coating on said particles;
            (Ill)   drying, such as spray drying of step (II);
            (IV)    calcining and sintering the particles of step (Ill) so as to form a
   plurality of YAG coated particles of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, boron carbide or
   boron nitride.
10
   11.      A process as claimed in claim 10 wherein the salts are a mixture of yttrium
   nitrate and aluminium nitrate.
   12.      A process as claimed in claim 10 or claim 11 wherein the salts are mixed
15 with the particles in water.
   13.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 12 wherein at least 5 wt% of Al
   and Y salts are present during step (II) based on the solids weight of particles
   present.
20
   14.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 13 wherein there is 1 to 30
   molar equivalents of weak base or weak acid, compared with the molar equivalents
   of Al and Y salts.
25 15.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 14 wherein there is 1 to 3 molar
   equivalents of weak acid, compared with the molar equivalents of Al and Y salts.
   16.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 14 wherein there is 6 to 8 molar
   equivalents of weak base, compared with the molar equivalents of Al and Y salts.
30
   17.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 12 wherein the pH of the
   solution in which the Al and Y salts and the solid particles are mixed is at least 9.
   18.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 12 wherein the pH of the
35 solution in which the Al and Y salts and the solid particles are mixed is 9 to 11.

                                             - 28
   19.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 12 wherein the pH of the
   solution in which the Al and Y salts and the solid particles are mixed is 2 or less.
 5 20.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 19 wherein the Al and Y salts
   are titrated into a solution of the weak base or weak acid with particles or wherein
   the weak base or acid is titrated into a solution of the Al and Y salts and the
   particles.
10 21.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 20 wherein the weak base is
   urea, ammonia or a hydrogen carbonate.
   22.      A process as claimed in claim 21 wherein the weak base is ammonium
   hydrogen carbonate.
15
   23.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 20 wherein the weak acid is
   citric acid.
   24.      A process as claimed in any of claims 10 to 22 wherein the Y and Al salts,
20 weak base or weak acid and the particles are combined and spray dried in order to
   coat the particles with the metal hydroxide and/or metal carbonate coating.

                                                       1/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  Figure 1
              5
                  Figure 2. XRD pattern of 30wt%YAG_SiC powders and the coating produced with
                  this powder using HFPD and APS.
                  10420662_1 (GHMatters) P99860.AU.1

                                                       2/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  Figure 3
              5
                  Figure 4
                  10420662_1 (GHMatters) P99860.AU.1

                                                   3/3
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 5. SiC agglomerated powder feedstock for HFPD.
              10420662_1 (GHMatters) P99860.AU.1

