                                             ABSTRACT
A process for capturing at least one radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from a radioisotope
source using a radioisotope concentrator device, by fluidly communicating a radioisotope solution from the
radioisotope source through a concentrator column to capture the at least one radioisotope in the
concentrator column. The waste collecting means using an evacuated vial, and the process fluidly
communicating the radioisotope eluate solution to the waste collecting means under a negative pressure.

                               1/6
                                                                    10
                 52050
                                                              4020
               34a            -                         40           2
10              32ce.                                   345
                  34                                      34b
                 L........               ... 110
     1021
                          --- - - --   -     1   1
                                    --                  120
                                                                   100
                     I,      I                     ,;   114
            I'          X                             A
 104      S
                                FIUR           1

                                                  1
          A RADIOISOTOPE CONCENTRATOR AND A PROCESS FOR
              CAPTURING AT LEAST ONE RADIOISOTOPE FROM A
                               RADIOISOTOPE SOLUTION
 5
   Field of the Invention
   [00011 The present invention relates to radioisotope purification and concentration,
   and in particular to a radioisotope concentrator device for use with a radioisotope
   source, a system, and a process for capturing at least one radioisotope from a
10 radioisotope solution obtained from a radioisotope source.
   [0002] The invention has been developed primarily for use in conjunction with a
   radioisotope source provided in the form of a radioisotope generator configured for
   generating the radioisotope solution or a vial containing the radioisotope solution
   source and will be described hereinafter with reference to this application. However,
15 it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.
   Background of the Invention
   [0003] Technetium-99m (99m Tc) is a metastable isotope of technetium. This means it
   has at least two modes of decay with two different half-lives. The decay mode with
   the shorter half-life is approximately 6 hours and decays via gamma ray emission
20 (with an energy of 140 keV) to its ground state which in turn decays via pure beta
   emission with a half-life of 2.13 X 105 years to stable Ruthenium-99 (Ru-99).This
   long-lived ground state of 99 Tc is considered practically stable with respect to
   Nuclear Medicine. 99m
   [0004] Tc is produced from the radioactive decay of its parent radioisotope
25 Molbdenum-99 ( 99 Mo) which has a half-life of approximately 66 hours. 99m Tc is
   used in approximately 85% of diagnostic imaging procedures in nuclear medicine
   worldwide. Currently, global demand for      99 Mo  is met primarily by production through
   fission of Uranium-235 irradiated in a nuclear reactor or through a "neutron
   capture" nuclear reaction on Molybdenum-98.                 The  99 Mo  is then purified and
30 supplied routinely to manufacturers of      99Mo/ 9smTc  generators around the world. Its
   reasonably long half-life allows for transport to radiopharmacies over long distances

                                                      2
   without too much loss from nuclear decay. At the point and time of use,                   99mTc   is
                           99     99mTc
   extracted from the        Mo/         generator with a solvent, regularly with normal saline
   solution through a process called elution. .
   [0005] In addition, Rhenium-188 ( 1 8 8 Re) is used in Nuclear Medicine procedures and
 5 therapies and is derived from a Tungsten-188/Rhenium-188 ( 18 8W/ 1 8 8 Re) generator.
   [0006] The eluent from these types of 99 mTc and               188
                                                                      Re generators can be purified
   and concentrated with the technology and process of this invention.
   [0007] The cost-effective utilisation of a      99 Mo/ 9 9mTc  generator and the quality of  99
                                                                                                  mTc
   based Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) imaging diagnoses
10 is controlled by the generator operation/elution management. The primary factor
   pertaining to the Nuclear Medicine diagnostic scans' quality is the concentration of
   the  99mTc           99Mo/ 99mTc
                in the                generator elution expressed as activity per mL. Hence,
   the useful life time of the 99Mo/ 99mTc generator is dictated by the amount of                99 Mo
   remaining within the generator since it is the source of 99 mTc via decay. The useful life
15 of the generator can be extended by concentrating the s9 mTc derived from the
   generator at any given time.
   [0008] Generally, a      99mTc   solution/eluate is produced from the       99
                                                                                 Mo/ 99 mTc generator
   in fixed volume and the concentration of the             99mTc  in the eluate decreases with the
   life time of the 99Mo/ 99 mTc generator due to the radioactive decay of the parent
20 nuclide,  99 Mo.   Effective utilisation of the  99Mo/99mTc     generator therefore, depends not
   only on the available        99mTc   activity in the   99Mo/9 9mTc   generator, but also on the
   concentration of the 9emTc recovered in the eluted solution eluate, defined as activity
   per mL.
   [0009] The present invention seeks to provide a radioisotope concentrator device for
25 use with a radioisotope source, a system, and a process for capturing at least one
   radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from a radioisotope source, which
   will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of the deficiencies of the prior
   art, or to at least provide an alternative.
   [00010]          It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to
30 herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms
   part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

                                                 3
   Summary of the Invention
   [00011]        According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a process for
   capturing at least one radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from a
   radioisotope    source   using    a   radioisotope   concentrator    device, the    process
 5 comprising the step of:
   -      fluidly communicating a radioisotope solution from the radioisotope source
   through a concentrator column to capture the at least one radioisotope on the
   concentrator column.
   [00012]        Advantageously, the ability to selectively capture the at least one
10 radioisotope on the concentrator column enables a radioisotope eluate solution to be
   produced that has a higher radioisotope concentration than the radioisotope solution
   obtained from the radioisotope source.
   [00013]        Preferably,  the radioisotope      source    is a radioisotope     generator
   configured for generating the radioisotope solution, the radioisotope generator
15 comprising an elution port, the radioisotope concentrator device comprising a body
   having at least one entry port adapted for connecting to the elution port of the
   radioisotope generator in use, the process further comprising the step of:
   -      operably connecting the at least one entry port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device to the elution port of the radioisotope generator.
20 [00014]        Preferably,   the    radioisotope    source    is a   vial   comprising  the
   radioisotope solution, the vial being equipped with a septum, the radioisotope
   concentrator device comprising a body having at least one entry port equipped with a
   septum each septum being adapted to receive at least a portion of a corresponding
   end of a double-ended hollow needle device when connecting the vial to the
25 radioisotope concentrator device in use, the process further comprising the step of:
   -      operably connecting the vial to the at least one entry port of the body of the
   radioisotope concentrator device by virtue of the double-ended hollow needle device.
   [00015]        Preferably,   the    radioisotope    concentrator    device    comprises   a
   competitive ion selective column located upstream of the concentrator column, the
30 process further comprising the step of:

                                                4
   -      fluidly communicating the radioisotope solution through the competitive ion
   selective column to remove at least one competitive ion from the radioisotope
   solution.
   [00016]        Advantageously, the purity of the radioisotope solution generated by
 5 the radioisotope generator can be increased before the radioisotope solution
   reaches the concentrator column by virtue of the competitive ion selective column
   being located upstream of the concentrator column.
   [00017]         Preferably, the process further comprises the step of:
   -      receiving within a waste collecting means a radioisotope eluate solution
10 remaining after the at least one radioisotope has been captured on the concentrator
   column.
   [00018]         Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body
   having at least one exit port, the waste collecting means being adapted for operably
   connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator
15 device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use, the process further
   comprising the step of:
   -      operably connecting the waste collecting means to the at least one exit port of
   the body of the radioisotope concentrator device.
   [00019]         Preferably, the waste collecting means comprises an evacuated vial,
20 the process further comprising the step of:
   -      fluidly communicating the radioisotope eluate solution to the waste collecting
   means under a negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the
   evacuated vial.
   [00020]        Advantageously, the waste from the radioisotope solution is collected
25 within the evacuated vial by virtue of the negative pressure that is applied to the at
   least one exit port when the evacuated vial is operably connected to the at least one
   exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device in use.
   [00021]         Preferably, the process further comprises the step of:
   -      fluidly communicating an eluent through the concentrator column to elute the
30 at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column.

                                                5
   [00022]        Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope can be selectively eluted
   form the concentrator column using an eluent to produce a radioisotope eluate
   solution.
   [00023]        Preferably, the process further comprises the step of:
 5 -      receiving within a radioisotope collecting means the at least one radioisotope
   eluted from the concentrator column with the eluent.
   [00024]        Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope can be selectively eluted
   form the concentrator column using an eluent to produce a radioisotope eluate
   solution for collecting within the radioisotope collecting means.
10 [00025]        Preferably    there  is  provided   a   general  process 700     using   a
   radioisotope concentrator device 20 for selectively capturing radioisotopes from a
   highly dilute saline solution of radioisotopes eluted from the radioisotope generator
   100 and then eluting the captured radioisotopes from the radioisotope concentrator
   device 20 as a pure and more concentrated saline solution of the desired
15 radioisotopes by the radioisotope concentrator device 20 being configured for
   selectively capturing isotope from the saline solution eluted from the radioisotope
   generator 100 by the stationary phase packed within the column body 210 of the
   concentrator column 200 being either a multifunctional sorbent material or an
   inorganic sorbent selective to retard the radioisotope      anions wherein the method
20 includes the steps of:
   [00026]        the radioisotope concentrator having a valve, wherein with the valve is
   placed in a first position 710 such that the valve 400 is in the first open configuration
   and the HCISS column 300, the concentrator column 200, and the evacuated vial
   610 being in fluid communication:
25 [00027]        In a first step 715, the cylindrical entry port 34e of the assembled
   radioisotope concentrator device 20 and its self-aligning port is inserted into an
   elution port 110 of the radioisotope generator 100 at the bottom portion 314 of the
   HCISS column body 310.
   [00028]        In a second step 720, the evacuated vial 610 of the waste collecting
30 means is inverted and then inserted into the exit port 32e of the body 30 of the

                                                6
   concentrator device 20 and the its self-aligning port enables fluid communication
   between the concentrator column 200 and the evacuated vial 610.
   [00029]        The a third step 735 has the vacuum within the evacuated vial 610
   imparting a negative pressure on the system 10 causing the saline solution of
 5 radioisotope to be drawn up through the HCISS column 300 and the concentration
   column 200 into the vial 610.
   [00030]        In step 740 in this arrangement, the HCISS column 300 comprises a
   stationary phase that allows removing the competitive ions from the eluate solution
   and consecutively to allows selective capture (catching) of the desired radioisotope
10 on either a multifunctional sorbent material or an inorganic sorbent in the
   concentrator column 200.
   [00031]        The remaining eluate solution is captured within the vial 610 as non
   radioactive effluent waste in step 745.
   [00032]        The next step 750, the Millipore filter housed in a self-aligning insertion
15 device is inserted into the exit port 32a of the body 30 of the concentrator device 20.
   [00033]        In a further step 755 has the radioisotope concentrator valve rotated to
   the second position such that the valve 400 is in the second open configuration and
   the injection device 45 , the concentrator column 200, the Millipore filter 535, and the
   evacuated round bottom vial 510 of the pure and concentrated radioisotope solution
20 collecting means 500 being in fluid communication wherein
   [00034]        In step 755, the evacuated vial 510 of the radioisotope collecting
   means is placed within the housing 500 and sealed and the sealed housing 500 is
   then inverted and inserted into the exit port 32e of the body 30 of the radioisotope
   concentrator device 20;
25 [00035]        The insertion device at the exit port 32e penetrates the evacuated vial
   510 in step 760 to enable fluid communication between the injection device 45, the
   concentrator column 200, and the evacuated vial 510;
   [00036]       And in steps 765 and 770 the vacuum within the evacuated vial 510
   imparts a negative pressure on the system 10 causing the low volume saline solution
30 to be drawn up from the injection device 45 into the vial 510 via the concentrator

                                                7
   column 200 and allows the concentrator column 200 to elute (release) the selectively
   captured radioisotope anions from the concentrator column 200;
   [00037]         whereby the output 780 is the resulting low volume post-elution saline
   solution radioisotope in the vial 510 can be used for radio-labelling an organ-specific
 5 pharmaceutical      or used    directly without pharmaceutical      tagging for specific
   procedures       requiring    only    the  radioisotope    anions     as   the   primary
   radiopharmaceutical.
   [00038]         Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body
   having at least one exit port, the radioisotope collecting means being adapted for
10 operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use, the process
   further comprising the step of:
   -       operably connecting the radioisotope collecting means to the at least one exit
   port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device.
15 [00039]         Preferably, the radioisotope collecting means comprises an evacuated
   vial, the process further comprising the step of:
   -       fluidly communicating the at least one radioisotope to the waste radioisotope
   means under a negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the
   evacuated vial.
20 [00040]         Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope is collected as a
   radioisotope eluate solution within the evacuated vial by virtue of the negative
   pressure that is applied to the at least one exit port when the evacuated vial is
   operably connected to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device in use.
25 [00041]         Preferably, the eluent comprises a saline solution.
   [00042]         Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope is eluted form the
   concentrator column using saline solution.
   [00043]         Preferably, the volume of saline solution used to elute the at least one
   radioisotope from the concentrator column is in the range from approximately 0.1 mL
30 to approximately 2.0 mL.

                                                   8
   [00044]         Advantageously, the concentration of the at least one radioisotope
   within the radioisotope eluate solution is higher than the concentration of the at least
   one radioisotope in the radioisotope solution eluted from the radioisotope generator.
   [00045]         Tungsten/Rhenium and Molybdenum/Technetium pairs being chemical
 5 analogues, and the separation/purification of Rhenium from Tungsten is chemically
   analogous to the separation/purification of Technetium from Molybdenum
   [00046]         Also there is provided by the invention a process for capturing at least one
   radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from a radioisotope source using a
   radioisotope concentrator device for selectively capturing radioisotopes from a highly dilute
10 saline solution of radioisotopes eluted from the radioisotope generator and then eluting the
   captured radioisotopes from the radioisotope concentrator device as a pure and more
   concentrated saline solution of the desired radioisotopes by the radioisotope concentrator
   device being configured for selectively capturing isotope from the saline solution eluted from
   the radioisotope generator by the stationary phase packed within the column body of the
15 concentrator column being either a multifunctional sorbent material or an inorganic sorbent
   selective to retard the radioisotope anions wherein the radioisotope concentrator having a
   valve, wherein with the valve is placed in a first position such that the valve is in the first
   open configuration and the HCISS column, the concentrator column, and the evacuated vial
   being in fluid communication and the process includes:
20              a. in a first step, the cylindrical entry port of the assembled radioisotope
                   concentrator device and its self-aligning port is inserted into an elution port of
                   the radioisotope generator at the bottom portion of the HCISS column body;
                b. in a second step, the evacuated vial of the waste collecting means is inverted
                   and then inserted into the exit port of the body of the concentrator device and
25                 the   its  self-aligning port  enables     fluid communication     between    the
                   concentrator column and the evacuated vial;
                c. in a third step has the vacuum within the evacuated vial imparting a negative
                   pressure on the system causing the saline solution of radioisotope to be
                   drawn up through the HCISS column and the concentration column into the
30                 vial;
                d. in a further step, the HCISS column comprises a stationary phase that allows
                   removing the competitive ions from the eluate solution and consecutively to
                   allows selective capture (catching) of the desired radioisotope on either a

                                                   9
                  multifunctional sorbent material or an inorganic sorbent in the concentrator
                  column;
              e. the remaining eluate solution is captured within the vial as non-radioactive
                  effluent waste in step;
 5            f.  a Millipore filter housed in a self-aligning insertion device is inserted into the
                  exit port of the body of the concentrator device.
              g. the radioisotope concentrator valve rotated to the second position such that
                  the valve is in the second open configuration and the injection device, the
                  concentrator column, the Millipore filter, and the evacuated round bottom vial
10                of the pure and concentrated radioisotope solution collecting means being in
                  fluid communication
              h. wherein in next step, the evacuated vial of the radioisotope collecting means
                  is placed within the housing and sealed and the sealed housing is then
                  inverted and inserted into the exit port of the body of the radioisotope
15                concentrator device;
              i.  the insertion device at the exit port penetrates the evacuated vial to enable
                  fluid communication between the injection device, the concentrator column,
                  and the evacuated vial;
              j.  And in the vacuum within the evacuated vial imparts a negative pressure on
20                the system causing the low volume saline solution to be drawn up from the
                  injection device into the vial via the concentrator column and allows the
                  concentrator column to elute (release) the selectively captured radioisotope
                  anions from the concentrator column;
              k. whereby the output is a resulting low volume post-elution saline solution
25                radioisotope in the vial which can be used for radio-labelling an organ-specific
                  pharmaceutical or used directly without pharmaceutical tagging for specific
                  procedures      requiring  only  the    radioisotope   anions   as  the    primary
                  radiopharmaceutical.
   [00047]        The invention      further provides    a system for     capturing at    least one
30 radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from a radioisotope source, the system
   comprising:
              a. a radioisotope source; and

                                                   10
               b. a radioisotope concentrator device, the radioisotope concentrator device
                  being    operably   connected to the      radioisotope   source to    allow fluid
                  communication therebetween in use wherein the radioisotope concentrator
                  device comprises a body having at least one exit port,
 5             c. the system further comprising a waste collecting means adapted for operably
                  connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope
                  concentrator device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use
               d. wherein the radioisotope collecting means comprises an evacuated vial and
                  fluid communication is effected by the vacuum provided by the waste vial.
10 [00048]        The radioisotope source can be a radioisotope generator configured for
   generating the radioisotope solution.
   [00049]        Preferably the     radioisotope generator comprises        an elution   port, the
   radioisotope concentrator device comprising a body having at least one entry port adapted
   for connecting to the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use.
15 [00050]        The elution port of the radioisotope generator can comprise a needle device,
   the at least one entry port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device comprising a
   septum adapted to receive at least a portion of the needle device therethrough when
   connecting the radioisotope concentrator device to the elution port of the radioisotope
   generator in use.
20 [00051]        Preferably the radioisotope source is a vial comprising the radioisotope
   solution.
   [00052]        Preferably the vial comprises a septum and the radioisotope concentrator
   device comprises a body having at least one entry port equipped with a septum, the system
   further comprising a double-ended hollow needle device, each septum being adapted to
25 receive at least a portion of a corresponding end of the double-ended hollow needle device
   when connecting the vial to the radioisotope concentrator device in use.
   [00053]        The radioisotope concentrator device can comprise a body having at least
   one exit port, the system further comprising a radioisotope collecting means adapted for
   operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator
30 device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
   [00054]        Preferably the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device comprises        a needle device, the       radioisotope collecting means
   comprising a septum adapted for receiving at least a portion of the needle device
   therethrough to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.

                                                  11
   [00055]         The radioisotope collecting means can comprise an evacuated vial, the
   evacuated vial comprising the septum.
   [00056]         Preferably the radioisotope collecting means further comprises shielding
   means for shielding the evacuated vial in use.
 5 [00057]         Alternatively, the radioisotope collecting means comprises a housing for
   receiving at least a portion of the evacuated vial therein.
   [00058]         The housing is preferably manufactured from a radiation shielding material.
   [00059]         The radiation shielding material can be lead or tungsten.
   [00060]         Preferably the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body having at
10 least one exit port, the system further comprising a waste collecting means adapted for
   operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator
   device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
   [00061]         Tthe waste collecting means can comprise an evacuated vial, the evacuated
   vial comprising a septum adapted for receiving at least a portion of the needle device
15 therethrough to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
   [00062]         Advantageously the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body
   having at least one injection port and at least one valve being configurable between a first
   open configuration to prevent fluid communication between the at least one injection port
   and the concentrator column          and a second open       configuration for allowing   fluid
20 communication between the at least one injection port and the concentrator column in use,
   the system further comprising an injection device comprising an eluent for eluting through
   the concentrator column via the at least one injection port when the at least one valve of the
   radioisotope concentrator device is in the second open configuration in use.
   [00063]         The invention also provides a process for capturing at least one radioisotope
25 from a radioisotope solution obtained from a radioisotope source using a radioisotope
   concentrator device, the process comprising the step of:
               a. fluidly communicating a radioisotope solution from the radioisotope source
                   through a concentrator column to capture the at least one radioisotope on the
                   concentrator column
30             b. providing an evacuated vial for effecting fluidly communication under a
                   negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the evacuated vial.
       [00064]     The radioisotope source can be a radioisotope generator configured for
           generating the radioisotope solution, the radioisotope generator comprising an

                                                   12
           elution port, the radioisotope concentrator device comprising a body having at least
           one entry port adapted for connecting to the elution port of the radioisotope generator
           in use, the process further comprising the step of:
               a. operably connecting the at least one entry port of the body of the radioisotope
 5                 concentrator device to the elution port of the radioisotope generator.
   [00065]         The radioisotope source can be a vial comprising the radioisotope solution,
   the vial being equipped with a septum, the radioisotope concentrator device comprising a
   body having at least one entry port equipped with a septum each septum being adapted to
   receive at least a portion of a corresponding end of a double-ended hollow needle device
10 when connecting the vial to the radioisotope concentrator device in use, the process further
   comprising the step of:
               a. operably connecting the vial to the at least one entry port of the body of the
                   radioisotope concentrator device by virtue of the double-ended hollow needle
                   device.
15 [00066]         The radioisotope concentrator device preferably comprises an competitive ion
   selective column located upstream         of the concentrator column, the process further
   comprising the step of:
               a. fluidly communicating the radioisotope solution through the competitive ion
                   selective column to remove at least one competitive ion from the radioisotope
20                 solution.
   [00067]         The process can further comprise the step of:
               a. receiving within a waste collecting means a radioisotope eluate solution
                   remaining after the at least one radioisotope has been captured on the
                   concentrator column.
25 [00068]         The radioisotope concentrator device can comprise a body having at least
   one exit port, the waste collecting means being adapted for operably connecting to the at
   least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid
   communication therebetween in use, the process further comprising the step of:
               a. operably connecting the waste collecting means to the at least one exit port of
30                 the body of the radioisotope concentrator device.
   [00069]         Preferably the waste collecting means comprises an evacuated vial, the
   process further comprising the step of:

                                                   13
               a. fluidly communicating the radioisotope eluate solution to the waste collecting
                   means under a negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the
                   evacuated vial.
   [00070]         The process can further comprise the step of:
 5             a. fluidly communicating an eluent through the concentrator column to elute the
                   at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column.
     [00071]       The process can further comprise the step of:
               a. receiving within a radioisotope collecting means the at least one radioisotope
                   eluted from the concentrator column with the eluent.
10 [00072]         Preferably the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body having at
   least one exit port, the radioisotope collecting means being adapted for operably connecting
   to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid
   communication therebetween in use, the process further comprising the step of:
               a. operably connecting the radioisotope collecting means to the at least one exit
15                 port of the radioisotope concentrator device.
   [00073]         The radioisotope collecting means can comprise an evacuated vial, the
   process further comprising the step of:
               a. fluidly communicating the at least one radioisotope to the waste radioisotope
                   means under a negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the
20                 evacuated vial.
   [00074]         The eluent comprises a saline solution.
   [00075]         The volume of saline solution used to elute the at least one radioisotope from
   the concentrator column        is preferably in the range from approximately 0.1         mL to
   approximately 2.0 mL.
25 [00076]         According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
   radioisotope concentrator device for use with a radioisotope source, the radioisotope
   concentrator device comprises a concentrator column adapted for selectively capturing at
   least one radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from the radioisotope source in
   use.
30 [00077]         Preferably the radioisotope concentrator device is for use with a radioisotope
   source, the radioisotope concentrator device comprising a concentrator column adapted
   for selective catch-and-release of at least one radioisotope from a radioisotope
   solution obtained from a radioisotope source in use, a body having at least one

                                                  14
   injection port and at least one valve being configurable in at least two ways; wherein
   an eluent can be received through the concentrator column via the at least one
   injection port when the at least one valve of the radioisotope concentrator device is
   in a selected open configuration in use.
 5 [00078]         In a preferred form the body has at least one injection port and at least
   one valve configurable between a first open configuration                    to prevent fluid
   communication between the at least one injection port and the concentrator column
   for allowing fluid communication between the at least one competitive ion selective
   sorbent column, the concentrator column, and the radioisotope source in use , and a
10 second open configuration for allowing fluid communication between the at least one
   injection port and the concentrator column, wherein the eluent can be received
   through the concentrator column via the at least one injection port when the at least
   one valve of the radioisotope concentrator device is in the second open configuration
   in use.
15 [00079]         The fluid communication in one configurable way can be between one
   competitive ion selective sorbent column, the concentrator column, an injection
   device,    a Millipore filter, and     the radioisotope        source in     use which      fluid
   communication is effected by a vacuum.
   [00080]         Preferably the vacuum is provided by the waste vial being connected to
20 the exit of the concentrator device and the vacuum from the evacuated waste vial
   causing saline solution of radioisotope to be drawn into HCISS column, the
   concentration column and the waste vial.
   [00081]         Advantageously, the ability to selectively capture the at least one radioisotope
   on the concentrator column enables a radioisotope eluate solution to be produced that has a
25 higher   radioisotope concentration than the radioisotope solution obtained            from the
   radioisotope source.
   [00082]         A radioisotope concentrator device can be applied to a radioisotope of
   Molybdenum/Technetium pairs for the separation/purification of Technetium from
   Molybdenum.
30 [00083]         Also the radioisotope concentrator device can be applied to the
   radioisotope source of Tungsten/Rhenium in which the separation/purification is of
   Rhenium from Tungsten .

                                                15
   [00084]        Preferably the invention provides a radioisotope concentrator device for
   use with a radioisotope source, the radioisotope concentrator device comprising: a
   concentrator column       adapted for selectively catch-and-release      at least one
   radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from the radioisotope source in
 5 use, a body having at least one injection port and at least one valve being
   configurable between a first open configuration to prevent fluid communication
   between the at least one injection port and the concentrator column for allowing fluid
   communication between the at least one competitive ion selective sorbent column,
   the concentrator column, and the radioisotope source in use , a second open
10 configuration for allowing fluid communication between the at least one injection port
   and the concentrator column, wherein an eluent can be received through the
   concentrator column via the at least one injection port when the at least one valve of
   the radioisotope concentrator device is in the second open configuration in use.
   [00085]        The fluid communication can be between one competitive ion selective
15 sorbent column, the concentrator column, the injection device the Millipore filter, and
   the radioisotope source in use is effected by the vacuum
   [00086]        The radioisotope source can be Molybdenum/Technetium pairs for the
   separation/purification of Technetium from Molybdenum or Tungsten/Rhenium the
   separation/purification is of Rhenium from Tungsten.
20 [00087]        Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device further comprises a
   body having an internal volume, the concentrator column being located substantially
   within the internal volume of the body in use.
   [00088]        Advantageously, the concentrator column being located substantially
   within the body reduces the risk of possible exposure to the radioisotope solution.
25 [00089]        Preferably, the body comprises support means for supporting the
   concentrator column substantially within the internal volume of the body in use.
   [00090]        Preferably, the body comprises at least one entry port, the concentrator
   column being in fluid communication with the at least one entry port.
   [00091]        Advantageously, the concentrator column receives the radioisotope
30 solution via the at least one entry port in use.

                                                16
   [00092]        Preferably, the body further comprises at least one exit port, the
   concentrator column being in fluid communication with the at least one exit port.
   [00093]        Preferably,   the radioisotope    source  is a radioisotope generator
   configured for generating the radioisotope solution.
 5 [00094]        Preferably, the radioisotope generator comprises an elution port, the
   radioisotope concentrator device further comprising a body having at least one entry
   port adapted for connecting to the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use.
   [00095]        Advantageously, the radioisotope concentrator device being connected
   directly to the radioisotope generator in use reduces the risk of possible loss of
10 radioisotope solution.
   [00096]        Advantageously, the radioisotope concentrator device being connected
   directly to the radioisotope generator in use reduces the risk of possible exposure to
   the radioisotope solution.
   [00097]        Preferably, the elution port of the radioisotope generator comprises a
15 needle device, the at least one entry port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device comprising a septum adapted to receive at least a portion of the
   needle device therethrough when connecting the radioisotope concentrator device to
   the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use.
   [00098]        Advantageously, the use of a needle device and septum reduces the
20 risk of possible exposure to the radioisotope solution.
   [00099]        Preferably,   the   radioisotope   source   is a   vial comprising   the
   radioisotope solution.
   [000100]       Preferably, the vial comprises a septum, the radioisotope concentrator
   device further comprising a body having at least one entry port equipped with a
25 septum, each septum being adapted to receive at least a portion of a corresponding
   end of a double-ended hollow needle device when connecting the vial to the
   radioisotope concentrator device in use.
   [000101]       Preferably, the body is generally elongate having a bottom portion and
   a top portion, the at least one entry port being located at the bottom portion and the
30 at least one exit port being located at the top portion.

                                                17
   [000102]        Preferably, the at least one exit port comprises connecting means for
   connecting to an evacuated vial in use.
   [000103]        Preferably, the connecting means comprises a needle device to at
   least partially penetrate a septum of the evacuated vial in use.
 5 [000104]        Advantageously, the use of a needle device and septum reduces the
   risk of possible exposure to a radioisotope eluate solution comprising the at least
   one radioisotope.
   [000105]        Preferably, the body comprises shielding means for shielding at least
   the concentrator column in use.
10 [000106]        Advantageously, the body comprising shielding means reduces the risk
   of possible exposure to the radioisotope solution in use.
   [000107]        Preferably, the body is generally elongate having a bottom portion, a
   top   portion, and a wall portion extending between the bottom portion and the top
   portion, each of the bottom portion, the top portion, and the wall portion being
15 manufactured from a radiation shielding material.
   [000108]        Advantageously, the top, bottom, and wall portions of the body being
   manufactured from a radiation shielding material to reduce the risk of possible
   exposure to the radioisotope solution in use.
   [000109]        Preferably, the radiation shielding material is lead or tungsten.
20 [000110]        Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device further comprises a
   competitive ion selective column adapted for removing at least one competitive ion
   from the radioisotope solution obtained from the radioisotope source in use.
   [000111]        Advantageously,     the  concentration   of the     radioisotope  solution
   obtained from the radioisotope source can be increased by virtue of the competitive
25 ion selective column selectively removing the at least one competitive ion from the
   radioisotope solution.
   [000112]        Preferably, the competitive ion selective column comprises a sorbent
   means for selectively capturing the at least one competitive ion in use.
   [000113]        Preferably, the competitive ion selective column is located upstream of
30 the concentrator column.

                                                18
   [000114]      Advantageously, competitive ionic species can be removed from the
   radioisotope solution by the competitive ion selective column before the solution
   reaches the concentrator column by virtue of the competitive ion selective column
   being located upstream of the concentrator column.
 5 [000115]       Preferably,    the   competitive  ion   selective   column   is  in  fluid
   communication with the concentrator column.
   [000116]       Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device further comprises a
   body having an internal volume, the competitive ion selective column being located
   substantially within the internal volume of the body in use.
10 [000117]      Advantageously, the competitive ion selective column being located
   substantially within the body reduces the risk of possible exposure to the
   radioisotope solution.
   [000118]       Preferably, the body comprises support means for supporting the
   competitive ion selective column substantially within the internal volume of the body
15 in use.
   [000119]       Preferably, the body comprises at least one entry port, the competitive
   ion selective column being in fluid communication with the at least one entry port.
   [000120]      Advantageously, the competitive ion selective column receives the
   radioisotope solution via the at least one entry port in use.
20 [000121]       Preferably, the at least one competitive ion is selected from the group
   of competitive ions comprising: a halide anion, and a breakthrough impurity ion.
   [000122]       Preferably, the halide anion is a chloride anion.
   [000123]      Advantageously, chloride ions within the radioisotope solution can be
   removed by the competitive ion selective column prior to the radioisotope solution
25 reaching the concentrator column.
   [000124]       Preferably, the radioisotope source is a         99Mo/ 99mTc radioisotope
   generator, the radioisotope solution obtained from the 99 Mo/9 9mTc radioisotope
   generator comprising a    99 Mo  breakthrough impurity ion.

                                               19
                                                                   188
   [000125]       Preferably, the radioisotope source is a            W/ 1 8 8 Re radioisotope
                                                                   18 8
   generator, the radioisotope solution obtained from the              W/ 1 8 8 Re radioisotope
                             188
   generator comprising a       W breakthrough impurity ion.
   [000126]       Preferably, the body comprises at least one injection port adapted to
 5 receive an injection device, the at least one injection port being operably connected
   to the concentrator column.
   [000127]       Preferably, the body further comprises a wall portion, the at least one
   injection port being located at the wall portion of the body.
   [000128]       Preferably, the injection device is adapted to receive an eluent for
10 eluting through the concentrator column in use.
   [000129]       Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope can be eluted from the
   concentrator column by introducing an eluent via the at least one injection port in
   use.
   [000130]       Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device further comprises at
15 least one valve being configurable between a first open configuration for allowing
   fluid communication between the at least one injection port and the concentrator
   column to elute the at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column with an
   eluent and a second open configuration for allowing fluid communication between
   the competitive ion selective column and the concentrator column in use.
20 [000131]       Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope can be selectively eluted
   from the concentrator column by introducing an eluent via the at least one injection
   port when the at least one valve is in the first open configuration in use.
   [000132]       Preferably, the body further comprises at least one exit port, the at
   least one valve being adapted for enabling fluid communication between the at least
25 one injection port and the at least one exit port when the at least one valve is in the
   first open configuration.
   [000133]       Preferably, the body further comprises at least one entry port and at
   least one exit port, the at least one valve being adapted for enabling fluid
   communication between the at least one entry port and the at least one exit port
30 when the at least one valve is in the second open configuration.

                                               20
   [000134]       Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device further comprises a
   body having an internal volume, at least a portion of the at least one valve being
   supported substantially within the internal volume of the body.
   [000135]       Advantageously, the at least portion of the at least one valve being
 5 located substantially within the body reduces the risk of possible exposure to the
   radioisotope solution in use.
   [000136]       Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device further comprises an
   competitive ion selective column adapted for removing at least one competitive ion
   from the radioisotope solution obtained from the radioisotope source in use, the at
10 least one valve being adapted for enabling fluid communication between the
   competitive ion selective column and the concentrator column when the at least one
   valve is in the second open configuration.
   [000137]       Advantageously, fluid communication of the radioisotope solution
   between the competitive ion selective column and the concentrator column is
15 possible when the at least one valve is in the second open configuration.
   [000138]       Preferably, the at least one valve comprises a valve actuating means
   being configurable between a first position corresponding to the at least one valve
   being in the first open configuration and a second position corresponding to the at
   least one valve being in the second open configuration.
20 [000139]       Advantageously, the at least one valve is transitioned between the first
   open configuration and the second open configuration by virtue of the valve
   actuating means.
   [000140]       Preferably, the valve actuating means is located externally of the body.
   [000141]       Advantageously, the valve actuating means being located externally of
25 the body enables a user to manually transition the at least one valve between the
   first open configuration and the second open configuration by virtue of the valve
   actuating means.
   [000142]       Preferably, the valve actuating means comprises a handle.
   [000143]       Advantageously, the at least one valve is transitioned between the first
30 open configuration and the second open configuration by virtue of a user manually
   actually the handle in use.

                                               21
   [000144]        Preferably, the concentrator column comprises a sorbent means for
   selectively capturing the at least one radioisotope from the radioisotope solution
   obtained from the radioisotope source in use.
   [000145]       Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope is selectively captured
 5 from the radioisotope solution by virtue of the sorbent means.
   [000146]        Preferably, the sorbent means comprises either a multifunctional
   sorbent material (MFS) or an inorganic sorbent. Preferably, multifunctional sorbent
   material is specified in Australia patent application AU2013903629.
   [000147]        Preferably, the sorbents are selective to retarding ions selected from
10 the group of ions comprising: pertechnetate [99mTcO 4-] anions and perrhenate
   [188 ReO4-] anions
   [000148]       Advantageously,      pertechnetate   [ 99mTc04-] anions  or   perrhenate
   [188 ReO4-] anions are selectively retarded either on the MFS material or on the
   inorganic sorbent by virtue of fluidly communicating the corresponding radioisotope
15 solution through the concentrator column in use.
   [000149]        Preferably, the sorbent means is selective to at least one radioisotope
   selected from the group of radioisotopes comprising: Tc-99m, and Re-188.
   [000150]       Advantageously, Tc-99m, or Re-188 is selectively retarded on the
   sorbent means by virtue of fluidly communicating the corresponding radioisotope
20 solution through the concentrator column in use.
   [000151]        Preferably, the concentrator column comprises a generally elongate
   column body being adapted for operably connecting with each of the at least one
   entry port and the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator
   device to allow fluid communication through the column body in use.
25 [000152]        Preferably, the column body comprises a bottom portion being adapted
   to operably connect to the at least one valve of the radioisotope concentrator device
   in use.
   [000153]        Preferably, the column body further comprises a top portion being
   adapted to connect to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope
30 concentrator device in use.

                                                22
   [000154]       Preferably, the concentrator column comprises a generally elongate
   column     body having an internal volume, the sorbent means               being located
   substantially within the internal volume of the column body.
   [000155]       According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
 5 system for capturing at least one radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained
   from a radioisotope source, the system comprising:
   -       a radioisotope source; and
   -       a radioisotope concentrator device as defined in any one of the preceding
   paragraphs, the radioisotope concentrator device being operably connected to the
10 radioisotope source to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
   [000156]       Advantageously,      the   radioisotope   solution   obtained   from  the
   radioisotope source can be fluidly communicated to the radioisotope concentrator
   device by virtue of the operable connection between the source and the device.
   [000157]       Preferably, the radioisotope source is a radioisotope generator
15 configured for generating the radioisotope solution.
   [000158]       Preferably, the radioisotope generator comprises an elution port, the
   radioisotope concentrator device comprising a body having at least one entry port
   adapted for connecting to the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use.
   [000159]       Advantageously,      the    radioisotope   solution  generated     by the
20 radioisotope generator is fluidly communicated from the elution port to the at least
   one entry port of the radioisotope concentrator device by virtue of the operable
   connection between the two devices.
   [000160]       Preferably, the elution port of the radioisotope generator comprises a
   needle device, the at least one entry port of the body of the radioisotope
25 concentrator device comprising a septum adapted to receive at least a portion of the
   needle device therethrough when connecting the radioisotope concentrator device to
   the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use.
   [000161]       Advantageously, the use of a needle device and septum reduces the
   risk of possible exposure to the radioisotope solution in use.
30 [000162]       Preferably,   the   radioisotope    source   is   a vial  comprising  the
   radioisotope solution.

                                               23
   [000163]       Preferably,   the vial comprises a septum          and the radioisotope
   concentrator device comprises a body having at least one entry port equipped with a
   septum, the system further comprising a double-ended hollow needle device, each
   septum being adapted to receive at least a portion of a corresponding end of the
 5 double-ended hollow needle device when connecting the vial to the radioisotope
   concentrator device in use.
   [000164]       Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body
   having at least one exit port, the system further comprising a radioisotope collecting
   means adapted for operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of
10 the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid communication therebetween in
   use.
   [000165]      Advantageously,     the   radioisotope   collecting   means is  operably
   connected to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator
   device to enable the at least one radioisotope to be collected from the concentrator
15 column in use.
   [000166]       Preferably, the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device comprises a needle device, the radioisotope collecting means
   comprising a septum adapted for receiving at least a portion of the needle device
   therethrough to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
20 [000167]      Advantageously, the use of a needle device and septum reduces the
   risk of possible exposure to the at least one radioisotope in use.
   [000168]       Preferably, the radioisotope collecting means comprises an evacuated
   vial, the evacuated vial comprising the septum.
   [000169]      Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope is collected as a
25 radioisotope eluate solution within the evacuated vial when the vial is operably
   connected to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator
   device in use.
   [000170]      Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope is collected as a
   radioisotope eluate solution within the evacuated vial by virtue of the negative
30 pressure that is applied to the at least one exit port when the evacuated vial is
   operably connected to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device in use.

                                               24
   [000171]       Preferably,   the  radioisotope   collecting   means further    comprises
   shielding means for shielding the evacuated vial in use.
   [000172]       Advantageously,     the   radioisotope    collecting  means    comprising
   shielding means reduces the risk of possible exposure to the radioisotope eluate
 5 solution in use.
   [000173]       Preferably, the radioisotope collecting means comprises housing for
   receiving at least a portion of the evacuated vial therein.
   [000174]       Preferably, the housing is manufactured from a radiation shielding
   material.
10 [000175]       Advantageously, the housing being manufactured from a radiation
   shielding material reduces the risk of possible exposure to the radioisotope eluate
   solution in use.
   [000176]       Preferably, the radiation shielding material is lead or tungsten.
   [000177]       Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body
15 having at least one exit port, the system further comprising a waste collecting means
   adapted for operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the
   radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
   [000178]       Advantageously, the waste collecting means is operably connected to
   the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device to
20 enable the waste from the radioisotope solution to be collected in the waste
   collecting means after the at least one radioisotope has been selectively captured on
   the concentrator column in use.
   [000179]       Preferably, the waste collecting means comprises an evacuated vial,
   the evacuated vial comprising a septum adapted for receiving at least a portion of
25 the needle device therethrough to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
   [000180]       Advantageously, the waste from the radioisotope solution is collected
   within the evacuated vial when the vial is operably connected to the at least one exit
   port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device in use.
   [000181]       Advantageously, the waste from the radioisotope solution is collected
30 within the evacuated vial by virtue of the negative pressure that is applied to the at

                                               25
   least one exit port when the evacuated vial is operably connected to the at least one
   exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device in use.
   [000182]        Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body
   having at least one injection port and at least one valve being configurable between
 5 a first open configuration to prevent fluid communication between the at least one
   injection device and the concentrator column and a second open configuration for
   allowing fluid communication between the at least one injection port and the
   concentrator column in use, the system further comprising an injection device
   comprising an eluent for eluting through the concentrator column via the at least one
10 injection port when the at least one valve of the radioisotope concentrator device is
   in the second open configuration in use.
   [000183]       Advantageously, the at least one radioisotope can be selectively eluted
   from the concentrator column by introducing an eluent via the at least one injection
   port when the at least one valve is in the second open configuration in use.
15 [000184]       According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided
   a radioisotope     concentrator device for use with a radioisotope source, the
   radioisotope concentrator device comprising:
   -       a body having an internal volume;
   -       a concentrator column disposed within the internal volume, the concentrator
20 column being adapted for selectively capturing at least one radioisotope from a
   radioisotope solution obtained from the radioisotope source in use; and
   -       a competitive ion selective column disposed within the internal volume, the
   competitive ion selective column being adapted for removing at least one competitive
   ion from the radioisotope solution obtained from the radioisotope source in use.
25 [000185]       Advantageously, the ability to selectively capture the at least one
   radioisotope on the concentrator column enables a radioisotope eluate solution to be
   produced that has a higher radioisotope concentration than the radioisotope solution
   obtained from the radioisotope source.
   [000186]        Preferably, the competitive ion selective column is located upstream of
30 the concentrator column.

                                                 26
   [000187]       Advantageously, the purity of the radioisotope solution generated by
   the radioisotope generator can be increased before the radioisotope solution
   reaches the concentrator column by virtue of the competitive ion selective column
   being located upstream of the concentrator column.
 5 [000188]       Preferably, the body comprises at least one entry port, the at least one
   entry port being in fluid communication with the internal volume.
   [000189]       Preferably, the body further comprises at least one exit port, the at
   least one exit port being in fluid communication with the internal volume.
   [000190]       Preferably,   the radioisotope    source is a radioisotope     generator
10 configured for generating the radioisotope solution.
   [000191]       Preferably, the radioisotope generator comprises an elution port, the
   body further comprising at least one entry port being in fluid communication with the
   internal volume, the at least one entry port being adapted for connecting to the
   elution port of the radioisotope generator in use.
15 [000192]       Preferably,   the    radioisotope  source  is  a  vial  comprising    the
   radioisotope solution.
   [000193]       Preferably, the vial comprises a septum, the body further comprising at
   least one entry port equipped with a septum, the at least one entry port being in fluid
   communication with the internal volume, each septum being adapted to receive at
20 least a portion of a corresponding end of a double-ended hollow needle device when
   connecting the vial to the radioisotope concentrator device in use.
   [000194]       Preferably, the at least one exit port comprises connecting means for
   connecting to an evacuated vial in use.
   [000195]       Preferably, the body comprises at least one injection port adapted to
25 receive an injection device, the at least one injection port being operably connected
   to the concentrator column.
   [1]     Preferably, the radioisotope concentrator device further comprises at least
   one valve being configurable between a first open configuration for allowing fluid
30 communication between the competitive ion selective column and the concentrator
   column in use and a second open configuration for allowing fluid communication

                                                27
   between the at least one injection port and the concentrator column in use to elute
   the at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column with an eluent.
   [000196]       Preferably, the body further comprises at least one exit port, the at
   least one valve being adapted for enabling fluid communication between the at least
 5 one injection port and the at least one exit port when the at least one valve is in the
   second open configuration.
   [000197]       Preferably, the body further comprises at least one entry port and at
   least one exit port, the at least one valve being adapted for enabling fluid
   communication between the at least one entry port and the at least one exit port
10 when the at least one valve is in the first open configuration in use.
   [000198]       Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   [000199]       Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the
   present invention, preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by
15 way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings and examples in
   which:
                  Figure 1 shows a perspective view (in exploded form) of a system
                  comprising    a   radioisotope    concentrator    device   for capturing
                  radioisotopes from a radioisotope solution generated by a radioisotope
20                generator (shown     in   dashed outline)    according   to a  preferred
                  embodiment of the present invention;
                  Figure 2 shows a cross-sectional view of the radioisotope concentrator
                  device of Figure 1;
                  Figure 3 shows a second cross-sectional side view of the radioisotope
25                concentrator device of Figure 1; and
                  Figures 4 and 5 are diagrammatic flow diagrams of the process for
                  producing a concentrated radioisotope eluate solution in accordance
                  with a preferred embodiment of the present invention.

                                               28
                 Figure 6 shows a schematic representation illustrating a process for
                 producing a concentrated radioisotope eluate solution in accordance
                 with a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
   Description of Embodiments
 5 [000200]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same
   reference numerals in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
   [000201]      Figure 1 shows a system 10 comprising a radioisotope concentrator
   device 20 configured for use with a radioisotope source in the form of a radioisotope
   generator 100 (shown in dashed outline) for selectively capturing radioisotopes from
10 a radioisotope solution generated by the radioisotope generator 100 according to a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention.
   [000202]      In this embodiment, the radioisotope concentrator device 20 is
   provided in the form of housing and a group of interconnectable sterile components
   which are configured to be supported as a single unit within the housing in use.
15 Advantageously, the single unit is a sterile disposable cartridge.
   HOUSING
   [000203]      In relation to the housing, the concentrator device 20 comprises two
   generally cylindrical portions, a first body portion 32 and a second body portion 34,
   that are adapted to couple together in use to define a generally elongate cylindrical
20 body 30. Advantageously, the cylindrical portions of the housing are of multiple uses.
   For each use, one sterile disposable cartridge (single unit) is inserted into the
   housing.
   [000204]      The first body portion 32 comprises a top end portion 32a and a bottom
   end portion 32b and a wall portion 32c extending between the top end portion 32a
25 and the bottom end portion 32b. The top end portion 32a, bottom end portion 32b
   and wall portion 32c together define a generally hollow cylindrical cavity. Located at
   the bottom end portion 32b is a flange portion 32d that extends outwardly and
   generally laterally from the wall portion 32c. The top end portion 32a, the bottom end
   portion 32b, and the wall portion 32c are each manufactured from a radiation
30 shielding material to afford the first body portion 32 with shielding means to shield a
   user from exposure to any radioactive material located within the first body portion
   32. In this embodiment, the radiation shielding material is lead or tungsten.

                                                29
   [000205]        Located at the top end portion 32a of the first body portion 32 is a
   generally circular opening in the form of an exit port 32e.
   [000206]        The second body portion 34 comprises a top end portion 34a and a
   bottom end portion 34b, and a wall portion 34c extending between the top end
 5 portion 34a and the bottom end portion 34b. The top end portion 34a, bottom end
   portion 34b and wall portion 34c together define a generally hollow cylindrical cavity.
   Located at the top end portion 34a is a flange portion 34d that extends outwardly and
   generally laterally from the wall portion 34c.
   [000207]        The top end portion 34a, the bottom end portion 34b, and the wall
10 portion 34c are each manufactured from a radiation shielding material to afford the
   second body portion 34 with shielding means to shield a user from exposure to any
   radioactive material located within the second body portion 34. In this embodiment,
   the radiation shielding material is lead or tungsten.
   [000208]        Located at the bottom end portion 34b is a generally cylindrical hollow
15 portion in the form of an entry port 34e that extends downwardly from the bottom end
   portion 34b. The cylindrical entry port 34e has an external diameter that is smaller
   than the external diameter of the second body portion 34.
   [000209]        The flange portion 32d of the first body portion 32 and the flange
   portion 34d of the second body portion 34 each comprise first and second locking
20 apertures (not shown) located at opposing sides of the corresponding flange portion
   32d and 34d. Each of the first and second locking apertures are oriented generally
   parallel to the longitudinal axis of the concentrator device 10 and extend substantially
   through the corresponding flange portion 32d and 34d from the upper surface of the
   flange portion to the lower surface.
25 [000210]       As shown in Figure 2, the flange portion 32d of the first body portion 32
   and the flange portion 34d of the second body portion 34 each further comprise a
   generally semicircular aperture 32f and 34f that extends substantially through the
   corresponding portion of the wall portion 32c and 34c into the respective internal
   cavity of the first body portion 32 and the second body portion 34.
30 STERILE COMPONENTS
   [000211]        In relation to the sterile components configured to be supported as a
   single unit (sterile disposable cartridge) within the body 30 of the radioisotope

                                                30
   concentrator device 20, the four main interconnectable sterile components include:
   an injection device, a concentrator column 200, a competitive ion selective column
   300, and a valve 400 operably connecting the concentrator column 200 to the
   competitive ion selective column 300 in use.
 5 INJECTION DEVICE
   [000212]        As shown in Figure 3, the flange portion 32d of the first body portion 32
   and the flange portion 34d of the second body portion 34 each further comprise an
   additional generally semicircular aperture 32g and 34g that extends substantially
   through the corresponding portion of the wall portion 32c and 34c to the internal
10 cavity of the first body portion 32 and the second body portion 34, respectively.
   Affixed to the wall portion 34c of the second body portion 34 at the location of the
   generally semicircular aperture 34g is an injection port 40 for use in mounting an
   injection device 45 to the concentrator device 20. The injection port 40 comprises an
   opening 42 to receive and support the injection device 45 therein. The inlet port of the
15 injection device 45 is fitted with an air inlet which is vented to the atmosphere with a
   sterilizing (0.22 micron) filter 540 to ensure that the sterility of the system 10 is not
   compromised while allowing air to pass through the fluid flow thus assuring complete
   withdrawal of all liquid and the radioisotopes dissolved therein through the system 10.
   [000213]        In this arrangement, the first and second body portions 32 and 34 are
20 brought together such that their respective flange portions 32d and 34d are
   substantially engaged. The first and second locking apertures in the flange portion
   32d of the first body portion 32 are aligned with the corresponding first and second
   locking apertures in the flange portion 34d of the second body portion 34 and a bolt
   (not shown) is passed through each of the aligned pairs of first and second locking
25 apertures to lock the first body portion 32 and the second body portion 34 together to
   form the body 30 of the concentrator device 20 having a generally cylindrical shape
   and an internal volume 305.
   [000214]        The radioisotope generator 100 used may be any type of commercially
   available generator that comprises an elution port to enable the radioisotope
30 concentrator device 20 to be mounted thereto.
   [000215]        In this embodiment, and as shown in Figure 1, the radioisotope
   generator 100 (shown in dashed outline) comprises a generally cylindrical body

                                               31
   having a top end portion 102 and an opposing bottom end portion 104. Located at
   the top end portion 102 is a generally circular recess in the form of an elution port
   110 that extends part way down from the top end portion 102 to terminate in a
   generally circular base 114. Extending upwardly through the base 114 is a needle
 5 device in the form of a hollow spike or needle 120 oriented generally orthogonally to
   the base 114. The tip of the needle 120- terminates below the top end portion 102 of
   the radioisotope generator 100. In use, the radioisotope solution generated by the
   radioisotope generator 100 passes through the hollow needle 120 to exit the elution
   port 110.
10 [000216]      The internal diameter of the elution port 110 is larger than, but
   complementary to, the external diameter of the cylindrical entry port 34e of the
   second body portion 34 of the concentrator device 20. In this arrangement, the
   elution port 110 is configured to receive the entry port 34e of the second body
   portion 34 therein when the concentrator device 20 is mounted to the radioisotope
15 generator 100 in use.
   [000217]      The entry port 34e of the second body portion 34 of the body 30 of the
   radioisotope concentrator device 20 comprises an aperture 35.
   CONCENTRATOR COLUMN
   [000218]      As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the concentrator column 200 is a
20 chromatographic      column    configured    for   selectively capturing the  desired
   radioisotopes from the radioisotope solution eluted from the radioisotope generator
   100 in use. The concentrator column 200 comprises a generally elongate hollow
   column body 210 having a top portion 212 and an opposing bottom portion 214.
   Packed within the hollow column body 210 is a suitable sorbent means or stationary
25 phase (not shown) for selectively capturing the desired radioisotopes.
   [000219]      Located at the top portion 212 of the column body 210 is a hollow
   spigot 212a which is in fluid communication with the hollow column body 210.
   Mounted to the spigot 212a is a hollow syringe needle 220 which is oriented
   generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the column body 210. The bottom portion
30 214 of the column body 210 comprises an internally threaded portion (not shown).

                                             32
   COMPETITIVE ION SELECTIVE COLUMN
   [000220]       As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the competitive ion selective column 300 is
   configured    for selectively removing   competitive ions such as,       for example,
   interfering/competing halide anions like chloride anions present within the saline
 5 solution, and molybdate (Mo-99) or tungstate (W-188) ions associated with a
   corresponding Mo-99 or W-188 breakthrough that may occur in the radioisotope
   solution eluted from the corresponding Mo-99/Tc-99m or W-188/Re-188 radioisotope
   generator 100 in use. Such competitive ions will compete with the corresponding Tc
   99m or Re-188 radioisotope for adsorption on the concentrator column 200, thereby
10 reducing the overall concentration of the final radioisotope solution. The competitive
   ion selective column 300, hereafter referred to as the Halide and Competitive Ion
   Selective Sorbent (HCISS) column 300, comprises a generally elongate hollow
   column body 310 having a top portion 312 and an opposing bottom portion 314.
   Packed within the hollow column body 310 of the HCISS column 300 is a suitable
15 stationary phase (not shown) for selectively removing the desired halide anion
   impurities from the eluted radioisotope solution.
   [000221]       The top portion 312 of the HCISS column body 310 comprises a male
   luer connection (not shown). The bottom portion 314 of the column body 310 has an
   external diameter that is of suitable dimension to locate within the hollow cylindrical
20 entry port 34e of the second body portion 34 of the concentrator device 20.
   [000222]       In this arrangement, when the concentrator column 200, the HCISS
   column 300, and the valve 400 are all connected together, the interconnected sterile
   components are supported as a single unit substantially within the internal volume
   305 of the body 30 of the concentrator device 20 by virtue of the top portion 312 of
25 the HCISS column body 310 being supported on the inner wall surface 34h of the
   bottom end portion 34b of the second body portion 34 such that the bottom portion
   314 of the HCISS column body 310 locates within the internal cavity of the hollow
   cylindrical entry port 34e.
   [000223]       The bottom portion 314 of the HCISS column body 310 comprises at a
30 terminal end thereof, a septum 325.

                                              33
   VALVE
   [000224]       As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the valve 400 is a three-way valve
   comprising a first end portion 410, a second end portion 420, and a third end portion
   430. The first end portion 410 comprises an externally threaded portion (not shown)
 5 which is complementary to the internally threaded portion at the bottom portion 214
   of the concentrator column body 210 to enable the concentrator column 200 to be
   operably connected to the valve 400. The second end portion 420 of the valve 400
   comprises a female luer connection (not shown) which is complementary to the male
   luer connection at the top portion 312 of the HCISS column body 310 to enable the
10 HCISS column 300 to be operably connected to the valve 400.
   [000225]       The third end portion 430 of the valve 400 is connected via an elongate
   tube 435 to the injection device 45 mounted within the opening 42 of the injection
   port 440 to enable the injection device 45 to be operably connected to the valve 400.
   [000226]       As shown in Figure 3, the injection device 45 is in the form of a syringe
15 that is configured to comprise a suitable eluent such as, for example, saline solution.
   [000227]       The valve 400 further comprises a valve actuating means in the form of
   a handle or lever 440. The lever 440 is operably connected at a terminal end thereof
   to the valve 400 by virtue of an elongate pin 450.
   [000228]       In this arrangement, the valve 400 is configurable between a first open
20 configuration for allowing fluid communication between the injection device 45 and
   the concentrator column 200 to elute selectively captured radioisotopes from the
   concentrator column 200 with the saline solution eluent and a second open
   configuration to prevent fluid communication between the injection device 45 and the
   concentrator column 200, but to allow fluid communication between the HCISS
25 column 300 and the concentrator column 200. The valve 400 is manually operated
   by virtue of the lever 440, which         is configurable    between    a first position
   corresponding to the valve 400 being in the first open configuration and a second
   position corresponding to the valve 400 being in the second open configuration.
   [000229]       When the first and second body portions 32 and 34 of the cylindrical
30 body 30 of the concentrator device 20 are brought together to enclose the
   interconnected sterile components within the internal volume 305 of the body 30, the
   flange portions 32d and 34d substantially engage, such that the first set of

                                              34
   semicircular apertures 32f and 34f of the corresponding first body portion 32 and the
   second body portion 34 align to form a first generally circular aperture, and the
   second set of semicircular apertures 32g and 34g align to form a second generally
   circular aperture. The first, second and third end portions 410, 420, and 430 of the
 5 valve 400 are supported substantially within the internal volume 305 of the body 30
   of the concentrator device 20, and the pin 450 of the valve 400 extends outwardly
   from the internal volume 305 of the body 30 through the circular aperture defined by
   the first set of semicircular apertures 32f and 34f such that the lever 440 is located
   externally of the body 30. The elongate tube 435 extends outwardly from the internal
10 volume 305 of the body 30 through the circular aperture defined by the second set of
   semicircular apertures 32g and 34g to operably connect with the injection device 45
   at the injection port 40.
   [000230]       As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, when the three main interconnectable
   sterile components of the radioisotope concentrator device 20 are operably
15 connected together and supported within the internal volume 305 of the body 30, the
   HCISS column 300 is located upstream of the concentrator column 200.
   [000231]       In this arrangement, the concentrator column 200 is in direct fluid
   communication with the exit port 32e of the radioisotope concentrator device 20 by
   virtue of the needle 220 being located within the entry port 32e. The concentrator
20 column 200 is also in fluid communication with the entry port 34e of the radioisotope
   concentrator device 20        by virtue of the operable connection between         the
   concentrator column 200 and the HCISS column 300 when the valve 400 is in the
   second open configuration to enable fluid communication.
   RADIOISTOPE COLLECTING MEANS
25 [000232]       As shown in Figure 3, the system 10 further comprises a radioisotope
   collecting means in the form of a housing 500 and an evacuated vial 510 sealed with
   a septum 515 which is configured to be received within the housing 500 in use. A
   sterilizing (0.22 micron) filter 535 is fitted between the septum 515 and the
   concentrator column 200 to ensure that the sterility of the system 10 is not
30 compromised.
   [000233]       The housing 500 comprises a generally circular base portion 504 and a
   wall portion 503 extending upwardly from the base portion 504 and terminating at a

                                              35
   top portion 502 to define a generally cylindrical shaped housing 500 with an internal
   volume 505.
   [000234]       The evacuated vial 510 can be sealed within the housing 500 by virtue
   of a cap 520 that can be applied to the top portion 502 of the housing 500. The cap
 5 520 comprises a generally circular top portion 522 and a skirt portion 525 disposed
   around the periphery of the top portion 522. The top portion 502 of the housing 500
   has a slightly smaller external diameter than the base portion 504 and comprises an
   externally threaded portion (not shown). The skirt portion 525 of the cap 520
   comprises a complementary internally threaded portion (not shown) to meshingly
10 engage the externally threaded portion at the top portion 502 of the housing 500 to
   seal the vial 510 within the housing 500 in use.
   [000235]       The cap 520 comprises an aperture 530 extended substantially through
   the circular top portion 522. The aperture 530 is smaller in diameter than the
   diameter of the evacuated vial 510 to prevent the vial 510 from falling out through the
15 aperture 530 of the cap 520 when the sealed housing 500 is inverted in use. The
   aperture 530 provides access to the septum 515 of the evacuated vial 510 in use.
   [000236]       The housing 500 and the cap 520 are both manufactured from a
   radiation shielding material such as lead or tungsten to shield users from exposure to
   any radioisotopes collected within the vial 510 once eluted from the concentrator
20 column 200.
   [000237]       The system 10 further comprises a generally cylindrical sheath 550 that
   is configured to act as an adaptor to enable at least the top portion 502 of the
   housing 500 and the cap 520 to fit snugly within the exit port 32e located at the top
   end portion 32a of the first body portion 32 in use. The sheath 550 comprises an
25 internal diameter that is complementary to the external diameters of the cap 520 and
   the housing 500, and an external diameter that is complementary to the internal
   diameter of the exit port 32e. In this embodiment, the sheath 550 is manufactured
   from a suitable engineering polymer such as, for example, high density polyethylene
   (HDPE) or polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE).
30 [000238]       The system 10 further comprises shielding means in the form of a
   generally elongate shield plate 545 that is configured for inserting through a slot 32h
   extending substantially through the wall portion 32c at the top end portion 32a of the

                                               36
   first body portion 32. In use, the shield plate 545 is located into the radiation path to
   shield the skyshine stream from the concentrator column 200 when the radioisotope
   (Tc-99m) is loaded onto the inorganic sorbent.
   [000239]       The shield plate 545 is manufactured from a radiation shielding
 5 material such as lead or tungsten.
   WASTE COLLECTING MEANS
   [000240]       As shown in Figure 2, the system 10 further comprises a waste
   collecting means in the form of a housing 620 and an evacuated vial 610 sealed with
   a septum 615, which is configured to be received within the housing 620 in use.
10 [000241]       The housing 620 comprises a generally circular base portion 624 and a
   wall portion 623 extending upwardly from the base portion 624 and terminating at a
   top portion 622 to define a generally cylindrical shaped housing 620 with an internal
   volume 626.
   [000242]       The evacuated vial 610 can be sealed within the internal volume 626 of
15 the housing 620 by virtue of a cap 625 that can be applied to the top portion 622 of
   the housing 620. The cap 625 comprises a generally circular top portion 627 and a
   skirt portion 628 disposed around the periphery of the top portion 627. The top
   portion 622 of the housing 620 has a slightly smaller external diameter than the base
   portion 624 and comprises an externally threaded portion (not shown). The skirt
20 portion 628 of the cap 625 comprises a complementary internally threaded portion
   (not shown) to meshingly engage the externally threaded portion at the top portion
   622 of the housing 620 to seal the vial 610 within the housing 620 in use.
   [000243]       The housing 620 and the cap 625 are both manufactured from a
   radiation shielding material such as lead or tungsten to shield users from
25 exposure to any radioisotopes collected within the vial 610 if accidently eluted from
   the concentrator column 200.      The external diameter of the evacuated vial 610 is
   smaller than, but complementary to, the internal diameter of the exit port 32e located
   at the top end portion 32a of the first body portion 32.
   PROCESS
30 [000244]       Referring to Figures 5 and 6 there is shown a general process 700
   using a radioisotope concentrator device 20 for selectively capturing radioisotopes

                                              37
   from a highly dilute saline solution of radioisotopes eluted from the radioisotope
   generator 100 and then eluting the captured radioisotopes from the radioisotope
   concentrator device 20 as a pure and more concentrated saline solution of the
   desired radioisotopes by the radioisotope concentrator device 20 being configured
 5 for selectively capturing isotope from the saline solution eluted from the radioisotope
   generator 100 by the stationary phase packed within the column body 210 of the
   concentrator column 200 being either a multifunctional sorbent material or an
   inorganic sorbent selective to retard the radioisotope      anions wherein the method
   includes the steps of:
10 [000245]        The radioisotope concentrator having a valve, wherein with the valve is
   placed in a first position 710 such that the valve 400 is in the first open configuration
   and the HCISS column 300, the concentrator column 200, and the evacuated vial
   610 being in fluid communication:
           i. In a first step 715, the cylindrical entry port 34e of the assembled
15            radioisotope concentrator device 20 and its self-aligning port is inserted
              into an elution port 110 of the radioisotope generator 100 at the bottom
              portion 314 of the HCISS column body 310.
          ii. In a second step 720, the evacuated vial 610 of the waste collecting means
              is inverted and then inserted into the exit port 32e of the body 30 of the
20            concentrator device 20 and the its self-aligning port enables fluid
              communication between the concentrator column 200 and the evacuated
              vial 610.
   [000246]        A third step 735 has the vacuum within the evacuated vial 610
   imparting a negative pressure on the system 10 causing the saline solution of
25 radioisotope to be drawn up through the HCISS column 300 and the concentration
   column 200 into the vial 610.
   [000247]        In step 740 in this arrangement, the HCISS column 300 comprises a
   stationary phase that allows removing the competitive ions from the eluate solution
   and consecutively to allows selective capture (catching) of the desired radioisotope
30 on either a multifunctional sorbent material or an inorganic sorbent in the
   concentrator column 200.

                                                   38
   [000248]         The remaining eluate solution is captured within the vial 610 as non
   radioactive effluent waste in step 745.
   [000249]         The next step 750, the Millipore filter housed in a self-aligning insertion
   device is inserted into the exit port 32a of the body 30 of the concentrator device 20.
 5 [000250]         In a further step 755 has the radioisotope concentrator valve rotated to
   the second position such that the valve 400 is in the second open configuration and
   the injection device 45, the concentrator column 200, the Millipore filter 535, and the
   evacuated round bottom vial 510 of the pure and concentrated radioisotope solution
   collecting means 500 being in fluid communication wherein
10        iii. In step 760, the evacuated vial 510 of the radioisotope collecting means is
               placed within the housing 500 and sealed and the sealed housing 500 is
               then inverted and inserted into the exit port 32e of the body 30 of the
               radioisotope concentrator device 20;
          iv. The insertion device at the exit port 32e penetrates the evacuated vial 510
15             in step 765 to enable fluid communication between the injection device 45,
               the concentrator column 200, and the evacuated vial 510;
           v. And in step 770 the vacuum within the evacuated vial 510 imparts a
               negative pressure on the system 10 causing the low volume saline solution
               to be drawn up from the injection device 45 into the vial 510 via the
20             concentrator column 200 and allows the concentrator column 200 to elute
               (release)     the   selectively   captured    radioisotope    anions    from    the
               concentrator column 200;
   whereby the output 780 is the resulting low volume post-elution saline solution
   radioisotope in the vial 510 can be used for radio-labelling an organ-specific
25 pharmaceutical       or used      directly without pharmaceutical       tagging for specific
   procedures        requiring     only    the    radioisotope    anions     as    the    primary
   radiopharmaceutical.
   [000251]         The    effect   of a general      process   700    using   the   radioisotope
   concentrator device 20 is for selectively capturing radioisotopes from a highly dilute
30 saline solution of radioisotopes eluted from the radioisotope generator 100 and then
   eluting the captured radioisotopes from the radioisotope concentrator device 20 as a
   pure and more concentrated saline solution of the desired radioisotopes.

                                              39
   [000252]      In this embodiment, the radioisotope generator 100 is a Mo-99/Tc-99m
   generator, and the radioisotope concentrator device 20 is configured for selectively
   capturing   Technetium-99m       (Tc-99m)     from   the  saline  solution  of  sodium
   pertechnetate Na+[99 mTc04-] eluted from the Mo-99/Tc-99m generator 100. In this
 5 embodiment, the stationary phase (not shown) packed within the column body 210 of
   the concentrator column 200 is either a multifunctional sorbent material (a product of
   MEDISOTEC       (Medical Isotope Techniques) as specified in Australia           Patent
   Application AU2013903629) or an inorganic sorbent, which are selective to retarding
   the pertechnetate [99mTcO 4-] anions.
10 [000253]      The cylindrical     entry  port    34e  of the   assembled   radioisotope
   concentrator device 20 is inserted into the elution port 110 of the Mo-99/Tc-99m
   generator 100 according to a first step, such that the hollow needle 120 of the Mo
   99/Tc-99m generator 100 extends through the aperture 35 in the entry port 34e and
   at least the needle tip of the needle 120 penetrates the septum 325 at the bottom
15 portion 314 of the HCISS column body 310.
   [000254]      The evacuated vial 610 of the waste collecting means is inverted and
   then inserted into the exit port 32e of the body 30 of the concentrator device 20
   according to a second step. The needle tip of the needle 220 at the exit port 32e
   penetrates the septum 615 of the evacuated vial 610 to enable fluid communication
20 between the concentrator column 200 and the evacuated vial 610.
   [000255]      In a third step, the lever 440 of the valve 400 is rotated to the second
   position such that the valve 400 is in the second open configuration and the HCISS
   column 300, the concentrator column 200, and the evacuated vial 610 are in fluid
   communication. The vacuum within the evacuated vial 610 imparts a negative
25 pressure on the system 10 causing the saline solution of sodium pertechnetate
   Na+[99mTc04-] to be drawn up through the HCISS column 300 and the concentration
   column 200 into the vial 610. In this arrangement, the HCISS column 300 comprises
   a stationary phase (not shown) that is selective towards the chloride and Mo-99
   anions of the saline eluate solution, while the pertechnetate [99mTc04-] anions are
30 selectively captured on the inorganic sorbent of the concentrator column 200. The
   remaining Tc-99m eluate solution is captured within the vial 610 as non-radioactive
   effluent waste. The vial 610 containing the non-radioactive effluent waste is then
   removed from the exit port 32e of the radioisotope concentrator device 20.

                                                  40
   [000256]         182]    In a fourth step, the lever 440 of the valve 400 is rotated to the
   first position such that the valve 400 is in the first open configuration and the
   injection device 45, the concentrator column 200, and the evacuated vial 510 are in
   fluid communication.
 5 [000257]         In a fifth step, the evacuated vial 510 of the radioisotope collecting
   means is placed within the housing 500 and sealed using the cap 520. The sealed
   housing 500 is then inverted and inserted into the exit port 32e of the body 30 of the
   radioisotope concentrator device 20. The needle tip of the needle 220 at the exit port
   32e penetrates the septum 515 of the evacuated vial 510 to enable fluid
10 communication between the concentrator column 200, the sterile 0.22 pm-Millipore
   filter 535, and the evacuated vial 510.
   [000258]         The vacuum within the evacuated vial 510 imparts a negative pressure
   on the system 10 causing the low volume saline solution of pertechnetate [Y9 mTcO 4-]
   anions to be drawn up into the vial 510. A small volume of eluent, in this case, a
15 normal saline [0.9%] solution, is then fluidly communicated from the injection device
   45 to the concentrator column 200 to elute the selectively captured pertechnetate
   [9 9mTc0 4 -] anions from the concentrator column 200.
   [000259]         The resulting low volume post-elution saline solution of sodium
   pertechnetate in the vial 510 can be used for radio-labelling an organ-specific
20 pharmaceutical       or used     directly without pharmaceutical     tagging for specific
   procedures requiring only the      99 mTc04- anions as the primary radiopharmaceutical.
   [000260]         In other embodiments, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art
   that the desired radioisotopes for purification and concentration do not necessarily
   have to be first eluted from a radioisotope generator 100 before passing through the
25 radioisotope concentrator device 20 as described above, but may simply be
   extracted from a solution of radioisotopes dissolved in a vial (not shown) that is
   introduced at the cylindrical entry port 34e of the assembled                  radioisotope
   concentrator device 20 and then drawn               up through the columns within the
   radioisotope concentrator device 20 by virtue of the vacuum afforded by the
30 evacuated vials 610 and 510 at the relevant stage of the purification and
   concentration process, respectively. In one arrangement, it will be appreciated by
   those skilled in the art that the vial comprising the radioisotope solution is capped

                                               41
   with a septum. As such, the vial is inserted into the cylindrical entry port 34e of the
   assembled radioisotope concentrator device 20, and a double-ended hollow needle
   (not   shown) is employed to operably connect the vial to the radioisotope
   concentrator device 20 by virtue of a needle tip at one end of the hollow needle
 5 penetrating the septum in the vial and a needle tip at the other end of the hollow
   needle extending through the aperture 35 in the entry port 34e and penetrating the
   septum 325 at the bottom portion 314 of the HCISS column body 310 to enable fluid
   communication of the radioisotope solution from the vial to the radioisotope
   concentrator device 20.
10 EXAMPLES
   [000261]      The following examples are put forth so as to provide persons skilled in
   the art with a complete disclosure and description of how to use the radioisotope
   concentrator device 20 according to the preferred embodiments of the present
   invention, and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.
15 [000262]      Every effort has been made to ensure accuracy with respect to
   numbers (e.g., concentration factors, radioactivity, life time, etc.) but some errors and
   deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise, radioactivity is in
   mCi / GBq, where [1 curie (Ci) is 37 Giga Becquerels (GBq) and 1Bq is 2.7027 x 10
   11  Ci], the concentration factor is measured by [Radioisotope concentration in
20 solution volume (before)]/ [Radioisotope concentration in solution volume (after)] (no
   units), and the life time is measured in days.
   EXAMPLE 1
   [000263]      A study was performed using the radioisotope concentrator device 20
   described in the embodiments above mounted to the elution port 110 of a Mo-99/Tc
25 99m generator 100. The volume of the Tc-99m eluate solution generated from the
   Mo-99/Tc-99m generator was 10 mL. After passing the Tc-99m solution through the
   radioisotope concentrator device 20 (a process time of less than 5 minutes), the
   selectively captured pertechnetate anions were eluted with 0.9% saline solution to
   achieve a post-elution Tc-99m solution with a volume of 1.0 mL, corresponding to a
30 concentration factor of 10.
   [000264]      In other examples, concentration factors of between 10 and 20 have
   been achieved.

                                                42
   EXAMPLE 2
   [000265]       A study was conducted using two commercially available radioisotope
   generators to evaluate the effectiveness of the post-elution Tc-99m concentrating
   process for increasing the useful life time of the Mo-99/Tc-99m generator.
 5 [000266]       The results of the study are listed in Table 1.
   TABLE 1
   Radioactivity   Life time of generator useful for Life time of generator useful for
                   clinical SPECT imaging (Days)          the Cyclomedia Technegas Plus
   of                                                     System (Days)
   generator       Without           With post-elution    Without        With post-elution
   (mCi/GBq)       Tc-99m            concentration of     Tc-99m         concentration of
                   concentration     Tc-99m               concentration  Tc-99m
   100/3.7                  1                 6                  0               1
   300/11.1                4                 10                  0               4
   500/18.5                6                 12                  0               6
   1000/ 37.0              9                 15                  1               9
   3000/111.0              14                20                  4               14
   EXAMPLE 3
   [000267]       A study was performed using a vial (not shown) comprising 20mL of a
   Tc-99m radioisotope solution housed in a radioactive shielded body (not shown)
10 which was inserted into the cylindrical entry port 34e of the assembled radioisotope
   concentrator device 20, and operably connected to the HCISS column body 310 by
   virtue of a double-ended hollow needle (not shown). The Tc-99m radioisotope
   solution was drawn through the radioisotope concentrator device 20 under vacuum
   and flushed with 5 mL of distilled water (process time of less than 10 minutes). The
15 pertechnetate [99mTc04-] anions selectively captured on the concentrator column 200
   were eluted with 0.9 % saline solution to achieve a post-elution Tc-99m radioisotope
   solution with a volume of 1.0 mL, corresponding to a concentration factor of 20.

                                               43
   [000268]       In other examples, concentration factors of between 10 and 50 have
   been achieved.
   ADVANTAGES
   [000269]       The ability to selectively capture and extract radioisotopes on a small
 5 concentrator column 200 loaded with less than 50 mg of either multifunctional
   sorbent material as specified in Australia Patent Application AU2013903629 or
   inorganic sorbent, and re-solubilise them in a very small volume of saline solution
   enables a post-elution radioisotope eluate solution to be produced that has a higher
   radioisotope    concentration   than    the  radioisotope  solution   eluted from   the
10 radioisotope generator 100. The HCISS column 300 assures the efficiency of a small
   size (typically 50 mg of either multifunctional sorbent material as specified in
   Australia Patent Application AU2013903629 or inorganic sorbent) concentrator
   column 200 over multiple concentration cycles. The small size of the concentrator
   column 200 is essential to minimize the volume of the desired radioisotope solution
15 in the final concentration step and increases the resulting concentration factor.
   [000270]       The use of evacuated vials 510 and 610, and thus the resulting
   negative pressure imparted on the system 10 to drive the process 700, provides a
   simple and effective means of producing post-elution radioisotope eluate solutions
   without resorting to the use of pump(s).
20 [000271]       The use of sterile components (namely, the concentrator column 200,
   the HCISS column 300, the valve 400, and the 0.22 micron in-line filters) ensures
   that the process 700 can be performed repeatedly under sterile filtration conditions.
   [000272]       The sterile components (namely, the valve 400, the injection device,
   the concentrator column 200 and the HCISS column 300) used in radioisotope
25 concentrator device 20 are commercially available consumable products.
   [000273]       In other embodiments, the radioisotope concentrator device 20 may be
   configured for use with a radioisotope generator 100 that is configured for generating
   Re-188 radioisotopes. It will be appreciated that the choice of stationary phase within
   the concentrator column 200 will be selected according to the type of radioisotope
30 generated.

                                                 44
   [000274]       In other embodiments, the radioisotope concentrator device 20 may be
   configured for use with a double-ended hollow needle device (not shown) that is
   configured for operably connecting a radioisotope solution source (not shown)
   thereto. In this arrangement, the radioisotope solutions/eluates generated from
 5 several radioisotope generators (not shown) could be combined together and
   concentrated using the radioisotope concentrator device 20 in one step.
   [000275]       In other embodiments, the volume of 0.9% normal saline solution used
   to elute the radioisotopes from the concentrator column 200 may be in the range
   from approximately 0.1 mL to approximately 2.0 mL.
10 Interpretation
   Embodiments:
   [000276]       Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an
   embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
   connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the
15 present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an
   embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
   referring to the same embodiment.        Furthermore, the particular features, structures
   or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to
   one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
20 [000277]       Similarly, it should be appreciated that in the above description of
   example embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are
   sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof
   for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one
   or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not
25 to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more
   features than are expressly recited in each claim.         Rather, as the following claims
   reflect, inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed
   embodiment.       Thus, the claims following the Detailed Description of Specific
   Embodiments are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description of
30 Specific Embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
   embodiment of this invention.

                                                  45
   [000278]        Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some
   but not other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of
   different embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form
   different embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art. For example, in
 5 the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any
   combination.
   Different Instances of Objects
   [000279]        As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal
   adjectives "first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate
10 that different instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to
   imply that the objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally,
   spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
   Specific Details
   [000280]        In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set
15 forth. However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced
   without these specific details.     In other instances, well-known methods, structures
   and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an
   understanding of this description.
   Terminology
20 [000281]        In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in
   the drawings, specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity.
   However, the invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terms so selected,
   and it is to be understood that each specific term includes all technical equivalents
   which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose. Terms
25 such as "forward", "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly",
   and the like are used as words of convenience to provide reference points and are
   not to be construed as limiting terms.
   Comprising and Including
   [000282]        In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
30 invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or
   necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
   "comprising" are used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated

                                                46
   features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various
   embodiments of the invention.
   [000283]       Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as
   used herein      is also an open term that also means including at least the
 5 elements/features that follow the term, but not excluding others. Thus, including is
   synonymous with and means comprising.
   Scope of Invention
   [000284]       Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the
   preferred embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that
10 other and further modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit
   of the invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall
   within the scope of the invention. For example, any formulas given above are merely
   representative of procedures that may be used.          Functionality may be added or
   deleted from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among
15 functional blocks. Steps may be added or deleted to methods described within the
   scope of the present invention.
   [000285]       Although the invention has been described with reference to specific
   examples, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be
   embodied in many other forms.
20 Industrial Applicability
   [000286]       It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are
   applicable to the medical diagnostic industry.

                                             47
   Claims
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A process for capturing at least one radioisotope from a radioisotope solution
        obtained from a radioisotope source using a radioisotope concentrator device,
 5      the process comprising the step of:
             a. fluidly communicating a radioisotope solution from the radioisotope
                 source through a concentrator column to capture the at least one
                 radioisotope on the concentrator column
             b. providing an evacuated vial for effecting fluidly communication under a
10               negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the evacuated
                 vial.
    2. A process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the radioisotope source is a
        radioisotope generator configured for generating the radioisotope solution, the
        radioisotope generator comprising an elution port, the radioisotope concentrator
15      device comprising a body having at least one entry port adapted for connecting
        to the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use, the process further
        comprising the step of:
             a. operably connecting the at least one entry port of the body of the
                 radioisotope concentrator device to the elution port of the radioisotope
20               generator.
    3. A process as claimed in claim 2, wherein the radioisotope source is a vial
        comprising the radioisotope solution, the vial being equipped with a septum, the
        radioisotope concentrator device comprising a body having at least one entry
        port equipped with a septum each septum being adapted to receive at least a
25      portion of a corresponding end of a double-ended hollow needle device when
        connecting the vial to the radioisotope concentrator device in use, the process
        further comprising the step of:
             a. operably connecting the vial to the at least one entry port of the body of
                 the radioisotope concentrator device by virtue of the double-ended
30               hollow needle device.

                                             48
   4. A process as claimed in claim 3, wherein the radioisotope concentrator device
      comprises a competitive ion selective column            located upstream   of the
      concentrator column, the process further comprising the step of:
           a. fluidly communicating the radioisotope solution through the competitive
 5             ion selective column to remove at least one competitive ion from the
               radioisotope solution.
   5. A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising the step of:
           a. receiving within a waste collecting means a radioisotope eluate solution
               remaining after the at least one radioisotope has been captured on the
10             concentrator column.
   6. A process as claimed in claim 5, wherein the radioisotope concentrator device
      comprises a body having at least one exit port, the waste collecting means
      being adapted for operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of
      the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid communication therebetween
15    in use, the process further comprising the step of:
           a. operably connecting the waste collecting means to the at least one exit
               port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device.
   7. A process as claimed in claim 5 or 6, wherein the waste collecting means
      comprises an evacuated vial, the process further comprising the step of:
20         a. fluidly communicating the radioisotope eluate solution to the waste
               collecting means under a negative pressure corresponding to the
               pressure within the evacuated vial.
   8. A process as claimed in claim 7, further comprising the step of:
           a. fluidly communicating an eluent through the concentrator column to
25             elute the at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column.
   9. A process as claimed in claim 8, further comprising the step of:
           a. receiving within a radioisotope collecting means the at least one
               radioisotope eluted from the concentrator column with the eluent.
   10.A process as claimed in claim 9, wherein the radioisotope concentrator device
30    comprises a body having at least one exit port, the radioisotope collecting

                                               49
      means being adapted for operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the
      body of the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid communication
      therebetween in use, the process further comprising the step of:
            a. operably connecting the radioisotope collecting means to the at least
 5              one exit port of the radioisotope concentrator device.
   11.A process as claimed in claim 10, wherein the radioisotope collecting means
      comprises an evacuated vial, the process further comprising the step of:
            a. fluidly communicating the at least one radioisotope to the waste
                radioisotope means under a negative pressure corresponding to the
10              pressure within the evacuated vial.
   12.A process as claimed in claim 11, wherein the eluent comprises a saline
      solution.
   13.A process as claimed in claim 12, wherein the volume of saline solution used to
      elute the at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column is in the range
15    from approximately 0.1 mL to approximately 2.0 mL.
   14.A process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13, for capturing at least one
      radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from a radioisotope source
      using a radioisotope concentrator device for selectively capturing radioisotopes
      from a highly dilute saline solution of radioisotopes eluted from the radioisotope
20    generator and then eluting the captured radioisotopes from the radioisotope
      concentrator device as a pure and more concentrated saline solution of the
      desired radioisotopes by the radioisotope concentrator device being configured
      for selectively capturing isotope from the saline solution eluted from the
      radioisotope generator by the stationary phase packed within the column body
25    of the concentrator column being either a multifunctional sorbent material or an
      inorganic sorbent selective to retard the radioisotope          anions wherein the
      radioisotope concentrator having a valve, wherein with the valve is placed in a
      first position such that the valve is in the first open configuration and the HCISS
      column, the concentrator column, and the evacuated vial being in fluid
30    communication and the process includes:
             a. in a first step, the cylindrical entry port of the assembled radioisotope
                 concentrator device and its self-aligning port is inserted into an elution

                                     50
      port of the radioisotope generator at the bottom portion of the HCISS
      column body;
   b. in a second step, the evacuated vial of the waste collecting means is
      inverted and then inserted into the exit port of the body of the
 5    concentrator device and the its self-aligning port enables fluid
      communication between the concentrator column and the evacuated
      vial;
   c. in a third step has the vacuum within the evacuated vial imparting a
      negative pressure on the system causing the saline solution of
10    radioisotope to be drawn up through the HCISS column and the
      concentration column into the vial;
   d. in a further step, the HCISS column comprises a stationary phase that
      allows removing the competitive ions from the eluate solution and
      consecutively to allows selective capture (catching) of the desired
15    radioisotope on either a multifunctional sorbent material or an inorganic
      sorbent in the concentrator column;
   e. the remaining eluate solution is captured within the vial as non
      radioactive effluent waste in step;
   f. a Millipore filter housed in a self-aligning insertion device is inserted into
20    the exit port of the body of the concentrator device.
   g. the radioisotope concentrator valve rotated to the second position such
      that the valve is in the second open configuration and the injection
      device, the concentrator column, the Millipore filter, and the evacuated
      round bottom vial of the pure and concentrated radioisotope solution
25    collecting means being in fluid communication
   h. wherein in next step, the evacuated vial of the radioisotope collecting
      means is placed within the housing and sealed and the sealed housing
      is then inverted and inserted into the exit port of the body of the
      radioisotope concentrator device;

                                               51
               i. the insertion device at the exit port penetrates the evacuated vial to
                  enable   fluid  communication    between    the  injection device, the
                  concentrator column, and the evacuated vial;
              j.  And in the vacuum within the evacuated vial imparts a negative
 5                pressure on the system causing the low volume saline solution to be
                  drawn up from the injection device into the vial via the concentrator
                  column and allows the concentrator column to elute (release) the
                  selectively captured radioisotope anions from the concentrator column;
   whereby the output is a resulting low volume post-elution saline solution radioisotope
10 in the vial which can be used for radio-labelling an organ-specific pharmaceutical or
   used directly without pharmaceutical tagging for specific procedures requiring only
   the radioisotope anions as the primary radiopharmaceutical.
   15.     A system using the process as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 14, for
   capturing at least one radioisotope from a radioisotope solution obtained from a
15 radioisotope source, the system including:
   -       a radioisotope source; and
   -       a radioisotope concentrator device, the radioisotope concentrator device
   being operably connected to the radioisotope source to allow fluid communication
   therebetween in use wherein the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body
20 having at least one exit port,
   -       the system further comprising a waste collecting means adapted for operably
   connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator
   device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use
   -       wherein the radioisotope collecting means comprises an evacuated vial and
25 fluid communication is effected by the vacuum provided by the waste vial.
   16.     A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the radioisotope source is a
   radioisotope generator configured for generating the radioisotope solution.
   17.     A system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the radioisotope generator
   comprises an elution port, the radioisotope concentrator device comprising a body

                                               52
   having at least one entry port adapted for connecting to the elution port of the
   radioisotope generator in use.
   18.     A system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the elution port of the radioisotope
   generator comprises a needle device, the at least one entry port of the body of the
 5 radioisotope concentrator device comprising a septum adapted to receive at least a
   portion of the needle device therethrough when connecting the radioisotope
   concentrator device to the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use.
   19.     A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the radioisotope source is a vial
   comprising the radioisotope solution.
10 20.     A system as claimed in claim 19, wherein the vial comprises a septum and the
   radioisotope concentrator device comprises a body having at least one entry port
   equipped with a septum, the system further comprising a double-ended hollow
   needle device, each septum being adapted to receive at least a portion of a
   corresponding end of the double-ended hollow needle device when connecting the
15 vial to the radioisotope concentrator device in use.
   21.     A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the radioisotope concentrator
   device comprises a body having at least one exit port, the system further comprising
   a radioisotope collecting means adapted for operably connecting to the at least one
   exit port of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid
20 communication therebetween in use.
   22.     A system as claimed in claim 21, wherein the at least one exit port of the body
   of the radioisotope concentrator device comprises a needle device, the radioisotope
   collecting means comprising a septum adapted for receiving at least a portion of the
   needle device therethrough to allow fluid communication therebetween in use.
25 23.     A system as claimed in claim 22, wherein the radioisotope collecting means
   comprises an evacuated vial, the evacuated vial comprising the septum.
   24.     A system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the radioisotope collecting means
   further comprises shielding means for shielding the evacuated vial in use.

                                              53
   25.     A system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the radioisotope collecting means
   comprises a housing for receiving at least a portion of the evacuated vial therein.
   26.     A system as claimed in claim 25, wherein the housing is manufactured from a
   radiation shielding material.
 5 27.     A system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the radiation shielding material is
   lead or tungsten.
   28.     A system as clamed in claim 15, wherein the radioisotope concentrator device
   comprises a body having at least one exit port, the system further comprising a
   waste collecting means adapted for operably connecting to the at least one exit port
10 of the body of the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid communication
   therebetween in use.
   29.     A system as claimed in claim 28, wherein the waste collecting means
   comprises an evacuated vial, the evacuated vial comprising a septum adapted for
   receiving at least a portion of the needle device therethrough to allow fluid
15 communication therebetween in use.
   30.     A system as claimed in claim 15, wherein the radioisotope concentrator
   device comprises a body having at least one injection port and at least one valve
   being configurable between a first open configuration to prevent fluid communication
   between the at least one injection port and the concentrator column and a second
20 open configuration for allowing fluid communication between the at least one
   injection port and the concentrator column in use, the system further comprising an
   injection device comprising an eluent for eluting through the concentrator column via
   the at least one injection port when the at least one valve of the radioisotope
   concentrator device is in the second open configuration in use.
25 31.     A process for capturing at least one radioisotope from a radioisotope solution
   obtained from a radioisotope source using a radioisotope concentrator device, the
   process comprising the step of:
              -   fluidly communicating a radioisotope solution from the radioisotope
                  source through a concentrator column to capture the at least one
30                radioisotope on the concentrator column

                                               54
               -  providing an evacuated vial for effecting fluidly communication under a
                  negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the evacuated
                  vial.
   32.    A process as claimed in claim 31, wherein the radioisotope source is a
 5 radioisotope generator configured for generating the radioisotope solution, the
   radioisotope generator comprising an elution port, the radioisotope concentrator
   device comprising a body having at least one entry port adapted for connecting to
   the elution port of the radioisotope generator in use, the process further comprising
   the step of:
10 -      operably connecting the at least one entry port of the body of the radioisotope
   concentrator device to the elution port of the radioisotope generator.
   33.    A process as claimed in claim 32, wherein the radioisotope source is a vial
   comprising the radioisotope solution, the vial being equipped with a septum, the
   radioisotope concentrator device comprising a body having at least one entry port
15 equipped with a septum each septum being adapted to receive at least a portion of a
   corresponding end of a double-ended hollow needle device when connecting the vial
   to the radioisotope concentrator device in use, the process further comprising the
   step of:
   -      operably connecting the vial to the at least one entry port of the body of the
20 radioisotope concentrator device by virtue of the double-ended hollow needle device.
   34.    A process as claimed in claim 33, wherein the radioisotope concentrator
   device comprises an competitive ion selective column located upstream of the
   concentrator column, the process further comprising the step of:
   -      fluidly communicating the radioisotope solution through the competitive ion
25 selective column to remove at least one competitive ion from the radioisotope
   solution.
   35.    A process as claimed in claim 34, further comprising the step of:
   -      receiving within a waste collecting means a radioisotope eluate solution
   remaining after the at least one radioisotope has been captured on the concentrator
30 column.

                                              55
   36.    A process as claimed in claim 35, wherein the radioisotope concentrator
   device comprises a body having at least one exit port, the waste collecting means
   being adapted for operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body of the
   radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid communication therebetween in use,
 5 the process further comprising the step of:
   -       operably connecting the waste collecting means to the at least one exit port of
   the body of the radioisotope concentrator device.
   37.    A process as claimed in claim 36, wherein the waste collecting means
   comprises an evacuated vial, the process further comprising the step of:
10 -      fluidly communicating the radioisotope eluate solution to the waste collecting
   means under a negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the
   evacuated vial.
   38.    A process as claimed in claim 37, further comprising the step of:
   -      fluidly communicating an eluent through the concentrator column to elute the
15 at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column.
   39.    A process as claimed in claim 38, further comprising the step of:
   -       receiving within a radioisotope collecting means the at least one radioisotope
   eluted from the concentrator column with the eluent.
   40.    A process as claimed in claim 39, wherein the radioisotope concentrator
20 device comprises a body having at least one exit port, the radioisotope collecting
   means being adapted for operably connecting to the at least one exit port of the body
   of the radioisotope concentrator device to allow fluid communication therebetween in
   use, the process further comprising the step of:
   -       operably connecting the radioisotope collecting means to the at least one exit
25 port of the radioisotope concentrator device.
   41.    A process as claimed in claim 40, wherein the radioisotope collecting means
   comprises an evacuated vial, the process further comprising the step of:
   -      fluidly communicating the at least one radioisotope to the waste radioisotope
   means under a negative pressure corresponding to the pressure within the
30 evacuated vial.

                                            56
  42.    A process as claimed in claim 38, wherein the eluent comprises a saline
  solution.
  43.    A process as claimed in claim 42, wherein the volume of saline solution used
  to elute the at least one radioisotope from the concentrator column is in the range
5 from approximately 0.1 mL to approximately 2.0 mL.

                                 1/6
<removed-date>
                                                            10
                                             500
                           520                    400
                               32a     32e
                          32              220
<removed-apn>
                                                             20
                          32c                     45
                30
                             32b             42
                          32d                          40
                     34   34d
                          34a                 440
                           34e               34c
              102
                                       110        34b
                                             120
                                                            100
                                             114
              104

                                2/6
<removed-date>
                          623     624   626
<removed-apn>    627
                    622
                    628
                    535

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                3/6
30

                                         4/6
<removed-date>
              710      Radioisotope concentrator has valve to a               700
                          first position so that HCISS column,
                        concentrator column evacuated vial in
                                  fluid communication
              715
<removed-apn>
                        Connection with radioisotope generator
              720
                        Exit of concentrator device connection
                                  with evacuated vial
               735
                       Vacuum from evacuated vial causes saline
                       solution of radioisotope drawn into HCISS
                        column and the concentration column.
                740
                        HCISS stationary phase
                         has sorbent material
                          selectively capture
                         desired radioisotope
                                                        Remaining eluate
                                                        captured in vial as
                                                         non radioactive
                                          745
                                                          effluent waste
                      See Figure 5

                                           5/6
<removed-date>
              750
                        Filter inserted in exit port of concentrator
                                            device
<removed-apn>
                         Radioisotope concentrator has valve to a
              755
                        second position to allow when in position
                      injection device, exit of concentrator column,
                        and evacuated vial in fluid communication
              760
                     Evacuated vial inserted into exit of concentrator
                                          column
              765
                      Insertion device at exit port penetrates vial to
                                allow fluid communication
              770
                      Vacuum in evacuated vial causes low volume
                      saline solution to be drawn into the vial and
                        allow the concentrator column to elute
                                   radioisotope anions
               780
                            Output of low volume post-elution
                                   radioisotope in vial

                                        6/6
<removed-date>
              NON-RADIOACTIVE                          CONCENTRATED
                                                       99mTc   SOLUTION
                  WASTE
                                              212
                                  210               200
<removed-apn>
                               214
                            312
                                                    0.9 % NaCl
                                                    SOLUTION
                              310
                                                      300
                            314
                 99mTc   ELUATE FROM
               99Mo/99mTc   GENERATOR

