                                          ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are methods and compositions related to therapeutic use of aminopyridines in
patients with a stroke-related impairment, in particular, in patients with a stroke-related
sensorimotor imp airment.
                                                134
3489979vl

                     METHODS FOR TREATING A STROKE-RELATED
                SENSORIMOTOR IMPAIRMENT USING AMINOPYRIDINES
1.        FIELD OF INVENTION
          [0001] The invention relates to treatment of impairments, in particular, sensorimotor
impairments, associated with stroke.
2.        BACKGROUND
          [0002] Central nervous system (CNS) injuries are a serious health problem. CNS injuries
generally heal incompletely leaving the subject with some degree of permanent dysfunction. The
residual dysfunction may include motor, sensory, cognitive, emotional and autonomic
abnormalities.
          [0003] A key category of CNS injury comprises brain injury consequent to stroke.
Stroke is the third-leading cause of death and the main cause of disability in the western world.
Stroke, therefore, presents a large socioeconomic burden. The etiology of a stroke can be either
ischemic, which is the case in the majority of strokes, or hemorrhagic. An ischemic stroke can
be caused by a clot that forms elsewhere in the body and travels via the bloodstream to the brain
(embolic stroke) or by a blood clot that forms inside the artery of the brain (thrombotic stroke).
After massive cell death in the immediate infarct core due to lack of glucose and oxygen, the
infarct area expands for days, owing to secondary mechanisms such as glutamate excitotoxicity,
apoptotic mechanisms, and generation of free radicals. Following neural injuries (e.g. an
ischemic event) animals and people may recover ftunction over several days, weeks and months
without any therapeutic intervention. All too often, however, this recovery is only partial and
animals and people suffer from long-term or pennanent disability which may include motor,
sensory and cognitive deficits. The motor, sensory and cognitive impairments due to stroke can
have significant impact on activities of daily living and quality of life. Stroke survivors are often
left with pennanent neurological deficits, with an estimated 15-30% of stroke survivors
becoming permanently disabled (Roger et al., Circulation 2012; 125:22-e220).
          [0004] Risk factors that increase the likelihood of an individual having a stroke are well
known. These include, and are not limited to, risk factors that cannot be changed: advanced age,
3489979vl

heredity, race, gender, prior history of stroke or heart attack; and risk factors that can be changed,
treated or controlled: high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes mellitus, carotid or other
artery disease, atrial fibrillation, other heart disease, sickle cell disease, high blood cholesterol,
poor diet, and physical inactivity and obesity.
          [0005] To date, the direct pharmacotherapy of ischemic stroke is confined to drugs
administered in the acute phase following a stroke. The acute phase ranges from the time of
onset of the injury (e.g., stroke) to approximately six hours post-injury. There is currently no
pharmacotherapy for hemorrhagic stroke.
          [0006] Other than tissue plasminogen activator ( "tPA") and certain mechanical clot
retrieval devices suitable for acute use (see Eesa et al., 2011, Expert Rev Neurother. 11(8):1 125
 1139), presently there is no therapy approved in the U.S. for the treatment of stroke. After the
available treatments, patients often remain with some level of dysfunction that at best may
improve somewhat endogenously for approximately 60 days and then very slightly for up to a
year or more. This recovery may only be augmented by physical therapy. Unfortunately, many
patients are left with permanent disability with little hope for improvement.
          [0007] Treatment of acute stroke is accomplished by restoring blood flow in the
occluded vessel through the time-sensitive use of thrombolytics, specifically tPA. tPA disrupts
the blood clot in the artery feeding blood to the brain, facilitating restoration of blood flow and
oxygenation to the brain. However, only a small percentage of stroke patients receive successful
tPA therapy: tPA is currently only FDA approved for use within 3 hours of the onset of stroke
symptoms and is only given to about 3 percent of individuals with stroke. Many patients are not
candidates for tPA therapy, do not arrive to the hospital in time for tPA, or have multiple small
infarcts over time that cannot be treated with tPA. Furthermore, even those patients that are
successfully treated with tPA often have some degree of cellular damage to the brain.
          [0008] tPA is a serine protease that converts plasminogen to plasmin. Plasmin then
breaks fibrin which is a component of the clots that occlude the vessels in the brain and cause
strokes. Ideally, tPA is administered within the first three hours post-occlusion, but may be
administered by some clinicians as late as six hours post-occlusion. Unfortunately, the vast
majority of patients who experience a stroke fail to reach the hospital in time to be considered for
this treatment. For those patients who arrive at the hospital within the efficacious temporal
window, tPA is administered in an attempt to reverse the occlusion of blood flow, restore
                                                     2
3489979vl

oxygenation of the brain and limit the extent of lost brain structure. However, there are some
significant contraindications that limit the use of tPA. Patients receiving tPA after 3 hours are at
an increased risk of serious bleeding while the effectiveness of tPA is diminishing. For such
reasons, tPA is limited to administration during the acute phase in order to achieve any
therapeutic efficacy.
          [0009] To date, no other drugs have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of
stroke. Current experimental therapies such as arterially delivered pro-urokinase are under
investigation as potential means for disrupting clots and restoring blood flow. The scientific
literature has, however, described agents that have proven beneficial for protecting brain matter
and restoring function in experimental animal models of stroke. Most of these agents focus on
reducing acute cell death, inflammation, and apoptosis and must, therefore, be delivered within
hours (some up to 24 hours) after the ischemic event.
          [0010] Aspirin (ASA) is also recommended by several organizations when individuals
are suffering stroke symptoms. Some other anti-platelet therapies are used to help reduce the
likelihood of stroke.
          [0011] Heretofore, it is generally accepted that treatment for stroke is required acutely
(Abe et al., 2008, J Cereb Blood Flow Metab. Jul 23, Epub ahead of print, Sun et al., 2008,
Stroke Jul 10, Epub ahead of print; Dohare et al., 2008, Behav Brain Res. 193(2):289-97;
Belayev et al., 2001, Stroke 32(2):553-60). With few exceptions, for example with the exception
of glial growth factor 2 (GGF2) (see laci et al., 2010, Neuropharmacology 59:640-649), agents
have not been shown to limit damage to the brain, restore function or enhance recovery
following stroke when administered after a lag time of several hours, and at most, in some
experimental animal models, about one day following stroke.
          [0012] After an acute occlusion, there is often a localized area of destroyed brain matter
that is surrounded by a penumbral zone that will die within hours if circulation is not restored.
The time to death of this penumbral zone can be extended by a few hours in experimental models
with neuroprotectants, such as NMDA antagonists, calcium channel blockers, radical scavengers
and trapping agents, anti-apoptotics, caspase inhibitors, parp inhibitors, etc. After 24 to 48 hours,
however, there is little hope for protecting cells from necrotic death and, while apoptotic death
continues for several days, the therapeutic window for anti-apoptotic therapies has not proven to
be much wider than acute protective therapies (Schulz et al., 1998, Cell Death Differ. 5(10):847
                                                    3
3489979vl

57; Komjati et al., 2004, Int J Mol Med. 13(3):373-82).
          [0013] The permanent sensorimotor deficits in the individuals who survive a stroke are
usually only partially addressed by rehabilitation with physical therapy. Despite this there has
been little attention to the potential for pharmacological intervention to treat permanent
functional deficits in such patients. This may be due to the generally held belief that not much
can be done to replace nerve cells and circuits that have been lost as a result of stroke.
          Potassium Channel Blockers
          [0014] An exemplary property of certain aminopyridines is that they are potassium
channel blockers. 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) is an example of an aminopyridine with such
potassium channel blocking properties. At 4-AP plasma concentrations obtained in clinical
studies, which are typically <1 microM (94 ng/mL-1 ), the potassium channel blocking activity of
4-AP appears to be selective for certain types of these channels. Interestingly, at high
concentration (such as at millimolar concentrations) 4-AP is a broad-spectrum blocker of
potassium channels. The clinical neurologic effects of 4-AP are consistent with the molecular
mechanism of potassium channel blockade.
          [0015] Studies of 4-aminopyridine (dalfampridine, fampridine) have been conducted
using intravenous (i.v.) administration and immediate-release (IR) oral capsule formulations in
addition to controlled-release or sustained-release formulations. Administration of IR capsules
resulted in rapid and short-lasting peaks of 4-aminopyridine in the plasma. Early
pharmacokinetic studies were conducted using an immediate release (IR) formulation for oral
administration, which consisted of 4-aminopyridine powder in a gelatin-based capsule or oral
solution. Administration resulted in rapidly changing 4-aminopyridine plasma levels that were
not well tolerated. A sustained-release matrix tablet (known as Fampridine-SR or AMPYRA@,
Acorda Therapeutics, Hawthorne, NY) was then developed. The sustained release matrix tablet
showed improved stability and an appropriate pharmacokinetic profile for twice-daily dosing.
Sustained release compositions of 4-aminopyridine and related use of such compositions are set
forth, e.g., in US Patent 5,370,879, US Patent 5,540,938; US Patent 8,007,826; and US Patent
Publication US2005-0228030. For example, suitable formulations, methods of manufacture,
pharmacokinetic characteristics of sustained release aminopyridine compositions and methods of
treating various neurological disorders are further described in U.S. Patent No. 8,007,826 entitled
                                                   4
3489979vl

"Sustained Release Aminopyridine Composition" issued on August 30, 2011; and U.S. Patent
Publication No. 2005-0228030 entitled "Methods of Using Sustained Release Aminopyridine
Compositions" published on October 13, 2005; the contents of each of which are incorporated
herein by reference in their entireties.
          [0016] The compound 4-aminopyridine is a potassium (K+) channel blocker approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a treatment for patients with MS. As set forth in
Figure 1, dalfampridine is the United States Adopted Name (USAN) for the chemical 4
aminopyridine (4AP), which has a molecular formula of C 5H6 N 2 and molecular weight of 94.1;
the former USAN name for this compound was fampridine (which remains the International
Nonproprietary Name). The terms "dalfampridine", "fampridine" and "4-aminopyridine" will be
used throughout this specification to refer to the active drug substance.
          [0017] International Publication No. WO 89/09600 discloses use of a combination of a
potassium channel blocker and choline or a source of choline to treat certain diseases including
"post-stroke or post-toxic syndromes affecting memory or cognition" (see p. 6).
          [0018] There is long-standing unmet need in the art to effectively treat impairments
induced by a stroke, e.g., sensorimotor impairments. In particular, there is a need for such
treatment in delayed, non-acute situations that are more than hours, days or weeks following an
acute injury. In addition to treatment outside of the acute period, there is a significant unmet
medical need for any therapy that can be delivered in the chronic phase that will improve sensory,
motor, cognitive, emotional or autonomic function.
3.        BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
          [0019] Provided herein are methods for treatment of a patient who has suffered a stroke
by administering a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof. In certain embodiments, disclosed herein is treatment of a stroke-related
impairment in a patient who had a stroke. In particular, disclosed herein is treatment that causes
improvement in one or more sensorimotor impairments related to or induced by a stroke. In
particular, the use of aminopyridines in such treatments is disclosed. In one embodiment, one or
more aminopyridines are used in the methods disclosed herein. In one embodiment, the
arninopyridine is a mono- or di-aininopyridine. In some embodiments, the mono- aminopyridine
is 3-aninopyridine or 4-aminopyridine. In one embodiment, the di- aminopyridine is 3,4
                                                   5
3489979vl

diaminopyridine.
          [0020] In certain embodiments, the patient treated in accordance with the methods
described herein is a mammal. In a preferred embodiment, the patient treated in accordance with
the methods described herein is a human. In certain embodiments, the stroke treated in
accordance with the invention is an ischemic stroke. Subtypes of ischemic stroke that can be
treated in accordance with the invention include, without limitation, large-artery atherosclerosis
(embolus/thrombosis), cardioembolism (cardioembolic stroke), small-vessel occlusion (lacunar
stroke), as well as stroke of other detennined or undetermined etiology. In certain embodiments,
the stroke treated in accordance with the invention is associated with non-atherosclerotic
vasculopathies, hypercoagulable states or hematologic disorders. In another embodiment, the
stroke treated in accordance with the invention is a hemorrhagic stroke. Subtypes of
hemorrhagic stroke that can be treated in accordance with the invention include, without
limitation, subarachnoid hemorrhage and intracerebral hemorrhage.
          [0021] In some embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is administered in a sustained release composition. In other embodiments, an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in an immediate
release composition. In certain embodiments, the method in accordance with the invention
comprises administering an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof once
daily, twice daily or thrice daily. In a specific embodiment, an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-AP) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is in a sustained release composition, and is
administered once or twice daily, preferably orally. In another specific embodiment, an
aminopyridine (e.g., 4-AP) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is in an immediate
release composition, and is administered three times or more than three times daily, preferably
orally.
          [0022] In specific embodiments, an aminopyridine itself, and not a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, is used in any of the methods described herein.
          [0023] In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, is
administered to the patient orally, intravenously, intramuscularly or subcutaneously. In one
embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to
the patient orally. In some of the embodiments wherein an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
                                                   6
3489979vl

acceptable salt thereof is administered orally, it is formulated in a fonn of a tablet, a pill or a
capsule. In one embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered to the patient intravenously.
          [0024] In a specific embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt,
preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, is administered to the
patient orally, in a sustained release composition b.i.d. (i.e., twice daily). In certain embodiments,
twice daily administration comprises administration of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof every 12 hours. In a specific embodiment, an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in a sustained release composition provides a Tax of
about 2 hours to about 6 hours in a human. In another specific embodiment, an aminopyridine or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, is administered to the patient orally, in a sustained release composition
once daily.
          [0025] In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is administered in an amount in the range between about 4 mg and about 17.5 mg, or
from 4 mg to 17.5 mg, (e.g., about 4, 5, 6, 7, 7.5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, or 17.5
mg), which in specific embodiments, is once or twice daily, preferably in a sustained release
composition. In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is administered in an amount in the range between about 8 mg and about 30 mg, or from
8 mg to 30 mg, (e.g., about 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 17.5, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30 mg), which in specific embodiments, is once or twice daily,
preferably in a sustained release composition. In some embodiments, an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in an amount in the range from 4 mg to
40 mg. In some embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered in an amount between about 5 mg and 15 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg, 5 mg and 7.5 mg,
or 7.5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, preferably in a sustained release composition, or from about 5
mg to 15 mg, 5 mg to 10 mg, 5 mg to 7.5 mg, or 7.5 mg to 10 mg twice daily, preferably in a
sustained release composition. In one embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered at a dose of 5 mg twice daily, preferably in a sustained
release composition. In another embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is administered at a dose of 10 mg twice daily, preferably in a sustained release
                                                   7
3489979vl

composition. In another embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is administered at a dose of 10 mg once daily, preferably in a sustained release
composition. In some of these embodiments, the aminopyridine is 4-aminopyridine. In other
embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered
between about 8 mg and 30 mg, 8 mg and 20 mg, 10 mg and 15 mg, or 10 mg and 20 mg once
daily (e.g., in a sustained release composition).
          [0026] Any of the dosages and dosage regimens described in this application can serve as
the therapeutically effective amount of aminopyridine or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
used in the methods of the invention.
          [0027] In some embodiments, a method of the invention comprises administering an
aminopyridine or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof during the early chronic phase
and/or during the stable chronic phase following a stroke. In other embodiments, a method of
the invention comprises administering an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof during the acute phase following a stroke. In certain embodiments, treatment is initiated
during the acute phase, and continues during the early chronic phase and/or the stable chronic
phase post-stroke. In some embodiments, treatment is initiated during the early chronic phase
and continues during the stable chronic phase. In one embodiment, treatment is initiated during
the stable chronic phase. In specific embodiments, treatment is initiated during the period post
stroke when spontaneous recovery of sensorimotor functions is expected or observed in a patient.
In other specific embodiments, treatment is initiated during the period post-stroke when little or
no measureable spontaneous recovery of, or improvement in, sensorimotor functions is expected
or observed in a patient. In some embodiments, treatment is initiated during the period post
stroke when spontaneous recovery of sensorimotor functions is expected or observed in a patient,
but continues for any period of time beyond such period (e.g., continues for 6 months, 1 year, 5
years, 10 years, 20 years beyond such period, or continues for the lifetime of the treated patient).
          [0028] In certain embodiments, treatment in accordance with the invention begins at or
after 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11, 12, 13, 14,15,16,17, 18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27 or
28 days; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, or 12 weeks; or 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12 months
post-stroke. In certain embodiments, treatment in accordance with the invention continues for
more than 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, or 12 weeks; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, or 12 months;
or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 years since the commencement of treatment. In some
                                                      8
3489979vl

embodiment, treatment in accordance with the invention begins any time post-stroke.
          [0029] In one embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12 months from the time the
patient had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins more than 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12 months from the time the
patient had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 8 weeks from the time the patient had a stroke. In one
embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least
4 weeks from the time the patient had a stroke. In another embodiment, the step of administering
of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically
effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 1 week from the time the patient
had a stroke. In yet another embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins between 2 and 7 days from the time the patient had a stroke. In
some embodiments, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt,
begins at least 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 5 weeks, 6 weeks, 7 weeks, or 8 weeks from
the time the patient had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically
effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 4 months from the time the patient
had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of an amninopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 6 months from the time the patient had a stroke. In one
embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least
8 months from the time the patient had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of
an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically
                                                    9
3489979vl

effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 12 months from the time the patient
had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins more than 4 months from the time the patient had a stroke. In one
embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins more
than 6 months from the time the patient had a stroke.
          [0030] In particular embodiments, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
23, 24 or 48 hours from the time the patient had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of
administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a
therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 6 hours from the
time the patient had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine
or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 12 hours from the time the patient had a stroke. In another
embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least
24 hours from the time the patient had a stroke. In another embodiment, the step of
administering of an aminopyridine or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a
therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins at least 48 hours from the
time the patient had a stroke. In one embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins more than 6 hours from the time the patient had a stroke. In
another embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt,
begins more than 24 hours from the time the patient had a stroke.
          [0031] In another embodiment, the step of administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or salt, begins immediately following a stroke or within 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours,
4 hours, 6 hours, 8 hours, 10 hours, 12 hours, 16 hours, 20 hours, 24 hours, 36 hours or 48 hours
                                                   10
3489979vl

from the time the patient had a stroke. In specific embodiments, the step of administering of an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, preferably a therapeutically
effective amount of the aminopyridine or salt, begins within 1 day or within 2 days from the time
the patient had a stroke. In certain embodiments, treatment in accordance with the invention
begins immediately after the stroke or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 36 or 48 hours following a stroke, and continues for at least 1, 2, 3, 4,
5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, or 12 weeks; 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, or 12 months; or 1, 2, 3,4, 5,6,7,
8, 9, or 10 years since the commencement of treatment.
          [0032] In certain embodiments, provided herein are methods for treating one or more
sensorimotor impainnents in a patient who has suffered a stroke. In certain embodiments,
provided herein are methods for treating one or more motor or sensory impairments in a patient
who has suffered a stroke. Sensorimotor impairments treated in accordance with the methods
described herein include, without limitation: ataxia, global body control impairments,
coordination or balance impairments, impairment in body sense, endurance impainnent,
impairment in hand function, fine hand coordination loss or impairment, hyperreflexia,
impairment in grip strength, impairment in hand strength, impairment in manual dexterity,
muscle weakness, muscle tone impairment, range of motion impainnent, spasticity, strength
impairment/weakness, tremor, impairment in limb fiction, upper extremity function impairment,
lower extremity function impairment, impairment in lower extremity muscle strength, walking
impairments (e.g., decreased walking speed or abnormal gait), speech impairments (e.g.,
dysarthria), impainnent in jaw function, impairment in chewing, and impairment in jaw
articulation.
          [0033] In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the
invention is an impairment in walking such as a decreased walking speed. In one embodiment,
the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the methods described herein is an
impairment in proprioception. In other embodiments, the sensorimotor impairment treated in
accordance with the invention is an impairment in global body control or body sense. In another
embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an
impairment in limb function (e.g., an impairment in lower extremity function, an impairment in
lower extremity muscle strength, or an impairment in upper extremity function). In one
embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an
                                                  11
3489979vl

impairment in lower extremity function and/or lower extremity muscle strength. In one
embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an
impairment in upper extremity function. In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment
treated in accordance with the invention is an impairment in upper limb spasticity. In yet another
embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an
impairment in hand function, an impairment in fine hand coordination, or an impairment in grip
strength. In another embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the
invention is an impairment in hand strength. In another embodiment, the sensorimotor
impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an impairment in manual dexterity. In a
particular embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is
an impairment in oral motor functioning. In a particular embodiment, the sensorimotor
impairment treated in accordance with the invention is a speech impainnent (e.g., dysarthria,
apraxia, or dysphonia). In a particular embodiment, the sensorimotor impainnent treated in
accordance with the invention is an impairment in chewing and/or swallowing (e.g., dysphagia).
In a particular embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the
invention is facial paralysis. In a particular embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in
accordance with the invention is limb paralysis. In a particular embodiment, the sensorimotor
impairment treated in accordance with the invention is hand paralysis. In one embodiment, the
sensorimotor impainnent treated in accordance with the invention is an impairment in balance.
In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an
impairment in sensation. In some embodiments, the sensorimotor impairment treated in
accordance with the invention is a visual impairment, such as a sensory and/or ocular motor
impairment of visual function.
          [0034] In specific embodiments, the treatment in accordance with the invention is
effective to treat (e.g., improve, ameliorate, reduce the severity of, or reduce the duration of) the
symptoms of one or more stroke-related sensorimotor impairments. In some embodiments, the
treatment in accordance with the invention is effective to treat (e.g., improve, ameliorate, reduce
the severity of, or reduce the duration of) the symptoms of one or more stroke-related motor
impairments. In some embodiments, the treatment in accordance with the invention is effective
to treat (e.g., improve, ameliorate, reduce the severity of, or reduce the duration of) the
symptoms of one or more stroke-related sensory impairments.        In some embodiments, the
                                                   12
3489979vl

treatment in accordance with the invention restores one or more motor, sensory or sensorimotor
functions impaired due to stroke. In certain embodiments, further provided are methods for
assessing the level of said motor, sensory or sensorimotor impairment after (or before and after)
repeated administration of an aminopyridine. Such method can be any method for evaluating
motor, sensory or sensorimotor function described herein or known in the art.
          [0035] In some of the embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereofused in the methods described herein
is such that a Cuss or average Cminss of at least about 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20
ng/ml is obtained in a human. In one embodiment, the therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is such that a Cminss or average Cminss
in a range of about 12 ng/ml to 20 ng/ml is obtained in a human. In some of these embodiments,
the aminopyridine is 4-aminopyridine.
          [0036] In specific embodiments, any of the methods, dosages, and dosage regimens
described in this application can be used to treat a patient with stable motor deficits following a
stroke.
          3.1     Terminology
          [0037] In order to provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and
claims, the following definitions are provided:
          [0038] As used herein, the term "about" comprises the specified value plus or minus 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, or 15 % of the specified value. In one embodiment "about"
signifies 98-102% of the specified value. In one embodiment "about" signifies 95-105% of the
specified value. In particular, however, a value "about" a particular ng/ml includes plus or minus
0.6, 0.5. 0.4, 0.3, 0.2 or 0. 1 ng/ml. The meaning of the term "about" will be clear depending on
the context in which it appears.
          [0039] As used herein, if no fluid is mentioned or the context does not indicate otherwise,
Cminss, Cmaxss, Cavss values generally relate to blood plasma.
          [0040] The term "improvement" with respect to an impairment designates an alteration in
a parameter in a therapeutic direction. As used herein, "improvement" also comprises
stabilization of a parameter that would otherwise be deteriorating or moving in a non-therapeutic
direction.
                                                     13
3489979vl

          [0041] By "pharmaceutically acceptable", it is meant the carrier, diluent or excipient
must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not prohibited for human or
veterinary administration (as the case may be) by a regulatory agency such as the Food and Drug
Administration or European Medicines Agency.
          [0042] The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt(s)," with reference to an
aminopyridine, as used herein, refers to a salt prepared from a pharmaceutically acceptable non
toxic acid or base, including an inorganic acid or base, or an organic acid or base. In one
embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt is prepared from a pharmaceutically
acceptable non-toxic acid which can be an inorganic or organic acid. In one embodiment, non
toxic acids include, but are not limited to, inorganic and organic acids such as acetic, alginic,
anthranilic, benzenesulfonic, benzoic, camphorsulfonic, citric, ethenesulfonic, formic, fumaric,
furoic, galacturonic, gluconic, glucuronic, glutamic, glycolic, hydrobromic, hydrochloric,
isethionic, lactic, maleic, malic, mandelic, methane sulfonic, mucic, nitric, pamoic, pantothenic,
phenylacetic, phosphoric, propionic, salicylic, stearic, succinic, sulfanilic, sulfuric, tartaric acid,
and p-toluenesulfonic acid. In one embodiment, the non-toxic acid is hydrochloric acid.
Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts will be apparent to those skilled in the art and include
those described in S.M. Barge et al., "Phanraceutical Salts," 1977, J. Pharm. Sci. 66:1-19, which
is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          [0043] As used herein, the term "steady state" indicates a system that has one or more
properties that are unchanging over time or "steady state" indicates a system that has one or more
properties that are changing within a limited range over time. Typically, steady state is a more
general situation than dynamic equilibrium. If a system is in steady state, then the recently
observed behavior of the system will generally continue into the future. In many systems, steady
state is not achieved until some time has elapsed after the system is started or initiated. This
initial situation is often identified as a transient state, titration period, start-up or warm-up period.
          [0044] As used herein "stroke" can also be referred to as a "brain attack." Stroke occurs
when blood flow to a region of the brain is obstructed, so the supply of oxygen and nutrients to
brain cells are cut off, causing parts of cells to die. There are two main types of stroke: ischemic
and hemorrhagic. Ischemic stroke is resulted from a blockage of the blood flow to the brain
(ischemia) and almost always caused by a blood clot blocking a blood vessel, while hemorrhagic
stroke results from bleeding (hemorrhage) of a ruptured blood vessel.
                                                     14
3489979vl

          [0045] Other terms and/or abbreviations are provided below:
 Abbreviation or Specialist Term                 Explanation
           b.i.d. (bid)                          Twice daily
           Cm                                    Centimeter
           Cniax                                 Maximum measured plasma concentration
           Cmaxs's                               Maximum measured plasma concentration at
                                         steady state
           Cmin                                  Minimum measured plasma concentration
           Cminss                                Minimum measured plasma concentration at
                                         steady state
           CNS                                   Central nervous system
           Dalfampridine                         Fampridine, 4-aminopyridine
           DAP                                   di-aminopyridine
           Fampridine                            Dalfampridine, 4-aminopyridine
           g, kg, mg, tg, ng                     Gram, kilogram, milligram, microgram,
                                         nanogram
           GLP                                   Good Laboratory Practice
           h, hr                                 Hour
           HPLC                                  High performance liquid chromatography
           IR                                    Immediate-release
           IV, i.v., or iv                       Intravenous
           K*+Ionic                                     Potassium
           L, mL                                 Liter, milliliter
           LEMMT                                 Lower Extremity Manual Muscle Test
           LCMS, LC/MS/MS                        Liquid chromatography/ mass spectrometry
           MCAO                                  Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion
           Min                                   Minute
           mM, pLM                               Millimolar, micromolar
           MS                                    Multiple sclerosis
           MSWS-12                                12-item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale
           NF                                    National Formulary
           p.o.                                  Oral
                                                  15
3489979vl

 Abbreviation or Specialist Term                  Explanation
           q.d. (qd)                              Once a day
           SR                                     Sustained-release
           SS                                     Steady state
           T25FW                                  Timed 25 Foot Walk
           t.i.d. (tid)                           Three times daily
           Tam                                    Time of the maximum measured plasma
                                          concentration post-dose
           USP                                    United States Pharmacopeia
           WS                                     Walking speed
           3AP, or 3-AP                           3-aminopyridine
           4AP, or 4-AP                           4-aminopyridine
           3,4 DAP, or 3,4-DAP                    3,4, di-aminopyridine
4.        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
          [0046] Figure 1 shows information regarding 4-aminopyridine.
          [0047] Figure 2 is a schematic showing the timetable of dosing and behavior testing.
          [0048] Figure 3 shows the results of the forelimb placing test: X axis represents the
number of days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO). The Y axis represents the
behavioral score (0 to 12, with 0 being normal function and 12 being maximally impaired). The
graph shows an average behavioral score of the animals in each test group (i.e., Groups 1-3) at
D-1, D1, D7, D14, D21, D28, D30, D32, D42, D44, D46, D56, D58, D60 as described in the
Examples ("D"=day).
          [0049] Figures 4A-D show the results of the hindlimb placing test: X axis represents the
number of days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO). The Y axis represents the
behavioral score (0 to 6, with 0 being normal function and 6 being maximally impaired). Figure
4A shows an average behavioral score of the animals in each test group (i.e., Groups 1-3) at D-1,
D1, D7, D14, D21, D28, D30, D32, D42, D44, D46, D56, D58, D60 as described in the
Examples. Figure 4B shows an average behavioral score of the animals in Group 1 at D-1, D1,
D7, D14, D21, D28, D30, D32, D42, D44, D46, D56, D58, D60 as described in the Examples.
Figure 4C shows an average behavioral score of the animals in Group 2 at D-1, D1, D7, D14,
                                                  16
3489979vl

D21, D28, D30, D32, D42, D44, D46, D56, D58, D60 as described in the Examples. Figure 4D
shows an average behavioral score of the animals in Group 3 at D-1, D1, D7, D14, D21, D28,
D30, D32, D42, D44, D46, D56, D58, D60 as described in the Examples.
          [0050] Figure 5 shows the results of the body swing test: X axis represents the number
of days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO). The Y axis represents the behavioral
score. The graph shows an average behavioral score of the animals in each test group (i.e.,
Groups 1-3) at D-1, D1, D7, D14, D21, D28, D30, D32, D42, D44, D46, D56, D58, D60 as
described in the Examples.
          [0051] Figure 6 shows the average weight (g) of the animals in each test group (i.e.,
Groups 1-3) at days (i.e., D-1, D1, D7, D14, D21, D28, D30, D32, D42, D44, D46, D56, D58,
D60) after the stroke event (i.e., MCAO).
          [0052] Figure 7 shows the results of the cylinder test: X axis represents the number of
days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO). The Y axis represents the behavioral score.
The graph shows an average behavioral score of the animals in each test group (i.e., Groups 1-3)
at Day -1 (pre-operation), Day 7, Day 21, Day 30, Day 32, Day 44, Day 46, Day 58, Day 60 as
described in the Examples.
          [0053] Figure 8 shows the total movement score of animals subjected to the cylinder test:
X axis represents the number of days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO). The Y axis
represents the behavioral score. The graph shows an average behavioral score of the animals in
each test group (i.e., Groups 1-3) at Day -1 (pre-operation), Day 7, Day 21, Day 30, Day 32, Day
44, Day 46, Day 58, Day 60.
          [0054] Figure 9 shows the mean infarct volume (%) of animals in Groups 1, 2 and 3
after MCAO.
          [0055] Figure 10 shows the study design of the clinical protocol described in Example
 16.
          [0056] Figure 11 shows the results of the forelimb placing test: The X axis represents
the number of days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO). The Y axis represents the
behavioral score (0 to 12, with 0 being normal function and 12 being maximally impaired). The
graph shows an average behavioral score of the animals in each test group (i.e., vehicle and 4-AP)
as described in Example 17 ("D"=day). Data is expressed as means ± SEM. *=p<0.05;
?=p<0.001;     $=p<0.0001.
                                                  17
3489979v1

          [0057] Figure 12 shows the results of the hindlimb placing test: The X axis represents
the number of days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO). The Y axis represents the
behavioral score (0 to 6, with 0 being normal function and 6 being maximally impaired). The
graph shows an average behavioral score of the animals in each test group (i.e., vehicle and 4-AP)
as described in Example 17 ("D"=day). Data is expressed as means ± SEM. *=p<0.05;
?=p<0.001;     *=p<0.0001.
          [0058] Figure 13 shows the results of the body swing test: The X axis represents the
number of days after the stroke event (i.e., days post-MCAO).              The Y axis represents the
behavioral score. The graph shows an average behavioral score of the animals in each test group
(i.e., vehicle and 4-AP) as described in Example 17 ("D"=day). Data is expressed as means
SEM. *=p<0.05; t=p<0.001; :=p<0.0001.
5.        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
          [0059] As sequelae of stroke, individuals suffer a neural injury, and as a result, are often
left with some degree of motor, sensory or sensorimotor impairment. Experimental therapeutics
have focused on protecting neurons from death during and shortly after ischemia. There is no
FDA approved drug other than time-constrained tPA administration that restores function in
people following stroke, TIA or multi-infarct syndromes.
          [0060] The invention provides for treatment of patients who have had strokes, and in
some embodiments, for treatment of patients who have suffered a neural injury due to stroke. In
particular, the invention provides for treatment of patients left with some degree of motor,
sensory or sensorimotor impainnent following a stroke. This impairment can range from
extremely mild to severe and incapacitating. Such impairment can be due to loss of neurons and
myelin from an ischemic event or from the inflammation and immune responses after the
ischemic episode. Such impairment can be due to loss or damage to the neurons or myelin in the
regions of the brain (e.g., cortical, subcortical, or noncortical) regulating sensorimotor functions
as a result of a stroke. For example, such impairment can be due to loss or damage to the
neurons or myelin in motor cortex, sensory cortex, or somatosensory cortex, or loss or damage to
the neurons or myelin in the sensorimotor cortex or areas of the cortex responsible for
sensorimotor functions. In some embodiments, a patient treated in accordance with the methods
described herein has had an ischemic stroke. In one embodiment, a patient treated in accordance
                                                    18
3489979vl

with the methods described herein has had a middle cerebral artery stroke (such as due to middle
cerebral artery occlusion). In other embodiments, a patient treated in accordance with the
methods described herein has had a hemorrhagic stroke. In some embodiments, a patient treated
in accordance with the methods described herein has a stable or chronic sensorimotor deficit due
to a stroke (such as hemorrhagic stroke or ischemic stroke, e.g., middle cerebral artery stroke).
In one embodiment, a patient treated in accordance with the methods described herein does not
have multiple sclerosis.
          [0061] Disclosed herein is the use of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-AP or 3, 4-DAP) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to treat stroke-related neuronal loss or damage,
particularly in the region of the brain (e.g., cortical, subcortical or noncortical) regulating a
sensorimotor function. In particular, it is disclosed herein that 4-AP and other aminopyridines,
or phannaceutically acceptable salts thereof, are useful in restoring the loss of sensorimotor
functions following a stroke event. As set forth herein, in preferred embodiments, an
aminopyridine (e.g., 4-AP) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to
individuals who have demonstrated loss of sensorimotor function associated with or following a
stroke event. In certain embodiments, described herein is the use of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
AP or 3, 4-DAP) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to treat a stroke-related
impairment of a neurological function. In some of these embodiments, treatment of a patient
with an effective amount of an aminopyridine recovers or improves a neurological function
impaired due to stroke.
          [0062] In specific embodiments, the impairment that is being treated in accordance with
the methods described herein does not affect memory or cognition. In other specific
embodiments, the composition comprising an aminopyridine administered to a patient in
accordance with the invention does not contain choline, a source of choline, a precursor of
acetylcholine, or a precursor of choline.
          [0063] The patients or subjects that are treated by the methods of the invention include,
but are not limited to, humans and non-human vertebrates such as wild, domestic and farm
animals. In certain embodiments, the patient treated in accordance with the invention is a
mammal, e.g., a human, a cow, a dog, a cat, a goat, a sheep, a horse, or a pig. In a preferred
embodiment, the patient is a human.
          [0064] As set forth herein, the present inventors demonstrate that an aminopyridine, and
                                                    19
3489979vl

specifically, 4-aminopyridine is effective in restoring neurological function after middle cerebral
artery occlusion in rats that is a model for ischemic stroke in humans. The studies described in
Example 2 and Example 17 used a rat permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO)
model of stroke to evaluate the effects of 4-aminopyridine on sensorimotor function at a time
when endogenous recovery has stabilized. As described herein, the present inventors have made
the surprising discovery that 4-aminopyridine is effective for treating sensorimotor impairments
following an ischemic event. The data obtained by the inventors and described herein show
efficacy even when dosing is initiated during a chronic phase following an ischemic event, e.g., 4
weeks or 8 weeks after the ischemic event. Accordingly, in certain embodiments, described
herein are methods of treating a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment in a patient using an
aminopyridine, e.g., 4-aminopyridine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In particular
embodiments, the treatment is during the early chronic phase and/or stable chronic phase post
stroke. In some embodiments, described herein is treatment of patients in accordance with the
methods disclosed herein at, or after, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 weeks; 1,2 3, 4, 5, 6 months; or 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 10, 15, 20 years, or any time, post-stroke. In other embodiments, described herein is
treatment of patients in accordance with the methods disclosed herein within, or after, 1, 2, 4, 6,
8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, or 22 hours; or 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 days post-stroke.
          5.1    Aminopyridines and Compositions Comprising Aminopyridines
          [0065] The structure of an aminopyridine is well known in the art. As shown in U.S.
Patent No. 5,952,357, a mono- or diaminopyridine has the following structure:
                                (NH 2)x
                       N
  wherein x is 1 or 2.
          [0066]         Aminopyridines having the above structural formula wherein x is 1 are,
e.g., 2-aminopyridine, 3- aminopyridine and 4- aminopyridine. Aminopyridine compounds
having the above structural formula wherein x is 2 are, e.g., 2,3-diaminopyridine; 2,5
diaminopyridine; 2,6- diaminopyridine; 3,4- diaminopyridine; 4,5- diaminopyridine and 4,6
                                                   20
3489979vl

diaminopyridine.
          [0067] In one embodiment, the aminopyridine is a mono- or di-aminopyridine. In one
embodiment, the mono- aminopyridine is 3-aminopyridine or 4-aminopyridine. In one
embodiment the di- aminopyridine is 3,4-diaminopyridine.
          [0068] As will be appreciated, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of an aminopyridine
may be used instead of or in addition to an aminopyridine in any or all of the methods of treating
discussed herein. Thus, in specific embodiments, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of an
aminopyridine (i.e., any pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the aminopyridine
compounds listed above) is used in the methods of treating a stroke-related impairment, e.g., a
sensorimotor impairment, provided herein. These salts can be prepared, for example, in situ
during the final isolation and purification of the compounds or by separately reacting the purified
compound in its free base form with a suitable organic or inorganic acid and isolating the salt
thus formed. In some embodiments, a salt of a mono- or di-aminopyridine is used in the
methods of the invention. In another embodiment, a salt of 3-aminopyridine or 4-aminopyridine
is used. In yet another embodiment, a salt of 3,4-diaminopyridine is used. In some embodiments,
the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of an aminopyridine is prepared using acetic, alginic,
anthranilic, benzenesulfonic, benzoic, camphorsulfonic, citric, ethenesulfonic, formic, fumaric,
furoic, galacturonic, gluconic, glucuronic, glutamic, glycolic, hydrobromic, hydrochloric,
isethionic, lactic, maleic, malic, mandelic, methane sulfonic, mucic, nitric, pamoic, pantothenic,
phenylacetic, phosphoric, propionic, salicylic, stearic, succinic, sulfanilic, sulfuric, tartaric acid,
or p-toluenesulfonic acid. In one embodiment, one equivalent of an aminopyridine, as used
herein, may form an acid salt with less than one or with one or more than one equivalent of an
acid. In one embodiment an aminopyridine, as used herein, may form a dihydrochloride salt. In
one embodiment an aminopyridine, as used herein, may form a phosphate salt. For further
description of pharmaceutically acceptable salts that can be used in the methods described herein
see, for example, S.M. Barge et al., "Pharmaceutical Salts," 1977, J. Pharm. Sci. 66:1-19, which
is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
          [0069] In preferred embodiments, an aminopyridine itself, and not a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, is used in any of the methods of treating stroke-related impairments
described herein.
          [0070] Preferred aminopyridines or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for use
                                                  21
3489979vl

according to the invention are compounds that specifically inhibit potassium channels. Such
compounds preferably exhibit a profile or pattern of selective inhibition of neuronal potassium
channels, relative to other tissues, analogous to the inhibition profile of 4-aminopyridine or 3,4
diaminopyridine, or exhibit a profile of selective inhibition of neuronal potassium channels,
relative to other tissues, analogous to the inhibition profile common to that of 3,4
diaminopyridine and 4-aminopyridine. Preferred aminopyridines include, without limitation, 4
aminopyridine, and 3, 4-diaminopyridine.
          [0071] Aminopyridines or pharnaceutically acceptable salts thereof for use according to
the invention can be in sustained release or immediate release compositions. In certain
embodiments, aninopyridines or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for use according to
the invention are formulated for oral, subcutaneous, intramuscular or intravenous administration.
          [0072] In a specific embodiment, the sustained release composition of an aminopyridine
or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof results in the release of the aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof from the dosage formulation at a sustained rate such that
a therapeutically beneficial blood level is maintained over a period of at least about 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, hours, or more than
 18 hours, or more than 24 hours, or more than 30 hours. Preferably, the amount of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the oral dosage fonnulations
according to embodiments of the present invention establishes a therapeutically useful plasma or
CNS concentration through t.i.d., b.i.d., or q.d. administration of the pharmaceutical composition.
The terms "sustained release" and "extended release" are generally synonymous unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise.
          [0073] In certain embodiments, a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine
or a pharnaceutically acceptable salt thereof is between 4 mg and 17.5 mg (e.g., 4, 5, 6, 7, 7.5, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 17.5 mg), or in the range from 4 to 40 mg, and in a
specific embodiment, it is administered once daily or twice daily, preferably in a sustained
release composition. In specific embodiments, aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is administered in a sustained release composition. In other specific embodiments,
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in an immediate
release composition. In certain embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of 4
aminopyridine, or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is between 4 mg and 17.5 mg (e.g.,
                                                    22
3489979vl

4, 5, 6, 7. 7.5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 17.5 mg), or in the range from 4 to 40
mg, and, in a specific embodiment, it is administered once daily or twice daily, preferably in a
sustained release composition. In one embodiment, twice daily administration is administration
of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof every 12 hours.
          [0074] In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is administered in an amount in the range between 4 mg and 17.5 mg (e.g., 4, 5, 6, 7, 7.5,
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 17.5 mg), or from 4 mg to 17.5 mg, or from 4 mg to
40 mg, once daily or twice daily, preferably in a sustained release composition. In specific
embodiments, aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in a
sustained release composition. In other specific embodiments, aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered in an immediate release composition. In
certain embodiments an amount of 4-aminopyridine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, is administered in the range between 4 mg and 17.5 mg (e.g., 4, 5, 6, 7, 7.5, 8, 9, 10, 11,
 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 17.5 mg) , or from 4 mg to 17.5 mg, or from 4 mg to 40 mg, once
daily or twice daily, preferably in a sustained release composition. In one embodiment, twice
daily administration is administration of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof every 12 hours.
          [0075] In a specific embodiment of any of the methods of treatment described herein, an
aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) is administered in an amount in the range of 4 to 17.5 mg
(e.g., 4, 5, 6, 7, 7.5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 or 17.5 mg) twice daily in a
sustained release composition, or is administered in an amount in the range of 8 to 40 mg (e.g., 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,
35, 36, 37, 38, 39, or 40 mg) once daily in a sustained release composition.
          [0076] In one embodiment, a method in accordance with the invention is provided
wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (such as 3,4-diaminopyridine,
4-aminopyridine and the like) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 10 milligrams in a
sustained release composition twice daily.
          [0077] In another embodiment, a method is provided wherein said therapeutically
effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is 5 milligrams in a sustained release composition twice daily. In another
embodiment, a method is provided wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an
                                                      23
3489979vl

aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 7.5
milligrams in a sustained release composition twice daily. In another embodiment, a method is
provided wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 10 milligrams in a sustained
release composition twice daily. In another embodiment, a method is provided wherein said
therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 12.5 milligrams in a sustained release composition
twice daily. In another embodiment, a method is provided wherein said therapeutically effective
amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
is 15 milligrams in a sustained release composition twice daily. In another embodiment, a
method is provided wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 17.5 milligrams in a sustained
release composition twice daily.
          [0078] In some embodiments, a method is provided wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof
is 20 milligrams in a sustained release composition once-daily. In another embodiment, a
method is provided wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 8, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 17.5, 18, 19, 20, 20.5, 21, 21.5, 22, 22.5, 23, 23.5, 24, 24.5, 25, 25.5, 26, 26.5, 27.5, 30 or 35
milligrams in a sustained release composition once daily.
          [0079] In another embodiment, a method in accordance with the invention comprises
administration of a therapeutically effective amount of 4-aminopyridine, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in a total daily amount of 8, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 17.5, 18,
 19, 20,20.5, 21, 21.5, 22, 22.5, 23, 23.5, 24, 24.5, 25, 25.5, 26, 26.5, 27.5, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33,
34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, or 40 milligrams in a sustained release composition. An exemplary
embodiment comprises twice daily administration where 15 milligrams in a sustained release
composition is administered in the morning; and 10 milligrams in a sustained release
composition is administered in the evening. An exemplary embodiment comprises twice daily
administration where 12.5 milligrams in a sustained release composition is administered in the
morning; and 7.5 milligrams in a sustained release composition is administered in the evening.
Another exemplary embodiment comprises administration of a total daily amount in a once-daily
                                                    24
3489979vl

composition.
          [0080] In yet another embodiment, a method in accordance with the invention comprises
administration of a therapeutically effective amount of 4-aminopyridine, or a phannaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in a total daily amount of 8, 10, 11, 12, 12.5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 17.5, 18,
 19, 20, 20.5, 21,21.5,22,22.5, 23, 23.5, 24,24.5,25,25.5,26,26.5,27.5,28,29,30,31,32,33,
34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, or 40 milligrams in an immediate release composition. In some
embodiments, an immediate release composition comprising an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered three times daily or more than three
times daily (e.g., 4, 5, or 6 times daily).
          [0081] In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is formulated as a sustained-release (SR) or extended
release (ER) matrix tablet in various strengths, for example, from 4 to 40 mg, where 5-, 7.5-, 10-,
 12.5-, 15-, and 17.5 are presently preferred. One embodiment of 4-aminopyridine-SR is 10 mg
which is preferred for b.i.d. dosing, other dosing regimens are within the scope of the invention;
accordingly other amounts of active ingredient in sustained-release formulations are also
encompassed within the scope of the invention.
          [0082] In yet other embodiments, the sustained release formulation that is used in the
methods described herein is 4-aminopyTidine-SR, or AMPYRA@ (Acorda Therapeutics,
Hawthorne, NY), or a sustained release composition for 4-aminopyridine as set forth in US
Patent 5,370,879, US Patent 5,540,938; US Patent 8,007,826; or, US Patent Publication US2005
0228030 (the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties).
          [0083] In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof may be present in the phannaceutical compositions, such as a tablet, a chewable tablet, a
pill, a capsule, a microcapsule, a solution, a suspension, a parenteral solution, a lozenge, a
powder, a granule, a troche, a syrup, a suppository, an injection, or a blister pack. Compositions
can be formulated to contain a daily dose, a half-daily dose, or a convenient fraction of a daily
dose, in a dosage unit, which may be a single tablet or capsule or convenient volume of a liquid.
In one embodiment, the solutions are prepared from water-soluble salts, such as the
hydrochloride salt. In general, all of the compositions are prepared according to known methods
in pharmaceutical chemistry. Capsules can be prepared by mixing an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with a suitable carrier or diluent and filling the proper
                                                  25
3489979vl

amount of the mixture in capsules. The usual carriers and diluents include, but are not limited to,
inert powdered substances such as starch of many different kinds, powdered cellulose, especially
crystalline and microcrystalline cellulose, sugars such as fructose, mannitol and sucrose, grain
flours and similar edible powders.
          [0084] Suitable formulations can be prepared by methods commonly employed using
conventional, organic or inorganic additives, such as one or more of: an excipient (e.g., sucrose,
starch, mannitol, sorbitol, lactose, glucose, cellulose, talc, calcium phosphate or calcium
carbonate), a binder (e.g., cellulose, methylcellulose, hydroxymethylcellulose,
polypropylpyrrolidone, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gelatin, gum arabic, polyethyleneglycol, sucrose or
starch), a disintegrator (e.g., starch, carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylstarch, low
substituted hydroxypropylcellulose, sodium bicarbonate, calcium phosphate or calcium citrate), a
lubricant (e.g., magnesium stearate, light anhydrous silicic acid, talc or sodium lauryl sulfate), a
flavoring agent (e.g., citric acid, menthol, glycine or orange powder), a preservative (e.g., sodium
benzoate, sodium bisulfite, methylparaben or propylparaben), a stabilizer (e.g., citric acid,
sodium citrate or acetic acid), a suspending agent (e.g., methylcellulose, polyvinyl pyrroliclone
or aluminum stearate), a dispersing agent (e.g., hydroxypropylmethylcellulose), a diluent (e.g.,
water), and base wax (e.g., cocoa butter, white petrolatum or polyethylene glycol). In some
embodiments, suitable formulations of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof can be prepared using one, two, three or more, or all, of the following additives: colloidal
silicon dioxide, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, magnesium stearate, micro crystalline cellulose,
polyethylene glycol, and titanium dioxide.
          [0085] In one embodiment, an aminopyridine or a phanraceutically acceptable salt
thereof used in the methods of the invention is formulated as a tablet. Tablets can be prepared by
direct compression, by wet granulation, or by dry granulation. In certain embodiments, their
formulations incorporate diluents, binders, lubricants and disintegrators as well as the compound.
Typical diluents include, for example, various types of starch, lactose, mannitol, kaolin, calcium
phosphate or sulfate, inorganic salts such as sodium chloride and powdered sugar. Powdered
cellulose derivatives are also useful. In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is
lactose-free. Typical tablet binders are substances such as starch, gelatin and sugars such as
lactose, fructose, glucose and the like. Natural and synthetic gums are also convenient, including
acacia, alginates, methylcellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidine and the like. Polyethylene glycol,
                                                   26
3489979vl

ethylcellulose and waxes can also serve as binders. In certain embodiments, the following
excipients can be included in the tablet: hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, USP; microcrystalline
cellulose, USP; colloidal silicon dioxide, NF; magnesium stearate, USP; and/or Opadry White.
          [0086] Pharmaceutical compositions used in the methods describe herein can be as
described, for example, in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0276851, published
December 15, 2005 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005/0228030, published
October 13, 2005, the contents of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their
entireties. The aminopyridines according to the instant invention can exist in unsolvated as well
as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, and the like.
In general, the solvated forms are considered equivalent to the unsolvated forms for the purposes
of the present invention.
          [0087] In another embodiment, a method in accordance with the invention is described
wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine, e.g., 4-aminopyridine, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, achieves a Cminss of at least or more than: 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20 ng/ml. In another embodiment, a method is described
wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof achieves an average Cminss of at least or more than: 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20 ng/ml. In some embodiments, a method is
described wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof achieves an average Cninss of about
20 ng/ml, which comprises an average lower limit value of from 11, 12, 13, 14. 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
or 20 ng/nl, and an average upper limit value of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, or 27 ng/ml. In one
embodiment, an amount of drug is given to an individual patient (e.g., a dose amount) wherein
that dose amount corresponds to an amount that when administered to a normative or reference
population obtains an average Crinss of at least or more than: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19
or 20 ng/ml. Fluid or tissue levels (e.g., Cninss, Cmaxss, Cavss) in reference population can be
referred to as normative values. In another embodiment, a method is described wherein said
therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof achieves a Cmi.ss in a range of about 5 to 25 ng/ml, 10 to 18 ng/ml, 13 to 15 ng/ml, or 15
to 30 ng/ml. In another embodiment, a method is described wherein said therapeutically
effective amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof achieves a
                                                    27
3489979vl

Cminss  of about 20 ng/ml. In another embodiment, a method is described wherein said
therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine or a phannaceutically acceptable salt
thereof achieves a Cagas of about 20 ng/ml; in certain embodiments, a C 11 ss1 of about 20 ng/ml
comprises a lower limit value of from 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 ng/ml, and an
upper limit value of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, or 27 ng/ml.
          [0088] In alternative embodiments, provided is a method of treating a stroke-related
motor, sensory, or sensorimotor impairment in a patient comprising: administering a
therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient such that a Crjn,, in a range of 5 to 25
ng/ml, 10 to 20 ng/ml, 15 to 30 ng/ml, or 12 to 20 ng/ml is obtained. In another embodiment, a
method for treating a stroke-related motor, sensory or sensorimotor impairment in a patient
comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient such that a C..iss in a
range of at least 12 ng/ml to 15 ng/ml is obtained. In another embodiment, a method for treating
a stroke-related motor, sensory or sensorimotor impairment in a patient comprises: administering
a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient such that a Cmiss in a range of at least 13
ng/ml to 15 ng/ml is obtained. In one embodiment, an amount of drug is given to an individual
patient (e.g., a dose amount) wherein that dose amount corresponds to a dose that when
administered to a normative or reference population obtains an average Cminss of at least or more
than: 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20 ng/ml; the plasma levels (e.g., C
Cmaxss, Cavss) in reference population can be referred to as a normative values. In one
embodiment, a method in accordance with the invention comprises administering a
therapeutically effective amount of an amninopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a patient such that a Cmfiss of at least 11 or 12 ng/ml is
obtained.
          [0089] In certain embodiments, a method in accordance with the invention is provided
wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof achieves a Tmax of about 2 hours to about 6 hours in a patient. In some of
these embodiments, the aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered in a sustained-release composition (e.g., once daily, twice daily or thrice daily). In
                                                    28
3489979vl

one of these embodiment, the aminopyridine is 4-aminopyridine. The therapeutically effective
amount of 4-aminopyridine can be any amount disclosed herein. In one embodiment, the patient
is a human. In some embodiments, a therapeutically effective amount of 4-aminopyridine
administered once daily, twice daily or three times daily in a sustained-release composition
achieves a Tmax of about 2 hours to about 6 hours in a human.
          [0090] In another embodiment, a method in accordance with the invention is provided
wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine, e.g., 4-aminopyridine, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof achieves a Cmaxss of the following, or less than the
following values: 60, 59, 58, 57, 56, 55, 54, 53, 52, 51, 50, 49, 48, 47, 46, 45, 44, 43, 42, 41, 40,
39, 38, 37, 36, 35, 34, 33, 32, 31, 30, 29, 28, 27, 26, 25, 24, 23, 22, 21, or20 ng/ml. In another
embodiment, a method is provided wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof achieves an
average Cmaxss of the following, or less than the following values: 50, 49, 48, 47, 46, 45, 44, 43,
42, 41, 40, 39, 38, 37, 36, 35,34,33, 32, 31, 30, 29, 28, 27, 26, 25, 24, 23, 22, 21, or 20 ng/ml.
In one embodiment, an amount of drug is given to an individual patient (e.g., a dose amount)
wherein that dose amount corresponds to an amount that when administered to a normative or
reference population obtains an average Caxss of the following, or less than the following values:
50, 49, 48, 47, 46, 45, 44, 43, 42. 41, 40, 39, 38, 37, 36, 35, 34, 33, 32, 31, 30, 29, 28, 27 26, 25,
24, 23, 22, 21, or 20 ng/ml. Fluid or tissue levels (e.g., Cminss, Cmaxss, Cavss) in reference
population can be referred to as normative values. In another embodiment, a method is provided
wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof achieves a Cmaxss in a range of about 15 to 30 ng/ml, 25
to 35 ng/ml, 25 to 40 ng/ml, or 35 to 55 ng/ml. In another embodiment, a method is provided
wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof achieves a Cmaxss of about 30 ng/ml. In another embodiment, a method is
provided wherein said therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof achieves a Cmaxss in a range that
comprises a lower limit value of from 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, or
30 ng/ml, and an upper limit value of 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40,
41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, or 60 ng/ml.
          [0091] In another embodiment, a method is described wherein said therapeutically
                                                   29
3489979vl

effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof achieves an average Cmaxss of, or less than: 50, 49, 48, 47, 46, 45, 44, 43, 42, 41, 40,
39, 38, 37, 36, 35, 34, 33, 32, 31, 30, 29, 28, 27, 26, 25, 24, 23, 22, 21, or 20 ng/ml. In one
embodiment, an amount of drug is given to an individual patient (e.g., a dose amount) wherein
that dose amount corresponds to a dose that when administered to a normative or reference
population obtains an average Cmaxss of, or less than: 50, 49, 48, 47, 46, 45, 44, 43, 42, 41, 40, 39,
38, 37, 36, 35, 34, 33, 32, 31, 30, 29, 28, 27, 26, 25, 24, 23, 22, 21, or 20 ng/ml; the plasma
levels (e.g., Cminss, Cmaxss, Cavss) in reference population can be referred to as a nonnative values.
          [0092] In another embodiment, a unit dose of a composition as substantially described
herein is used.
          [0093] The actual dosage amount of an aminopyridine, a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, or a composition comprising an aminopyridine administered to a subject may be
detennined by physical and physiological factors such as age, sex, body weight, severity of
condition, the type of disease being treated, previous or concurrent therapeutic interventions,
idiopathy of the subject and on the route of administration. These factors are readily determined
by a skilled artisan. The practitioner responsible for administration will typically determine the
concentration of active ingredient(s) in a composition and appropriate dose(s) for the individual
subject. The dosage may be adjusted by the individual practitioner in the event of any
complication or alteration in patient status.
          [0094] It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit
form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers
to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subjects to be treated; each unit
containing a predetermined quantity of therapeutic compound calculated to produce the desired
therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for
the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on (a) the unique
characteristics of the therapeutic compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved,
and (b) the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such a therapeutic compound for the
treatment of a selected condition in a patient. Unit dosage forms can be tablets or blister packs.
In certain administration protocols a patient may utilize more than a single unit dose at a time,
e.g., consume two tablets contained in separate blisters of a blister pack.
          [0095] Optical Isomers - Diastereomers - Geometric Isomers - Tautomers: Compounds
                                                     30
3489979vl

described herein may contain an asymmetric center and may thus exist as enantiomers. Where
the compounds according to the invention possess two or more asymmetric centers, they may
additionally exist as diastereomers. The present invention includes all such possible
stereoisomers as substantially pure resolved enantiomers, racemic mixtures thereof, as well as
mixtures of diastereomers. The formulas are shown without a definitive stereochemistry at
certain positions. The present invention includes all stereoisomers of such formulas and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Diastereoisomeric pairs of enantiomers may be
separated by, for example, fractional crystallization from a suitable solvent, and the pair of
enantiomers thus obtained may be separated into individual stereoisomers by conventional
means, for example by the use of an optically active acid or base as a resolving agent or on a
chiral HPLC column. Further, any enantiomer or diastereomer of a compound of the general
formula may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or
reagents of known configuration.
          [0096] Aminopyridines of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are
administered at a therapeutically effective dosage sufficient to treat an impairment associated
with a stroke in a patient. In certain embodiments, the treatment reduces the amount of
symptoms of the impairment in the patient by at least about 10%, more preferably 20%, more
preferably by at least about 40%, even more preferably by at least about 60%, and still more
preferably by at least about 80% relative to untreated subjects. Such percent change
quantification is preferably applied to assays of sensorimotor function that provide
measurements of results in continuous linear scales, such as T25FW, etc. Other tests of
sensorimotor function will not be expressed as percent change but would be predicted to result in
a significant change with the appropriate statistical comparison. Such tests include
semiquantative measures that assign values to the ability to perform certain skills. In some
embodiments, treatment in accordance with the invention results in a statistically significant
improvement in a stroke-related sensorimotor impainnent (e.g., as measured by the patient's
ability to perform certain task or skill) in comparison to a control. Such control can be the
patient's ability to perform the assessed task or skill prior to the commencement of treatment.
                                                  31
3489979vl

          5.2    Sensorimotor Impairments and Outcomes of Aminopyridine Administration
          in accordance with the invention
          [0097] The present invention presents methods for treating a stroke-induced neural injury
in a mammal, and in particular, a method for treating a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment.
In some embodiments, the patient treated in accordance with the methods described herein has
one or more sensorimotor impairments (e.g., has been diagnosed with, or exhibits one or more
symptoms of a sensorimotor impairment). In certain embodiments, the patient treated in
accordance with the methods described herein has an impairment due to neuronal damage (e.g.,
neuronal loss or demyelination) in the area of the cortex or other region of the brain responsible
for or involved with sensorimotor functions. Preferred embodiments of the present invention
relate to methods of using 4-aminopyridine for treating an impairment of sensorimotor function
resulting from a stroke. Such treating can be by administering any of the doses and dosage
regimens described in this application.
          [0098] Sensorimotor impainnents, or an impairment of sensorimotor function, treated in
accordance with the invention include, without limitation: ataxia, global body control
impairments, coordination or balance impairments, impairment in body sense, impairment in
propioception, impainnent in gait, impairment in reflexes, impairment in dexterity, endurance
impairment, impairment in hand function, fine hand coordination loss or impairment,
hyperreflexia, impainnent in hand strength, impairment in manual dexterity, impairment in grip
strength, muscle weakness, muscle tone impairment, range of motion impairments, spasticity,
strength impairment/weakness, tremor, impairment in limb function, upper extremity function
impairment, lower extremity function impairment, impainnent in lower extremity muscle
strength, walking impainnents (e.g., decreased walking speed), speech impairments (e.g.,
dysarthria), impairment in jaw function, impairment in chewing, or impainnent in jaw
articulation. In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the
methods described herein is an impairment in proprioception. In one embodiment, the
sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the methods described herein is an
impairment in oral motor functioning. In particular embodiments, the sensorimotor impairment
treated in accordance with the methods described herein is a speech impairment (e.g., dysarthria,
apraxia, or dysphonia), or an impairment in chewing and/or swallowing (e.g., dysphagia). In one
embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the methods described
                                                 32
3489979vl

herein is a visual impairment, such as a sensory and/or ocular motor impairment of visual
function. In other particular embodiments, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance
with the methods described herein is an impairment in walking speed, impairment in manual
dexterity, impairment in hand strength, or upper limb spasticity. In some embodiments, the
sensorimotor impainnent treated in accordance with the methods described herein is an
impairment in motor and/or sensory function as measured using Fugl-Meyer Assessment. In
particular embodiments, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the methods
described herein is an impairment in motor functioning, impainnent in balance, impairment in
sensation, or an impairment in joint functioning. In specific embodiments, the sensorimotor
impairment treated in accordance with the methods described herein is facial paralysis, limb
paralysis or hand paralysis.
          [0099] In certain embodiments, the sensorimotor impairments treated in accordance with
the invention include, but are not limited to impairment in walking, impairment in limb function,
impairment in lower extremity function, impairment in lower extremity muscle strength,
impairment in muscle tone, spasticity, impairment in upper extremity function, impairment in
hand function, impainnent in fine hand coordination, impairment in grip strength, impairment in
balance or coordination, impairment in global body control, impairment in jaw function,
impairment in chewing, or impairment in jaw articulation.
          [00100]        In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance
with the invention is an impairment in lower extremity function and/or lower extremity muscle
strength. In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the
invention is an impairment in lower extremity motor function. In one embodiment, the
sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an impairment in walking
(such as decreased walking speed). In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in
accordance with the invention is an impairment in upper extremity function (e.g., upper
extremity motor function). In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in
accordance with the invention is limb paralysis. In one embodiment, the sensorimotor
impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an impairment in muscle tone or
spasticity (e.g, upper limb spasticity). In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated
in accordance with the invention is an impairment in balance or coordination. In one
embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an
                                                 33
3489979vl

impairment in sensation. In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impainnent treated in accordance
with the invention is an impairment in oral motor functioning. In a particular embodiment, an
impairment in oral motor functioning is an impairment in strength of the muscles of lips and/or
tongue (such as in dysarthria). In another particular embodiment, an impairment in oral motor
functioning is an impairment in coordination of the muscles of lips and/or tongue (such as in
apraxia). In yet another particular embodiment, an impairment in oral motor functioning is an
impairment in strength of the muscles involved in breathing. In one embodiment, the
sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is a speech impairment (e.g.,
dysarthria, apraxia, dysphonia). In some embodiments, the sensorimotor impairment treated in
accordance with the invention is a sensorimotor disturbance of the face, tongue and/or
glossopharyngeal muscles. In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in
accordance with the invention is an impainnent in chewing and/or swallowing (e.g., dysphagia).
In one embodiment, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is an
impairment in jaw function or jaw articulation. In one embodiment, the sensorimotor
impairment treated in accordance with the invention is facial paralysis. In one embodiment, the
sensorimotor impainnent treated in accordance with the invention is an impairment in hand
function, an impairment in hand coordination (e.g., an impairment in fine hand coordination), an
impairment in grip strength, an impairment in manual dexterity, or hand paralysis. In some
embodiments, the sensorimotor impairment treated in accordance with the invention is a visual
impairment or disturbance. The visual impairment treated in accordance with the methods
described herein can be a sensory and/or an ocular motor impairment of visual function. In one
embodiment, the visual impairment treated in accordance with the methods described herein is a
sensory impairment of visual function. In one embodiment, the visual impairment treated in
accordance with the methods described herein is an ocular motor impairment of visual function.
          [00101]        In one embodiment, aminopyridine administration restores one or more
sensorimotor functions. This is manifest or measured as an improvement, e.g., in walking ability,
balance, the ability to stand, hand strength, dexterity, reflexes, answers to art-accepted measures
of quality of life, or improvement in any other sensorimotor function described herein or known
in the art.
          [00102]        In certain embodiments, treating a patient by administering an amount of
an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is effective to ameliorate or
                                                  34
3489979vl

prevent a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment. In one embodiment, treating a patient by
administering an amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
effective to prevent the onset of the symptoms of a sensorimotor impairment. In other
embodiments, treating a patient by administering an amount of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is effective to alleviate the symptoms (e.g., decrease the
severity) of a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment. In yet other embodiments, treating a
patient by administering an amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof is effective to decrease the duration of a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment. In a
specific embodiment, treating a patient by administering an amount of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is effective to eliminate a stroke-related sensorimotor
impairment, and/or effective to regain the sensorimotor function impaired by the stroke. In
certain embodiments, the administering of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is effective to restore a sensorimotor function impaired by a stroke. In some of these
embodiments, the stroke is an ischemic stroke. In one embodiment, the stroke is a middle
cerebral artery stroke (such as due to middle cerebral artery occlusion). In other embodiments,
the stroke is a hemorrhagic stroke.
          [00103]        In another embodiment, a method for maintaining improvement of a
sensorimotor function in a patient is provided, wherein such function is impaired as a result of a
stroke, said method comprising: administering a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (such as 3,4-diaminopyridine, 4-aminopyridine and the like) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient after previously achieving an
improvement of such impaired sensorimotor function in said patient during administration of 4
aminopyridine.
          [00104]        In one embodiment, a method for maintaining improvement(s) in a
sensorimotor function in a patient with a stroke-related impairment of such function comprises
administering a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof to said patient over an extended period of time. In another embodiment, a
method for achieving sustained improvement in a patient with a stroke-related sensorimotor
impairment comprises continuing administration of a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (such as 3,4-diaminopyridine, 4-aminopyridine and the like) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient over an extended period of time.
                                                   35
3489979vl

          [001051        In specific embodiments, the improvement(s) among patients experiencing
stroke-related sensorimotor impairment occur over periods of at least or more than: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 days; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21 or22 weeks; 3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, or 18
months; or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or greater than 5 years of treatment.
          [00106]        The sensorimotor functions, including impairment of sensorimotor
functions and improvement in sensorimotor functions, can be assessed using any method known
in the art. For example, assessment tests can include, without limitation the timed 25 foot walk
(T25FW), 2 minute walk, 6 minute walk (6MW), Box & Block test, Six Spot Step Test, the
Manual Muscle test for lower extremity function, LEMMT, the Ashworth score, the Modified
Ashworth Scale, grip strength test, 9-hole peg test, fine finger movement, rapid alternating
fingers for upper extremity function, functional system scoring for sensory function, and finger
to-nose and heel-to-shin for ataxia. In particular, T25W can be used to measure walking,
LEMMT can be used to measure lower extremity muscle strength, the Modified Ashworth Scale
can be used to measure spasticity. Art-accepted upper extremity function assessments include,
without limitation, performance scale-self-report measures, hand-held dynamometry, and Upper
Extremity Index (UEI). Other assessment tests that can be used to measure sensorimotor
functions include but are not limited to: Berg Balance Scale (BBS), Kela Coordination Test,
Postural Stability Test, Timed 10-meter Gait Test, Shoulder Tug Test, Grip Strength, Maximal
isometric force of the knee extensors, muscle endurance tests, passive straight leg raise, TEMPA
(upper extremity performance test for the elderly), the Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function Test, The
Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) Questionnaire, and Manual Ability
Measure-36 (MAM-36). Another assessment test that can be used to measure sensorimotor
functions is Fugl-Meyer Assessment. In some embodiments, Fugl-Meyer Assessment can be
used to measure motor functioning (e.g., lower extremity motor function and/or upper extremity
motor function), balance, sensation and/orjoint functioning. In specific embodiments, Fugl
Meyer Assessment is used to measure lower extremity motor function, upper extremity motor
function, and/or sensation. Such assessments can be performed before and after administration
of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a patient in accordance with
the methods disclosed herein. For example, a sensorimotor function of a patient suffering from a
stroke-related impairment of such function can be assessed before administering an
                                                    36
3489979vl

aminopyridine and/or after administering an aminopyridine, e.g., at or after 1, 2, 3,4,5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
 10 days; 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8 weeks; 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10 months; or 1, 2,3,4,5 years since
the commencement of treatment in accordance with the methods described herein.
          [001071        In a specific embodiment, a therapeutic outcome in a stroke-related
sensorimotor impairment is assayed for and detected at any one, two, three, four, five or more, or
each, of the following time points, and/or at a time point later than any one of the following time
points: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, days; 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 weeks; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35                 36,
42, 48, 54, 60, and 66 months; .5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 and 6.5 years post
commencement of treatment with an aininopyridine or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
          5.3     Modes of Administration of Aminopyridines
          [00108]        In some embodiments, a method in accordance with the invention
comprises administering an aminopyridine or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof once
daily, twice daily or thrice daily. In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered orally. In other embodiments, an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered intravenously. In
yet other embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered, e.g., intramuscularly or subcutaneously.
          [00109]        In certain embodiments, a method of the invention comprises
administering an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof during the acute
phase post-stroke. The acute phase following stroke is characterized by ongoing damage to the
brain tissue (e.g., expansion of an ischeinic lesion) post-stroke. For example, during the acute
phase, the ongoing damage to the brain tissue can occur in the penumbral area surrounding the
core area where the initial injury due to stroke had occurred. Such damage may include cell
death, e.g., due to oxygen deprivation. Typically, the acute phase lasts from the time of onset of
stroke to approximately six hours post-stroke. In some embodiments, treatment in accordance
with the invention comprises administering an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof to a patient during the period post-stroke in which damage to the brain tissue is
ongoing. In one embodiment, such treatment is during the period post-stroke when an ischemic
                                                     37
3489979vl

lesion is still expanding. For example, a patient can be treated in accordance with the invention
during the acute phase within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 hours post-stroke.
          [00110]        In some embodiments, a method of the invention comprises administering
an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof during the early chronic phase
post-stroke. Following the acute phase post-stroke, there is a period of spontaneous recovery of
neurological function-the early chronic phase-which can last for several weeks in rodent
species (e.g., up to 4, 5, or 6 weeks), and for several months in humans (e.g., up to 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
 10, 11 or 12 months). The early chronic phase is characterized by ongoing, persistent
endogenous recovery of a neurological function impaired by a stroke, and in particular,
sensorimotor function. In some embodiments, treatment in accordance with the invention
comprises administering an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a
patient during the period post-stroke during which spontaneous or endogenous recovery of
neurological function, e.g., sensorimotor function, is observed. For example, a human patient
can be treated in accordance with the invention during the early chronic phase at, or after, 6, 8,
 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24 hours; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 10 days; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 weeks, or 1, 2,
3, or 4 months post stroke, and before 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 months, or 1 year post-stroke.
          [00111]        In other embodiments, a method of the invention comprises administering
an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof during the stable chronic phase
post-stroke. The stable chronic phase post-stroke is characterized by little or no measurable
spontaneous or endogenous improvement of neurological function impaired by a stroke,
particularly sensorimotor function. Typically, in rodent species the stable chronic phase is
reached after 4 to 6 weeks post-stroke; and in human species it is reached after 4 to 8 months
(and, sometimes, after 1 year) post-stroke. The stable chronic phase often manifests as stable
life-long disability, and particularly stable life-long sensorimotor impairment, that does not
measurably improve in the absence of treatment. In certain embodiments, an amninopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is effective to improve a stroke-related sensorimotor
impairment in a patient when administered during the stable chronic phase post-stroke. In some
embodiments, treatment in accordance with the invention comprises administering an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a patient during the period post
stroke during which little or no measurable spontaneous or endogenous improvement of
neurological function, e.g., sensorimotor function, is observed. For example, a human patient
                                                    38
3489979vl

can be treated in accordance with the invention during the stable chronic phase at, or after, 4, 5, 6,
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 months; 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, 2 0 years, or any time, post-stroke.
          [00112]       In one embodiment of the invention, treatment is initiated after the acute
phase post-stroke. In one embodiment of the invention, treatment is initiated during and yet
continues after the acute phase post-stroke. In one embodiment, treatment is initiated after the
early chronic phase post-stroke. In another embodiment, treatment is initiated during and yet
continues after the early chronic phase post-stroke. In yet another embodiment, treatment is
initiated during the stable chronic phase post-stroke.
          [00113]       Therapeutic benefits of an aninopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof can be achieved by administering a therapeutically
effective amount to a mammal. In certain embodiments, the treatment is performed before, at or
after hour 1, hour 2, hour 6, hour 8, hour 12, hour 24, hour 30, hour 36, hour 42, day 2, day 3,
day 4, day 5, week 1, week 2, week 3, week 4 or later following stroke. In certain embodiments,
the treatment is performed at or after hour 3, hour 6, hour 8, hour 12, hour 24, hour 30, hour 36,
hour 42, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, week 1, week 2, week 3, week 4, week 8 or later following
stroke. In one embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after hour 6 following stroke. In
one embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after hour 24 following stroke. In one
embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after 7 days (1 week) following stroke. In one
embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after 14 days (2 weeks) following stroke. In one
embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after I month following stroke. In one
embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after 4 months following stroke. In one
embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after 6 months following stroke. In one
embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after 8 months following stroke. In one
embodiment, the treatment is performed at or after 12 months following stroke. In a specific
embodiment, a method of the invention comprises administering an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a mammal, where the
administering is performed at least two, three, four, seven or ten days after the ischemic event,
and in a therapeutically effective amount sufficient to promote improvement in a sensorimotor
function during the early chronic phase and/or during the stable chronic phase following an
ischemic event in a mammal. In certain embodiments, the treatment in accordance with the
invention is performed any time post-stroke. In specific embodiments, a method of the invention
                                                   39
3489979vl

comprises administering an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof to a mammal, where the administering is performed any time post-stroke,
in an amount sufficient to promote improvement in a sensorimotor function.
          [00114]         In certain embodiments, the present invention comprises administration of
an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a
mammal starting at day 1, 2 or 3, and up to and including days 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14
days post-stroke; a week or more than one week post-stroke, two weeks or more than two weeks
post-stroke; three weeks or more than three weeks post-stroke; four weeks or more than four
weeks post-stroke; one month or more than one month post-stroke; two months or more than two
months post-stroke; three months or more than three months post-stroke; four months or more
than four months post-stroke; five months or more than five months post-stroke; six months or
more than six months post-stroke. In certain embodiments, an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to patients at or
after 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 weeks post-stroke.
          [001151         In accordance with another aspect of the invention, a method for
promoting improvement in a neurological function, e.g., a sensorimotor function, during a period
outside the acute phase following an ischemic event in a mammal is presented. In a specific
embodiment, treatment in accordance with the invention can begin within the acute phase but
includes at least one, two three, four, five, six or more than six treatments beyond the acute phase.
          [00116]         In certain embodiments, the administering step begins within: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 hours; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20, or 21 days; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 weeks; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,42,48,54,60,or66
months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15,20, 25, or 30 years, or later,
following a stroke. In other embodiments, the administering step begins after: 1, 2, 3,4, 5, 6, 7,
8,9, 10, 11, 12,13, 14, 15, 16, 17,18,19,20,21,22,           2 3 or24hours;
                                                                             1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10,
 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20, or 21 days; 1,2,3,4, 5,6,7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 weeks; 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months;
0.5, 1, 1.5. 2,2.5, 3,3.5, 4,4.5, 5,5.5, 6,7,8,9,10, 12, 15, 20, 25, or 30 years, or later,
                                                     40
3489979vl

following a stroke.
          [001171        In some embodiments of the invention, a method of treating a stroke
related sensorimotor impainnent in a patient: comprises administering a therapeutically effective
amount of an aminopyridine (such as 3,4-diaminopyridine, 4-aminopyridine and the like) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient for a period of time. In certain
embodiments, the administering step begins within: 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 hours; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
 19, 20, or 21 days; 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or
24 weeks; 2, 3, 4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,21, 22,23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,2.5, 3,3.5, 4,4.5, 5,
5.5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 25, or 30 years, or later, following a stroke event. In a further
embodiment of the forgoing, the administering step continuesfor a period of at least, or more
than: 1, 2, 3,4, 5, 6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, days; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8,9, 10, 11,12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,18,19,20,21,22,23 or24weeks;2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11,
 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21, 22, 23, 24,25, 26, 27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35              36, 42,
48, 54, 60, and 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,2.5, 3,3.5, 4,4.5, 5,5.5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 15, 20, 25, 30,
or 35 years.
          [00118]        In some embodiments, the treatment regimen (a particular dose and
frequency of administration, which can be selected from any described herein) is stable over a
period of time, e.g., for at least 4 days, at least 1 week, at least 2 weeks, at least 3 weeks, at least
 1 month, at least 2 months, at least 3 months, at least 4 months, or at least 6 months.
          [00119]        In a specific embodiment, the present invention comprises a method of
effectively treating a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment, in a patient over a short-term,
initial, or non-chronic phase comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (such as 3,4-diaminopyridine, 4-aminopyridine and the like) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient. In certain embodiments provided herein
the patient is treated with an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for a
period of 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 day(s); 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12,
 13, 14, 15 weeks; 1, 2, 3, or 4 months. It is understood that one can continue beyond such period
and still be within the scope of the invention.
          [00120]        In another embodiment, the present invention comprises a method of
                                                     41
3489979vl

effectively treating a stroke-related sensorimotor impainnent in a patient over an early chronic
and/or a stable chronic phase comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (such as 3,4-diaminopyridine, 4-aminopyridine and the like) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient for an extended period of time. In
another embodiment, the invention comprises a method of durably treating a stroke-related
sensorimotor impairment, comprising: administering a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (such as 3,4-diaminopyridine, 4-aminopyridine and the like) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said patient for an extended period of time. In some
embodiments, the extended period is at least or is more than: 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
 19, 20,21 or 22 weeks; 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, or 18 months; or 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or greater than 10 years.
          [00121]        In a certain embodiment, a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine, e.g., 4-aminopyridine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered intravenously during the acute phase following a stroke. In some embodiments, a
therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine, e.g., 4-aminopyridine, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered intravenously within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
days, or 1, 2, 3, 4, 8 weeks post-stroke. Intravenous administration can occur once daily, twice
daily, three times daily, once in two days, once every three days, or once a week. In one
embodiment, the patient is treated with a single intravenous administration of an aminopyridine
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
          [00122]        In another embodiment, a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine, e.g., 4-aminopyridine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered orally during the acute phase, the early chronic phase and/or the stable chronic
phase following stroke. In a specific embodiment, a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine, e.g., 4-aminopyridine, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered orally only during the early chronic phase and/or the stable chronic phase post
stroke. Oral administration can occur once daily, twice daily, three times daily, or more than
three times daily, in either an immediate or in a sustained release composition.
          [00123]        Administering of an aminopyridine compound may be accomplished by
various techniques as described herein. The administering of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof according to the invention can be carried out, e.g., by
                                                    42
3489979vl

administering the compound into or onto the target tissue; providing the compound systemically
to a patient by, e.g., intravenous injection (e.g., parenteral) or oral administration (e.g., enteral) or
topical administration (e.g., transdermal, transcutaneous, patch, suppository) or inhalation (e.g.,
transmucosal), whereby the compound reaches the target tissue. Administering of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a patient can be by the patient
himself or herself or by a caregiver, such as a medical professional; including the act of ingestion
by or application to the patient or the like wherein the compound can exert its effects.
          [00124]           In one embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is administered locally, i.e, by direct administration by a non-systemic route at or in
the vicinity of the site of affliction, disorder, or perceived pain.
          [00125]           In certain embodiments, a patient is treated intravenously beginning within
 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 2 2 hours, or beginning on day 1, 2, 3, 4.,5, 6 or
7, after the stroke with an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof at a dose between 0.01 and 1.0 mg/kg per dose, once a day, twice a day,
every other day, or once a week, for more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10 days, more than 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 weeks, or more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 months (or between I day and 5 days, between
2 days and 10 days, between 10 days and I month, between 10 days and 6 months, or between 10
days and 1 year).
          [00126]           Alternatively, a patient is treated orally beginning on day 1, day 2, day 3,
day 4, day 5, day 6 or day 7 (or after day 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7), beginning, or after, 1 week, 2
weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 5 weeks, 6 weeks, 7 weeks, or 8 weeks, or beginning, or after, 1 month,
2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 6 months, 8 months, 10 months, or 12 months, post-stroke with
an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the
amount between 4 mg and 17.5 mg (e.g., 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 or 17 mg),
once daily or twice daily, for more than 5, 10, 15, 20 days, more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 weeks,
more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9 months, or more than 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20 years (or between 10
days and 3 months, between 10 days and 6 months, between 10 days and I year, between 3
months and 1 year, between 6 months and 1 year, between 6 months and 5 years, or between 1
year and 50 years). In some embodiments, a patient is treated beginning at 4 weeks post-stroke
(or after 4 weeks post-stroke) with 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg or 12.5 mg 4-aminopyridine twice daily.
In other embodiments, a patient is treated beginning at 4 months post-stroke (or after 4 months
                                                       43
3489979vl

post-stroke) with 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg or 12.5 mg 4-aminopyridine twice daily. In yet other
embodiments, a patient is treated beginning at, or after, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 weeks, or 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8
months post-stroke with 8 mg, 10 mg, 12 mg, 12.5 mg, 15 mg, 20 mg or 25 mg of 4
aminopyridine once daily.
          5.4     Combination treatments
          [001271       The compositions and methods of the present invention may be used in the
context of a number of therapeutic or prophylactic applications. In order to increase the
effectiveness of a treatment with the aminopyridines, or to augment the protection of another
therapy (second therapy), it may be desirable to combine these compositions and methods with
other agents and methods effective in the treatment of diseases and pathologic conditions, for
example, sensorimotor impairments, etc., associated with stroke.
          [00128]       Thus, in a specific embodiment, one can combine an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with one or more other agents and/or physical or
occupational therapies for the treatment of the stroke-related impairment, for example, a
sensorimotor impairment. In some embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered to a patient concomitantly or sequentially with one or
more additional drugs or therapies. For example, an aninopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof can be administered to a patient at the same time, before, or after
administration of another drug effective for the stroke-related impairment. Such other drug can
be, for example, a cholinesterase inhibitor such as donepezil, rivastigmine, or galantamine, or an
immunomodulator such as interferon. In particular embodiments, the combination of an
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and one, two, or more additional
drug(s) is a fixed dose combination. For example, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof and one or more additional drug(s) (such as any of those other drugs
described above) can be formulated in one composition, such as a pill, a tablet, or a capsule. In
other embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutic ally acceptable salt thereof is
administered to a patient who has suffered a stroke concomitantly (e.g., at the same time, before
or after) with physical therapy, occupational therapy, or speech therapy, etc. In some
embodiments, an amninopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to
a patient who uses a brace, standing frame or other orthotic device such as a rolling walker, or
                                                  44
3489979vl

communication aid such as a computer with attached voice synthesizer. In a specific
embodiment, the aminopyridine (or salt thereof) and other drug or therapy is administered at the
same doctor's visit, or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 12 hours, or within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 days, of
each other.
          [00129]         Various combinations may be employed; for example, an aminopyridine
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is "A" and the secondary therapy (e.g.,
cholinesterase inhibitors such as donepezil, rivastigmine, and galantamine and
immunomodulators such as interferon, etc.) is "B", nonlimiting combination cycles include:
                         A/B/A    B/A/B     B/B/A     A/A/B     A/B/B   B/A/A       A/B/B/B     B/A/B/B
                         B/B/B/A       B/B/A/B       A/A/B/B       A/B/A/B       A/B/B/A        B/B/A/A
                         B/A/B/A       B/A/A/B        A/A/A/B      B/A/A/A       A/B/A/A        A/A/B/A
          [00130]        Administration of a composition of the present invention to a subject will
follow general protocols for the administration described herein, and the general protocols for the
administration of a particular secondary therapy will also be followed, taking into account the
toxicity, if any, of the treatment. It is expected that the treatment cycles would be repeated as
necessary. It also is contemplated that various standard therapies may be applied in combination
with the described therapies.
          [00131]         In some embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof is administered to a patient concomitantly with Occupational or Physical Therapy. In
other embodiments, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered to a patient after the patient has been subjected to Occupational or Physical
Therapy post-stroke. In another embodiment, an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is administered to a patient without Occupational or Physical Therapy. In
one embodiment, a patient treated in accordance with the methods described herein does not
concomitantly receive Occupational or Physical Therapy. In yet another embodiment, a patient
treated in accordance with the methods described herein has not been subjected to Occupational
or Physical Therapy post-stroke. In certain embodiments, treatment in accordance with the
invention (either with or without use of Occupational or Physical Therapy) is more effective than
Occupational or Physical Therapy alone.
                                                    45
3489979vl

          5.5     Kits
          [001321       Kits comprise an exemplary embodiment of the invention. The kit can
comprise an outer receptacle or container configured to receive one or more inner
receptacles/containers, utensils and/or instructions. A utensil in accordance with the invention
can comprise item(s) to administer the drug, such as a patch, inhalation apparatus, fluid container
cup, syringe or needle. A composition containing an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof can be comprised within a receptacle of the invention. A receptacle of the
invention can contain sufficient quantity of an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof to be useful for multiple doses, or may be in unit or single dose form. In certain
embodiments, a kit comprises a composition containing an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof in the form of a tablet, a pill, a blister pack, or a capsule.
          [00133]       Kits of the invention generally comprise instructions for administration in
accordance with the present invention. The instructions can comprise treating one or more of:
ataxia, global body control impairments, coordination or balance impairments, impairment in
body sense, endurance impairment, impairment in hand function, fine hand coordination loss or
impairment, hyperreflexia, impairment in grip strength, muscle weakness, muscle tone
impairment, range of motion impairments, spasticity, strength impairment/weakness, tremor,
impairment in limb function, upper extremity function impairment, lower extremity function
impairment, impainnent in lower extremity muscle strength, walking impairments (e.g.,
decreased walking speed), dysarthria, impairment in jaw function, impairment in chewing, or
impairment in jaw articulation. Any mode of administration set forth or supported herein can
constitute some portion of the instructions.
          [00134]       In one embodiment, the instructions indicate that an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is to be taken twice-daily. In one embodiment, the
instructions indicate that an aminopyridine or a phannaceutically acceptable salt thereof is to be
taken once daily. In one embodiment, the instructions indicate that the composition containing
an aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is to be taken one or more than
one times during the acute phase post-stroke. In one embodiment, the instructions indicate that
the composition is to be taken one or more than one times during the early chronic phase and/or
during the stable chronic phase post-stroke.
          [00135]       The instructions may be affixed to any container/receptacle of the
                                                   46
3489979vl

invention. In one embodiment, the instructions indicate that an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is to be taken such as to or in order to achieve a
therapeutic range in accordance with the present invention. The instructions may be affixed to
any container/receptacle of the invention or may be a separate sheet within a container or
receptacle of the invention. Alternatively, the instructions can be printed on, embossed in, or
formed as a component of a receptacle of the invention. Alternatively, the instructions can be
printed on a material that is enclosed within a receptacle or container of the kit of the invention.
In one embodiment, a kit has an outer receptacle, such as a box, within which there is a container,
such as a bottle; and instructions are provided on and/or within the outer receptacle and/or the
bottle. A kit can also include instructions for employing the kit components as well the use of
any other reagent not included in the kit; it is contemplated that such reagents are embodiments
of kits of the invention. In accordance with the invention, kits are not limited to the particular
items identified above and may include any reagent used directly or indirectly in the treatment
sought.
          5.6     Additional Embodiments:
          [00136]        Embodiments of the present invention comprise methods of effectively
treating stroke-related sensorimotor impairment, in a patient over a chronic or extended or
prolonged or protracted or sustained time period; this is also referred to as a "durable" treatment
or a "durable" method of treatment; this is also referred to as a "sustained" treatment or a
"sustained" method of treatment. Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to
methods of maintaining improvement of a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment in a patient
comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4
aminopyridine) to said patient after previously achieving an improvement of a stroke-related
sensorimotor impainnent in said patient during contiguous or continuing or prior administration
of an aminopyridine. Any of such methods comprise administering a therapeutically effective
amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) to said patient for an extended, prolonged,
protracted, sustained or chronic period of time (as used herein, extended, prolonged, protracted,
sustained, and chronic are synonyms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise). In certain
embodiments, the extended, prolonged, protracted or chronic or sustained period is at least or
more than: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 or 22 weeks; 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
                                                   47
3489979vl

 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, or 18 months; or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or greater than 5 years. In certain
 embodiments, the extended, prolonged, protracted, chronic or sustained period is for the lifetime
 of the patient. These methods can also comprise administering an aminopyridine at or to a
therapeutic level (such as Cminss or an average Coinss) or range (such as a Cnuns, range or a
reference range of average C     iss values) in accordance with the present invention.
          [00137]        In one embodiment, an amount of drug is given to an individual patient
 (e.g., a dose amount) wherein that dose amount corresponds to a dose that when administered to
 a normative or reference population obtains an average Cunss of at least, or more than: 6, 7, 8, 9,
 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20 ng/ml.
          [00138]        In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of 4
 aminopyridine is 10 milligrams in a sustained release composition administered twice daily.
Methods of administration can also comprise administering the 4-aminopyridine at or to a
therapeutic level (such as C         or range (such as a C is, range) in accordance with the present
 invention.
          [00139]        Another embodiment of the present invention is directed to methods of
maintaining improved sensorimotor function, e.g., global body control, coordination, balance,
body sense, endurance, hand function, fine hand coordination, grip strength, muscle tone, range
 of motion, strength, limb function, upper extremity function, lower extremity function, lower
 extremity muscle strength, walking (e.g., walking speed), dysarthria, jaw function, chewing, or
jaw articulation, in a patient with a stroke-related impairment of one of these sensorimotor
 functions, comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g.,
4-aminopyridine) to said patient over an extended period of time. In certain embodiments, the
 extended, prolonged, protracted, sustained or chronic period is at least or more than: 8, 9, 10, 11,
 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21 or 22 weeks; 3,4, 5,6, 7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 or 18 months; or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or greater than 5 years. In certain embodiments, the extended,
prolonged, protracted, chronic or sustained period is for the lifetime of the patient. This
maintenance can be relatively consistent in that there is an essentially uniform percentage
 improvement relative to a reference or nonnative population, or this maintenance can be
relatively varied in that thee is a fluctuating percentage improvement relative to a reference or
normative population; when the maintenance is relatively varied this can include periods when
the subject patient may do worse relative to a reference or normative population.
                                                    48
3489979vl

          [001401         Further embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods of
achieving sustained or relatively sustained improvement in any one or more sign or symptom of
stroke, such as any one or more sensorimotor impainnents induced by or related to a stroke,
comprising continuing administration of a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine
(e.g., 4-aminopyridine) to said patient over an extended period of time. With regard to a control
or standard amount or value, it is understood that sometimes there is progressive decline of
sensorimotor function in patients after a stroke, and that an increase or relative increase can
properly be considered in regard to the decline in function attendant to the inherent progress of
stroke-related sensorimotor pathology. In certain embodiments, the sustained improvement
occurs for an extended period, such as for at least or more than: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 or 22 weeks; 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, or 18 months; or 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or greater than 5 years. In certain embodiments, the extended period is for the
lifetime of the patient. In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of 4
aminopyridine is 10 milligrams in a sustained release composition. In certain embodiments, the
sustained release composition can be administered twice daily. In certain embodiments, the
sustained release composition may be administered once daily. These methods can also
comprise administering an aminopyridine at or to a therapeutic level (such as Cminss) or range
(such as a Cmhiss range) in accordance with the present invention. This sustained improvement
can be relatively growing in that there is an ongoing growth in a percentage improvement
relative to a reference or normative population, or this improvement can be relatively varied in
that there is a fluctuating percentage improvement relative to a reference or normative population
such that there is a tendency to do better than the reference group; when the improvement is
relatively varied this can include periods when the subject patient may do worse relative to a
reference or normative population.
          [00141]         In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) is a stable or constant or consistent or unchanging or
unwavering or unaltered dosing regimen that comprises a therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine that is administered at a uniform pattern (e.g., a milligram amount or particular
milligram amount at particular times of day, e.g. there may be a higher dose in the morning and a
lower dose in the evening or vice versa) and on a uniform schedule (e.g., twice daily), wherein
no changes of the dose amount or schedule occurs during the stable or constant or consistent or
                                                    49
3489979vl

unchanging or unwavering dosing regimen. As used herein, the tens "stable" or "constant" or
"consistent" or "unchanging" or "unwavering" or "unaltered" are synonyms unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise. It is to be understood that, e.g., occasional patient noncompliance or
deviation from an otherwise stable, constant, consistent, unchanging, unwavering, or unaltered
course of treatment is within the definition of such treatment. In certain embodiments, no
titration (whether an increase or decrease) of the dose (e.g., milligram amount) of an
aminopyridine occurs during the entirety of the stable dosing regimen.
          [00142]        Embodiments of the present invention are also directed to methods of
treating or ameliorating a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment in a patient comprising
administering an amount or range of 4-aminopyridine to said patient such that a minimum
concentration at steady state (Cminss,) in a range of at least 5 ng/ml to 20 ng/ml, 10 ng/ml to 20
ng/ml, or 12 ng/ml to 20 ng/ml is obtained, or a    Cminss in a range of 20 ng/ml is obtained.
Embodiments of the present invention are also directed to methods of treating or ameliorating a
stroke-related sensorimotor impairment in a patient comprising administering an amount or
range of 4-aminopyridine to said patient such that an average minimum concentration at steady
state (average Cminss) in a range of at least 7 ng/ml to 20 ng/ml, or 12 ng/ml to 20 ng/ml is
obtained, or an average   Cminss in a range of 20 ng/ml is obtained. In certain embodiments, a
Cminss in a range of 20 ng/ml achieves a Cminss of about 20 ng/ml. In other embodiments, a Cminss
of about 20 ng/ml is obtained; in certain embodiments, a Cninss in a range of 20 ng/ml comprises
a lower limit value of from 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 ng/ml, and an upper limit
value of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, or 27 ng/ml. In certain embodiments, a Cminss in a range of at
least 12 ng/ml to 15 ng/ml is obtained. In certain embodiments, a Cminss in a range of at least 13
ng/ml to 15 ng/ml is obtained. In certain embodiments, a Cminss in a range of at least 15 ng/ml to
25 ng/ml is obtained. In certain embodiments, a Cminss of at least or more than 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, or 25 ng/ml is obtained. In other embodiments, an average
Cinss of about 20 ng/ml is obtained; in certain embodiments, an average Cminss in a range of 20
ng/ml comprises an average lower limit value of from 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20
ng/ml, and an average upper limit value of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, or 27 ng/ml. In certain
embodiments, an average Cminss in a range of at least 12 ng/ml to 15 ng/ml is obtained. In certain
embodiments, an average Ciinss in a range of at least 13 ng/ml to 15 ng/ml is obtained. In certain
embodiments, an average Cminssin a range of at least 15 ng/ml to 25 ng/ml is obtained. In certain
                                                   50
3489979vl

embodiments, an average Cmiss of at least or more than 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,17, 18, 19,20,21,
22, 23, 24, or 25 ng/ml is obtained.
          [00143]         Alternatively a method in accordance with the invention (e.g., for treating
a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment or a method for improving a symptom of a stroke
related sensorimotor impainnent in a patient or a method for obtaining a therapeutically effective
level of an aminopyridine in a patient with a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment) comprises
administering an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-aminopyridine) to said patient such that a C            in a
range of 5-12 ng/ml is obtained; a Cminss in a range of 10-20 ng/ml is obtained; a Cminss in a range
of 15-25 ng/ml is obtained; a Cminss in a range of 15-30 ng/ml is obtained; a Cminss in a range of
 17-23 ng/ml is obtained; a Cmirss in a range of 18-22 ng/ml is obtained; or a Cminss is in a range of
 19-21 ng/ml is obtained. In specific embodiments, the Cminss is in a range where the lower value
isselected from the group of 5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 ng/ml and an
upper value is selected from the group of 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 or 27 ng/ml, it being
understood that this indicates that any particular combination is contemplated, e.g., without
limitation a range of: 16-23 ng/ml, 12-24 ng/ml, 13-27 ng/ml, etc.
          [00144]         In certain embodiments, the therapeutically effective amount of an
aminopyridine (e.g., 4-AP) is administered to obtain a Cmnjss or an average Cminss (or respective
range thereof) for an extended period, which is at least or more than: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 or 22 weeks; 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, or 18 months;
or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or greater than 5 years. In certain embodiments, the extended period is for the
lifetime of the patient.
          [00145]         A further embodiment of the present invention is a method of treating a
stroke-related sensorimotor impairment or the symptoms thereof comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of 4-aminopyridine to said patient such that average plasma
concentration of about 13 ng/ml to about 15 ng/ml is obtained and the average maximum plasma
concentration is not greater than about 15 ng/ml.
          [00146]         In certain embodiments, described herein is a method of treating a stroke
related sensorimotor impairment or the symptoms thereof comprising administering a
therapeutically effective amount of 4-aminopyridine to said patient such that average plasma
concentration at steady state (Cavss) of about 15 ng/ml to about 27 ng/ml is obtained. In some
embodiments, described herein is a method of treating a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment
                                                    51
3489979vl

or the symptoms thereof comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of 4
aminopyridine to said patient such that average plasma concentration at steady state (Cavss) of
about 20 ng/ml to about 40 ng/ml is obtained. In one embodiment, described herein is a method
of treating a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment or the symptoms thereof comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of 4-aminopyridine to said patient such that
average plasma concentration at steady state (Cavss) of about 10 ng/ml to about 20 ng/ml is
obtained. In another embodiment, described herein is a method of treating a stroke-related
sensorimotor impairment or the symptoms thereof comprising administering a therapeutically
effective amount of 4-aminopyridine to said patient such that average plasma concentration at
steady state (Cavss) of about 5 ng/inl to about 15 ng/ml is obtained.
          [00147]        In certain embodiments of methods of the invention, patients are identified
and treated in accordance with the methods described herein, which have or are suspected of
having a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment, and which do not have or are not suspected of
having multiple sclerosis.
          [00148]        In certain embodiments, the improvement in a stroke-related sensorimotor
impairment may be at least about (or more than) 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
 19, or 20%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about (or more than) 20,
21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 or 30%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at
least about 20%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about 25%. In
certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about (or more than) 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,
35, 36, 37, 38, 39 or 40%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about 40%.
In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about 45%. In certain embodiments,
the improvement may be at least about (or more than) 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 or
50%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about 50%. In certain
embodiments, the improvement may be at least about or more than 55%. In certain
embodiments, the improvement may be at least about 60%. In certain embodiments, the
improvement may be at least about or more than 65%. In certain embodiments, the improvement
may be at least about or more than 70%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at
least about or more than 75%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about
or more than 80%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about or more than
85%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about or more than 90%. In
                                                  52
3489979vl

certain embodiments, the improvement may be at least about or more than 95%. In certain
embodiments, the improvement may be at least about 100%. In certain embodiments, the
improvement may be more than about 100%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be
more than about 150%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be more than about
200%. In certain embodiments, the improvement may be more than about 250%. In certain
embodiments, the improvement may be more than about 300%. In certain embodiments, the
improvement may be from: 4-100%, 4-20%, 5-20%, 6-20%, 7-20% , 8-20%, 9-20%, 10-20%,
 10-30%, 10-60%, 20-30%, 20-40%, 20-50%, 20-60%, 20-100%, 30-100%, 50-100%, 30-150%,
50-150%, 100-150%, 100-200%, 50-250%, 100-250% or 100-300%. Such percent change
quantification is preferably applied to assays of sensorimotor function that provide
measurements of results in continuous linear scales, such as T25FW, etc.
          [00149]        Embodiments of the present invention are also directed to methods of
monotonically improving a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment in a patient comprising
administering a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine (e.g., 4-AP) to said patient
for an extended period of time. In certain embodiments, the extended period is at least 8, 9, 10,
 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21 or 22 weeks; 3,4, 5,6,7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, or 18 months; or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or greater than 5 years. In certain embodiments, the
extended period is for the lifetime of the patient. As used herein, monotonic increase in a
parameter is a consistent increase without any decrease from baseline (i.e., prior to treatment
with an aminopyridine).
          [001501        Various parameters known as quality of life or activities of daily living are
known in the art. These parameters can be measured in order to assess the improvement of a
condition (e.g., a sensorimotor function) in a patient who had suffered a stroke after a period of
treatment in accordance with the invention. These include, e.g., Impact of Impairment on Daily
Life:
                         - Navigate between rooms in one's own home
                         - Go to the bathroom
                         - Shower
                         - Care for one's children
                         - Cross the street safely
                         - Stay employed
                                                     53
3489979vl

                         - Shop for groceries
                         - Cook a meal
                         - Climb stairs
                         - Exercise
                         - Participate in social activities.
          [00151]        In some embodiments, methods in accordance with the invention allow a
subject to achieve any of the forgoing where they could not achieve such activity(s) before. In
specific embodiments, methods in accordance with the invention allow a subject to achieve any
of the forgoing better, where they were limited in their ability to achieve such activity(s) before.
          [00152]       In certain embodiments, methods in accordance with the invention allow
for maintaining improvement of a symptom, parameter, characteristic, value, finding or
manifestation of a stroke-related sensorimotor impairment, where such symptom, parameter,
characteristic, value, finding or manifestation was previously effectively addressed by an
aminopyridine, by administering a therapeutically effective amount of an arninopyridine to said
patient (after previously achieving an improvement of such symptom, parameter, characteristic,
value, finding or manifestation). The previous period of efficacy can be 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15,
 16 , 17 or 18 weeks; 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 or 13 months; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or
more than 10 years.
6.        EXAMPLES
          6.1     Example 1: Rodent Stroke Model
          [00153]       Male rats (about 300-400 g, Sprague-Dawley) undergo surgery to induce
brain ischemic injury. Animals are dosed orally with 4-AP (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg) for single
dosing or daily dosing for 2 weeks, initiating at 1 day, 10 days and 4 weeks after ischemic insult.
Neurological behaviors are evaluated by perfonning tests of forelimb placing, hind limb placing,
body swing, cylinder test and activity box at 4 hrs [equal to 1 hr after Cmax (~3 hrs)] after the
dosing (for single treatment) or the last dosing (for multiple treatment). Neurological functions
are also evaluated after a period of drug withdrawal. Further, small blood samples (100 tL) are
taken from the lateral tail veins at multiple time points following the vehicle or 4-AP dose to
establish plasma concentrations of 4-AP using HPLC-MS/MS methodology. This blood
sampling allows for determination of plasma exposure around the time when animals are being
                                                     54
3489979vl

 assessed for neurological improvements.
           [00154]          At the end of the experiment, animals are deeply anesthetized with
 pentobarbital and perfused transcardially with PBS and parafornaldehyde for brain infarction
 volume measurement and the degree of neuronal damage is assessed with H&E staining and
 Luxol fast blue staining, respectively.
           [00155]          Table 1 shows a summary of treatment groups and endpoints.
Table 1. Summary of treatments groups and endpoints
    Dosing          Dosing         Dose           Neurological        Infarction        Histological
  frequency         Starts at      Level          Assessments        measurement        Assessments
                                 (mg/kg)
     Single          1 day,           0,        forelimb placing,        H&E          Myelination by
                    10 days,        0.1,       hind limb placing,       staining      Luxol Fast Blue
                   4 weeks        0.3, and    body swing, cylinder,                   staining, Axonal
                                     1.0        activity box tests                         survival
   Multiple        1 day, 10          0,        forelimb placing,        H&E          Myelination by
      (14         days, and          0.1,      hind limb placing,       staining      Luxol Fast Blue
 consecutive       4 weeks        0.3, and    body swing, cylinder,                   staining, Axonal
     days)                           1.0        activity box tests                         survival
           [00156]          Upon completion of the study, neurologic function following brain
 infarction is assayed for neurological function improvement, relative infarction reduction,
 relative myelination and/or axonal survival (as described in Table 1).
           6.2     Example 2: Effects of Oral Administration of 4-AP: Functional Recovery
           Following MCA occlusion (MCAO) in Rats. Blinded, vehicle-controlled double
           crossover study.
           [00157]          4-AP was evaluated for its ability to promote functional sensorimotor
 improvement following ischemic stroke in rats with stable motor deficits at times remote from
 their ischemic events. The animal model mimics the conditions in human ischemic stroke and is
 produced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), which results in extensive infarction in
 cerebral cortex and striatum, including the cortical spinal tract (white matter).
           [00158]          In particular, the MCAO model in Sprague Dawley rats that was utilized
 in the experiments presented below mimics the conditions in human ischemic stroke. In this
 model, focal cerebral infarcts were made by permanent occlusion of the proximal right middle
                                                       55
 3489979vl

cerebral artery (MCA) using a modification of the method of Tamura et al. (No To Shinkei 1986;
38:747-51). Briefly, the temporalis muscle was bisected and reflected through an incision made
midway between the eye and the ear canal. The proximal MCA was exposed through a
subtemporal craniectomy without removing the zygomatic arch and without transecting the facial
nerve. The artery was then occluded by microbipolar coagulation from just proximal to the
olfactory tract to the inferior cerebral vein and was transected.
          [001591        The MCAO model described in this example results in a recovery pattern
that in many ways parallels the typical human pattern of neurological recovery after stroke.
Following MCAO there is an immediate and complete loss of sensorimotor function at Day 1
after surgery as measured with specific tactile, proprioceptive and sensory tests (forelimb and
hindlimb placing and body swing symmetry). This is followed by a relatively rapid partial
recovery period over the first several weeks. In the described MCAO model the recovery begins
to plateau by 4 weeks after MCAO, at which time there are still measurable deficits in
sensorimotor function. A similar, but slower recovery pattern occurs in humans over the first
several months after stroke (see Cramer, Ann Neurol 2008; 63:272-87).
                                             Experimental Design
          [00160]        In this experiment, Sprague Dawley rats were anesthetized, subjected to a
surgery resulting in middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), treated with and without 4
aminopyridine and behavioral assessments were performed as described below. Treatment was
initiated at 4 weeks after stroke.
          [00161]        Animals: 45 male Sprague Dawley Rats, 300-400 g (obtained from
Charles River Laboratories, which arrived 7-10 days before surgery at 250-275 g) were used.
Animals were randomly assigned to treatment groups.
          [00162]        Nomenclature: The nomenclature for the days of the study is as follows:
Day 0 is the day of the MCAO, and the days following are numbered consecutively (Day 1, Day
2, Day 3, etc.); Day -I represents the day prior to the MCAO.
          [00163]        Grouping details: The amount of time needed for some procedures in this
study necessitated breaking up the 3 treatment groups (as listed below), into 8 working groups
(as written in the schedule, see below). Six animals received stroke surgery per day. If an
animal died during the 8-day surgical period of the study, it was replaced by a spare. If not, the
animal was not replaced. Most animal deaths (<5% overall) occurred in the immediate post-op
                                                   56
3489979vl

to 7 day period.
          [00164]       Anesthesia: 1-3% isoflurane in N20 : 02 (2:1). Anesthesia was induced
in an induction chamber with 2-3% isoflurane in N20:02 (2:1), and maintained with 1-1.5%
isoflurane via face mask. Adequate depth of anesthesia was assessed by lack of withdrawal to
hindlimb pinch and loss of eyeblink reflex. Once anesthetized, animals received cefazolin
sodium (40 mg/kg, i.p.) and buprenorphine (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.). Cefazolin was used as a
prophylactic antibiotic for this procedure (because it ensures a negligible infection rate). A
veterinary ophthalmic ointment, Lacrilube, was applied to the eyes.
          [001651       Surgical Procedure: A small focal stroke (infarct) was made on the right
side of the surface of the brain (cerebral cortex) by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO).
The right side of the head was shaved with electric clippers (patch of approx 3 X 5 cm between
eye and ear). The region was carefully cleaned with septisol. Using aseptic technique, an
incision was made midway between the eye and eardrum canal. The temporalis muscle was
isolated, bisected, and reflected. A small window of bone was removed via drill and rongeurs
(subtemporal craniectomy) to expose the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Care was taken not to
remove the zygomatic arch or to transect the facial nerve that would impair the ability of the
animal to chew after surgery. Using a dissecting microscope, the dura was incised, and the MCA
was electrocoagulated from just proximal to the olfactory tract to the inferior cerebral vein
(taking care not to rupture this vein), using microbipolar electrocauterization. The MCA was
then transected. The temporalis muscle was then repositioned, and the incision was closed
subcutaneously with sutures. The skin incision was closed with surgical staples (2-3 required).
Throughout the procedure, body temperature was maintained at 37.00 ± 1 C, using a self
regulating heating pad connected to a rectal thermometer.
          [00166]       Post-Operative Monitoring: Following surgery, animals remained on a
heating pad until they awakened from anesthesia. They were then returned to clean home cages.
They were observed frequently on the day of MCAO surgery (Day 0) and at least once daily
thereafter.
          [001671       Handling, surgery, and injections timetable: The animals were housed 2-3
per cage before and after surgery, unless severe aggression was displayed, or death of cage
mate(s). The animals were handled for 7 days before the surgery. Cefazolin Sodium i.p. (40
mg/kg) was administered right before surgery. Buprenorphine s.c. (0.1mg/kg) was administered
                                                  57
3489979vl

right before surgery.
          [001681        Dosing and Treatment: Rats were treated in accordance with the dosing
schedule shown in Tables 2A, 2B, 3 and Figure 2, with each Phase being a two week period of
time. A solution of 4-AP was used in this experiment. Dosing was started at 4 weeks after
ischemic event. 4-aminopyridine was dissolved in water for injection (WFI, Cellgro) and sterile
filtered. Final concentrations of 0.315 mg/mL or 1.0 mg/mL of 4-aminopyridine were delivered
at 2 mL/kg by gastric gavage, resulting in final doses of 0.63 mg/kg and 2 mg/kg respectively.
Vehicle control treatment was WFI delivered at 2 mL/kg by gastric gavage. This study was
divided into three treatment phases (1-3) with each randomized cohort of animals receiving a
different dose level during each of the treatment phases. Starting on day 30 after MCAO (Day
30, start of phase 1), the animals received gavage dosing of solutions (2mL/kg) approximately 12
hours apart, for a total of five doses. The same schedule was repeated with different treatment
on Day 44 and Day 58 for phase 2 and 3 of the study, respectively. Animals were not treated
during the 10 days between phases (washout period).
                  Table 2A:
                  Treatment ID      Treatment (doses TBD)
                  V                 Vehicle (water)
                  L                 Low 4-AP (0.63 mg/kg, b.i.d, p.o)
                  H                 High 4-AP (2.0 mg/kg, b.i.d, p.o)
                  Table 2B:
Group (n=15)               Phase 1 treatment        Phase 2 treatment       Phase 3 treatment
 I                         H                        L                       V
2                          L                        V                       H
3                          V                        H                       L
          [00169]        Treatment groups: Dosing was started 4 weeks after MCAO surgery.
During these 4 weeks, weekly behavioral assessments, as defined below, were performed. Two
dose levels of 4-AP plus vehicle control were assessed, with treatment starting at 4 weeks after
ischemic event. All dosing was via gastric gavage, volume not to exceed 2 mL/kg. Animals
were given the first dose and behavioral assessments were performed starting 60 minutes after
dosing. Animals then received the second dose that day at the appropriate time and b.i.d
(preferably every 12 hours) thereafter for 2 more days (3 total days of dosing, 5 total doses).
One hour after the 5* dose, animals were subjected to behavioral assessments as defined below.
                                                  58
3489979vl

Following the final behavioral assessment, drug was withdrawn for 10 or 11 days, behavior was
re-assessed, and then animals were re-challenged with a cross-over treatment (Phase 2 of Table
 2B) as described in Tables 2A, 2B and 3, followed by the same behavioral testing and dosing
regimen. This cross-over was repeated one more time as well (Phase 3 of Table 2B) (see Figure
2).
          [00170]        Behavioral test details: Behavioral evaluations were done by evaluators
 blinded to treatment assignment. Blinded assessments of sensorimotor function were performed
just prior to MCAO surgery, 24 hours after MCAO surgery and weekly thereafter until the first
phase of dosing using limb placing and body swing behavioral tests. As described above,
 behavioral assessments were timed exactly with dosing times. Animals were tested one hour
 after the l t and 5 doses of each phase (i.e., Days 30 and 32 of the first phase, Days 44 and 46 of
 the second phase; and Days 58 and 60 of the third phase); animals were also tested during the
washout periods on Days 42 and 56. Animals were given the first dose, behavioral assessments
were performed starting 60 minutes later, and blood was collected 90 minutes after dosing.
Animals then received the second dose that day at the appropriate time and b.i.d (preferably
 every 12 hours) thereafter for 2 more days (3 total days of dosing, 5 total doses). One hour after
 the 5t dose, animals were subjected to behavioral testing. Following the final behavioral
 assessment, drug was withdrawn for 10 or 11 days, behavior was re-assessed, and then animals
 were re-challenged with a cross-over treatment as described in Tables 2A, 2B, 3 and Figure 2,
 followed by the same behavioral testing and dosing regimen.
          [00171]        Limb Placing: Evaluated at Day -1 (pre-operation), Day 1, Day 7, Day 14,
Day 21, Day 28, Day 30, Day 32, Day 42, Day 44, Day 46, Day 56, Day 58, Day 60. The limb
placing tests were divided into forelimb and hindlimb tests. For the forelimb-placing test, the
 examiner held the rat close to a tabletop and scored the rat's ability to place the forelimb on the
tabletop in response to whisker, visual, tactile, or proprioceptive stimulation. Similarly, for the
hindlimb placing test, the examiner assessed the rat's ability to place the hindlimb on the tabletop
 in response to tactile and proprioceptive stimulation. Together, these tests reflect function and
recovery in the sensorimotor systems (De Ryck et al., Brain Res 1992; 573:44-60). Separate sub
 -scores were obtained for each mode of sensory input and added to give total scores (for the
 forelimb placing test: 0 = normal, 12 = maximally impaired; for the hindlimb placing test: 0      =
normal; 6 = maximally impaired). Scores were given in half-point increments (see below).
                                                   59
3489979vl

Typically, there is a slow and steady recovery of limb placing behavior during the first month
after stroke.
                      Forelimb placing test (0-12):
                              whisker placing (0-2);
                              visual placing (forward (0-2), sideways (0-2))
                              tactile placing (dorsal (0-2), lateral (0-2))
                              proprioceptive placing (0-2).
                      Hindlimb placing test (0-6):
                              tactile placing (dorsal (0-2), lateral (0-2))
                              proprioceptive placing (0-2).
                      For each subtest, animals are scored as followed:
                              0.0 = immediate response
                              0.5 = response within 2 seconds
                              1.0 = response of 2-3 seconds
                              1.5 = response of >3 seconds
                              2.0 = no response
          [00172]         Body Swing: Evaluated at Day -1 (pre-operation), Day 1, Day 7, Day 14,
Day 21, Day 28, Day 30, Day 32, Day 42, Day 44, Day 46, Day 56, Day 58, Day 60. Body
swing was evaluated by counting head movements to one side or the other when suspended by
tail. For this test, the rat was held approximately one (1) inch from the base of its tail. It was
then elevated to an inch above a surface of a table. The rat was held in the vertical axis, defined
as no more than 100 to either the left or the right side. A swing was recorded whenever the rat
moved its head out of the vertical axis to either side. Before attempting another swing, the rat
had to return to the vertical position for the next swing to be counted. Thirty (30) total swings
were counted. The test reflects symmetry of striatal function (Borlongan et al., J. Neurosci 1995;
 15:5372-8), and a normal rat typically has an equal number of swings to either side. Following
focal ischemia, the rat tends to swing to the contralateral side (left side in this case). Body swing
scores were expressed as a percentage of rightward over total swings. There is a spontaneous
partial recovery of body swing scores (toward 50%) during the first month after stroke. The
body swing test was performed at the same time as the limb placing test.
          [00173]         Cylinder Test: Evaluation was performed at Day -1 (pre-operation), Day 7,
Day 21, Day 30, Day 32, Day 44, Day 46, Day 58, Day 60. This test assessed limb use
asymmetry. Rats were placed in a transparent cylinder (20 cm in diameter and 30 cm in height)
for 3-6 minutes. A mirror was placed behind the cylinder to determine forelimb movements
when animal was turned away from the camera. The extent of fore limb-use asymmetry
                                                     60
3489979vl

displayed by the animals was determined by counting the number of times the left or right
forelimbs contact the wall during a full rear. Simultaneous use of both left and right forelimbs
while contacting the wall during a full rear was also scored. A total number of 20 forelimb
placings were counted during a trial. Data was expressed in terms of percent use of the non
impaired and or impaired forelimb relative to the total number of limb use observations for wall
movements.
          [00174]       Blood sampling: After the on-drug behavior assessments were completed
(Days 30, 32, 44, 46, 58 and 60), approximately 300 microliter blood sample was taken exactly
90 min after dosing to assess 4-AP plasma levels at that time. Blood was collected from the
saphenous vein of each animal. Blood was collected into K3 EDTA tubes and centrifuged at
 10,000 rpm for 10 minutes at 4 degrees C. Plasma was obtained, frozen and stored at
approximately -80C. Samples were analyzed for 4-AP levels. 4-AP concentration was
detennined using a validated liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometric detection
method in positive electrospray mode.
          [00175]       Euthanasia and post-mortem processing: Infarct Volume analysis. After
the last behavioral assessment, rats were anesthetized deeply with ketarnine/xylazine (100 mg/kg
ketamine, 10 mg/kg xylazine, i.p.) and perfused transcardially with normal saline (with heparin 2
unit/ml) followed by 4% paraformaldehyde or formalin on Day 63. Brains were harvested and
processed for histological assessment. A subset of 10 brains per group was processed for infarct
volume measurement (H&E staining).
          [00176]       Infarct measurement: Brains were embedded in paraffin and 5 micron
thick coronal sections were cut using a microtome. Sections were stained with hematoxylin and
eosin (H&E), using standard methods. Seven coronal sections (+4.7, +2.7, +0.7, -1.3, -3.3, -5.3
and -7.3, compared to bregma respectively) from each brain were photographed by a digital
camera, and the infarct area on each slice was determined by NIH lInage (Image J) using the
"indirect method" (area of the intact contralateral [left] hemisphere - area of intact regions of the
ipsilateral [right] hemisphere) to correct for brain edema. Infarct areas were then summed
among slices and multiplied by slice thickness (the distance between sections) to give total
infarct volume, which was expressed as a percentage of intact contralateral hemispheric volume.
          [00177]       Regulatory Compliance: This study was conducted in a non-GLP
environment, in an AAALAC accredited facility and in accordance with standard good scientific
                                                   61
3489979vl

principles and practices.
          [00178]        Quality Assurance (QA): During the progress of the study, data collected
was verified by a second scientist in the laboratory who was not involved in collection of that
data set. This verification was documented within the raw data, and was maintained with the
data package for this study. At the completion of the study, the entire data package (all raw data,
measurements, notebooks and calculations) was verified and checked against the final report.
                                             Statistical Methods
          [00179]        Statistical Methods: Change from baseline behavior values were
calculated for each treatment group in each phase. Baseline is defined as the behavioral value
measured while animals receive no treatment prior to starting a dosing phase (Day 28, 42 and 56
for phase 1, 2 and 3, respectively). Mean behavioral parameter data for each entire dosing phase
were subject to Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). Data were also subjected to mixed model
analyses examining dose, sequence, carry-over effect and phase of the experiment as covariates
using SAS Pair-wise comparisons between each pair of treatments using a difference in least
squares from the mean method. Values of p<0.005 were considered statistically significant.
          [00180]       Within each phase, the baseline was defined as the measurement on the
first day of that phase, which is Day 28, Day 42 and Day 56. Change from baseline was taken as
the difference from the measurements on other days to the baseline. The average change from
baseline for each subject was calculated by summing the two changes from baseline values
within each phase (e.g., Day 30 and Day 32 in phase 1) and divided by two.
          [00181]       Descriptive statistics (mean and standard deviation) were presented in the
excel sheets for different behavioral endpoints. Change from baseline was calculated at different
phases per treatment group (N=15), regardless of which day within the phase the measurement
was taken. Within a phase, one-way ANOVA with treatment as the only covariate was used to
compare the means under different treatments. The null hypothesis was the means were all the
same under different treatments. With a p-value <0.01 (for body swing) and <0.0001 (for hind
and fore limb), the statistical significance was strongly demonstrated. The null hypotheses was
rejected at the 99% confidence level and, thus, it was concluded that the three dose levels show
the significantly different treatment effects on the studied muscle functions.
          [00182]       Two sets of mixed models have been used to further investigate other
effects on the outcome. In the first set of mixed models, the outcome variable was the average
                                                   62
3489979vl

change from the two post baseline measurements within a phase. Fixed effects included the
covariates: "dose", "seq"', "co" and "phase". "dose" referred to the three treatments, and "seq"
referred to the treatment sequence assigned to each group ( i.e., "high-low-vehicle"). "co" was
the carry-over effect, defined as the dose from previous phase, in which the carry-over effect for
phase I was set to 0. There was only one random effect, id, which was the subject id nested in
sequence. In the second set of mixed models, the outcome variable was the raw change (without
taking the average of the two post baseline measurements) from the baseline within a phase.
Day as a fixed effect was added into the model so that fixed effects included the covariates:
"dose", "seq", "co", "phase" and "day". "day" was the day when the measurement was taken,
and it was nested within the phase. The rest of the fixed effects are the same as those in the
previous mixed model. There was only one random effect, id, which was the subject id nested in
sequence. In both mixed models, there were two parts of outputs from SAS presented. The first
part is the "Type 3 Tests of Fixed Effects". With a statistical significant p-value (<=0.05), a
conclusion could be made that the effect is significantly predicting the outcome. The second part
was "Differences of Least Squares Means", in which the pair-wise comparison was conducted
between each pair of treatments, i.e., high vs. low. p-value less than or equal to 0.05 claims a
statistical significance in difference of the outcome under different treatments.
          [00183]        For forelimb function, the first model demonstrated that phase, dose and
carry-over effect were significant effects but not sequence. High dose significantly improved the
forelimb function compared to low (p=0.0334) and vehicle (p=0.001); while low didn't show
statistical significant improvement compared to vehicle at level 0.05. In the second mixed model,
day was shown as another significant effect and all three treatments were shown significant
difference to each other (i.e. high vs. low, high vs. vehicle, and low vs. vehicle) with p<0.0001.
Overall, for forelimb function, both models demonstrated that phase, dose and carryover effect
were significant effects but not sequence. Both models demonstrated that high dose would
significantly improve the forelimb function compared to lower dose and vehicle. The second
mixed model appeared to be more sensitive to detect the treatment effects based on the smaller p
values.
          [00184]        The same analysis procedure was applied for each outcome measurements,
including forelimb, hindlimb and body swing.
          [00185]        For hindlimb function, the first model demonstrated that phase and dose
                                                   63
3489979vl

were significant effects but sequence or carry-over effects were not significant. High dose
significantly improved the hindlimb function compared to vehicle (p<0.000 1), and low dose
significantly improved the hindlimb function compared to vehicle as well (p=0.0027), while high
does didn't show the statistical significance at level 0.05, compare to low dose. In the second
mixed model, all effects except sequence showed significant effect, and all three treatments were
shown significant difference to each other (i.e. high vs. low, high vs. vehicle, and low vs. vehicle)
with p<0.0001. Overall, for hindlimb function, both models demonstrated that phase and dose
were significant effects. Both models also demonstrated that high dose and low dose would
significantly improve the hindlimb function compared to vehicle. The second mixed model
appeared to be more sensitive to detect the treatment effects based on the smaller p-values.
          [00186]       For body swing function, the first model demonstrated that only dose was
significant effect. High dose significantly improved the body swing function compared to
vehicle (p=0.0 131), and low dose significantly improved the body swing function compared to
vehicle as well (p=0.033), while high does didn't show the statistical significance at level 0.05,
compare to low dose. In the second mixed model, phase was shown as another significant effect.
High dose significantly improved the body swing function compared to low (p=0.006) and
vehicle (p<0.000 1); while low didn't show the statistical significant improvement compared to
vehicle at level 0.05. Overall, for body swing function, both models have shown that dose was
significant effects.
          [00187]       The mixed model is change from baseline = dose seq co phase day, with id
nested in seq as random effect. Baseline is defined as Day 28, Day 46 and Day 56 for each phase
respectively. Dose has three fixed levels, high, low and vehicle; seq(sequence) has three fixed
values as three different dosing sequence, namely "hlv", "lvh" and "vhl"; co(carry-over effect) is
defined as the dose from previous phase, in which the carry-over effect for phase 1 is set to 0. Id
is the rat id from the data. * indicates statistically significant based on two sided test base on
a=0.05.
                                                     Results
          [00188]       Table 3 shows the distribution of animals between the treatment groups.
Tables 4-6 show the Forelimb Placing Test Total Score for each of Groups 1-3. Tables 7-9 show
Hindlimb Placing Test Total Score for each of Groups 1-3. Tables 10-12 show Body Swing Test
Total Score for each of Groups 1-3. Tables 13-15 show the weight of animals at time points
                                                    64
3489979vl

tested in each of Groups 1-3. Tables 16-18 show Cylinder Test Total Score (% of overall
asymmetry) for each of Groups 1-3. Tables 19-21 show Cylinder Test Total Movement Score
for each of Groups 1-3.
               Table 3: Distribution of Animals among the Treatment Groups
                                   Group 1        Group 2         Group 3
                     Phase 1          H              L                V
                     Phase 2          L              V                H
                     Phase3           V              H                L
                                      2               5               1
                                       3              9               4
                                       7             11               6
                                      12             13               8
                                      18             14              10
                                      21             19              15
                                      23             20              16
                                      24             27              17
                                      25             32              22
                                      28             33              26
                                      30             35              29
                                      31             39              34
                                      37             41              36
                                      38             44              40
                                      42             45              43
                        N             15             15              15
                                              65
3489979vl

                  Table 4: Forelimb Placing Total Score Group 1
Group 1      D-1   D1   D7    D14   D21   D28    D30| D32     D42  D44  D46  D56  D58   D60
 No. 2       0.00 12.00 9.00  8.50  7.00  6.50   4.50  4.00   6.00 4.00 3.00 3.50 4.50  6.00
 No. 3       0.00 11.50 9.00  7.50  6.50  6.00   4.50  3.00   5.00 3.00 2.50 2.50 2.50  2.50
 No. 7       0.00 11.00 7.00  6.00  6.00  6.00   3.50  3.50   4.50 0.00 0.00 2.00 3.00  3.00
 No. 12      0.00 11.50 6.00  4.50  4.50  4.00   1.50  0.50   1.50 0.50 0.00 1.50 1.50  1.50
 No. 18      0.00 12.00 7.00  6.50  5.50  4.50   3.00  2.00   4.00 1.00 1.00 2.50 2.00  2.00
 No.21       0.00 12.00 9.50  7.00  6.50  6.00   4.50  3.00   5.00 3.50 3.50 4.00 4.00  3.00
 No.23       0.00 11.50 6.00  5.00  5.00  5.00   3.50  2.00   2.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50  1.50
 No.24       0.00 11.50 7.50  7.00  6.50  6.00   4.00  3.50   4.50 4.00 3.00 3.00 3.50  3.50
 No.25       0.00 11.50 7.00  6.00  6.00  6.00   5.50  2.00   6.00 4.00 1.50 5.50 5.50  5.50
 No.28       0.00 11.50 8.00  7.00  6.00  6.00   4.50  3.00   5.00 3.00 3.50 5.00 5.50  4.00
 No. 30      0.00 12.00 7.50  6.50  6.00  6.00   3.00  3.00   5.50 4.00 4.00 4.50 4.00  4.00
 No. 31      0.00 11.50 7.00  6.50  6.00  6.00   3.50  2.50   5.00 2.00 2.50 3.50 3.50  3.00
 No. 37      0.00 12.00 6.50  6.00  6.00  6.00   3.50  3.50   6.00 3.50 3.00 5.00 5.50  5.50
 No. 38      0.00 10.50 7.00  5.00  3.50  3.50   0.50  0.50   2.00 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50  1.50
 No. 42      0.00 12.00 7.00  6.50  4.00  3.50   1.00  0.50   2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00
    N         15   15    15    15    15     15     15    15    15   15   15   15   15    15
 Mean        0.00 11.60 7.40  6.37  5.67  5.40   3.37  2.43   4.30 2.37 2.03 3.03 3.20  3.10
  Scm        0.00 0.11  0.27  0.26  0.26  0.26   0.36  0.30   0.40 0.39 0.35 0.41 0.44  0.44
   SD        0.00 0.43  1.06  1.03  0.99  1.02   1.41  1.16   1.56 1.52 1.36 1.59 1.69  1.70
                  Table 5: Forelimb Placing Total Score Group 2
Group 2      D-1   DI   D7    D14   D21   D28    D30   D32    D42  D44  D46  D56  D58   D60
 No. 5       0.00 11.50 9.50  6.50  6.00  5.50   4.00  3.00   3.50 3.50 3.00 2.50 0.50  0.50
 No. 9       0.00 11.00 8.50  7.00  6.50  6.00   5.00  4.50   6.00 6.00 5.00 5.50 3.00  2.50
 No. 11      0.00 12.00 7.00  6.00  5.50  5.50   3.00  3.00   4.50 4.00 3.50 3.50 1.00  0.00
 No. 13      0.00 11.50 8.50  7.00  6.00  6.00   4.50  4.00   5.00 4.50 4.00 4.00 2.50  2.50
 No. 14      0.00 12.00 9.00  6.50  7.00  6.00   6.00  5.50   6.00 6.00 6.00 5.50 3.50  3.00
 No. 19      0.00 12.00 7.00  6.00  6.00  6.00   5.50  5.50   6.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 2.50  1.00
 No.20       0.00 12.00 9.00  6.00  4.00  4.00   4.00  2.00   2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00  0.00
 No.27       0.00 12.00 7.50  6.00  6.00  6.00   3.50  2.00   5.00 4.50 4.50 4.50 1.50  1.00
 No.32       0.00 12.00 8:00  6.50  6.50  6.50   5.50  4.00   5.00 4.50 3.50 5.00 2.50  1.50
 No. 33      0.00 12.00 8.50  6.50  6.00  6.00   5.00  5.00   6.00 6.00 5.50 5.00 3.00  0.00
 No. 35      0.00 12.00 7.50  6.50  6.00  6.00   4.00  3.50   3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 1.50  1.00
 No. 39      0.00 11.00 7.00  6.00  6.00  6.00   4.50  4.50   4.50 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00  3.50
 No. 41      0.00 11.00 6.00  4.50  4.50  4.00   1.50  1.00   2.50 3.00 3.00 2.50 0.00  0.00
 No. 44      0.00 11.00 6.50  4.50  4.50  3.00   1.50  1.00   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.00  0.00
 No.45       0.00 11.00 6.00  6.00  6.00  6.00   5.50  3.00   6.00 6.00 6.00 6.00 2.00  1.00
    N         15   15    15          15   15    1515  15    15      15   15   15   1515
 Mean        0.00 11.60 7.70  6.10  5.77  5.50   4.20  3.43   4.40 4.23 3.93 3.90 1.90  1.17
  Sem        0.00 0.12  0.29  0.19  0.21  0.26   0.35  0.38   0.42 0.41 0.41 0.43 0.38  0.31
   SD        0.00 0.47  1.11  0.74  0.82   1.00  1.37  1.47   1.64 1.59 1.58 1.68 1.45  1.19
                                                66
   3489979vl

                   Table 6: Forelimb Placing Total Score Group 3
Group 3      D-1   DI      D7  D14   D21   D28   D30   D32   D42   D44    D46    D56   I D58  D60
 No. 1       0.00 12.00   9.00 7.00  6.50  6.00  6.00  6.00  6.00  5.00   1.00   4.50    3.00 3.00
 No. 4       0.00 12.00   7.00 6.00  6.00  6.00  4.00  4.00  4.00  1.50   1.00   3.00    1.50 1.00
 No. 6       0.00 11.50   8.00 5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  4.50  3.00   1.50   3.50    3.00 3.00
 No. 8       0.00 11.00   6.00 4.50  4.50  4.50  3.00  3.00  1.50  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00 0.00
 No. 10      0.00 11.50   8.00 6.00  6.00  6.00  6.00  6.00  5.50  4.50   2.50   4.50    3.00 2.50
 No. 15      0.00 12.00   8.00 7.00  6.00  6.00  6.00  6.00  5.50  4.00   3.00   4.00    3.00 3.00
 No. 16      0.00 12.00   7.00 6.00  5.50  5.00  3.50  3.00  2.00  1.00   0.00   0.50    0.50 1.00
 No. 17      0.00 11.50   8.50 7.00  6.50  6.00  5.50  6.00  5.50  4.00   2.00   3.00    2.00 2.00
 No.22       0.00 12.00   9.00 7.00  6.50  6.50  6.50  6.50  6.00  4.00   3.00   6.00    3.50 3.50
 No.26       0.00 12.00   9.00 6.00  5.00  5.50  5.00  4.00  3.00  2.50   1.50   3.00    1.50 0.50
 No. 29      0.00 12.00   8.50 7.00  6.50  6.50  6.00  6.00  6.00  3.00   0.00   6.00    2.50 2.00
 No.  34     0.00 12.00   8.50 6.50  6.00  6.00  6.00  6.00  6.00  4.50   1.50   6.00    4.00 3.00
 No.  36     0.00 12.00   7.50 6.50  5.00  5.50  4.50  4.50  6.00  3.00   3.00   4.00    2.50 2.50
 No.  40     0.00 11.00   6.50 6.00  5.00  4.00  3.00  1.50  2.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00 0.00
 No.  43     0.00 11.50   6.00 5.00  4.00  3.00  1.50  1.50  1.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00 0.00
    N         15   15      15   15    15    15    15    15    15    15     15     15      15   15
 Mean        0.00 11.73   7.77 6.17  5.60  5.43  4.77  4.60  4.30  2.67   1.33   3.20    2.00 1.80
  Scm        0.00 0.10    0.27 0.21  0.21  0.25  0.38  0.44  0.49  0.45   0.30   0.56    0.35 0.33
   SD        0.00 0.37    1.05 0.82  0.81  0.98  1.47  1.70  1.89  1.76   1.18   2.18    1.35 1.26
                   Table 7: Hindlimb Placing Total Score Group 1
Group 1      D-1   DI   |  D7   D14   D21   D28 I D30   D32   D42   D44    D46   D56     D58  D60
 No. 2       0.00 6.00    3.50  3.00  3.00  3.00  1.50  1.50  2.50  2.50   2.00  2.50    2.50 2.50
 No. 3       0.00 6.00    3.50  3.00  3.00  2.50  1.50  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00
 No. 7       0.00 6.00    3.50  3.50  3.00  2.50  1.50  1.50  2.50  0.00    0.00  1.50   1.50 1.50
 No. 12      0.00 5.00    3.00  3.00  2.50  2.00  0.50  0.00  1.50  0.50    0.50 0.50    1.00 1.00
 No. 18      0.00 6.00    4.00  3.50  3.00  3.00  1.50  0.50  2.50   1.00   1.00  1.50   1.50 1.50
 No.21       0.00 6.00    4.50  3.00  3.00  3.00  1.50  1.00  2.50  2.00   2.00  2.00    2.00 2.00
 No.23       0.00 6.00    4.50  3.50  3.50  3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00    3.00 2.00    3.00 2.00
 No.24       0.00 6.00    3.50  3.00  3.00  3.00  1.50  1.50  3.00  2.00    1.50  1.50   2.00 2.00
 No.25       0.00 6.00    4.00  3.00  3.00  3.00  2.50  1.50  3.00  2.00    0.00 2.00    2.50 2.50
 No.28       0.00 6.00    4.00  3.50  3.00  3.00  3.00  1.50  2.50   1.50   1.50 2.50    3.00 2.50
 No. 30      0.00 6.00    3.50  3.00  3.00  3.00  1.50  0.00  2.50  2.00   2.00  3.00    3.00 3.00
 No. 31      0.00 6.00    4.00  3.00  3.00  3.00  2.50  0.50  3.00   1.50   1.50  1.50   1.50 1.50
 No.37       0.00 6.00    4.00  3.00  3.00  3.00  2.00  1.50  2.50   1.50   1.50 2.50    2.50 2.50
 No. 38      0.00 5.50    3.50  3.00  3.00  3.00  1.00  0.50  1.50  0.50    0.50 0.50    0.50 0.50
 No.42       0.00 6.00    3.00  3.00  3.00  2.50  0.00  0.00  1.50  0.00    0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00
    N         15   15      15    15     15    15    15   15    15     15     15    15     15   15
 Mean        0.00 5.90    3.73  3.13  3.00  2.83  1.67  0.97  2.27   1.33   1.13  1.57   1.77 1.67
  Sem        0.00 0.07    0.12  0.06  0.05  0.08  0.22  0.22  0.21  0.25    0.24 0.24    0.27 0.24
   SD        0.00 0.28    0.46  0.23  0.19  0.31  0.84  0.85  0.82  0.96    0.93 0.94    1.03 0.94
                                                 67
   3489979vl

                  Table 8: Hindlimb Placing Total Score Group 2
Group 2      D-1   D   |  D7  D14  D21    D28   D30| D32    D42  D44  D46  D56  D58   D60
 No. 5       0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  2.00  1.00  2.50 2.00 2.00 2.00 0.50  0.50
 No. 9       0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  1.50  1.50  2.50 3.00 3.00 3.00 1.50  0.00
 No. 11      0.00 6.00   3.50 2.50 2.50   2.00  1.50  1.50  1.50 1.50 2.00 1.50 0.00  0.00
 No. 13      0.00 6.00   4.00 3.00 3.00   3.00  2.00  2.00  2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.00  0.50
 No. 14      0.00 5.50   3.00 3.00 3.00   3.00  3.00  1.50  2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 0.50  0.00
 No. 19      0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  2.50  2.00  3.00 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.00  0.50
 No.20       0.00 6.00   4.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  1.50  1.00  2.50 1.50 0.50 0.50 0.00  0.00
 No.27       0.00 6.00   3.00 3.00 2.50   2.50  2.00  1.50  2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 1.00  1.00
 No. 32      0.00 6.00   4.00 3.00 3.00   2.50  2.00  1.50  2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 1.50  0.50
 No. 33      0.00 6.00   4.50 3.50 3.00   3.00  2.00  1.50  3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 1.50  0.00
 No. 35      0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 2.50   2.50  1.50  1.50  1.50 1.50 1.50 0.50 0.00  0.00
 No. 39      0.00 5.50   3.00 3.00 3.00   3.00  1.50  1.00  1.50 2.00 1.50 1.50 1.50  0.50
 No. 41      0.00 5.00   3.00 2.50 2.50   2.00  1.00  1.00  1.50 1.50 1.50 1.00 0.00  0.00
 No. 44      0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   1.50  0.50  0.50  1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.00  0.00
 No. 45      0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  1.50  1.50  2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 0.50  0.00
    N         15   15     15   15   15     15     15   15    15   15   15   15   15    15
 Mean        0.00 5.87   3.57 2.97 2.87   2.67  1.73  1.37  2.07 2.00 1.93 1.80 0.83  0.23
  Scm        0.00 0.08   0.13 0.06 0.06   0.13  0.15  0.10  0.15 0.15 0.18 0.21 0.20  0.08
   SD        0.00 0.30   0.50 0.23 0.23   0.49  0.59  0.40  0.59 0.57 0.68 0.80 0.77  0.32
                  Table 9: Hindlimb Placing Total Score Group 3
Group 3      D-1   D   |  D7  D14  D21    D28   D30   D32   D42  D44  D46  D56  D58   D60
 No. 1       0.00 6.00   4.00 4.00 3.50   3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00 3.00 1.50 3.00 1.50  1.50
 No. 4       0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  2.50  2.00  2.00 0.00 0.00 1.50 0.00  0.00
 No. 6       0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  3.00  3.00  2.50 0.50 0.00 0.50 0.50  0.50
 No. 8       0.00 5.50   4.00 3.50 2.50   2.50  2.50  1.50  2.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00
 No. 10      0.00 5.50   3.00 3.00 3.00   3.00  3.00  3.00  2.50 1.50 0.50 2.00 1.00  1.00
 No. 15      0.00 6.00   3.50 3.50 3.00   3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00 2.00 1.00 2.00 1.50  1.50
 No. 16      0.00 6.00   3.00 3.00 3.00   3.00  2.50  2.00  1.50 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.50  1.00
 No. 17      0.00 5.50   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00 2.00 0.50 1.50 1.00  1.00
 No.22       0.00 6.00   4.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00 1.50 0.50 1.50 0.50  0.50
 No.26       0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 2.50   3.00  2.50  2.00  1.50 1.00 0.50 1.50 1.00  0.50
 No.29       0.00 6.00   4.50 3.50 3.00   3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00 1.00 0.00 3.00 3.00  2.00
 No. 34      0.00 6.00   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  2.00  2.00  2.50 0.50 0.00 2.50 1.00  1.00
 No.36       0.00 6.00   3.00 2.50 2.50   2.50  1.50  1.50  2.00 0.50 0.00 1.50 0.50  0.00
 No. 40      0.00 5.50   4.00 3.00 2.50   2.50  2.00  1.50  1.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00
 No.43       0.00 5.50   3.50 3.00 3.00   3.00  2.00  1.50  1.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00  0.00
    N         15   IS     15   15   15     15     15   15    15   15   15   15   1515
 Mean        0.00 5.83   3.63 3.13 2.90   2.90  2.57  2.33  2.27 0.90 0.30 1.50 0.80  0.70
  Sem        0.00 0.06   0.12 0.09 0.07   0.05  0.13  0.17  0.18 0.24 0.12 0.24 0.21  0.17
   SD        0.00 0.24   0.48 0.35 0.28   0.21  0.50  0.67  0.68 0.93 0.46 0.93 0.80  0.65
                                               68
   3489979vl

                  Table 10: Body Swing Test (% right Swing) Group 1
Group 1      D-1   DI      D7   D14  D21    D28    D30   D32   D42   D44   D46   D56   D58   D60
 No. 2      50.00 0.00    6.67 13.33 23.33 36.67  33.33 33.33 40.00 46.67 53.33 50.00 46.67 43.33
 No. 3      46.67 0.00    3.33  6.67 10.00 33.33  26.67 30.00 23.33 30.00 20.00 16.67 26.67 40.00
 No. 7      50.00 0.00   10.00 16.67 10.00 13.33  36.67 40.00 16.67 40.00 20.00 26.67 13.33 20.00
 No. 12     50.00 6.67   33.33 30.00 26.67 36.67  36.67 33.33 26.67 30.00 33.33 36.67 26.67 36.67
No. 18      50.00 0.00    0.00 23.33 26.67 33.33  46.67 50.00 30.00 43.33 40.00 43.33 30.00 26.67
 No.21      53.33 0.00    0.00  6.67 13.33 20.00  33.33 43.33 26.67 33.33 36.67 33.33 30.00 26.67
No.23       50.00 0.00   20.00 46.67 46.67 46.67  53.33 50.00 46.67 56.67 43.33 43.33 40.00 43.33
No.24       50.00 0.00    0.00  6.67 23.33 16.67  33.33 53.33 40.00 43.33 43.33 40.00 36.67 36.67
No.25       46.67 0.00    6.67 26.67 10.00 16.67  40.00 53.33 33.33 26.67 33.33 23.33 30.00 33.33
No.28       50.00 0.00    6.67  3.33 6.67  33.33  30.00 26.67 33.33 33.33 36.67 40.00 33.33 33.33
 No. 30     50.00 0.00    0.00 13.33 30.00 23.33  36.67 43.33 33.33 33.33 36.67 30.00 30.00 30.00
 No. 31     46,67 0.00    0.00 10.00 6.67  16.67  36.67 33.33 33.33 26.67 30.00 23.33 33.33 43.33
 No.37      50.00 0.00    0.00 26.67 20.00 13.33  43.33 53.33 50.00 50.00 43.33 33.33 33.33 33.33
 No. 38     46.67 0.00    0.00 10.00 6.67  33.33  40.00 50.00 50.00 43.33 43.33 40.00 40.00 36.67
 No. 42     50.00 0.00    0.00  3.33 3.33  13.33  36.67 40.00 43.33 40.00 33.33 33.33 36.67 30.00
   N          15   15      15    15    15    15     15    15    15    15     15   15    15     15
 Mean       49.33 0.44    5.78 16.22 17.56 25.78  37.56 42.22 35.11 38.44 36.44 34.22 32.44 34.22
  Sem       0.48  0.44 1 2.44   3.15 3.08   2.81   1.70 2.38   2.54  2.30  2.29  2.33  1.96  1.77
  SD         1.87 1.72    9.47 12.21 11.92 10.87   6.60  9.23  9.83  8.90  8.86  9.04  7.61  6.84
                  Table 11: Body Swing Test (% right Swing) Group 2
Group 2      D-1   D1      D7   D14  D21    D28    D30   D32   D42   D44   D46   D56   D58   D60
 No. 5      46.67 0.00    3.33  3.33 0.00  33.33  30.00 43.33 26.67 30.00 30.00 33.33 36.67 40.00
 No. 9      50.00 0.00    6.67 13.33 20.00 30.00  43.33 46.67 33.33 33.33 36.67 40.00 50.00 40.00
 No. 11     46.67 0.00   36.67 36.67 36.67 33.33  53.33 43.33 36.67 40.00 43.33 43.33 46.67 50.00
 No. 13     50.00 3.33    0.00 20.00 16.67 26.67  26.67 33.33 10.00 23.33 30.00 26.67 33.33 40.00
 No. 14     46.67 0.00    0.00 23.33 26.67 30.00  26.67 30.00 20.00 26.67 33.33 33.33 43.33 50.00
 No. 19     50.00 0.00    6.67 16.67 26.67 23.33  20.00 33.33 33.33 33.33 33.33 36.67 46.67 43.33
No.20       46.67 0.00   16.67 26.67 26.67 13.33  40.00 33.33 36.67 33.33 30.00 30.00 33.33 40.00
 No.27      53.33 0.00    0.00 16.67 16.67 16.67  16.67 33.33 26.67 16.67 33.33 23.33 26.67 33.33
 No.32      53.33 0.00    3.33  6.67 10.00 16.67  30.00 33.33 33.33 33.33 30.00 26.67 40.00 46.67
 No. 33     50.00 0.00    0.00 16.67 16.67 23.33  36.67 33.33 30.00 20.00 20.00 33.33 33.33 36.67
No. 35      46.67 0.00    0.00 26.67 23.33 13.33  33.33 40.00 43.33 26.67 26.67 43.33 43.33 50.00
No. 39      50.00 0.00   23.33 23.33 26.67 30.00  23.33 43.33 46.67 43.33 43.33 43.33 46.67 50.00
 No. 41     50.00 6.67    6.67 13.33 16.67 13.33  33.33 30.00 33.33 26.67 33.33 26.67 46.67 40.00
 No. 44     50.00 0.00   13.33  6.67 20.00 30.00  53.33 46.67 46.67 50.00 46.67 50.00 50.00 46.67
No. 45      50.00 0.00    0.00  0.00 3.33  26.67  26.67 43.33 46.67 30.00 26.67 23.33 33.33 33.33
   N          15   15      15    15    15    15      15   15    15    15     15   15    15     15
 Mean       49.33 0.67    7.78 16.67 19.11 24.00  32.89 37.78 33.56 31.11 33.11 34.22 40.67 42.67
  Sem       0.58  0.48    2.75  2.56 2.47   1.93   2.81  1.58  2.65  2.25  1,82  2.14  1.90  1.53
  SD        2.25  1.87   10.67  9.92 9.55   7.47  10.90  6.13 10.27  8.70  7.07  8.31  7.37  5
                                                 69
  3489979vl

                   Table 12: Body Swing Test (% right Swing) Group 3
Group 3      D-1   DI      D7    D14  D21    D28    D30   D32   D42   D44  D46    D56   D58   D60
 No. 1      50.00 0.00    20.00 23.33 30.00 23.33  30.00 33.33 33.33 43.33 43.33 33.33 30.00 26.67
 No. 4      50.00 3.33    30.00 23.33 16.67 16.67  13.33 16.67 26.67 40.00 20.00 30.00 20.00 16.67
 No. 6      46.67 0.00     6.67 10.00 3.33  10.00  13.33 10.00  6.67 23.33 23.33 26.67 20.00 23.33
 No. 8      50.00 6.67    30.00 20.00 43.33 33.33  20.00 43.33 40.00 46.67 40.00 46.67 46.67 50.00
No. 10      53.33 0.00     0.00 23.33 20.00 30.00  26.67 30.00 26.67 33.33 30.00 33.33 33.33 36.67
 No. 15     50.00 0.00     6.67 33.33 33.33 36.67  30.00 36.67 36.67 40.00 40.00 36.67 30.00 30.00
No. 16      46.67 0.00    30.00 30.00 36.67 40.00  33.33 20.00 26.67 43.33 43.33 43.33 46.67 43.33
No. 17      50.00 6.67    16.67 43.33 36.67 36.67  36.67 40.00 36.67 46.67 40.00 43.33 40.00 36.67
No.22       53.33 0.00     0.00 10.00 26.67 13.33  16.67 33.33 30.00 53.33 50.00 43.33 40.00 36.67
No.26       53.33 0.00     6.67 33.33 33.33 36.67  30.00 26.67 33.33 33.33 30.00 26.67 30.00 33.33
 No.29      50.00 0.00     6.67  6.67 10.00 16.67  26.67 16.67 20.00 13.33 53.33 10.00 20.00 33.33
 No. 34     50,00 0.00     0.00 30.00 23.33 16.67  33.33 33.33 36.67 36.67 43.33 33.33 33.33 36.67
 No. 36     50.00 3.33    20.00 36.67 36.67 40.00  40.00 46.67 46.67 50.00 53.33 46.67 53.33 50.00
 No. 40     46.67 10.00   13.33 20.00 33.33 46.67  53.33 50.00 46.67 50.00 53.33 46.67 46.67 43.33
 No. 43     46.67 0.00     6.67 10.00 10.00 16.67  13.33 40.00 40.00 40.00 43.33 33.33 33.33 30.00
   N           15   15      15    15    15    15     15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15
 Mean       49.78 2.00    12.89 23.56 26.22 27.56  27.78 31.78 32.44 39.56 40.44 35.56 34.89 35.11
  Sem        0.61 0.85  1 2.83   2.84 3.07   3.06   2.90  3.05  2.67 2.74  2.72   2.60  2.72  2.39
  SD         2.35 3.29    10.97 11.02 11.88 11.85  11.25 11.81 10.35 10.61 10.53 10.05 10.53  9.25
                   Table 13: Weight (g) Group 1
Group 1      D-1   D1      D7    D14  D21    D28    D30   D32   D42   D44  D46    D56   D58   D60
 No.2         301  284     319   340   355   358    360   351   392   400   386   419   426   415
 No.3         305  297     322   358   388   413    422   404   436   440   442   457   463   470
 No.7         318  301     334   380   405   407    425   412   444   456   446   463   477   470
 No.12        326  323     359   421   457   487    496   477   490   494   490   516   516   513
 No.18       295   277     301   334   357   366    372   360   387   390   379   400   405   396
 No.21        305  291     328   375   399   427    425   411   448   455   448   476   480   475
No.23         317  317     361   403   419   451    450   441   491   501   490   509   520   511
 No.24        311  306     359   394   416   436    435   417   449   447   440   452   460   456
 No.25        332  315     375   421   444   484    490   470   499   511   494   523   530   527
 No.28        340  323     369   436   494   525    544   515   565   566   570   612   625   615
No.30         324  294     340   382   428   457    470   454   479   480   488   496   512   509
No. 31        330  317     366   422   469   506    512   496   543   545   552   576   585   587
 No. 37       313  300     335   382   380   423    434   422   447   454   457   467   473   467
 No. 38       322  315     359   404   440   466    482   453   499   502   494   524   530   521
No. 42        320  311     344   395   450   469    480   461   497   502   491   500   515   505
   N           15   15      15    15    15    15     15    15    15    15    15    15    15    15
 Mean       317.3 304.7   344.7 389.8 420.1 445.0  453.1 436.3 471.1 476.2 471.1 492.7 501.1 495.8
  Sem         3.2   3.7    5.5   7.7   10.4  12.3   13.0  11.9  12.7  12.5  13.4  14.3  14.6  14.7
  SD         12.4  14.2    21.4  30.0 40.3   47.6   50.2 46,1   49.2 48.6  51.9   55.2  56.6  57.1
                                                  70
  3489979vl

                   Table 14: Weight (g) Group 2
Group 2      D-1   DI     D7   D14   D21   D28    D30   D32    D42   D44  D46   D56    D58   D60
 No. 5       303   278    329   364   409   418    434   424   460   470   465   486   499   488
 No. 9       304   299    334   364   389   405    420   403   430   440   431   445   456   444
No. 11       311   305    330   370   398   415    416   412   454   455   447   464   470   447
 No.13       311   309    318   328   359   379    380   374   401   405   394   428   432   417
No. 14       316   304    339   381   399   413    431   428   460   455   461   480   483   471
 No. 19      322   307    353   406   438   479    474   473   492   505   496   524   530   517
No.20        296   278    315   333   364   373    380   369   394   402   391   415   425   410
No.27        319   297    341   383   394   410    414   410   428   441   432   455   461   444
No.32        330   292    338   388   418   434    444   426   458   460   448   472   477   460
No.33        307   286    325   360   390   405    410   406   429   426   427   443   455   441
 No.35       332   308    353   401   436   466    480   455   500   505   499   529   540   519
 No.39       345   332    388   454   494   525    540   541   577   596   591   620   635   614
 No.41       323   322    362   412   444   467    475   467   500   510   510   530   535   508
 No.44       318   315    358   424   472   491    512   508   533   540   545   550   570   535
 No.45       338   342    362   402   443   470    480   476   515   521   522   538   546   530
   N           15   15     15    15     15   15     15    15     15   15    15    15    15    15
 Mean       318.3 304.9  343.0 384.7 416.5 436.7  446.0 438.1 468.7 475.4 470.6 491.9 500.9 483.0
  Sem         3.5  4.7    5.1   8.6    9.8  11.3   12.0 12.4   13.1  13.8  14.5  14.3  14.9  14.1
  SD         13.7  18.1   19.6 33.5  37.9  43.8   46.4  48.0   50.6 53.5  56.1  55.5   57.6  54.5
                   Table 15: Weight (g) Group 3
Group 3      D-1   D1     D7   D14   D21   D28    D30   D32    D42   D44  D46   D56    D58   D60
 No.1        311   306    345   384   418   438    445   445   455   463   446   480   492   468
 No. 4       303   289    309   357   389   403    419   412   440   442   430   455   462   453
 No. 6       307   290    337   372   403   413    429   427   440   445   430   452   469   456
 No.8        306   316    332   362   392   405    419   416   444   453   436   460   476   470
 No.10       306   287    309   350   381   397    411   413   438   445   412   446   461   447
 No. 15      312   298    335   375   397   425    422   418   451   460   440   461   475   466
No. 16       319   316    341   371   392   414    427   425   451   461   436   467   486   479
 No.17       311   317    338   376   394   425    440   441   454   469   455   476   485   484
 No.22       315   296    339   382   405   430    430   430   455   451   435   462   467   463
 No.26       296   284    333   369   376   404    405   401   415   423   402   425   440   430
No.29        307   298    327   371   405   430    436   429   460   462   442   466   472   465
No.34        323   303    346   394   414   425    433   433   460   463   435   483   490   484
 No. 36      332   317    370   422   467   498    500   504   515   532   502   535   550   550
 No.40       346   338    401   456   508   521    540   530   530   572   567   613   625   613
No. 43       318   297    350   412   458   487    500   496   523   538   497   553   573   549
   N           15   15     15    15     15   15     15    15     15   15    15    15    15    15
 Mean       314.1 303.5  340.8 383.5 413.3 434.3  443.7 441.3 462.1 471.9 451.0 482.3 494.9 485.1
  Sem         3.2   3.8   5.8   7.1    9.4   9.7   9.9   9.8    8.6  10.7  10.7  12.5  12.8  12.5
  SD         12.4  14.8  22.4  27.7  36.5  37.5   38.5  37,9   33.4 41.4  41.6  48.6   49.5  48.4
                                                 71
  3489979vl

                   Table 16: Cylinder Test Score (Overall Asymmetry (%)) Group 1
Group 1       D-1        D7        D21      D30        D32     D44     D46     D58      D60
 No.2        24.49      36.51    53.85      50.00            40.00     50.00  28.57    50.00
 No. 3       28.36     -38.89                         50.00  33.33     33.33  43.75    53.13
 No. 7       0.97       -6.45    -56.25   -100.00    -100.00   9.30    7.69    10.87  -10.81
 No. 12      11.90      60.87    -32.00     80.00      16.67  10.00    -8.33   0.00    -9.52
 No. 18     -11.76      34.62    28.13                -56.52 -28.57           75.00    28.57
 No. 21      25.00      51.91    52.94                36.36  60.71     63.64  57.14    71.43
 No. 23      0.00      40.00     24.49      9.33      24.07  25.81     14.89  27.74    32.10
 No.24       -1.23     48.05     41.94      0.00      22.73  39.58     30.23  33.33    39.39
 No. 25      -5.77     22.81     28.36      50.00      5.13  22.81     33.33  32.10    29.55
 No. 28      6.00      24.46     43.60                -30.00 31.91     36.96  39.62    42.86
 No. 30      -9.43      -8.57    28.57      16.67    -100.00 33.33     -8.33   12.50   11.11
 No. 31      0.00       36.84    34.29      50.00     50.00  39.02     33.33  43.24    36.47
 No. 37      -7.14     26.67     -12.50     38.46     -60.00 -45.45    25.00
 No. 38      -6.45      37.50     -1.92                      -60.00            9.09   -33.33
 No. 42     -26.09       7.14    -22.73    -16.67     -65.79 -56.06  -100.00  -65.38 -100.00
   N           15         15        14       10         13      15       13      14      14
 Mean         1.92     24.90      15.05     17.78     -15.95  10.38    16.29  24.83    17.21
  Sem        3.90        6.84      9.15     15.94      15.28  10.00    11.25    8.76   11.76
   SD        15.09     26.48     34.24      50.40     55.10  38.73     40.58  32.79    43.99
                   Table 17: Cylinder Test Score (Overall Asymmetry (%)) Group 2
Group 2       D-1        D7        D21      D30        D32     D44     D46     D58      D60
 No. 5       -2.70      14.29    -25.00    20.00      -33.33 -20.00    2.86          -100.00
 No. 9       -5.66      31.82     16.67     12.50      9.09    0.00   -11.54  42.86     0.00
 No. 11      -9.52     40.54       0.00     6.90      50.00   -9.76    10.00   -6.67   23.08
 No. 13     -14.08     20.00     -19.35    23.53       4.35    2.63   -16.67  33.33   -22.22
 No. 14     -10.59      57.89    60.00      38.10      0.00    0.00    42.86         -100.00
 No.  19    -15.58      55.47    56.25      51.72     63.29  58.33     56.67  29.17    64.00
 No. 20      -1.96     28.85     -23.17     0.00       18.18  14.04    28.57  50.00    20.00
 No. 27     -24.39     25.00     66.67      4.17      33.33  38.96     34.85  66.67    14.29
 No. 32      2.38       51.56    49.06      56.64     54.78  52.53     31.40  54.76    62.50
 No. 33      0.00       50.00    46.43     27.59      22.73   11.54    19.05  30.00    10.00
 No. 35       1.65      58.33    66.67      75.00     62.50  54.93     29.33   88.00   76.47
 No. 39      -2.20     42.36     25.32     20.99       16.00   7.14    40.35   -7.69   13.95
 No. 41      -7.58     28.57     47.83     27.50      20.00   18.18    46.15
 No. 44      21.05     43.14     22.22     23.33       3.85  -27.08    16.95  -16.67    0.00
 No. 45      8.45      24.32      17.86     16.67     27.66   17.65    42.86  62.50     0.00
   N           15         15        15       15         15      15       15      12      14
 Mean        -4.05      38.14    27.16     26.98      23.50   14.61    24.91  35.52     4.43
  Sern       2.78        3.75      8.37     5.35       6.81    6.82    5.51    9.35    13.97
   SD        10.76      14.51    32.41     20.70      26.38  26.40     21.35  32.38    52.26
                                                  72
  3489979vl

                   Table 18: Cylinder Test Score (Overall Asymmetry (%)) Group 3
Group 3       D-1       D7        D21       D30      D32      D44     D46      D58     D60
 No.1       -17.65     28.57     25.00     35.59     16.67   48.28    19.23   23.91   16.00
 No. 4       6.41      40.00     41.67     50.00    42.11    36.36    0.00     5.00   31.25
 No. 6       0.00      28.13      12.96   21.57     42.11             36.36    14.29  -6.67
 No.8        0.00      25.81      8.33      8.57     0.00    -33.33   6.90    21.43   -5.71
 No.  10     10.00      0.00      0.00     -7.41    57.14    28.57   -22.22    14.29   0.00
 No.  15     -4.05     54.47     46.30    28.57     34.15    56.67    32.35   24.24    6.25
 No.  16     4.82      46.67     -80.00   -21.31    -46.15   -16.67  -28.57    5.56    9.09
 No.  17     3.75      41.89      15.52    30.89    29.68    40.00    32.73    17.95  16.13
 No. 22      -7.55     44.74     64.81     56.82    46.88    20.00    50.00   55.56   52.70
 No. 26      -4.55     36.51      0.00    -17.74    20.00    37.50             0.00  -23.33
 No. 29     -20.00     42.35     46.94    49.18     23.91    100.00  -60.00   21.74  -25.00
 No. 34      8.33      51.09     42.86    47.69      15.00    0.00    55.56    0.00    0.00
 No. 36      -6.25     58.46     30.00     35.21     15.22   35.90    17.07   26.03   22.45
 No. 40      -2.80     18.18     -10.87    -9.09    -10.81    10.53   -7.14    -8.82 -36.36
 No. 43      0.97      26.09     21.74      2.27    28.57                     -36.36  -8.33
   N           15        15        15        15       15       13       13       15     15
 Mean        -1.90     36.20      17.68   20.72     20.96    27.98    10.17    12.32   3.23
  Sem        2.23       3.96      8.84      6.80     6.63     9.37    9.25     5.24    5.93
   SD        8.65      15.32     34.25    26.33     25.68    33.78    33.36   20.29  22.96
                   Table 19: Cylinder Test (Total Movement) Group 1
GroupI        D-1       D7        D21       D30      D32      D44     D46      D58     D60
 No.2        49.00     63.00      13.00     4.00     0.00    25.00    2.00     7.00    4.00
 No. 3       67.00     18.00      0.00      0.00     2.00     6.00    6.00     16.00  32.00
 No.7       103.00     31.00      16.00     5.00     1.00    43.00    39.00   46.00   37.00
 No. 12      42.00     46.00     25.00      5.00     6.00    20.00    24.00    16.00  21.00
 No. 18      68.00     26.00     32.00      0.00    23.00     7.00    0.00    32.00   14.00
 No.21       64.00     131.00    51.00      0.00     11.00   28.00    11.00    14.00  14.00
 No. 23     152.00     130.00    98.00     75.00    54.00    93.00    47.00   137.00  81.00
 No.24       81.00     77.00     31.00      2.00    22.00    48.00    43.00    18.00  33.00
 No. 25      52.00     57.00     67.00     10.00    39.00    57.00    48.00    81.00  44.00
 No. 28     100.00     139.00   172.00      0.00     10.00   47.00    46.00   53.00   28.00
 No. 30      53.00     35.00     28.00      6.00     8.00     9.00    12.00    16.00   9.00
 No. 31      47.00     57.00     70.00     10.00     14.00   123.00   63.00    74.00  85.00
 No. 37      14.00     15.00      8.00     13.00     15.00    11.00   4.00     0.00    0.00
 No. 38      31.00     32.00     52.00      0.00     0.00     5.00    0.00     11.00   3.00
 No. 42      23.00     14.00     22.00     12.00    38.00    66.00    13.00   26.00    6.00
   N           15        15        15        15       15       15       15       15     15
 Mean        63.07     58.07     45.67      9.47     16.20   39.20    23.87   36.47   27.40
  Sem        9.10      11.12      11.33     4.83     4.20     8.95    5.56     9.50    6.80
   SD        35.25     43.05     43.89     18.71     16.27   34.66    21.53   36.78   26.32
                                                 73
  3489979vl

                   Table 20: Cylinder Test (Total Movement) Group 2
Group 2      D-1         D7       D21      D30       D32     D44     D46   D58   D60
 No.5       74.00      14.00      8.00     35.00     9.00   35.00   35.00  0.00   1.00
 No. 9      53.00      44.00      6.00     8.00      11.00  31.00   26.00  7.00   1.00
 No. 11     42.00      37.00     14.00    29.00      2.00   41.00   30.00  15.00 13.00
 No. 13     71.00      50.00     31.00     17.00    23.00   38.00   24.00  3.00  9.00
 No. 14     85.00      19.00      5.00    21.00      1.00    6.00    7.00  0.00   1.00
 No. 19     77.00      137.00    64.00     87.00    79.00   60.00   60.00  24.00 25.00
 No. 20     51.00      104.00    82.00     17.00     11.00  57.00   35.00  12.00 10.00
 No.27      41.00       4.00     15.00    24.00      3.00   77.00   66.00  9.00  7.00
 No. 32     126.00     64.00     53.00    143.00    115.00  99.00   86.00  42.00 16.00
 No. 33     46.00      24.00     56.00    29.00     22.00   26.00   21.00  10.00 20.00
 No. 35     182.00     60.00     21.00    28.00     32.00   71.00   75.00  25.00 17.00
 No. 39     91.00      144.00    79.00     81.00    75.00   84.00   114.00 13.00 43.00
 No. 41     66.00      14.00     46.00    40.00     35.00   22.00   26.00  0.00  0.00
 No. 44     95.00      51.00     108.00   120.00    78.00   48.00   59.00  6.00  28.00
 No. 45     71.00      37.00     28.00    24.00     47.00   51.00   21.00   8.00 3.00
   N          15         15        15       15        15      15      15     15    15
 Mean       78.07      53.53     41.07    46.87     36.20   49.73   45.67  11.60 12.93
  Sem        9.49      11.16      8.23     10.59     9.08    6.54    7.68  2.95  3.17
   SD       36.77      43.22     31.87    41.02     35.18   25.34   29.74  11.41 12.26
                   Table 21: Cylinder Test (Total Movement) Group 3
Group 3      D-1         D7       D21      D30       D32     D44     D46   D58   D60
 No. 1      51.00       14.00    12.00     59.00     18.00  29.00   52.00  46.00 50.00
 No. 4      78.00      50.00     36.00     80.00    57.00   11.00    11.00 20.00 16.00
 No.6       52.00      32.00     54.00     51.00     19.00   0.00    11.00 28.00 30.00
 No.8       36.00      31.00     24.00     35.00    52.00   27.00   29.00  28.00 35.00
 No. 10     20.00      16.00      3.00    27.00      7.00    7.00    9.00   7.00 5.00
 No. 15     74.00      123.00    54.00     63.00    82.00   60.00   34.00  33.00 32.00
 No. 16     83.00      15.00     10.00     61.00     13.00  12.00    7.00  18.00 11.00
 No. 17     80.00      74.00     58.00    123.00    155.00  60.00   55.00  78.00 31.00
 No. 22     53.00      38.00     54.00    44.00     32.00    5.00    4.00  63.00 74.00
 No.26      22.00      63.00     71.00     62.00     10.00   8.00    0.00  12.00 30.00
 No. 29     85.00      85.00     49.00     61.00    46.00    4.00    5.00  23.00 4.00
 No. 34     48.00      92.00      7.00     65.00    60.00    6.00    9.00  11.00 10.00
 No. 36     32.00      65.00     10.00     71.00    46.00   39.00   41.00  73.00 49.00
 No. 40     107.00     22.00     46.00    22.00     37.00   19.00    14.00 34.00 11.00
 No. 43     103.00     23.00     23.00    44.00     28.00    0.00    0.00  11.00 12.00
   N          15         15        15       15        15      15      15     15    15
 Mean       61.60      49.53     34.07     57.87    44.13   19.13    18.73 32.33 26.67
  Sern       7.18       8.54      5.80     6.25      9.64    5.17    4.80  5.90  5.12
   SD       27.82      33.06     22.46    24.22   | 37.32   20.03    18.58 22.86 19.83
                                                 74
  3489979vl

          [001891        MCAO resulted in substantial acute loss of sensorimotor function which
recovered partially, approaching a plateau of stable deficits in all animals by the end of the 4
week pre-treatment period.
          [00190]        All groups (1-3) demonstrated a typical recovery response to the MCAO
induced ischemia with normal scores of 0 just prior to the surgery (Day -1) followed by a
complete loss in function (score 12, forelimb; 6, hindlimb) within 24 hours after the occlusion
(Day 1). During the next 4 weeks, untreated phase, forelimb and hindlimb scores improved to
approximately 5.5 and 3, respectively, and approached a plateau level of recovery (Figures 3 and
4). In the body swing test, animals displayed less than 5 percent swings to the right the day after
surgery and had recovered to approximately 25 percent right swings by the end of the 4 week
untreated period (Figure 5). While not significant, baseline behavioral measures improved
slightly relative to pretreatment levels during the drug-free periods between phases 1 and 2 and
phases 2 and 3. This may be due to slow continued endogenous recovery, training effects of
repeated behavioral assessments and possibly carry-over effects of treatment.
          [00191]        All animals received each of the treatments by the end of the study. 4-AP
was administered to rats twice a day (in this study and in the study presented in Example 17).
With a half life of 1-1.5 hours (Hayes et al., J. Clin. Pharmacol. 2003; 43:379-85) this regimen
did not sustain long term plasma levels of the compound, but it did allow for repeated daily
exposure in the animals. Behavioral evaluations were performed at 1 hour after dosing to ensure
adequate exposure during the time of assessment and the three day interval for each dosing phase
may have helped adapt the animals to the stress of oral gavage prior to conducting behavioral
assessments. Blood was drawn 30 minutes later to confirm a dose-associated level of
dalfampridine in the animals upon completion of behavioral assessments (Table 22). It is noted
that it is not possible to equate the doses used here or the plasma concentrations obtained with
what would be expected in patients treated with a sustained release formulation of the drug,
where the pharmacokinetics are very different. There is also a delay in the peak concentration
measured in cerebrospinal fluid compared to that in the blood, which is approximately an hour in
human subjects (Donovan et al., Spinal Cord 2000; 38:7-15). Therefore, the concentration of 4
AP achieved in the central nervous system for a given plasma level is likely to be much less for a
transient plasma peak following gavage compared to a similar concentration maintained for a
longer period of time.
                                                   75
3489979vl

          [001921       The forelimb placing test shows the effect of the treatment on forelimb
function. Figure 3 indicates that the treatment with either low dose or high dose 4-arninopyridine,
4 weeks post ischemic brain injury, is effective to improve forelimb function in rats. Figure 3
also indicates that the effect is dose-responsive. This effect is also reversible as it diminishes
upon withdrawal of the drug.
          [00193]       The hindlimb placing test shows the effect of the treatment on hindlimb
function. Figures 4A-D indicate that the treatment with either low dose or high dose 4
aminopyridine, 4 weeks post ischemic brain injury, is effective to improve hindlimb function in
rats. Figures 4A-D also indicate that the effect is reversible. Notably, the effect is dose
responsive as the treatment with a higher dose results in an improved behavioral score, relative to
the treatment with a lower dose or vehicle control.
          [00194]       The body swing test shows the effect of the treatment on global body
control. Figure 5 shows that the treatment with either low dose or high dose 4-aminopyridine is
effective to improve the percentage of rightward over total swings in rats, and thus, effective to
improve one of the symptoms of ischemic stroke. Thus, Figure 5 shows that 4-aminopyridine is
effective to improve global body control in rats. Figure 5 also demonstrates that this effect is
reversible and dose-dependent.
          [00195]       Group 1 animals (Figures 3-5) which received 4-aminopyridine at 2 mg/kg
during the first dosing phase showed significant improvements in forelimb, hind limb and body
swing scores compared to pre-treatment baseline scores (Day 28 vs. Day 32; p values < 0.05).
Between dosing phases I and 2 (washout period, Days 33-42), the effects on limb placing
returned to near baseline levels. During the second dosing phase, animals in Group 1 received 4
aminopyridine at 0.63 mg/kg. All behavioral scores were significantly improved compared to
scores during the washout just prior to dosing (Day 42 vs. Day 46; p's<0.05), though they did
not achieve the same degree of improvement as during the first higher dose phase. During the
washout between the second and third phases (Days 47-56) the behavioral scores declined to a
level similar to baseline scores (Day 56). Animals in this group received vehicle during the third
dosing phase and saw no change in behavioral scores compared with the day immediately prior
to dosing (on Day 56).
          [00196]       Group 2 animals (Figure 3-5) receiving 4-aminopyridine at 0.63 mg/kg
during the first dosing phase showed significantly improved behavioral scores in all measures
                                                  76
3489979vl

compared to pre-treatment baseline scores (Day 28 vs. Day 32; p values < 0.05). Between
dosing phases 1 and 2, while animals were not on drug, the effects on behavior declined to levels
similar to pre-phase dosing (Day 42). During dosing phase 2, animals in this group received
vehicle, and demonstrated no change in behavioral testing scores. They remained at that baseline
level of function during the washout between phases 2 and 3 (Days 47-56). Animals in this
group received 4-aminopyridine at 2 mg/kg during phase 3 of dosing and all behavioral testing
scores were significantly improved compared to pre-phase baseline scores (Day 56 vs. Day 60; p
values < 0.05).
          [00197]       Animals in Group 3 (Figures 3-5) had results similar to those seen in
Group 1 and 2 during the different treatment phases. These animals received vehicle during the
phase 1. There was no change in any behavioral score and animals stayed at this level of
function through the washout between phases 1 and 2. 4-aminopyridine treatment at 2 mg/kg
during phase 2 and 0.63 mg/kg during phase 3 produced significant improvements in limb
placing compared to the off-drug assessments just prior to each phase (Day 42 vs. Day 46 and
Day 56 vs. Day 60, respectively; p values < 0.05). Body swing scores were improved during the
high dose treatment in the phase 2 (Day 42 vs. Day 46; p<0.05), but were unchanged with the
low dose treatment during the third treatment phase. There was a return to baseline behavior
during the washout between phases 2 and 3 (Day 56).
          [00198]       Taken together, all animals responded similarly to the respective
treatments regardless of the order in which they were treated. In all cases, the highest dose
during any dosing phase resulted in significant improvements (p values < 0.05) compared to
vehicle and the lower dose, and the lower dose was statistically better or trended toward
significance compared to vehicle, depending on the statistical model employed (ANOVA or
mixed-model analysis, see Statistical Methods, above).
          [00199]       In addition to being evaluated weekly prior to treatment, assessments were
performed twice during any given dosing phase (after the 1 ' and    5d' doses). Slight
improvements between these scores were noted (for example, Group 3, between Day 30 and Day
32, when animals received vehicle treatment). This could have been due to acclimation to the
stress of oral gavage, or perhaps are indicative of a learning response as the animals become
familiar with and anticipate the tests. This effect was not observed in the study presented in
Example 17 (see vehicle group, Day 56 and on) where the animals were tested just once during
                                                  77
3489979vl

each of the 3 day dosing periods. As the baseline was still slightly improving and as all possible
dosing sequences were not tested, it was not possible to determine if a previous exposure to 4-AP
pre-disposes animals to greater or lesser response when dosed with 4-AP at a later phase. To
eliminate this potential cary-over effect from dose order variability, the study presented in
Example 17 was designed as a dose escalation study without washout periods.
          [00200]        The cylinder test shows the effect of the treatment on aspects of the global
body control such as body symmetry and coordination. Figure 7 shows that the treatment with 4
aminopyridine is effective to improve the asymmetry in limb usage resulting from the stroke by
showing increase in percentage of use of the impaired forelimb relative to the total limb use in
rats. Thus, Figure 7 shows that 4-aminopyridine is effective to improve body symmetry and
coordination in rats. Figure 7 also demonstrates that this effect is reversible and dose-dependent.
          [00201]        Figure 9 shows that no differences in infarct volume were observed
between Groups 1-3. In particular, mean infarct volumes (% of contralateral hemisphere) were
not different between any of the groups. Mean infarct volume (%) in Group I was 45.0 (±1.8),
in Group 2 was 41.4 (±2.3), and in Group 3 was 39.0 (±3.3).
          [00202]        4-aminopyridine plasma levels: Blood samples drawn when the animals
were receiving vehicle treatment had levels of 4-aminopyridine below the lower limit of
quantitation for the method. Samples drawn when animals received 4-aminopyridine confirmed
exposure at the time of behavioral testing appropriately related to dose level. 4-aminopyridine
plasma levels are shown in Table 22.
          Table 22: 4-aminopyridine plasma levels.
                  Group                   Mean (SE) 4-aminopyridine Plasma Level (ng/mL)
                                                           Treatment Phase
                                        Phase 1                  Phase 2               Phase 3
          Group 1--H, L, V             142.4 (6.7)             64.0 (2.3)              BLOQ*
          Group 2--L, V, H             78.1 (10.3)              BLOQ*                144.1 (7.4)
          Group 3--V, H, L              BLOQ*                  128.6 (5.6)            61.8 (3.3)
          SE, standard error
          *BLOQ=below lower limit of quantitation (<1.0 ng/mL)
          [00203]        The data show that during each separate treatment phase and overall, 4
aminopyridine treatment resulted in significant improvement in forelimb, hindlimb and body
                                                   78
3489979vl

swing function. Further, several cross over statistical models utilized by the inventors
demonstrated that the high dose was significantly better (p<0.0001 for limb placing tests, and
p<0.00I for body swing) than both the vehicle control and the low dose on a consistent basis.
The low dose showed either a strong trend or reached significance for improvement compared
with vehicle control. Additionally, scores during the second assessment within a dosing phase
were significantly better than the first on-drug assessment. Thus, this example demonstrates
significant reversible and dose dependent improvements in forelimb and hind limb sensorimotor
function during times when 4-AP was at detectable plasma levels in the animals. The body
swing test data also indicates dose dependent effect on recovery ofpostural function. This may
be evidence of effects on tracts in the striatum, or perhaps effects on subcortical white matter
areas. Further, this example demonstrates clear and dose-dependent response to treatment with
4-AP within each group and between groups at each phase.
          [00204]       In addition, the results in Figures 3-8 show that continued treatment with
4-aminopyridine may yield further improvement in sensorimotor behavioral outcome. In
particular, behavioral scores after administration of multiple doses of 4-aminopyridine are, on
average, improved relative to behavioral scores after a single dose of 4-aminopyridine.
          [00205]       These results indicate that treatment with 4-aminopyridine is effective to
improve sensorimotor functions in mammals suffering from stroke-related impairment of such
functions. These results also demonstrate improvements in stroke-related sensorimotor
impairments when the treatment is initiated during a chronic period, with stable motor deficits,
following the stroke event. Based on this data it can be concluded that 4-aminopyridine
significantly improves chronic sensorimotor deficits post-stroke.
          6.3     Example 3:     Treatment of Ischemic Stroke
          [00206]       A patient presents to a medical facility with signs and symptoms of an
ischeinic stroke. The patient is revascularized with tPA or other therapy to restore blood flow.
Although blood flow has been restored, some level of brain injury has occurred. Three days after
the stroke, the patient is assessed neurologically and shown to have measurable sensorimotor
deficits. Beginning on day 4, after day 2 and after day 3, this patient is treated with 4
aminopyridine at a dose between 0.01 and 1.0 mg/kg per dose, intravenously for 10 days to 3
months. During treatment and after treatment, sensorimotor function is evaluated.
                                                   79
3489979vl

          6.4     Example 4: Treatment of Stroke and Resulting Paralysis of the Ri2ht Hand
          [00207]         A patient presents to the Emergency Department with paralysis of the
right hand. Following evaluation and imaging it is determined that the patient has suffered an
ischemic stroke. The patient receives tPA according to approved methods, and blood flow is
restored through the thrombosis. However, a week after tPA treatment, the patient has residual
paralysis of the right hand as measured by standard neurological measures of hand motor activity.
This patient begins to be treated with 4-arninopyridine 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21,22,23 or24 weeks;2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23,
24, 25, 26,27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5,
3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the stroke event (0.01 to 1.0 mg/kg, IV) once
per week for 4 weeks. Improvement in hand function is measured periodically by a neurologist
or other physician with standard neurological testing including dynamometer and other strength
testing. During treatment and after treatment, sensorimotor function in the right hand is
evaluated.
          6.5     Example 5: Treatment of Ischemic Stroke
          [00208]         A patient presents to a medical facility with signs and symptoms of an
ischemic stroke. They are found to have paralysis of their left side. The patient does not arrive
in time for revascularization therapy. Upon clinical evaluation it is found that some brain injury
has occurred. Three days after the stroke the patient is assessed neurologically and shown to
have measurable sensorimotor deficits. This patient begins to be treated with 4-aminopyridine 1,
2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or21, days; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,
 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 weeks; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
 13,14,15, 16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,                 29,30,31,32,33,34,35        36,42,48,
54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the
stroke event at a dose between 0.01 and 1.0 mg/kg per dose, intravenously each day for four
weeks; thereafter they receive weekly doses for six months. They also receive physical therapy.
During treatment (e.g., after 2 weeks) and after treatment, sensorimotor function of the left side
is evaluated.
                                                     80
3489979vl

          6.6     Example 6: Treatment of Ischemic Stroke
          [00209]        A patient presents to the Emergency Department with paralysis of the left
hand. The patient reports that the problem with their hand began "over a week ago". Following
evaluation and imaging it is determined that the patient has suffered an ischemic stroke. The
patient does not receive tPA. Upon neurological exam it is found that the patient has residual
paralysis of the left hand as measured by standard neurological measures of hand motor activity;
the patient has a sensory deficit as well. The patient refuses to participate in physical or
occupational therapy. This patient begins to be treated with 4-aminopyridine 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,21,22,23 or24 weeks; 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35                    36,42,48,54,60,or66
months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the stroke event
(0.01 to 1.0 mg/kg, IV) once per week for 12 weeks. Improvement in hand function is measured
periodically by a neurologist or other physician with the standard neurological testing including
dynamometer and other strength testing. During treatment (e.g., after 2 weeks of treatment) and
after treatment, sensorimotor function in the left hand is evaluated.
          6.7     Example 7: Treatment of Hemorrhagic Stroke
          [00210]        A patient presents to a medical facility with signs and symptoms
consistent with an ischemic stroke or cerebral hemorrhage. The patient is stabilized. Upon
neurological assessment it is found that some level of brain injury has occurred. One week after
the stroke the patient is again assessed neurologically and shown to have measurable
sensorimotor deficits. This patient begins to be treated with 4-aminopyridine 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7, 8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14,
 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,22,23 or24 weeks; 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35                    36,42,48,54,60,or66
months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the stroke event at a
dose between 0.01 and 1.0 mg/kg daily, intravenously for 10 days, followed by administration of
this dose weekly for 2 months, at which point all treatment is discontinued. The sensorimotor
function is evaluated (e.g., after 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 weeks, and/or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12
                                                     81
3489979vl

months post-stroke and/or from the start of therapy).
          6.8     Example 8: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Stroke-related Injury including
          Treatment in Chronic Periods
          [00211]        For a comprehensive trial, inclusion criteria include: adults, male and
female, with clinical evidence of neural injury.
          [00212]        Indications to be explored:
                         Ischemic stroke with thrombolytics,
                         Ischenic stroke without thrombolytics,
                         Hemorrhagic stroke.
          [00213]        Dose Ranges to be explored:
                         0.001 mg/kg to 10.0 mg/kg per dose.
          [00214]        Dose Frequencies to be explored:
                         daily
                         on alternate days
                         every fourth day
                         once per week
                         once every other week
                         once per month.
          [00215]        Mixed Periodicity Regimens:
                          -       daily for one or two weeks and then weekly, biweekly, or monthly
                        for the remainder of the study
                          -       on alternate days for one or two weeks and then weekly, biweekly
                          or monthly thereafter.
          [00216]        Initiation of treatment to be explored:
                         1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10,11, 12, 13, 14,15,16,17,18,19,20, or21, days;
 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,               19,20,21,22,23 or24 weeks;2,3,4,5,
6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28, 29, 30, 31, 32,
33, 34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years
or longer after the stroke event.
          [00217]        Treatment Duration to be explored:
                                                    82
3489979vl

                         treatment for 1, 2,4, 10, 30 weeks.
                         treatment for 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12 months
                         treatment for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years.
          [00218]        Function to be explored:
                         hand motor function,
                         face motor function,
                         survival
                         time to return to work.
          [00219]        Recovery is measured by standard neurological measures.
          [00220]        Results: Upon treatment as described above, sensorimotor function is
evaluated in patients treated with 4-aminopyridine and in patients treated with placebo using
methodologies known in the art, and the test results are compared.
          [00221]        In alternative embodiments, combinations of less than all of the above
parameters are explored.
          6.9     Example 9: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Ischemic Stroke with unilateral
          hand weakness and/or paralysis (without thrombolysis)
          [00222]        Inclusion criteria include: adults, male and female, evidence of stroke
based on loss of consciousness, disorientation, speech difficulty, facial or limb paralysis.
Ischemic stroke confirmed with radiographic imaging.
          [00223]        Patients are selected for those with unilateral hand weakness and/or
paralysis that are not candidates for tPA (or other thrombolytic) or who did not previously
receive tPA for any reason. Consents are obtained from the patients and/or someone with
authority to sign for the patients.
          [00224]        Patients are enrolled and randomized to receive 4-aninopyridine or
placebo 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23 or24 weeks; 2, 3,4,5,6,7,8,9,
 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35
36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,2.5, 3,3.5, 4,4.5, 5,5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer
after the stroke event and starting as soon as they present to a medical facility including hospital
or physician's office, diagnosis, imaging is obtained.
                                                     83
3489979vl

          [002251       For this trial, treatment is initiated between 1 hour and 7 days after injury.
Treatment is continued for 3 months with dosing on alternate days for 1 week and then weekly
for the remainder of the treatment period. Patients are dosed with 0.0001 to 1.0 mg per kg,
intravenously, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously.
          [00226]       Recovery is measured by standard neurological measures of hand
sensorimotor activity every other week for the duration of the study.
          [002271       Results: Upon treatment as described above, hand function is evaluated in
patients treated with 4-aminopyridine and patients treated with placebo using methodologies
known in the art, and the test results are compared.
          6.10    Example 10: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Stroke with Unilateral Facial
          Paralysis without Thrombolytics
          [00228]       Patients are selected for those with unilateral facial paralysis who did not
or cannot receive thrombolytics. Function is assessed by methodologies known in the art, on
alternate weeks during the 3 month dosing period. Consents are obtained from the patients
and/or someone with authority to sign for the patients.
          [00229]       Patients are enrolled and randomized to receive 4-aminopyridine or
placebo. Treatment isinitiated 1, 2, 3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or
21, days; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23 or24 weeks;
2,3,4,5, 6,7,8, 9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
31, 32, 33, 34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or
6.5 years or longer after the stroke event.. Treatment is continued for 3 months with dosing on
alternate days for 1 week and then weekly for the remainder of the treatment period. Patients
are dosed with 0.0001 to 1.0 mg per kg, intravenously, intramuscularly, or subcutaneously.
          [00230]       Results: Upon treatment as described above, facial movement is assessed
in patients treated with 4-aminopyridine and patients treated with placebo; the test results are
compared.
                                                    84
3489979vl

          6.11    Example 11: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Ischemic stroke (with
          thrombolysis)
          [00231]        Inclusion criteria include: adults, male and female, evidence of stroke
based on loss of consciousness, disorientation, speech difficulty, facial or limb paralysis.
Ischernic stroke is confirmed with radiographic imaging.
          [00232]        Patients are selected for those with unilateral hand weakness and/or
paralysis that have been treated with tPA or other thrombolytic. Consents are obtained from the
patients and/or someone with authority to sign for the patients
          [00233]        Patients are enrolled and randomized to receive 4-aminopyridine or
placebo starting as soon as they present to a medical facility, diagnosis, and imaging is
completed.
          [00234]        Treatment isinitiated 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1,2, 3,4, 5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,23
or24 weeks;2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10,11,12, 13, 14,15,16,17,18, 19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,2.5, 3, 3.5, 4,
4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the stroke event. Treatment is continued for 3 months
with dosing on alternate days for 1 week and then weekly for the remainder of the treatment
period. Patients are dosed with 0.0001 to 1.0 mg per kg, intravenously, intramuscularly, or
subcutaneously.
          [00235]        Recovery is measured by standard neurological measures of hand
sensorimotor activity every other week for the duration of the study.
          [00236]        Results: Upon treatment as described above, hand function in patients
treated with 4-aminopyridine is measured by methodologies known in the art and compared to
that in patients treated with placebo.
          6.12    Example 12: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Stroke with Dysarthria without
          Thrombolytics
          [00237]        Patients are selected for those with dysarthria who did not or cannot
receive thrombolytics. Function is assessed by methodologies known in the art on alternate
weeks during the 3 month dosing period. Consents are obtained from the patients and/or
                                                    85
3489979vl

someone with authority to sign for the patients.
          [002381        Patients are enrolled and randomized to receive 4-aminopyridine or
placebo. Treatment isinitiated 1, 2,3,4, 5, 6,7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or
21, days; 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 or 24 weeks;
2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,28,29,30,
31, 32, 33, 34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,2.5, 3, 3.5, 4,4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or
6.5 years or longer after the stroke event. Treatment is continued for 3 months with dosing on
alternate days for 1 week and then weekly for the remainder of the treatment period. Patients are
dosed with 0.0001 to 1.0 mg per kg, intravenously, intramuscularly or subcutaneously.
          [00239]        Results: Upon treatment as described above, speech impairment due to
dysarthria in patients treated with 4-aminopyridine is assessed using methodologies known in the
art and compared to that in patients treated with placebo.
          6.13    Example 13: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Patients with Dysarthria (With
          Thrombolytics)
          [00240]        Inclusion criteria include: adults, male and female, evidence of stroke
based on loss of consciousness, disorientation, speech difficulty, facial or limb paralysis.
Ischemic stroke is confirmed with radiographic imaging. Patients are selected for those with
dysarthria and who did receive thrombolytics.
          [00241]        Treatment is initiated 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,23
or24 weeks;2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10,11, 12,13, 14,15,16,17,18, 19,20,21,22,23,24,25, 26,
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4,
4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the stroke event. Treatment is continued for 3 months
with dosing on altemate days for 1 week and then weekly for the remainder of the treatment
period. Patients are dosed with 0.0001 to 1.0 mg per kg, intravenously, intramuscularly or
subcutaneously.
          [00242]        Function is assessed by methodologies known in the art, on alternate
weeks during the 3 month dosing period.
          [00243]        Results: Upon treatment as described above, speech impairment due to
dysarthria in patients treated with 4-aminopyridine and patients treated with placebo is assessed
                                                    86
3489979vl

and compared.
          6.14    Example 14: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Patients with Hemorrhagic
          Stroke
          [00244]        Inclusion criteria include: adults, male and female, evidence of stroke
based on loss of consciousness, disorientation, speech difficulty, facial or limb paralysis.
Hemorrhagic stroke confirmed with radiographic imaging. Consents are obtained from the
patients and/or someone with authority to sign for the patients.
          [00245]        Patients are selected for those with unilateral hand weakness.
          [00246]        Patients are enrolled and randomized to receive 4-aminopyridine or
placebo starting as soon as they present to a medical facility including hospital or physician's
office, diagnosis, imaging and consent is obtained.
          [00247]        Treatment is initiated 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17,
 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23
or24 weeks;2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13, 14,15,16, 17,18, 19,20,21, 22,23,24,25,26,
27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,2.5, 3,3.5, 4,
4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the stroke event. Treatment is continued for 3 months
with dosing on alternate days for 1 week and then weekly for the remainder of the treatment
period. Patients are dosed with 0.0001 to 1.0 mg per kg, intravenously, intramuscularly, or
subcutaneously.
          [00248]        Recovery is measured by standard neurological measures of hand
sensorimotor activity every other week for the duration of the study.
          [00249]        Results: Upon treatment as described above, hand function in patients
treated with 4-aminopyridine is measured by methodologies known in the art and compared to
that in patients treated with placebo.
          6.15    Example 15: 4-aminopyridine Treatment of Patients with Hemorrhagic
          Stroke
          [00250]        In humans, the effects of administering a single dose or multiple daily
doses of 4AP at dose levels of 0.05 and 0.1 on functional outcome following thrombotic stroke
                                                    87
3489979vl

are evaluated using the protocol below.
          [00251]          Purpose: To assess the efficacy and safety of orally or intravenously
administered 4AP in chronic ischemic stroke.
          [00252]          Design: multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, safety
and efficacy study.
          [00253]          Inclusion Criteria: Patients with ischemic stroke and limb weakness and
full functional independence before stroke.
          [00254]          Exclusion Criteria: Patients with a severe illness with life expectancy less
than 6 months, known severe kidney disorder, current known alcohol or illicit drug abuse or
dependence. Patients with hemorrhagic stroke are excluded.
          [00255]          Patient Involvement: Patients are randomized to receive a single dose of
4AP or placebo, or 2 weeks' daily dose of 4AP or placebo beginning 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, or 21, days; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
 17, 18, 19,20,21,22,23 or24 weeks;2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21,22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33,34, 35 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, or 66 months; 0.5,
 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6 or 6.5 years or longer after the stroke event. Blood samples
are collected at multiple time points after 4AP treatment to detennine plasma drug
concentrations around the time when sensorimotor function outcome is evaluated.
          [00256]          Primary Outcome: Overall recovery and recovery of sensorimotor function
at 2 days (single dosing) or 2 weeks (multiple dosing) after treatment is measured by the
modified Rankin Scale and the NIH scale.
          [00257]          Upon treatment with 4-AP, sensorimotor function in stroke patients
following single or multiple administration is measured and compared to baseline function and
placebo treatment.
          6.16    Example 16: A Study of Dalfampridine 10 mg Extended Release Tablet in
          Subjects with Chronic Deficits after Ischemic Stroke
                  6.16.1 LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
          [00258]          The following abbreviations and specialist terms are used in this study
protocol:
                                                       88
3489979vl

Abbreviation or Specialist Term Explanation
ADL                             Activities of daily living
AE                              Adverse event
AST                             Aspartate aminotransferase
BDI                             Beck Depression Inventory
BMI                             Body mass index
BUN                             Blood urea nitrogen
C                               Celsius
CFB                             Change from baseline
CGI                             Clinician Global Impression
CP                              Cerebral palsy
CRF                             Case Report Form
EOS                             Early onset seizure
ER                              Extended release
F                               Fahrenheit
FAP                             Full Analysis Population
FIM                             Functional Independence Measure
FMA                             Fugl-Meyer Assessment
GCP                             Good Clinical Practice
HDPE                            High density polyethylene
HEENT                           Head Ears Eyes Nose Throat
ICH                             International Conference on Harmonization
IEC                             Independent Ethics Committee
IND                             Investigational New Drug
INN                             International Nonproprietary Name
IRB                             Institutional Review Board
LOS                             Late onset seizure
LEMMT                           Lower Extremity Manual Muscle Testing
mg                              Milligram
MRI                             Magnetic resonance imaging
MS                              Multiple sclerosis
                                       89
3489979vl

Abbreviation or Specialist Term             Explanation
MSWS-12                                     12- item Multiple Sclerosis Walking Scale
PPP                                         Per-Protocol Population
RBC                                         Red blood cell
SAE                                         Serious adverse event
SGI                                         Subject Global Impression
SSRI                                        Serotonin reuptake inhibitors
T25F W                                      Timed 25 Foot Walk
TMS                                         Transcranial magnetic stimulation
UPT                                         Urine pregnancy test
US                                          United States
 USAN                                       United States Adopted Name
UTI                                         Urinary tract infection
WBC                                         White blood cell
                  6.16.2 STUDY OBJECTIVES
          [00259]        The examine the effects of dalfampridine-ER 10 mg (i.e., a sustained
release formulation of 10 mg 4-aminopyridine) administered twice daily approximately 12 hours
apart on the following clinical functions:
     " Walking speed as measured by the Timed 25 Foot Walk test (T25FW)
     *    Manual dexterity as measured by the Box and Block Test
     *    Hand strength as measured by the grip test and pinch tests
     *    Motor and sensory function as measured by Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)
     *    Optionally, upper limb spasticity as measured by the Disability Assessment Scale (DAS)
     *    Assistance required to perform activities of daily living (ADL) by the Functional
          Independence Measure (FIM) scale
     *    Subject Global Impression (SGI) scale
     " Clinician Global Impression (CGI) scale
                                                   90
3489979vl

     *    Optionally, depression as measured by the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) (to rule out
          severe depression)
                  6.16.3 INVESTIGATION PLAN
          [00260]        This is a study of dalfampridine-ER 10 mg taken twice daily,
approximately 12 hours apart, in subjects with chronic stable sensorimotor deficits after ischemic
stroke. The study is designed as a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-period crossover study. It
will be conducted at multiple sites, with 66 subjects planned. The study duration of 8 weeks
includes a 2-week screening period, 2 weeks of treatment in the first period, a 1-week washout
period, 2 weeks of treatment in the second period, and a 1-week post-treatment follow-up call.
Adverse events will be monitored through the duration of the study. Additionally, brief physical
examinations and vital sign measurements will be performed during each study period to assess
potential changes from baseline. A set of functional and subjective clinical assessments,
described below, will also be administered.
          [002611        After obtaining subject informed consent, eligibility will be determined at
a screening visit (Visit 1) through a review of medical history, results from prior brain imaging,
SMA-12 chemistry tests including an estimate of creatinine clearance, urinalysis, and a urine
pregnancy test (UPT) for women of childbearing potential. The Beck Depression Inventory
(BDI) will be administered to rule out severe depression. Also at screening, measurements of
walking speed (T25FW), manual dexterity (Box and Block), hand strength (grip and pinch tests),
motor function in upper and lower extremities (FMA), upper limb motor spasticity (DAS), and
assistance required to perform activities of daily living (FIM) will be administered. The
screening period (day -14 to day -1) will be completed at Visit 2, which marks the beginning of
Period 1 for qualified subjects.
          [00262]        At Visit 2 (day 1), subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to one of two
blinded treatment sequences: placebo followed by dalfampridine-ER (Sequence A) or
dalfampridine-ER followed by placebo (Sequence B). The same clinical assessments
administered in the previous visit will be performed. Subjects will be discharged home with a
one-week supply of their assigned investigational treatment. They will be instructed to take their
first dose that evening and one dose approximately every 12 hours until the morning of their next
visit. They will have two additional visits at one week intervals during this period: Visit 3 (day 8)
                                                   91
3489979vl

and Visit 4 (day 15). At each of these visits, a similar battery of clinical evaluations will be
performed, adding a subject global impression (SGI) and clinician global impression (CGI). See
Table 23 for a detailed schedule of assessments at each visit. A new supply of investigational
product will be dispensed at the completion of study procedures at Visit 3.
          [00263]       At the completion of study procedures at Visit 4, which is the end of
Period 1, a one-week washout period will begin during which all subjects will take placebo.
Subjects will be discharged home with a supply single-blind placebo and instructed to take their
first dose in the evening and one dose approximately every 12 hours until the moving of their
next visit.
          [00264]       Visit 5 (day 22) marks the beginning of Period 2 of the study for both
groups. During this visit, subjects will have a new set of clinical assessments, after which they
will start their crossover treatment according to the sequence established per each group. A
similar set of evaluations will be performed at two additional weekly visits during this period:
Visit 6 (day 29) and Visit 7 (day 36). Investigational product will be dispensed at the completion
of study procedures at each visit, except at Visit 7, the end of Period 2. Dosing instructions will
be the same as at previous visits.
          [00265]       A follow-up telephone visit, Visit 8 (day 43), will occur a week later to
evaluate adverse events. Participation in the study will be completed after the follow-up call.
          [00266]       Subjects will be instructed to have a dosing schedule targeted towards
taking a morning dose of investigational product 2 hours prior to the start of scheduled study
assessments during the treatment evaluation visits (Visits 3, 4, 6 and 7), to correspond to
approximate peak plasma concentration of dalfampridine-ER.
          [00267]       To monitor treatment compliance, blood samples will be obtained for
determination of plasma study drug concentration at all clinic visits after the screening visit.
          [00268]       The study design is displayed graphically in Figure 10. The by-visit
schedule of study procedures is presented in Table 23 and descriptions of the procedures can be
found below.
                                                  92
3489979vl

Table 23:         Schedule of Assessments
                                          Period 1        Washou        Period 2
                                                              t
                        Screenin         Placebo or                    Placebo or      Follow
                        g           Dalfampridine-ER      Placebo Dalfampridine-ER     -up
                                                                                       call
                          Visit    Visit    Visit   Visit         Visit   Visit  Visit  Visit
                             1        2       3       4            5        6      7       8
                           Day      Day     Day     Day           Day      Day    Day    Day
Procedure                  -14       11     8±1     15±1            1       1      1    43±1
Written Informed            X
Consent
Inclusion/Exclusion         X
criteria
Medical History             X
Review of prior             X
imaging findings
(MRI/CAT scan) to
confirm ischemic
stroke/
Physical Examination        X        X       X        X            X        X      X
including vital signs 2
Concomitant                 X        X       X        X            X        X      X
Meds/Therapy
SMA-12 3                    X                         X                            X
Urinalysis" 4               X
Urine Pregnancy             X        X
     3
Test
Randomize                            X
SGI                                          X        X            X        X      X
T25FW                       X        X       X        X            X        X      X
Box and lock                X        X       X        X            X        X      X
Grip and pinch tests"       X        X       X        X            X        X      X
FMA                         X        X       X        X            X        X      X
DAS                         X        X       X        X            X        X      X
FIM                         X        X       X        X            X        X      X
CGI                                          X        X            X        X      X
BDI                         X        X                X            X               X
Plasma dalfampridine                 X       X        X            X        X      X
concentration 3
AEreview                    X        X       X        X            X        X      X      X
Dispense                             X       X        X            X        X
investigational
product7
Drug accountability                          X        X            X        X      X
Final status                                                                              X
assessment8
                                                   93
3489979vl

'All measurements will be done prior to start of first treatment on Day 1 and start of crossover treatment
on Day 22
2 Full   physical, height and weight at screening only; brief physical at subsequent visits.
3
 All sampling is to be done after functional clinical assessments have been performed
4 If result is positive, confirmatory culture is needed
  Test each hand, the dominant hand first
6
  Three trials for each hand of the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar tests
7
  Dispense a one-week supply of investigational product and instruct subject to take one dose
approximately every 12 hours at home, beginning in the evening of the visit
8
 A telephone follow- up visit to evaluate for adverse events
                    6.16.4 SELECTION AND WITHDRAWAL OF SUBJECTS
               (a) Inclusion Criteria
           [002691          Subjects may be included in the study if they meet all the following
criteria:
      1. History of a stable sensorimotor deficit due to an ischemic stroke, as confirmed by the
           Evaluator with supportive prior imaging findings (MRI/CT scan)
      2.    > 6 months post-stroke
      3.   Men or women aged 18 to 85 years inclusive
      4. Have a body mass index (BMI) ranging between 18.0 - 35 kg/m 2, inclusive
      5. No previous use of Ampyra, dalfampridine, fampridine or 4-aminopyridine (4AP)
      6. Have sufficient ambulatory ability to complete T25FW at Screening Visit and every other
           visit as required
      7.   Lower extremity motor Fugl-Meyer score of <27
      8.   Ability to perform all the required study procedures
                                                        94
3489979vl

     9. Adequate cognitive ability to provide infonned consent, as determined by the Evaluator.
     10. Stable concomitant medication therapy regimen within 4 weeks of screening visit.
              (b) Exclusion Criteria
          [00270]          Subjects who meet any of the following exclusion criteria are not eligible
for participation in the study:
     1. Sexually active woman of childbearing potential who is not surgically sterile, less than
          two years postmenopausal, or not using an effective birth control method
     2. Pregnant or breastfeeding
     3. History of seizures, except simple febrile seizures
     4. Moderate or severe renal impairment as defined by a calculated creatinine clearance of
          < 50 mL/minute using the Cockcroft-Gault Equation
     5. Evidence of an active urinary tract infection (UTI) at the Screening Visit or within the 4
          weeks prior to the Screening Visit
     6. Initiation of a prescription medication regimen or therapy within four weeks prior to the
          Screening Visit, and/or concomitant medication regimen or concomitant therapy is
          expected to change during the course of the study
     7. Initiation of baclofen or tizanidine within four weeks prior to the Screening Visit or any
          change in dosing regimen within four weeks prior to the Screening Visit
     8. Initiation of serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) within 3 months prior to the Screening
          Visit, or any change in dosing regimen within 3 months prior to the Screening Visit
     9. Botulinum toxin use within two months prior to the Screening Visit
     10. History of drug or alcohol abuse within the past year
     11. Orthopedic surgical procedures in any of the extremities within the past 6 months
     12. Subject has an abnormal laboratory value that, in the Evaluator's judgment, is both,
          clinically significant and has the potential to affect the subject's ability to safely complete
          the study
                                                    95
3489979vl

     13. Unstable angina, uncontrolled hypertension or any other significant cardiovascular
          abnormality as deemed by the Evaluator
     14. Severe depression as indicated by a score of >30 on the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)
     15. Any other medical condition, per Evaluator's judgment, that would interfere with conduct
          of study or interpretation of study result
     16. Participation in an investigational interventional trial within four weeks prior to
          Screening Visit
     17. Diagnosis of multiple sclerosis
              (c) Subject Withdrawal Criteria
          [002711         The withdrawal criteria, which are optional, include one or more of the
following reasons:
     *    Subject experiences an adverse event (such as a seizure)
     *    Pregnancy
     *    Subject is non-compliant with the protocol
     *    Subject is lost to follow-up
     *    Subject abuses alcohol or drugs or no longer meets another eligibility criterion
                  6.16.5 TREATMENT OF SUBJECTS
              (a) Treatments to be Administered
          [002721         Each subject will receive 28 doses of(A) dalfampridine-ER 10 mg, and 42
doses of (B) placebo (including 14 doses during the placebo washout period). The tablets will be
taken at home, with water. The order of treatment will be determined as described in Section (b),
below.
          [002731         Investigational product will be dispensed to the subject at Visits 2, 3, 4, 5
and 6, after assessments have been completed. Subjects will be instructed to take the first dose
in the evening of the visit, and the next dose the following morning, approximately 12 hours later.
Subjects will be instructed to continue dosing every 12 hours at times that are as consistent as
                                                     96
3489979vl

possible. Subjects will be told that they must not make up for missed doses.
          [00274]        The last dose from each dispensed supply will be a dose taken in the
morning of the next scheduled visit. Subjects will be instructed to have a dosing schedule
targeted towards taking the morning dose of investigational product 2 hours prior to the start of
scheduled study assessments during the treatment evaluation visits: Visits 3, 4, 6 and 7.
              (b) Method of Assigning Subject to Treatment Group
          [00275]        Subjects will be randomized at Visit 1 to one of two blinded treatment
sequences (A or B) in a 2:1 ratio respectively, according to a randomization created prior to the
start of the study:
     A: placebo then dalfampridine-ER
     B: dalfampridine-ER then placebo
              (c) Blinding
          [00276]        Drug administration will be double-blind, meaning that the treatment
sequence is not known to the subject or the study site personnel.
          [00277]        The washout period will be single-blind, meaning that the study site
personnel, but not the subject, will know that placebo is being administered during this period.
              (d) Treatment Compliance
          [00278]        Subjects will be encouraged to take all doses as prescribed. Treatment
compliance will be monitored through inventory of tablet count in returned bottles, and by
obtaining blood samples for determination of plasma dalfampridine concentration during each
treatment period. Any reasons for non-compliance will be documented.
              (e) Prior and Concomitant Medications
          [00279]        The following medications are excluded for the duration of the study, and
also for some period of time prior to the study, for the purpose of maintaining stable symptoms:
                                                  97
3489979vl

          *   Baclofen or tizanidine initiated or dosing modified less than four weeks before the
              Screening Visit
          *   SSRI initiated or dosing modified less than 3 months before the Screening Visit
          *   Botulinum toxin administered less than two months before the Screening Visit
          *   Other prescription medications (or therapies) initiated or changed less than 4 weeks
              before the Screening Visit
          [002801        No changes will be made to the concomitant treatment during the study,
except as required for the safety of the subject.
                  6.16.6 DESCRIPTION OF INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT
          [002811        Active: Commercial drug will be used. AMPYRA (dalfampridine)
Extended Release tablets are a white to off-white, biconvex, oval shaped, film-coated, non
scored tablet with flat edge, debossed with "Al0" on one side, containing 10 mg of
dalfampridine. Inactive ingredients consist of colloidal silicon dioxide, hydroxypropyl
methylcellulose, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, polyethylene glycol, and
titanium dioxide.
          [00282]        Placebo: The placebo tablets will be identical in appearance to the
AMPYRA tablets and contain the same inactive ingredients.
                  6.16.7 STUDY PROCEDURES
          [00283]        The following sections describe the baseline and clinical functional
measurements that will be obtained in this study. A detailed schedule ofprocedures by study
visit is provided below and summarized in Table 23.
          [00284]        Prior to engaging in any study procedure, subjects must provide written
informed consent.
              (a) Plasma Dalfampridine Concentration
          [00285]        Blood samples for determination of plasma dalfampridine concentration
will be obtained after the completion of all functional clinical assessments. The purpose of these
                                                    98
3489979vl

measurements is for assessment of treatment compliance. A minimum of 7 mL of whole blood
will be collected into an appropriately labeled heparin tube and kept cold (i.e., on wet ice) until
centrifuged. Immediately after collection, the tube will be centrifuged at low speed and
approximately 3 mL of plasma will be transferred from each sample into a labeled tube. The
plasma will be stored at -20' C until the shipment to the central laboratory is requested. At that
time, frozen plasma samples will be collected together and sent in an insulated container, on dry
ice, overnight by express carrier to the designated central laboratory.
              (b) Clinical Assessments
              Timed 25 Foot Walk (T25FW)
          [00286]        The T25FW test is a quantitative measure of ambulatory function. The
subject is instructed to walk as quickly as he or she can from one end to the other end of a clearly
marked, unobstructed, 25-foot course. The T25FW will be performed according to the detailed
instructions provided in the Administration and Scoring Manual published by the National
Multiple Sclerosis Society (Fischer J, et al., NationalMultiple Sclerosis Society. 2001; 1-410).
The subject will stand with the tip of their shoes on a marked starting line, and timing will begin
when any part of the subject's foot crosses the line. Timing will end when any part of the
subject's foot crosses the marked finish line. Time will be recorded in seconds and rounded to
the nearest tenth of a second using a stopwatch provided for this study. The task is administered
again, with a maximum five-minute rest period allowed between the two trials, by having the
subject walk back the same distance. If required, the subject may use an appropriate assistive
device. The subject must be instructed to maintain his or her normal activities without rehearsal
or practice measures to unfairly improve their performance scores between visits. Every effort
will be made to use the same testing room and the same designated area for the T25FW at each
assessment. Potential for external distractions will be kept to a minimum as much as possible.
          [00287]        Normative data for walking speed are available (Bohannon R., Age and
Ageing. 1997; 26: 15-19). For subjects >18 years of age and <20 years of age, the normative
data for the 20s decade age group will be used.
              Box and Block Test
          [00288]        The Box and Block Test (Mathiowetz V, et al., Am J Occup Ther. 1985;
                                                  99
3489979vl

36(6): 386-391) has been used as a valid and reliable measure of manual dexterity. The subject
is instructed to quickly pick up blocks one at a time from one side of a box, transport each block
over a partition to the other side of the box, and drop it. The test was originally developed to
evaluate the gross manual dexterity of adults with cerebral palsy. Data for normal adults are
available (Bohannon R., Age and Ageing. 1997; 26: 15-19). For subjects >18 years of age and
<20 years of age, the normative data for the 20-24 years age group will be used.
          [00289]       The Box and Block test will be consistently performed before the Pinch
and Grip tests to minimize the effects of fatigue. Both dominant and non-dominant hands will be
tested, starting with the dominant hand.
              Hand Strength by the Grip and Pinch tests
          [00290]       The Grip Test (Mathiowetz V, et al., Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1985;
66:69-72) is used as a simple, valid and reliable measure to identify hand strength problems, to
detect the change which may result from an occupational therapy program, the course of a
disease or injury, or to show the relation of the patient's strength to the general population. Hand
strength is measured using a dynamometer.
          [00291]       The Pinch Tests (Mathiowetz V, et al., Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1985;
66:69-72) are used as a simple, valid and reliable measure to indentify pinch strength problems,
to detect the change which may result from an occupational therapy program, the course of a
disease or injury, or to show the relation of the patient's strength to the general population. It has
three components, the tip, key and palmar pinch. Pinch strength is measured using a pinch gauge.
          [00292]       There will be three trials for each hand of the grip test, tip pinch, key
pinch and palmar tests each time they are measured.
          [00293]       Normative data on the Grip and Pinch tests in adults are available
(Mathiowetz V., et al., Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1985; 66:69-72). For subjects >18 years of age
and <20 years of age, the normative data for the 20-24 years age group will be used.
              Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)
          [00294]       The FMA is a performance-based impairment assessment that was
designed to evaluate motor functioning, balance, sensation and joint functioning in patients with
post-stroke hemiplegia (Fugl-Meyer AR, et al., Scand JRehabil Med. 1975; 7(1):13-3 1). For
                                                  100
3489979vl

this study, the domains of upper extremity (UE) motor function, lower extremity (LE) motor
function and sensation will be assessed (see Table 24).
Table 24: Fugl-Meyer Assessment Score Sheet
          UPPER EXTREMITY                                  LOWER EXT REIMIY
          A. Shoulder/ElboiForearm                         E. Hip/Knee/Ankle
               I. Reflex actMity                                I. Reflex activity
                   Flexors -Biceps                      0           Flexors -Hamstrings                      0
                            -flnger flexors             0                      -Achilles                     0
                   Extensors-Triceps                    0            Extensors-Patellar
              It. a. Flexor synergy                            it. a. Flexor synergy
                   Shoulder-Retraction                  0            Hip .- Flexion                          o
                                                                     Knee-Flexion
                           -Abduction                   C
                           -Outward rotation            0           Ande-Dorsileion                          0
                   Etow -Flexion                        O            b. Extensor synergy
                   Forearm -Supinabon                   O            Hip -Extension
                   b.Extensor synergy                                     -Addution                          0
                   Shoulder-Adduction/innrd rotation    O            Knee-Extension                          0
                   Elbow -Extension                     U            Arie-Plantar flexion                    0
                   Forearm -Pronatlion                  O1    Ill. Knee-Flexion                                3
             IlIl. Hand to lumber spine                              A*Ie-Doiiflexion                          3
                   Hand      -Move to lumber spine       3    IV. Knee-Flexion                                 3
                   Shoulder -Flexion 01-0               0            Andae-Dorsillexion
                   Elbow 90.-Pronationsupinakon         O      V. Normal reflex activity
             IV. Shoulder --Abduction 0*-90"            0            Flexors -Hamstrings                     0
                              -Flexion 90-1l            0                       -Achilles                    0
                   Elbow (7 -Pronaton/supination        0            Extensors-Patenar                       0
              V. Normal reflex activity                 0   Total--Hip/Kne/Arle                              0
           Toa-Shoder/Ebo            arearm             0   F. CoordinatiovSpeed
           B. Wst                                               Tremor
                Elbow 90"-Wist stability                0        Dysmetria                                   0
                Elbow 9O-Wrist flexiorvextaension       0       Speed                                        0
                Elbow (r -Wrist stablity                0   Total-CoordiniaiorvSpeed                          0
                Elbow Cr -Wrist flexionlextension       0   Total Motor Score for the Lower Exramity          0
                Circuiduction                           0   G. Balance
           Total-Wrist                                   0       Sit without support                          0
           C. Hand                                               Parachute reaction, nonatlected side         0
                Fingers mass flexion                     C       Parachute reacton, affected side             0
                Fingers mass extension                   O       Supported standing                           C)
                Grasp a                                  C       Standing without support                     0
                Grasp b                                  O       Stand on nonaffected leg                     0
                Grasp C                                  0       Stand on affected leg                        E
                Grasp d                                  0  Total Score-Balance                               C
                Grasp e                                  O  H. Sensation
           Total--Snd                                    0       a. Ought touch
           D. Coordinallon/peed                                         Arm                                   0
                Tremor                                   0              Palm                                  C
                 Dysmetria                               0              Leg                                   C
                 Speed                                   0              Planter                               C
           Total--CoordnatvSpeed                         C
            Total Molor Scorn tr the (ppr Extrenity      0                                            (corinued)
                                                     101
3489979vl

                b. Position                                                                                  ModonPain
                      Shoulder                                   3      Hip         Flexion                    0   0
                      Ebow                                     0                   Abduction                   0   0
                      Wrist                                    o                   Oultward rotation           0   0
                      Thumb (interrfhalangeal)                 0                   Inward rotation            0    0
                      Hip                                      o        Knee       Flexion                    E    0
                      Knee                                     O                   Extension                  0    0
                      Ande                                     0        Ankle      Dorsiflexion                0   0
                      Great toe                                o                   Plantar ftexion            0    0
            Total Scare-Ssation                                0        Foot        Pronation                 0    0
            1. Passive Joint MotionVJoint Pain                                     Supination                 0    0
                                                       Motion/Pain   Total Score-Pass Joint Motion/JointPain  0
               Shoulder Flexion                          0     0     SUMARY
                          Abduction >90                  0     0     A. Shoulder/EbowlFarearm                      o
                          Outward rotation              0      0     B. Wrist                                      0
                          Inward rotation                0     0     C. Hand                                       0
               Elbow      Flexion                        0     0     D. Coordinaton/Speed                          0
                          Extension                      0     0     Total Upper Etremiy                           0
               Forearm Pronation                         0     0     E. Hip/Knee/Ankle
                          Supination                    0      0     F. Coordination/Speed                         0
               Wrist      Flexion                        0     0     Tot Lower Extremiy                            0
                          Extension                     0      0     G. Balance                                    0
               Fingers Flexion                          0      0     H. Sensation
                          Extension                     0      0     1.  Passive Joint Motion/Joint Pain      0 M C P
                                                                     TOTAL SCORE
          [002951                Items are rated on a 3-point scale of severity. A total score can be
determined for each domain separately, and the total UE and LE scores can be combined for a
total motor score.
               Disability Assessment Scale (DAS)
          [002961                Optionally, DAS is performed.
          1002971                The DAS was developed to assess impairment in 4 functional areas
commonly affected in patients with post-stroke upper limb spasticity: personal hygiene, dressing,
pain, and limb position. The clinician will rate the subject's level of impairment in each of these
domains using a 4-point scale ranging from "no disability" to "severe disability." Assessment of
the 4 functional domains will performed according to the following guidelines (Brashear A, et al.,
Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2002; 83(10):1349-54):
          [00298]               Hygiene: The rater will assess the extent of maceration, ulceration, and/or
palmar infection; palm and hand cleanliness; ease of cleanliness; ease of nail trimming; and the
degree of interference caused by hygiene-related disability in the patient's daily life.
          [00299]               Dressing: The rater will assess the difficulty or ease with which the patient
could put on clothing (e.g., shirts, jackets, gloves) and the degree of interference caused by
                                                            102
3489979vl

dressing related disability in the patient's daily life.
          [00300]        Limb position: The rater will assess the amount of abnormal position of
the upper limb.
          [00301]        Pain: The rater will assess the intensity of pain or discomfort related to
upper-limb spasticity.
          [00302]        Each of the 4 functional domains will be rated using the following scale: 0
=  no disability; 1 = mild disability (noticeable but does not interfere significantly with normal
activities); 2 = moderate disability (normal activities require increased effort and/or assistance); 3
=  severe disability (normal activities limited).
              Functional Independence Measurement (FIM)
          [003031        The FIM scale is a widely used assessment of disability that measures how
much assistance is needed for the individual to conduct activities of daily living (ADL). It is
comprised of 18 items: 13 in the physical domain and 5 in the cognitive domain. Ratings are
based on the clinician's direct observation, with each item scored on a 7-point scale ranging from
"total assistance" to "complete independence." Dimensions assessed are: eating, grooming,
bathing, upper body dressing, lower body dressing, toileting, bladder management, bowel
management, bed to chair transfer, toilet transfer, shower transfer, locomotion (ambulatory or
wheelchair level), stairs, cognitive comprehension, expression, social interaction, problem
solving, memory.
          [00304]         Scoring Criteria are as follows (see Rehabilitation Measures Database
webpage):
     7      Complete Independence
     6      Modified Independence
     5      Supervision or Setup
     4      Minimal Contact Assistance (patient can perform 75% or more at task)
     3      Moderate Assistance (patient can perform 50% to 74% of task)
     2      Maximal Assistance (patient can perform 25% to 49% of task)
     1      Total assistance
              Subject Global Impression (SGI)
          [00305]        The SGI is a commonly used measure of treatment response that asks the
                                                    103
3489979vl

subject to rate the effects of the investigational drug on his or her physical well-being during the
preceding week, using a 7-point scale ranging from "terrible" to "delighted."
          [00306]       The subjects is given a form to complete stating the following: "We want
to find out how you feel about the effects of the study medication on your physical well-being.
How do you feel about the effects of the study medication over the past 7 days?" The subject is
given the following choices for a response: "terrible," "unhappy," "mostly dissatisfied,"
"neural/mixed," "mostly satisfied," "pleased," and "delighted." The subject is asked to explain
the response given in their own words.
              Clinician Global Impression (CGI)
          [00307]       The CGI is a commonly used measure of treatment response that asks the
clinician to provide an overall impression of the changes in the subject's neurological status and
general state of health following treatment with the investigational product, as compared to the
subject's condition at baseline (and not compared to the preceding visit). The CGI is rated
according to a 7-point scale ranging from "very much improved" to "very much worse."
          [00308]       The clinician is given a form to complete stating the following: "Overall,
taking into account the subject's symptoms and other neurological functions, how would you rate
the subject's neurological status today, relative to their Screening Visit? Please consider
neurological changes only, without respect to other factors." The clinician is given the following
choices for a response: "very much improved," "much improved," "somewhat improved," "no
change," "somewhat worse," "much worse," and "very much worse." The clinician is asked to
explain any indication of change, if possible.
              Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)
          [00309]       The BDI (see Table 25) is a widely used self-report depression
questionnaire measuring the severity of depression symptoms. Each of 21 items is rated on a 4
point scale ranging from minimal to severe. Subjects with severe depression as indicated by a
score of >30 at screening will be excluded from participating in the study. The BDI will also be
administered at other visits as one of the clinical assessments.
                                                   104
3489979vl

          Table 25: Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)
            1. Sadness                                                6. Punishment Feelings
             0    I do not feel sad.                                   0     I don't feel I am being punished.
              1   I feel sad much of the time.                          1    I feel I may be punished.
              2   I am sad all the time.                               2     I expect to be punished.
              3    I am so sad or unhappy that I can't stand it.        3    I feel 1 am being punished.
            2. Pessimism                                              7. Self-Dislike
              o I am not discouraged about my future.                   0    I feel the same about myself as ever.
              1    I feel more discouraged about my future than I       1    I have lost confidence in myself.
                   used to be.                                          2    I am disappointed in myself.
              2    I do not expect things to work out for me.           3    1dislike myself.
              3    1feel my future is hopeless and will only get
                   worse.                                             8. Self-Criicalness
            3. Past Failure                                             0    I don't criticize or blame myself more than usual.
              o I do not feel like a failure.                           1    I am more critical of myself than I used to be.
              I I have failed more than I should have.                  2    [ criticize myself for all of my faults.
              2 As I look back, I see a lot of failures.                3    I blame myself for everything bad that happens.
              3 I feel I am a total failure as a person.              9. Suicidal Thoughts or Wishes
            4. Loss of Pleasure                                         0 I don't have any thoughts of killing myself.
              o 0 It1get  as much pleasure as I ever did from te             I have thoughts of killing myself, but I would
                     getgs muc plasrnajoyerdd.rmh                            not carry them out.
                    ins tIenjoytn                                       2    I would like to kill myself.
              I    I don't enjoy things as much as I used to.           3 1wudkl yefi                    a h hne
              2    I get very little pleasure from the things I used    3 I would kill myself if I had the chance.
                   to enjoy.
                                                                     10. Crying
              3    1can't get any pleasure from the things I used
                   to enjoy.                                            0 I don't cry anymore than I used to.
                                                                         1 I cry more than I used to.
            5. Guilty Feelings                                          2     1cry over every little thing.
              0 I don't feel particularly guilty.                       3     1 feel like crying, but I can't.
              i    I feel guilty over many things I have done or
                   should have done.
              2    I feel quite guilty most of the time.
              3    I feel guilty all of the time.
                                                             105
3489979vl

          11. Agitation                                               17. Irritability
             0 1 am no more restless or wound up than usual.             0     I am no more irritable than usual.
              I   I feel more restless or wound up than usual.           I     I am more irritable than usual.
             2    I am so restless or agitated that it's hard to stay    2     I am much more irritable than usual.
                  still.                                                 3     I am irritable all the time.
             3    1 am so restless or agitated that I have to keep
                  moving or doing something.                          18. Changes in Appetite
          12. Loss of Interest                                           0     I have not experienced any change in my
                                                                               appetite.
             0    I have not lost interest in other people or             Ia   My appetite is somewhat less than usual.
                  activities.
              I   I am less interested in other people or things         lb My appetite is somewhat greater than usual.
                  than before.                                           2a    My appetite is much less than before.
             2    1 have lost most of my interest in other people        2b    My appetite is much greater than usual.
                  or things.                                             3a    I have no appetite at all.
             3    It's hard to get interested in anything.               3b    I crave food all the time.
          13. Indecisiveness                                          19. Concentration Difficulty
             0    1 make decisions about as well as ever.                o     I can concentrate as well as ever.
              1   I find it more difficult to make decisions than         I    I can't concentrate as well as usual.
                  Usual.                                                 2     It's hard to keep my mind on anything for
              2   1 have much greater difficulty in making                     very long.
                  decisions than I used to.                              3     I find I can't concentrate on anything.
              3   I have trouble making any decisions.
          14. Worthlessness                                           20. Tiredness or Fatigue
              14.
                W     onotfaorth                                         0     I am no more tired or fatigued than usual.
              o   I do not feel I am worthless.                           1    I get more tired or fatigued more easily than
              1   I don't consider myself as worthwhile and useful             usual.
                  as I used to.                                           2    I am too tired or fatigued to do a lot of the things
              2   1 feel more worthless as compared to other                   I used to do.
                  people.                                                 3     I am too tired or fatigued to do most of the
              3   1 feel utterly worthless.                                    things I used to do.
          15. Loss of Energy                                          21. Loss of Interest in Sex
              0    I have as much energy as ever.                         0     I have not noticed any recent change in my
               1  I have less energy than I used to have.                       interest in sex.
              2   I don't have enough energy to do very much.             I     I am less interested in sex than I used to be.
              3    I don't have enough energy to do anything.             2     1 am much less interested in sex now.
                                                                          3     1 have lost interest in sex completely.
           15. Changes in Sleeping Pattern
              0    1 have not experienced any change in my
                   sleeping pattern.
               ia  I sleep somewhat more than usual.
               lb  I sleep somewhat less than usual.
               2a  I sleep a lot more than usual.
               2b  I sleep a lot less than usual.
               3a  I sleep most of the day.
               3b  I wake up 1-2 hours early and can't get back
                   to sleep.
                                                             106
3489979vl

                  (c)     Study Sequence
          [003101         The following sections describe the assessments to be performed at each
clinic visit during the study.
              Visit 1, day -14 to day -1 (Screening Visit)
          [00311]         The Evaluator will assess eligibility for the study after the following
procedures have been performed. These procedures will be completed within 14 days prior to
the randomization visit. They will be performed in the order outlined below.
     *    Obtain signed informed consent
     *    Complete medical history, including demographic information
     *    Review prior and concomitant medications
     *    Subject to complete the BDI
     *    Complete a full physical examination
     *    Perform routine sitting vital sign measurements, including height and weight.
     *    Calculate BMI
     *    Administer the T25FW
     "    Administer the Box and Block test (dominant and non-dominant hand, the dominant first)
     *    Administer the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar pinch tests. These tests will be
          administered three times with each hand.
     *    Administer the FMA, DAS, and FIM
     *    Take blood and urine samples for laboratory evaluations (SMA- 12, calculated creatinine
          clearance, urinalysis, and urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential)
     *    Review adverse events
     *    If subject qualifies, schedule subject to return to the investigational center within 14 days.
                                                    107
3489979vl

               Visit 2, day 1 (randomization visit, start of Period 1)
          [00312]         The following assessments and procedures will be performed in the order
outlined below:
     *    Complete a brief physical examination
     *    Perform sitting vital sign measurements
     *    Administer the T25FW
     *    Administer the Box and Block test (dominant and non-dominant hand, the dominant first)
     *    Administer the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar pinch tests. These tests will be
          administered three times with each hand.
     " Administer the FMA, DAS, and FIM
     *    Subject to complete the BDI
     *    Obtain blood sample for plasma dalfampridine concentration
     *    Urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential
     *    Review adverse events and concomitant medications
     *    Randomize to one of two treatment sequences
     " Dispense a one-week supply of assigned double-blind investigational product with
          instructions to take the first dose that evening. See Section 6.16.5(a) for further
          instructions to the subject on dosing regimen
     *    Discharge subject and schedule a date and time for the next visit to occur in one week (
           I day).
               Visit 3, day 8
          [00313]         The following assessments and procedures will be performed in the order
outlined below:
                                                     108
3489979vl

     *    Complete brief physical examination
     e    Perform sitting vital sign measurements
     "    Subject to complete the SGI
     e    Administer the T25FW
     *    Administer the Box and Block test (dominant and non-dominant hand, the dominant first)
     *    Administer the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar pinch tests. These tests will be
          administered three times with each hand.
     *    Administer the FMA, DAS, and FIM
     e    Complete the CGI
     "    Obtain blood sample for plasma dalfampridine concentration
     *    Review adverse events and concomitant medications
     *    Collect investigational product from last visit, and perform drug accountability
     e    Dispense a new one-week supply of assigned double-blind investigational product with
          instructions to take dose that evening, approximately 12 hours post last dose. See
          Section 6.16.5(a) for further instructions to the subject on dosing regimen
     *    Discharge subject and schedule a date and time for the next visit to occur in one week (
           1 day)
               Visit 4, day 15 (end of Period 1, start of washout)
          [00314]         The following assessments and procedures will be performed in the order
outlined below:
     *    Complete brief physical examination
     *    Perform sitting vital sign measurements
     *    Subject to complete the SGI
     *    Administer the T25FW
     *    Administer the Box and Block test (dominant and non-dominant hand, the dominant first)
                                                   109
3489979vl

     * Administer the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar pinch tests. These tests will be
          administered three times with each hand.
     *    Administer the FMA, DAS, and FIM
     *    Complete the CGI
     "    Subject to complete the BDI
     *    Obtain blood sample for plasma dalfampridine concentration and SMA-12
     *    Review adverse events and concomitant medications
     *    Collect investigational product from last visit, and perform drug accountability
     e    Dispense a one-week supply of single-blind placebo with instructions to take first dose
          that evening. See Section 6.16.5(a) for further instructions to the subject on dosing
          regimen
     *    Discharge subject and schedule a date and time for the next visit to occur in one week (
           1 day)
               Visit 5, day 22 (end of washout, start of Period 2)
          [00315]         The following assessments and procedures will be performed in the order
outlined below:
     *    Complete brief physical examination
     e    Perform sitting vital sign measurements
     *    Subject to complete the SGI
     e    Administer the T25FW
     *    Administer the Box and Block test (dominant and non-dominant hand, the dominant first)
     *    Administer the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar pinch tests. These tests will be
          administered three times with each hand.
     *    Administer the FMA, DAS, and FIM
     *    Complete the CGI
                                                   110
3489979vl

     *    Subject to complete the BDI
     e    Obtain blood sample for plasma dalfampridine concentration
     " Review adverse events and concomitant medications
     e    Collect investigational product from last visit, and perform drug accountability
     *    Dispense a one-week supply of crossover treatment with instructions to take the first dose
          that evening. See Section 6.16.5(a) for further instructions to the subject on dosing
          regimen
     *    Discharge subject and schedule a date and time for the next visit to occur in one week (
           1 day)
               Visit 6, day 29
          [00316]         The following assessments and procedures will be perfonned in the order
outlined below:
     *    Complete brief physical examination
     *    Perform sitting vital sign measurements
     *    Subject to complete the SGI
     " Administer the T25FW
     *    Administer the Box and Block test (dominant and non-dominant hand, the dominant first)
     *    Administer the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar pinch tests. These tests will be
          administered three times with each hand.
     " Administer the FMA, DAS, and FIM
     *    Complete the CGI Obtain blood sample for plasma dalfampridine concentration
     *    Review adverse events and concomitant medications
     *    Collect investigational product from last visit, and perform drug accountability
                                                   111
3489979vl

     *    Dispense a new one-week supply of crossover treatment with instructions to take dose
          that evening, approximately 12 hours post last dose. See Section 6.16.5(a) for further
          instructions to the subject on dosing regimen
     *    Discharge subject and schedule a date and time for the next visit to occur in one week (
           1 day)
               Visit 7, day 36 (end of Period 2)
          [00317]         The following assessments and procedures will be perfonned in the order
outlined below:
     " Complete brief physical examination
     *    Perform sitting vital sign measurements
     *    Subject to complete the SGI
     " Administer the T25FW
     *    Administer the Box and Block test (dominant and non-dominant hand, the dominant first)
     *    Administer the grip test, tip pinch, key pinch and palmar pinch tests. These tests will be
          administered three times with each hand.
     *    Administer the FMA, DAS, and FIM
     *    Complete the CGI
     e    Subject to complete the BDI
     *    Obtain blood sample for plasma dalfampridine concentration and SMA- 12
     e    Review adverse events and concomitant medications
     *    Collect investigational product from last visit, and perform drug accountability. No
          investigational product to be dispensed.
     " Discharge subject and schedule a date and time for the next visit, a telephone visit, to
          occur in one week (± 1 day)
                                                   112
3489979vl

              Telephone Follow-up, day 43 ± 1
          [00318]         The site will make a follow-up telephone call to review any adverse events
or changes in medication. The follow-up call may be performed up to 2 days before or after day
43 to account for the weekends/holidays.
          0   Final status assessment
          6.16.8          STATISTICS
          (a)     Statistical Power
          [003191         Sixty-six (66) subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to one of two
treatment sequences: placebo followed by dalfampridine-ER (Sequence A) or dalfampridine-ER
followed by placebo (Sequence B). This sample size will provide adequate planning estimates to
aid in the design of future studies.
          (b)     Derived Endpoints and Data Handling
          [00320]         Baseline for analyses will be defined as the last non-missing assessment
prior to the first dose of double-blind medication.
          [00321]         Age and time since ischemnic stroke will be computed based on the date at
informed consent:
          [00322]         Age will be calculated as: Age = [Date of informed consent - Date of
birth] / 365.25 rounded down to the previous integer.
          [00323]         Days since ischemic stroke will be calculated: Days = Date of informed
consent - Date of stroke.
          [00324]         The derivation of baseline measures will follow the derivations outlined
below in the section entitled "Derived Variables and Data Handling."
              (c) Analysis of Functional Assessments
          [00325]         The computational details for the derivation of all applicable variables in
this section can be found below in the section entitled "Derived Variables and Data Handling."
              Functional Assessments
          [00326]         The functional assessments that will be explored in this study are:
     *     Walking speed as measured by the Timed 25 Foot Walk test (T25FW)
                                                   113
3489979vl

     *     Manual dexterity as measured by the Box and Block Test
     *     Hand strength as measured by the grip test and pinch tests
     *     Global motor function score on the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA) and the individual
           motor scores:
              -    Upper extremity function
              -   Lower extremity function
     *     Upper limb spasticity as measured by the Disability Assessment Scale (DAS)
     *     Assistance required to perform activities of daily living (ADL) by the Functional
           Independence Measure (FIM) scale
     *     Subject Global Impression (SGI) scale
     *     Clinician Global Impression (CGI) scale
     *     Depression as measured by the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)
              Derived Variables and Data Handling
          [00327]        Baseline for the analyses will be defined as the last non-missing
assessment prior to the first dose of double-blind medication.
Walking! Speed
          [00328]        At each visit, there will be two trials of the T25FW test. Walking speed
for an individual trial will be derived (in feet per second) by multiplying the reciprocal of the
time to complete the walk (in seconds) by 25 (feet). The walking speed for a particular study
visit will be derived by calculating the average of the walking speeds for Trial I and Trial 2 from
that study visit. If either trial is missed, then the walking speed for that visit will be the walking
speed from the non-missing trial.
Grip and Pinch Tests
          [00329]        At each visit, there will be three trials for each of the grip and pinch tests.
The response for a particular study visit is the average of the three trials for that particular test.
The grip test and the pinch tests will be summarized by dominant hand and non-dominant hand
separately.
                                                    114
3489979vl

Box and Block Test
          [003301       The response for the Box and Block Test is the number of blocks
transported to the other side of the partition in 60 seconds. There is no derivation needed for the
response variable. The Box and Block Test will be summarized by dominant hand and non
dominant hand separately.
Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA)
          [003311       The FMA is a measure of upper extremity and lower extremity motor and
sensory impairment, consisting of 155 items in 5 domains. Subscores can be determined for
each domain by summing the scores on the associated individual items. A global FMA score can
be created by summing the individual domain subscores. The FMA global score and the
individual domain subscores will be summarized separately.
Disability Assessment Scale (DAS)
          [00332]       The DAS is used to assess impairment in 4 functional areas commonly
affected in patients with post-stroke upper limb spasticity. The four functional areas will be
analyzed separately. There is no derivation needed for the response variable.
Functional Independence Measure (FIM) scale
          [00333]       The FIM scale is an assessment of physical and cognitive disability
comprised of 18 items. For each visit, the response on the FIM scale is the sum of the individual
responses to the 18 items. The total score can range from 18 (lowest level of function) to 126
(highest level of function).
Subject Global Impression (SGI) scale
          [00334]       For each visit, the response on the SGI is the subject's rating of the
investigational product on his or her physical well-being during the preceding week. There is no
derivation needed for the response variable.
Clinician Global Impression (CGI) scale
                                                   115
3489979vl

          [003351         For each visit, the response on the CGI is the clinician's overall
impression of the changes in the subject's neurological status and general state of health
following treatment with the investigational product, as compared to baseline. There is no
derivation needed for the response variable.
Beck Depression Inventory (BDI)
          [003361         The BDI is a self-reported 21-item depression questionnaire measuring the
severity of depression symptoms. For each visit, the response on the BDI is the sum of the
individual responses from the 21 items. The total score can range from 0 to 63.
              Statistical Methods
          [00337]         Analyses will be performed to determine the effect of dalfampridine-ER
on the functional assessments. For each of the functional assessments, except the SGI and CGI,
the intra-subject change from baseline will be calculated within each treatment period:
                           Period 1: Visit 4 assessment - Visit 2 assessment
                           Period 2: Visit 7 assessment - Visit 5 assessment
          [00338]         For SGI and CGI, the Visit 4 assessment and the Visit 7 assessment will
be used in the analyses.
          [00339]         For any functional assessment, if the Visit 4 assessment is missing, it will
be imputed using the Visit 3 assessment. If the Visit 7 assessment is missing, it will be imputed
using the Visit 6 assessment.
          [00340]         For all clinical measures except SGI and CGI, the following two types of
analyses will be performed. The first type will be based on the difference in intra-subject
changes from baseline for Period 1 (placebo) versus Period 2 (dalfampridine-ER) using the 44
subjects randomized to Sequence A. The changes from baseline between the two treatments will
be compared using a paired t-test. The second type of analysis will be based on between
treatment group comparisons of the changes from baseline within Period 1 only. The changes
from baseline between the two treatments will be compared using a two-sample t-test.
          [00341]         For SGI and CGI, two types of analyses will be performed as well.
However, the analyses will be performed using the results of the SGI and CGI at Visit 4 and
Visit 7, and not on the changes from baseline. The statistical methods described above will also
                                                    116
3489979vl

be used in the analysis of SGI and CGI.
          6.16.9          REFERENCES FOR EXAMPLE 16
       *    Gubitz G. Acute stroke management and prevention of recurrences. In Evidence-Based
            Neurology: Management ofneurologicaldiseases. Blackwell Publishing,Malden
            (MA), 2007: pp 113-126.
       *    Demaerschalk, B, Hwang HM, Leung G. US cost burden of ischemic stroke: A
            systematic review. Am J Manag Care. 2010;16(7):525-33.
       e    American Heart Association. Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics-2008 Update. Dallas,
            TX: American Heart Association;2008:19.
       *    Lloyd-Jones D, Adams R, Carnethon M, et al. Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2009
            Update: A Report from the American Heart Association Statistics Committee and
            Stroke Statistics Subcommittee. Circulation 209; 119:480-486.
       *    Ovbiagele B, Lyden P, Saver J, et al. Disability status at one month is a reliable proxy
            for final ischemic stroke outcome. Neurology 2010;75:688-692.
       *    Carod-Artal J, Egido JA, Gonzalez JL, et al. Quality of Life among Stroke survivors
            evaluated 1 year after Stroke. Stroke. 2000;31:2995-3000.
       *    Arene N, Hidler J. Understanding motor impairment in the paretic lower limb after
            Stroke: A review of the literature. Top Stroke Rehabil. 2009 Sept-Oct;16(5):346-356.
       *    Dimyan M, Cohen L. Neuroplasticity in the context of motor rehabilitation after stroke.
            Nat Rev Neurol. 2011;7:76-85.
       *    Forrester L, Wheaton L, Luft A. Exercise-mediated locomotor recovery and lower-limb
            neuroplasticity after stroke. J Rehab Res Dev. 2008;45(2):205-220.
       *    Adams HP, Bendixen BH, Kapelle LJ, et al. Classification of subtype of acute ischemic
            stroke. Definitions for use in a multicenter clinical trial. TOAST. Trial of Org 10171 in
            acute stroke treatment. Stroke 1993;24:35-41.
       *    Adams HP, Del Zoppo G, Alberts M, et al. Guidelines for the early management of
            adults with ischemic stroke: A guideline from the American Heart
                                                   117
3489979vl

          Association/American Sroke Association Stroke Council, Clinical Cardiology Council,
          Cardiovascular Radiology and Intervention Council, and the Atherosclerotic Peripheral
          Vascular Disease and Quality of Care Outcomes in research Interdisciplinary Working
          Groups. Stroke 2007;38:1655-1711.
       *  Wechsler L. Imaging Evaluation of Acute Ischemic Stroke. Stroke 2011;42(suppl
          1):S 12-S 15.
       " Taylor TN, Davis PH, Torner JC, et al. Lifetime cost of stroke in the United States.
          Stroke 1996;27(9):1459-1466.
       *  Goodman AD, Brown TR, Cohen JA, et al. Dose comparison trial of sustained-release
          fampridine in multiple sclerosis. Neurology. 2008;71:1134-1141.
       *  Goodman AD, Brown TR, Krupp LB, et al. Sustained-release oral fampridine in
          multiple sclerosis: a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial. Lancet. 2009;373:732
          38.
       *   Goodman AD, Brown TR, Edwards KR, et al. A Phase 2 trial of extended release oral
          dalfmapridine in multiple sclerosis. Ann Neurol. 2010;373:494-50.
       *  Menon B, Shorvon S. Ischaemic stroke in adults and epilepsy. Epilepsy Res. 2009;87:1
          11.
       *  Labovitz D, Hauser A, Sacco R. Prevalence and predictors of early seizure and status
          epilepticus after first stroke. Neurology. 2001;57:200.
       *  Spozhmy P, Neiman E, Andriola M, et al. A practical review and approach to
          poststroke seizures. Rev Neurol Dis. 2011;8(1/2):10-15.
       *  Bladin C, Alexandrov A, Bellavance A, et al. Seizures after stroke: A prospective
          multicenter study. Arch Neurol. 2000;57:1617-1622.
       *  Szaflarski J, Rackley A, Kleindorfer D, et al. Incidence of seizures in the acute phase of
          stroke: A population-based study. Epilepsia. 2008;49(6):974-981.
       *   Krakow K, Sitzer M, Rosenow F, et al. Predictors of acute post-stroke seizures.
          CerebrovascDis. 2010;30:584-589.
                                                  118
3489979vl

       *  Wei L, Yu SP, Gottron F, at al. Potassium channel blockers attenuate hypoxia and
          ischemia-induced neuronal death in vitro and in vivo. Stroke 2003;34:1281-1286.
       *  Huang H, Gao T, Gong L, et al. Potassium channel blocker TEA prevents CAl
          hippocampal injury following transient forebrain ischemia in adult rats. Neurosci Lett.
          2001;83-86.
       *  Bains J, Follwell M, Latchford K, at al. Slowly inactivating potassium conductance
          (ID): A potential target for stroke therapy. Stroke 2001;32:2624-2634.
       *  Fischer J, et al. The Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite Administration and
          Scoring Manual. NationalMultiple Sclerosis Society. 2001; 1-41.
       *  Bohannon R. Comfortable and maximum walking speed of adults aged 20-79 years:
          reference values and determinants. Age and Ageing. 1997; 26: 15-19.
       *  Mathiowetz V, Volland G, Kashman N , et al. Adult norms for the Box and Block Test
          of manual dexterity. Am J Occup Ther. 1985; 36(6): 386-391.
       *  Mathiowetz V, Kashman N, Volland G, et al. Grip and pinch strength; normative data
          for adults. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1985; 66:69-72.
       *  Fugl-Meyer AR, Jaask5 L, Leyman 1, Olsson S, Steglind S. The post-stroke hemiplegic
          patient: a method for evaluation of physical performance. Scand JRehabilMed. 1975;
          7(1):13-31.
       "  Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21 Food and Drugs. In: Selected Regulations and
          Guidance for Drug Studies. Philadelphia, PA: Clinical Research Resources; Rev. April
           1,2006.
       *  World Medical Association. Declaration of Helsinski: Ethical Principles for Medical
          Research Involving Human Subjects. Helsinki, Finland, June 1964.
       *  Brashear A, Zafonte R, Corcoran M, et al. Inter-and intrarater reliability of the
          Ashworth Scale and the Disability Assessment Scale in patients with upper-limb
          poststroke spasticity. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2002; 83(10):1349-54.
                                                  119
3489979vl

          6.17    Example 17: Effects of Oral Administration of 4-AP: Functional Recovery
          Following MCA occlusion (MCAO) in Rats.                Blinded, vehicle-controlled   dose
          escalation study.
          [00342]        4-AP was evaluated for its ability to promote functional sensorimotor
improvement following ischemic stroke in rats with stable motor deficits at times remote from
their ischemic events. The animal model of ischemic stroke, i.e., the MCAO model, used in this
example is the same as the animal model described in Example 2.
          [00343]        In the MCAO model recovery begins to plateau by 4 weeks after MCAO,
at which time there are still measurable deficits in sensorimotor function. However, 4 weeks
after MCAO there may still be slow continued endogenous recovery. For these reasons,
treatment in this example was initiated on Day 56 after MCAO, at a time point even more remote
from the initial ischemic event to allow the animals to reach a more stable level of sensorimotor
deficits after endogenous recovery.
                                            Experimental Desi2n
          [00344]        In this experiment, Sprague Dawley rats were subjected to a surgery
resulting in middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), treated with vehicle (water) or 4
aminopyridine as described below, and subjected to behavioral assessments as described below.
          [00345]        Animals: 30 male Sprague Dawley Rats, 300-400 g (obtained from
Charles River Laboratories, which arrived 7-10 days before surgery at 250-275 g) were used.
Animals were randomly assigned to treatment groups.
          [00346]        Nomenclature: The nomenclature for the days of the study is as follows:
Day 0 is the day of the MCAO, and the days following are numbered consecutively (Day 1, Day
2, Day 3, etc.); Day -I represents the day prior to the MCAO.
          [00347]        Grouping details: The amount of time needed for some procedures in this
study necessitated breaking up the 2 treatment groups (see Table 26 below), into 4 working
groups. Six animals received stroke surgery per day. If an animal died during the 8-day surgical
period of the study, it was replaced by a spare. If not, the animal was not replaced. Most animal
deaths (<5% overall) occurred in the immediate post-op to 7 day period.
          [00348]        Anesthesia: Anesthesia was performed as described in Example 2, above.
          [00349]        Temperature: 37.0 ± 1 'C.
          [00350]        Surgical Procedure: Surgical procedure was performed as described in
                                                  120
3489979vl

Example 2, above.
          [003511        Post-Operative Monitoring: Post-Operative Monitoring was performed as
described in Example 2, above.
          [00352]        Handling, surgery, and injections timetable: Handling, surgery, and
injections timetable was the same as that described in Example 2, above.
          [00353]        Treatment and dosing: Rats were treated in accordance with the treatment
schedule shown in Table 26. Dosing is shown in Table 27. 4-aminopyridine was dissolved in
water for injection (WFI, Cellgro) and sterile filtered. Solutions of 0.25 mg/mL, 0.5 mg/mL and
 1.0 mg/mL of 4-aminopyridine were delivered by gastric gavage at 2mL/kg for final doses of 0.5
mg/kg, 1 mg/kg or 2.0 mg/kg respectively. Vehicle control treatment was WFI delivered at 2
mL/kg by gastric gavage. Starting on Day 56 after MCAO, animals received gastric gavage of
solutions (2 mL/kg) approximately 12 hours apart. The vehicle control group was treated with
water for all doses on Days 56-65. For the treated group, six doses of 4-aninopyridine at 0.5
mg/kg were delivered over Days 56-59, followed by six doses at 1.0 mg/kg over Days 59-62 and
six doses at 2.0 mg/kg over Days 62-65. Animals in all groups were not treated during Days 66
70. p.o.=par oral.
                  Table 26:
               Endogenous             Treatment Day 56       Treatment Day 59    Treatment Day 62
               recovery phase - no    (evening)-59           (evening)-62        (evening)-65
               treatment (with        (morning)              (morning)           (morning)
               behavior tests on      (behavior tests on     (behavior tests on  (behavior tests on
               Day -1, 1, 7, 14, 21,  Day 59). Par oral      Day 62). Par oral   Day 65 and 70).
               28, 35, 42, 49, 56)    b.i.d.                 b.i.d.              Par oral b.i.d.
Group 1        Days 1-56              Vehicle (water)        Vehicle (water)     Vehicle (water)
(n=15)
Group 2        Days 1-56              4-AP                   4-AP                4-AP
(n=15)                                Low Dose               Medium Dose         High Dose
                                                  121
3489979vl

                   Table 27:
                   Treatment ID      Treatment
                   V                 Vehicle (water)
                   Low dose          0.5 mg/kg, b.i.d, p.o. of 4-AP
                   Medium dose       1 mg/kg, b.i.d., p.o. of 4-AP
                   High dose         2.0 mg/kg, b.i.d, p.o. of 4-AP
          [00354]         Treatment groups: Animals had MCAO surgery and were allowed to
recover for 56 days. Animals were then randomized into 2 groups based on their baseline
 behavior. Par oral dosing b.i.d. was initiated in the evening of Day 56 after MCAO. Behavior
testing during dosing periods was started 1 hour after dosing. Blood was collected via saphenous
 vein just prior to and during treatment phases just after behavioral testing (90 minutes post
 dosing). All dosing was via gastric gavage, volume not to exceed 2 mL/kg.
          [00355]         Blood sampling: 300 microliter blood sample was collected from the
 saphenous vein of each animal on Day 56 just prior to the first dose and then exactly 90 min after
 the 6t' dose at each dose level. Blood was collected, centrifuged, stored and analyzed as
 described in Example 2, above.
          [00356]         Behavioral test details: Behavioral evaluations were done by evaluators
 blinded to treatment assignment. Blinded assessments of sensorimotor function were performed
just prior to MCAO surgery, 24 hours after MCAO surgery and weekly thereafter until the first
phase of dosing using limb placing and body swing behavioral tests. As described above,
 behavioral assessments were timed exactly with dosing times. Animals were given the first dose,
 behavioral assessments were performed starting 60 minutes later. Animals were tested one hour
 after the 6 t1 dose of each dose level (on Days 59, 62 and 65) and at the end of the 5 day washout
 on Day 70.
          [00357]         Limb Placing: Evaluated at Day -1 (pre-operation), Day 1, Day 7, Day 14,
Day 21, Day 28, Day 35, Day 42, Day 49, Day 56, Day 59, Day 62, Day 65, Day 70. The limb
placing tests were divided into forelimb and hindlimb tests. The forelimb and hindlimb placing
tests and the scoring for these tests are described in Example 2, above.
          [00358]         Body Swing: Evaluated at Day -1 (pre-operation), Day 1, Day 7, Day 14,
Day 21, Day 28, Day 35, Day 42, Day 49, Day 56, Day 59, Day 62, Day 65, Day 70. The body
 swing test and the scoring for this test is described in Example 2, above.
          [00359]         Euthanasia and post-mortem processing: At day 70 after MCAO, rats
                                                    122
3489979vl

were anesthetized as described in Example 2, above.
          [003601       Infarct measurement: Infarct measurement was performed as described in
Example 2, above.
          [003611       Statistical Methods: Changes from pre-treatment baseline values (Day 56)
were calculated for each behavioral score at each time point assessed after dosing. Mean
behavioral parameter data were subject to Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). Infarct volume data
were analyzed by ANOVA. All data were expressed as means          SEM.
          [00362]       Regulatory Compliance: Regulatory Compliance for the study was the
same as that described in Example 2, above.
          [003631       Quality Assurance (QA): QA for the study was the same as that described
in Example 2, above.
                                                 Results
          [00364]       Both groups of animals (vehicle and 4-aminopyridine-treated)
demonstrated a typical recovery response to the MCAO-induced ischemia with normal scores of
0 just prior to the surgery (Day -1) followed by a complete loss in function (score 12, forelimb; 6,
hind limb) within 24 hours after the occlusion (Day 1). During the next 8 week, untreated phase,
forelimb and hind limb scores improved to approximately 4.5 and 2.5 (respectively) and
approached a plateau level of recovery (see Figures 11 and 12). In particular, after the complete
loss of function, animals recovered partially and reached a plateau around Day 30. Animals
remained at this level of function through Day 56 when treatment was initiated.
          [00365]       Sensorimotor function was evaluated using forelimb and hindlimb placing
and body swing tests. The forelimb placing test shows the effect of the treatment on forelimb
function (see Figure 11). The hindlimb placing test shows the effect of the treatment on
hindlimb function (see Figure 12). The body swing test shows the effect of the treatment on
global body control (see Figure 13).
          [00366]       The vehicle group demonstrated small and statistically insignificant
changes in behavior compared to the last assessment prior to dose initiation. In contrast the
animals that received 0.5 mg/kg 4-aminopyridine (low dose) significantly improved in forelimb
placing (p < 0.001) compared to vehicle (see Figure 11, Day 59). The hind limb placing score
improved with the low dose but did not reach significance (see Figure 12, Day 59). Increasing
the dose of 4-aminopyridine to 1 mg/kg resulted in a measureable improvement in both the
                                                123
3489979vl

forelimb and hind limb tests (p <0.001 and p < 0.05, respectively, Figures 11 and 12, Day 62)
compared to vehicle. The final dose escalation to 2 mg/kg 4-aminopyridine was associated with
significant improvements in both the forelimb and hind limb function (p<0.000I and p<0.001,
respectively, Figures 11 and 12, Day 65) compared to vehicle treated animals. When treatment
was withdrawn for 5 days, the improvements partially declined in the raw scores, though the
hind limb score remained greater than the vehicle treated group (p<0.05 , Figure 12, Day 70). It
may be that the prolonged and consistent dose period requires additional time to wash out fully
compared to the vehicle treated group. However, given the short serum half-life of 4
aminopyridine it appears more likely that there could be a training effect from the repeated
testing that occurred in a relatively short period of time. Vehicle treated animals remained stable
in their deficits, as only slight improvements were seen in vehicle treated animals during the
entire course of the treatment phase.
          [00367]        Thus, Figure 11 indicates that the treatment with either low dose, medium
dose or high dose 4-aminopyridine, 8 weeks post ischemic brain injury, is effective to improve
forelimb function in rats. Figure 11 also indicates that the effect is dose-responsive. This effect
is also reversible as it diminishes upon withdrawal of the drug. Figure 12 indicates that the
treatment with low dose of 4-aminopyridine 8 weeks post-ischemic injury can be effective to
improve hindlimb function in rats, and indicates that the treatment with medium or high dose 4
aminopyridine, 8 weeks post ischemic brain injury, is effective to improve hindlimb function in
rats. Further, Figure 12 indicates that this effect is dose responsive as the treatment with a higher
dose results in an improved behavioral score, relative to the treatment with a lower dose or
vehicle control. Figure 12 also indicates that the effect is at least partially reversible.
          [00368]        The body swing performance has not been extensively characterized at the
assessed time points. While there appears to be a treatment effect in the body swing
performance at the first on drug assessment (Day 59) compared to the pretreatment score on Day
56, no conclusions can be drawn from the data as a whole in light of the divergence of the body
swing asymmetry observed between the vehicle and 4-aminopyridine groups prior to treatment
initiation (Figure 13). It is noted that the age and size of animals used in this example was
considerably greater than in the study presented in Example 2, which may have played a role in
the general motivation and performance ability of the animals in this particular test.
          [00369]        4-aminopyridine plasma levels: Blood samples drawn when the animals
                                                  124
3489979vl

were receiving vehicle treatment had levels of 4-aminopyridine below the lower limit of
quantitation for the method. Samples drawn when animals received 4-aminopyridine confirmed
exposure at the time of behavioral testing appropriately related to dose level. 4-aminopyridine
plasma levels are shown in Table 28.
          Table 28: 4-aminopyridine plasma levels
                Treatment                Mean (SE) 4-arninopyridine Plasma Level (ng/mL)
                                                          Dose Level (mg/kg)
                                           0.5                     1.0                     2.0
          4-aminopyridine              68.3 (3.3)              114.0 (5.5)            184.7 (13.1)
          Vehicle (water)               BLOQ*                   BLOQ*                   BLOQ*
          SE, standard error; *BLOQ=below lower limit of quantitation (<1.0 ng/mL)
          [00370]        Accordingly, the data show significant reversible and dose dependent
improvements in forelimb and hind limb sensorimotor function during times when 4-AP was at
detectable plasma levels in the animals.
          [00371]        Table 29 shows that no differences in infarct volume were observed
between vehicle (water) and 4-aminopyridine. SE       = standard error
          Table 29:
                             Group                              Mean (SE) Infarct Volume (%)
                        Vehicle (water)                                    38.5 (2.4)
                              4-AP                                         40.0 (2.3)
          [00372]        Infarct volume analysis of the brain tissue was included in the study as a
typical outcome measure for preclinical stroke studies. No differences in infarct volume were
observed between any groups within this study, and infarct volumes were also similar between
the study presented in this example and in Example 2.
                                     References for Examples 2 and 17
 1.       Roger VL, Go AS, Lloyd-Jones DM, et al. Heart disease and stroke statistics--2012
update: a report from the American Heart Association. Circulation 2012;125:e2-e220.
2.        Chida Y, Kokubo Y, Sato S, et al. The alterations of oligodendrocyte, myelin in corpus
callosum, and cognitive dysfunction following chronic cerebral ischemia in rats. Brain Res
2011; 1414:22-3 1.
                                                  125
3489979vl

3.        Aboul-Enein F, Rauschka H, Kornek B, et al. Preferential loss of myelin-associated
glycoprotein reflects hypoxia-like white matter damage in stroke and inflammatory brain
diseases. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol 2003;62:25-33.
4.        Ho PW, Reutens DC, Phan TG, et al. Is white matter involved in patients entered into
typical trials of neuroprotection? Stroke 2005;36:2742-4.
5.        Lindenberg R, Renga V, Zhu LL, Betzler F, Alsop D, Schlaug G. Structural integrity of
corticospinal motor fibers predicts motor impairment in chronic stroke. Neurology 2010;74:280
7.
6.        Liou LM, Chen CF, Guo YC, et al. Cerebral white matter hyperintensities predict
functional stroke outcome. Cerebrovasc Dis 2010;29:22-7.
7.        Pantoni L, Garcia JH, Gutierrez JA. Cerebral white matter is highly vulnerable to
ischemia. Stroke 1996;27:1641-6.
8.        Waxman SG, Kocsis JD, Stys PK. The axon: structure, function, and pathophysiology.
New York: Oxford University Press; 1995.
9.        Waxman SG. Ion channels and neuronal dysfunction in multiple sclerosis. Arch Neurol
2002;59:1377-80.
 10.      Nashmi R, Fehlings MG. Mechanisms of axonal dysfunction after spinal cord injury:
with an emphasis on the role of voltage-gated potassium channels. Brain Res Brain Res Rev
2001;38:165-91.
 11.      Nashmi R, Fehlings MG. Changes in axonal physiology and morphology after chronic
compressive injury of the rat thoracic spinal cord. Neuroscience 200 1;104:235-51.
 12.      Targ EF, Kocsis JD. 4-Aminopyridine leads to restoration of conduction in demyelinated
rat sciatic nerve. Brain Res 1985;328:358-61.
 13.      Sherratt RM, Bostock H, Sears TA. Effects of 4-aminopyridine on normal and
demyelinated mammalian nerve fibres. Nature 1980;283:570-2.
 14.      Bostock H, Sears TA, Sherratt RM. The effects of 4-aminopyridine and
tetraethylammonium ions on normal and demyelinated mammalian nerve fibres. J Physiol
 1981;313:301-15.
 15.      Shi R, Blight AR. Differential effects of low and high concentrations of 4-aminopyridine
on axonal conduction in normal and injured spinal cord. Neuroscience 1997;77:553-62.
                                                  126
3489979vl

 16.      Jensen JM, Shi R. Effects of 4-aminopyridine on stretched mammalian spinal cord: the
role of potassium channels in axonal conduction. J Neurophysiol 2003;90:2334-40.
 17.      Blight AR. Effect of 4-aminopyridine on axonal conduction-block in chronic spinal cord
injury. Brain Res Bull 1989;22:47-52.
 18.      Hayes KC. The use of 4-aminopyridine (fampridine) in demyelinating disorders. CNS
Drug Rev 2004;10:295-316.
 19.      Cardenas DD, Ditunno J, Graziani V, et al. Phase 2 trial of sustained-release fampridine
in chronic spinal cord injury. Spinal Cord 2007;45:158-68.
20.       Goodman AD, Brown TR, Cohen JA, et al. Dose comparison trial of sustained-release
fampridine in multiple sclerosis. Neurology 2008;71:1134-41.
21.       Goodman AD, Brown TR, Edwards KR, et al. A phase 3 trial of extended release oral
dalfampridine in multiple sclerosis. Ann Neurol 2010;68:494-502.
22.       Belavic JM. Dalfampridine (Ampyra) for multiple sclerosis. Nurse Pract 2010;35:7-9.
23.       Guide to the care and use of laboratory animals. 2011.
24.       Tamura A, Gotoh 0, Sano K. [Focal cerebral infarction in the rat: 1. Operative technique
and physiological monitorings for chronic model]. No To Shinkei 1986;38:747-5 1.
25.       De Ryck M, Van Reempts J, Duytschaever H, Van Deuren B, Clincke G. Neocortical
localization of tactile/proprioceptive limb placing reactions in the rat. Brain Res 1992;573:44-60.
26.       Borlongan CV, Sanberg PR. Elevated body swing test: a new behavioral parameter for
rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced hemiparkinsonism. J Neurosci 1995; 15:5372-8.
27.       Cramer SC. Repairing the human brain after stroke: . Mechanisms of spontaneous
recovery. Ann Neurol 2008;63:272-87.
28.       Dewar D, Underhill SM, Goldberg MP. Oligodendrocytes and ischemic brain injury. J
Cereb Blood Flow Metab 2003;23:263-74.
29.       Petito CK, Olarte JP, Roberts B, Nowak TS, Jr., Pulsinelli WA. Selective glial
vulnerability following transient global ischemia in rat brain. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol
 1998;57:231-8.
30.       Waxman SG. Demyelination in spinal cord injury and multiple sclerosis: what can we do
to enhance functional recovery? J Neurotrauma 1992;9 Suppl 1:S105-17.
                                                  127
3489979vl

31.       Waxman SG, Utzschneider DA, Kocsis JD. Enhancement of action potential conduction
following demyelination: experimental approaches to restoration of function in multiple sclerosis
and spinal cord injury. Prog Brain Res 1994;100:233-43.
32.       Hayes KC, Kakulas BA. Neuropathology of human spinal cord injury sustained in sports
related activities. J Neurotrauma 1997; 14:235-48.
33.       Kakulas BA. A review of the neuropathology of human spinal cord injury with emphasis
on special features. J Spinal Cord Med 1999;22:119-24.
34.       Wu ZZ, Li DP, Chen SR, Pan HL. Aminopyridines potentiate synaptic and
neuromuscular transmission by targeting the voltage-activated calcium channel beta subunit. J
Biol Chem 2009;284:36453-61.
35.       Blight AR, Toombs JP, Bauer MS, Widmer WR. The effects of 4-aninopyridine on
neurological deficits in chronic cases of traumatic spinal cord injury in dogs: a phase I clinical
trial. J Neurotrauma 1991;8:103-19.
36.       Goodman AD, Hyland M. Dalfampridine in multiple sclerosis. Drugs Today (Barc)
2010;46:635-9.
37.       Hayes KC, Katz MA, Devane JG, et al. Pharmacokinetics of an immediate-release oral
formulation of Fampridine (4-aminopyridine) in nonnal subjects and patients with spinal cord
injury. J Clin Pharmacol 2003;43:379-85.
38.       Donovan WH, Halter JA, Graves DE, et al. Intravenous infusion of 4-AP in chronic
spinal cord injured subjects. Spinal Cord 2000;38:7-15.
39.       Brus-Ramer M, Carmel JB, Martin JH. Motor cortex bilateral motor representation
depends on subcortical and interhemispheric interactions. J Neurosci 2009;29:6196-206.
40.       Cramer SC, Nelles G, Benson RR, et al. A functional MRI study of subjects recovered
from hemiparetic stroke. Stroke 1997;28:2518-27.
41.       Dijkhuizen RM, Ren J, Mandeville JB, et al. Functional magnetic resonance imaging of
reorganization in rat brain after stroke. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 2001;98:12766-71.
          [00373]        Various references such as patents, patent applications, and publications
are cited herein, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their
entireties.
          [00374]       This divisional application claims the benefit of parent Australian patent
                                                  128
3489979vl

application 2012318719 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                                             129
3489979vl

          WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
          1.   A method for treating a patient who has suffered a stroke, said method comprising
administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of an aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
          2.   The method of claim 1, comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically
effective amount of an aminopyridine.
          3.   The method of claim 1, comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically
effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of an aminopyridine.
          4.   The method of any one of claims 1-3, which is a method for treating a stroke
related sensorimotor impairment in the patient.
          5.   The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the patient is a human.
          6.   The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the aminopyridine is a mono
aminopyridine or a diaminopyridine.
          7.   The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the aminopyridine is 4
aminopyridine.
          8.   The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the aminopyridine or the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is in a sustained release composition.
          9.   The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the aminopyridine or the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is in an immediate release composition.
          10.  The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to the patient once daily.
                                                 130
3489979vl

          11.  The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to the patient twice daily.
          12.  The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to the patient three or more times daily.
          13.  The method of claim 11, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is in the range of 4 to 17.5 mg, 5 to
15 mg, 5 to 10 mg, or 7.5 to 10 mg twice daily.
          14.  The method of claim 11, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 5 mg twice daily.
          15.  The method of claim 11, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 10 mg twice daily.
          16.  The method of any one of claims 1-15, wherein the aminopyridine or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered orally.
          17.  The method of claim 16, wherein the aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is formulated in a form of a tablet.
          18.  The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the administering step begins at
least 4 weeks from the time the patient had a stroke.
          19.  The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the administering step begins at
least 1 week from the time the patient had a stroke.
          20.  The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the administering step begins
between 2 and 7 days from the time the patient had a stroke.
                                                131
3489979vl

          21.   The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the administering step begins at
least 1 week, at least 2 weeks, at least 3 weeks, at least 4 weeks, at least 5 weeks, at least 6 weeks,
at least 7 weeks, or at least 8 weeks from the time the patient had a stroke.
          22.   The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the administering step begins at
least 1 month, at least 2 months, at least 3 months, at least 4 months, at least 5 months, at least 6
months, at least 7 months, at least 8 months, at least 9 months, at least 10 months, at least 11
months, or at least 12 months from the time the patient had a stroke.
          23.   The method of claim 22, wherein the administering step begins at least 4 months
from the time the patient had a stroke.
          24.   The method of claim 22, wherein the administering step begins at least 6 months
from the time the patient had a stroke.
          25.   The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the administering step begins
within 6 hours or within 2 days from the time the patient had a stroke.
          26.   The method of any one of claims 1-25, wherein the stroke is an ischemic stroke.
          27.   The method of any one of claims 4-26, wherein the stroke-related sensorimotor
impairment is an impairment in walking, impairment in limb function, impairment in lower
extremity function, impairment in lower extremity muscle strength, impairment in muscle tone,
impairment in upper extremity function, impairment in hand function, impairment in fine hand
coordination, impairment in grip strength, impairment in balance or coordination, impairment in
global body control, dysarthria, impairment in jaw function, impairment in chewing, or
impairment in jaw articulation.
          28.   The method of claim 27, wherein the impairment is an impairment in walking.
                                                 132
3489979vl

          29.   The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of the aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is such that a     Cminss or
average Cminss of at least about 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20 ng/ml is obtained in a
human.
          30.   The method of any one of claims 1-28, wherein the therapeutically effective
amount of the aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is such that a     Cminss or
average Cminss in a range of about 12 ng/ml to 20 ng/ml is obtained in a human.
          31.   The method of any one of claims 1-30, further comprising assessing the level of
said impairment after repeated administering of the aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof
          32.   The method of claim 8, wherein said sustained release composition provides a
Tmax of about 2 hours to about 6 hours in a human.
          33.   The method of claim 10, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is in the range of 8 to 30 mg, 10 to
30 mg, 10 to 20 mg, or 15 to 20 mg once daily.
          34.   The method of claim 10, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 10 mg once daily.
          35.   The method of claim 10, wherein the therapeutically effective amount of the
aminopyridine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is 15 mg once daily.
                                                  133
3489979vl

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3490021v1

