                                        ABSTRACT
Compositions and methods are provided for alleviating cancer in a mammal by
administering a therapeutic dose of a pharmaceutical composition that inhibits activity
of AXL, MER or Tyro3 protein activity, for example by competitive or non-competitive
inhibition of the binding interaction between AXL, MER or Tyro3 and its ligand GAS6.

       MODIFIED AXL PEPTIDES AND THEIR USE IN INHIBITION OF AXL SIGNALING IN
                                      ANTI-METASTATIC THERAPY
[00]       This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application 2013359179, the entire contents
     of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[01]      The present invention relates to tumor invasion and metastasis, e.g., treatments or
     diagnoses of tumor invasion or metastasis via pathways related to AXL, MER and Tyro3
     and/or GAS6.
                                   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[02]      Invasion and metastasis are the most insidious and life-threatening aspects of cancer.
     While tumors with minimal or no invasion may be successfully removed, once the
     neoplasm becomes invasive, it can disseminate via the lymphatics and/or vascular
     channels to multiple sites, and complete removal becomes very difficult. Invasion and
     metastases kill hosts through two processes: local invasion and distant organ colonization
     and injury. Local invasion can compromise the function of involved tissues by local
     compression, local destruction, or prevention of normal organ function. The most
     significant turning point in cancer, however, is the establishment of distant metastasis.
     The patient can no longer be cured by local therapy alone at this point.
[03]      The process of metastasis is a cascade of linked sequential steps involving multiple
     host-tumor interactions. This complex process requires the cells to enter into the vascular
     or lymphatic circulation, arrest at a distant vascular or lymphatic bed, actively extravasate
     into the organ interstitium and parenchyma, and proliferate as a secondary colony.
     Metastatic potential is influenced by the local microenvironment, angiogenesis, stroma
     tumor interactions, elaboration of cytokines by the local tissue, and by the molecular
     phenotype of the tumor and host cells.
[04]      Local microinvasion can occur early, even though distant dissemination may not be
     evident or may not yet have begun. Tumor cells penetrate the epithelial basement
     membrane and enter the underlying interstitial stroma during the transition from in situ to
     invasive carcinoma. Once the tumor cells invade the underlying stroma, they gain access
     to the lymphatics and blood vessels for distant dissemination while releasing matrix
     fragments and growth factors. General and widespread changes occur in the organization,
     distribution, and quantity of the epithelial basement membrane during the transition from
     benign to invasive carcinoma.
[05]      Therapeutic efforts in cancer prevention and treatment are being focused at the level
     of signaling pathways or selective modulatory proteins. Protein kinase activities, calcium
                                                      1

     homeostasis, and oncoprotein activation are driving signals and therefore may be key
     regulatory sites for therapeutic intervention. Kinases in signaling pathways regulating
     invasion and angiogenesis may be important regulators of metastasis. One of the largest
     classes of biochemical molecular targets is the family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs).
     The most common receptor tyrosine kinase molecular targets to date are the EGF and
     vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors. Newer kinase molecular targets
     include the type Ill RTK family of c-kit, and abl. Inhibitors of these molecules have been
     administered in combination with classic chemotherapeutics.
[06]     Metastases ultimately are responsible for much of the suffering and mortality from
     cancer. A need exists to identify and target molecular and functional markers that identify
     metastatic cancer cells and to generate reagents for their specific inhibition.
[07]     Publications in this field include, inter alia, Li et at Oncogene. (2009) 28(39):3442-55;
     United States Patent Application, 20050186571 by Ulrich et at; United States Patent
     Application 20080293733 by Bearss et at; Sun et a. Oncology. 2004:66(6):450-7;
     Gustafsson et at Clin Cancer Res. (2009) 15(14):4742-9; Wimmel et at Eur J Cancer. 2001
     37(17):2264-74; Koorstra et al.Cancer Biol Ther. 2009 8(7):618-26; Tai et al. Oncogene.
     (2008) 27(29):4044-55
[08]     The receptor tyrosine kinase AXL (also known as Ufo and Tyro7) belongs to a family of
     tyrosine receptors that includes Tyro3 (Sky) and Mer (Tyrol2). A common ligand for AXL
     family is GAS6 (Growth arrest-specific protein 6). Human AXL is a 2,682-bp open reading
     frame capable of directing the synthesis of an 894-amino acid polypeptide. Two variant
     mRNAs have been characterized, transcript variant 1 may be accessed at Genbank,
     NM_021913.3 and transcript variant 2 may be accessed at NM_001699.4. The polypeptide
     sequence of the native protein is provided as SEQ ID NO:1, and specific reference rnay be
     made to the sequence with respect to amino acid modifications. Important cellular functions
     of GAS6/AXL include cell adhesion, migration, phagocytosis, and inhibition of apoptosis.
     GAS6 and AXL family receptors are highly regulated in a tissue and disease specific
     manner.
[09]     AXL, MER and Tyro3 are each characterized by a unique molecular structure, in that the
     intracellular region has the typical structure of a receptor tyrosine kinase and the
     extracellular domain contains fibronectin Ill and Ig motifs similar to cadherin-type adhesion
     molecules. During development, AXL, MER andTyro3 are expressed in various organs,
     including the brain, suggesting that this RTK is involved in mesenchymal and neural
     development. In the adult, AXL, MER and Tyro3 expression is low but returns to high
                                                        2

     expression levels in a variety of tumors. GAS6 is, so far, the single, activating ligand for
     AXL, MER and Tyro3.
[10]     Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) are generally activated by ligands that promote
     receptor dimerization and, in turn, autophosphorylation of tyrosine residues within the
     cytosolic domain. Binding of signaling proteins to these phosphorylated tyrosine residues
     then leads to downstream signaling. AXL, MER and Tyro3 family of RTKs are unique in
     that they are activated by GAS6, niembers of the vitamin K-dependent protein family that
     resembles blood coagulation factors rather than typical growth factors.
                                     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[11]     The present invention is based in part on the discovery that AXL, MER and Tyro3 and/or
     GAS6 related pathways are related to tumor invasion and/or metastasis. Accordingly, the
     present invention provides compositions and methods useful for treating tumor invasion
     and/or metastasis, eg., via inhibition of AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 and/or GASe related
     pathways. In addition, the present invention provides reagents and methods useful for
     determining the susceptibility or likelihood of a tumor to become invasive and/or metastatic,
     e.g., via detecting the level of activity of AXL, MER, Tyro3 and/or GASe.
[12]     In some embodiments, the agent useful for treating tumor invasion and/or metastasis,
     e.g., via inhibition of AXL, MER   and Tyro3   and/or GAS6 related pathways is an inhibitor
     agent. In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is selected from the group consisting of
     (a) an inhibitor of AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 activity, (b) an inhibitor of GAS6 activity and (c)
     and inhibitor of AXL, MER and/or Tyro3-GAS6 interaction, wherein the inhibitor agent is
     capable of binding to GAS6 with increased affinity compared to wild-type AXL, MER or
     Tyro3.
[13]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent binds to two or more epitopes on a single
     GAS6.
[14]      in some embodiments, at least one of the epitopes is the major or minor AXL, MER or
     Tyro3 binding site on GAS6.
[15]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of binding to the major and minor
     AXL, MER or Tyro3 binding sites on a single GAS6.
[16]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of binding to the major AXL, MER
     or Tyro3 binding site of GAS6 and one or more additional GAS6 epitopes on a single GAS6.
[17]     [n some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of binding to the minor AXL, MER
     or Tyro3 binding site on GASe and one or more additional epitopes on a single GAS6.
                                                       3

[18]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of binding two or more epitopes on
     a single GAS6.
[19]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of antagonizing the major andlor
     minor GAS6/receptor binding interaction, where the receptor is selected from AXL, MER
     and Tyro3.
[20]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of antagonizing the major
     GAS6/receptor binding interaction, where the receptor is selected from AXL, MER and
     Tyro3.
[21]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of antagonizing the minor
     GAS6/receptor binding interaction, where the receptor is selected from AXL, MER and
     Tyro3.
[221     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a polypeptide, a polypeptide-carrier fusion,
     a polypeptide-Fc fusion, a polypeptide-conjugate, a polypeptide-drug conjugate, an
     antibody, a bispecific antibody, an antibody drug conjugate, an antibody fragment, an
     antibody-related structure, or a combination thereof.
[23]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a natural or synthetic polypeptide.
[24]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a non-antibody polypeptide.
[25]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent of the present invention can include, for
     example but is not limited to a darpin, an avimer, an adnectin, an anticalin, an affibody, a
     maxibody, or other protein structural scaffold, or a combination thereof.
[26]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a polypeptide-conjugate or antibody
     conjugate.
[27]     In-some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a polypeptide-polymer conjugate, where the
     polymer is selected from PEG, PEG-containing polymers, degradable polymers,
     biocompatible polymers, hydrogels, and other polymer structures or a combination thereof.
[28]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide
     comprises a soluble AXL variant polypeptide wherein said AXL variant polypeptide lacks the
     AXL transmembrane domain and has at least one mutation relative to wild-type that
     increases affinity of the AXL polypeptide binding to GAS6.
[29]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide
     comprises a soluble MER variant polypeptide wherein said MER variant polypeptide lacks
     the MER transmembrane domain and has at least one mutation relative to wild-type that
     increases affinity of the MER polypeptide binding to GASG.
[30]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide
     comprises a soluble Tyro3 variant polypeptide wherein said Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks
                                                    4

     the Tyro3 transmembrane domain and has at least one mutation relative to wild-type that
     increases affinity of the Tyro3 polypeptide binding to GASS.
[31]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor is an AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide that
     inhibits binding between a wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide and a GAS6
     protein in vivo or in vitro.
[32]     In some embodiments, the polypeptide lacks a functional fibronectin (FN) domain and/or
     exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding to GAS6
     compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
[33]     In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the
     transmembrane domain, has more than one lg1 domain and exhibits increased affinity of
     the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding to GAS6 as compared to wild-type AXL,
     MER or Tyro3.
[341     In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide has two Ig1
     domains. In some embodiments, the polypeptide has three Ig1 domains.
[35] In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide lacks the transmembrane
     domain, has more than one Ig2 domain and exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or
     Tyro3 polypeptide binding to GASS as compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
[36]     In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide has two Ig2
     domains.
[37]     In some embodiments, the polypeptide is a soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3
     transmembrane domain, has more than one Ig1 domain, more than one Ig2 domain and
     exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER orlyro3 variant polypeptide binding to GAS6 as
     compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
[38]     In some embodiments, the polypeptide is a soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL,
     MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, lacks a functional fibronectin (FN) domain, has
     more than one Ig1 domain, more than one Ig2 domain, and wherein said AXL, MER or
     Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
[39]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide has two Ig1
     domains and two Ig2 domains.
[40]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide has the
     immunoglobulin domains connected directly.
                                                    5

[41]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide has the
     immunoglobulin domains connected indirectly.
[42]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the
     AXL, MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, is capable of binding both the major and minor
     binding site of a single GASS and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide
     exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide binding to GAS6 as
     compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
[43]      In some embodiments, the polypeptide has one Ig1 domain and lacks a functional Ig2
     domain.
[44]      In some embodiments, the polypeptide is a soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL,
     MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, has one Ig1 domain, lacks a functional Ig2 domain
     and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the
     AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL, MER
     or Tyro3.
[4S]      In some embodiments, the polypeptide is a soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL,
     MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, lacks a functional fibronectin (FN) domain, has one
     Ig1 domain, lacks a functional Ig2 domain and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding
     to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL; MER or Tyro3.
[46]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain.
[47]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide further comprises a
     linker. In some embodiments, the linker comprises one or more (GLY) 4SER units.
[48]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER
     or Tyro3 intracellular domain.
[49]      [n some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks a functional
     fibronectin (FN) domain and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits
     increased affinity of the polypeptide binding to GAS6 as compared to wild-type AXL, MER
     or Tyro3.
[50]      [n some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide comprises at least
     one amino acid modification relative to the wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3 sequence.
[51]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises at least one
     amino acid modification within a region selected from the group consisting of 1) between
                                                     6

     15-50, 2) between 60-120, and 3) between 125-135 of the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID
     NO:1).
[52]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises at least one
     amino acid modification at position 19, 23, 26, 27, 32, 33, 38, 44, 61, 65, 72, 74, 78, 79, 86,
     87, 88, 90, 92, 97, 98, 105, 109, 112, 113, 116,118, or 127 of the wild-type AXL sequence
     (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a combination thereof.
[53]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises at least one
     amino acid modification selected from the group consisting of 1) Ai9T, 2) T23M, 3) E26G,
     4) E27G or E27K 5) G32S, 6) N33S, 7) T381, 8) T44A, 9) H61Y, 10) D65N, 11) A72V, 12)
     S74N, 13) Q78E, 14) V79M, 15) Q86R, 16) D87G, 17) D88N, 18) 190M or 190V, 19) V92A,
     V92G or V92D, 20) 197R, 21) T98A or T98P, 22) T105M, 23) Q109R, 24) V1 12A, 25)
     Fl 13L, 26) H1 16R, 27) T11 8A, 28) G127R or G127E, and 29) G129E and a combination
     thereof.
[s4]   - -n-some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises amino acid
     changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions:
     (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) valine 92; and (d) glycine 127.
[551     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises amino acid
     changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions:
     (a) aspartic acid 87 and (b) valine 92.
[56]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises amino acid
     changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions:
     (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) valine 92; (d) glycine 127 and (e) alanine 72.
[57]      i some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant palypeptide comprises amino acid
     changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following position:
     alanine 72.
[581     In some embodiments, in the soluble AXL variant polypeptide the glycine 32 residue is
     replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 residue is replaced with a glycine residue,
     valine 92 residue is replaced with an alanine residue, or glycine 127 residue is replaced with
     an arginine residue or a combination thereof.
[59]     In some embodiments, in the soluble AXL variant polypeptide aspartic acid 87 residue is
     replaced with a glycine residue or valine 92 residue is replaced with an alanine residue or a
     combination thereof.
[60]     In some embodiments, in the soluble AXL variant polypeptide alanine 72 residue is
     replaced with a valine residue.
                                                      7

[61]      In some embodiments, in the soluble AXL variant polypeptide glycine 32 residue is
     replaced with a shrine residue, aspartic acid 87 residue is replaced with a glycine residue,
     valine 92 residue is replaced with an alanine residue, glycine 127 residue is replaced with
     an arginine residue or an alanine 72 residue is replaced with a valine residue or a
     combination thereof.
[62]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises amino acid
     changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions:
     (a) glutamic acid 26; (b) valine 79; (c) valine 92; and (d) glycine 127.
[63]      In some embodiments, in the soluble AXL variant polypeptide glutamic acid 26 residue
     is replaced with a glycine residue, valine 79 residue is replaced with a methionine residue,
     valine 92 residue is replaced with an alanine residue, or glycine 127 residue is replaced with
     an arginine residue or a combination thereof.
[641      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises at least an amino
     acid region selected from the group consisting of amino acid region 19-437, 130-437, 19
     132, 21-121, 26-132, 26-121 and 1-437 of the wild-type AXL polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 1),
     and wherein one or more amino acid modifications occur in said amino acid region.
[65]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises amino acid
     changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions:
     (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic adid 87; (c) alanine 72; and valine 92.
[66]     In some embodiments, in the soluble AXL variant polypeptide glycine 32 is replaced
     with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glycine residue, alanine 72 is
     replaced with a valine residue, and valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue, or a
     combination thereof.
[67]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain and wherein said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes
     relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a) glytine 32;
     (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72; and (d) valine 92.
[68]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding
     claims, wherein the soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain
     and wherein glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a
     glycine residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue; and valine 92 is replaced with
     an alanine residue, or a combination thereof.
[69]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain and wherein said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes
                                                      8

     relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32;
     (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72; (d) valine 92; and (e) glycine 127.
[70]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain and wherein glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic
     acid 87 is replaced with a glycine residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue,
     valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue, and glycine 127 is replaced with an arginine
     residue or a combination thereof.
[71]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional FN domain, and wherein said AXL variant
     comprises amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the
     following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) aranine 72; and (d) valine 92.
[721      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional FN domain, and wherein glycine 32 is replaced
     with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glycine residue, alanine 72 is
     replaced with a valine residue, and valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue, or a
     combination thereof.
[73]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional FN domain, and wherein said AXL variant
     comprises amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the
     following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) aranine 72; (d) valine 92; and (e)
     glycine 127.
[74]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional FN dornain, and wherein glycine 32 is replaced
     with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glycine residue, alanine 72 is
     replaced with a valine residue, valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue, and glycine
     127 is replaced with an arginine residue or a combination thereof.
[75]      In some embodiments; the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional FN domain, lacks an Ig2 domain, and wherein
     said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ
     ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72 and
     (d) valine 92.
[76]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional FN dornain, lacks an Ig2 domain and wherein
     glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glycine
                                                      9

     residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue, and valine 92 is replaced with an
     alanine residue or a combination thereof.
[7]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional FN domain, lacks an Ig2 domain, and wherein
     said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ
     ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72; (d)
     valine 92; and (e) glycine 127.
[78]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion protein
     comprising an Fe domain, lacks a functional FN domain, lacks an Ig2 domain and wherein
     glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glycine
     residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue, valine 92 is replaced with an alanine
     residue, and glycine 127 is replaced with an arginine residue or a combination thereof.
[9]      In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding
     claims, wherein said soluble AXL variant polypeptide has an affinity of at least about 1 x 108
     M,1 x 10-* M, 1 x 1010 M, 1 x 1011 M or 1 x 10 " M for GAS6.
[so]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide exhibits an affinity to GAS6
     that is at least about 5-fold stronger, at least about 10-fold stronger or at least about 20-fold
     stronger than the affinity of the wild-type AXL polypeptide.
[81]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises one or more
     (GLY)4 SER units. In some embodiments, the linked comprises 1, 2, 3 or 5 (GLY) 4SER units.
[82]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide inhibits binding between
     wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide and        a GAS6 protein  in vivo or In vitro.
[83]     In some embodiments, the soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion polypeptide
     comprising an Fc domain.
[84]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
     comprising a therapeutically effective amount of one or more soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3
     variant polypeptides.
[85]     In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition further comprises at least one
     cytotoxic agent or a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or a combination thereof.
[8e]     In some embodiments, the present invention also provides methods of treating,
     reducing, or preventing the metastasis or invasion of a tumor in a mammalian patient, the
     method comprising: administering to said patient an effective dose of the inhibitor agent of
     the present invention. In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is an AXL, MER or Tyro3
     variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims.
                                                      10

[87]     In some embodiments, the tumor for treatment is a tumor selected from the group
     consisting of an ovarian tumor, a breast tumor, a lung tumor, a liver tumor, a colon tumor, a
     gallbladder tumor, a pancreatic tumor, a prostate tunor, and glioblastoma.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[s]i     Figure 1. Describes the four domains of AXL and some embodiments of the various
     combinations of AXL-Fc constructs that have been made and tested.
[891     Figure 2. Describes some embodiments of the various combinations of monovalent
     AXL-Fc constructs.
                                                DEFINITIONS
[90]     In the description that follows, a number of terms conventionally used in the field of cell
     culture are utilized extensively. In order to provide a clear and consistent understanding of
     the specification and claims, and the scope to be given to such terms, the following
     definitions are provided.
[911     "Inhibitors," "activators," and "modulators" of AXL on metastatic cells or its ligand GAS6
     are used to refer to inhibitory, activating, or modulating molecules, respectively, identified
     using in vitro and in vivo assays for receptor or ligand binding or signaling, e.g., ligands,
     receptors, agonists, antagonists, and their homologs and mimetics.
[92]     The terrris "polypeptide," "peptide" and "protein' are used interchangeably herein to
     refer to a polymer of two or more amino acid residues. The terms apply to amino acid
     polymers in which one or more amino acid residue is an artificial chemical mimetic of a
     corresponding naturally occurring amino acid, as well as to naturally occurring amino acid
     polymers and non-naturally occurring amino acid polymers. The terms "antibody" and
     "antibodies" are used interchangeably herein and refer to a polypeptide capable of
     interacting with and/or binding to another molecule, often referred to as an antigen.
     Antibodies can include, for example "antigen-binding polypeptides" or "target-rnolecule
     binding polypeptides." Antigens of the present invention can include for example any
     polypeptides described in the present invention.
[93]     The term "amino acid" refers to naturally occurring and synthetic amino acids, as well as
     amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function in a manner similar to the
     naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally occurring amino acids are those encoded by the
     genetic code, as well as those amino acids that are later modified, e.g., hydroxyproline,
     gamma-carboxyglutamate, and O-phosphoserine. Amino acid analogs refer to compounds
     that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid, i.e., an
                                                      11

     .alpha. carbon that is bound to a hydrogen, a carboxyl group, an amino group, and an R
     group, e.g., homoserine, norleucine, methionine sulfoxide, methionine methyl sulfonium.
     Such analogs have modified R groups (e.g., norleucine) or modified peptide backbones, but
     retain the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid. Amino acid
     mimetics refers to chemical compounds that have a structure that is different from the
     general chemical structure of an amino acid, but that functions in a manner similar to a
     naturally occurring amino acid. All single letters used in the present invention to represent
     amino acids are used according to recognized amino acid symbols routinely used in the
     field, e.g., A means Alanine, C means Cysteine, etc. An amino acid is represented by a
     single letter before and after the relevant position to reflect the change fram original amino
     acid (before the position) to changed amino acid (after position). For example, Al 9T means
     that amino acid alanine at position 19 is changed to threonine.
[94]      The terms "subject," 'individual," and "patient" are used interchangeably herein to refer
     to a mammal being assessed for treatment and/or being treated. In an embodiment, the
     mammal is a human. The terms "subject," "individual," and "patient" thus encompass
     individuals having cancer, including without limitation, adenocarcinoma of the ovary or
     prostate, breast cancer, glioblastoma, etc., including those who have undergone or are
     candidates for resection (surgery) to remove cancerous tissue. Subjects may be human,
     but also include other mammals, particularly those mammals useful as laboratory models
     for human disease, e.g. mouse, rat, etc.
[95]      The term "tumor," as used herein, refers to all neoplastic cell growth and proliferation,
     whether malignant or benign, and all pre-cancerous and cancerous cells and tissues.
[96]      The terms "cancer," neoplasmm," and 'tumor" are used interchangeably herein to refer to
     cells which exhibit autonomous, unregulated growth, such that they         exhibit an aberrant
     growth phenotype characterized by a significant loss of control over cell proliferation.       In
     general, cells of interest for detection, analysis, classification, or treatment in the present
     application include precancerous (e.g., benign), malignant, pre-metastatic, metastatic, and
     non-metastatic cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to, ovarian cancer,
     glioblastoma, breast cancer, colon cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, hepatocellular
     dancer, gastric cancer, pancreatic cancer, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, river cancer,
     bladder dancer, cancer of the urinary tract, thyroid cancer, renal cancer, carcinoma,
     melanoma, head and neck cancer, and brain cancer.
[97]      The "pathology" of cancer includes all phenomena that compromise the well-being of
     the patient. This includes, without limitation, abnormal or uncontrollable cell growth,
     metastasis, interference with the normal functioning of neighboring cells, release of
                                                      12

      cytokines or other secretory products at abnormal levels, suppression or aggravation of
      inflammatory or immunological response, neoplasia, premalignancy, malignancy, invasion
      of surrounding or distant tissues or organs, such as lymph nodes, etc.
[98]       As used herein, the terms "cancer recurrence" and "tumor recurrence," and grammatical
      variants thereof, refer to further growth of neoplastic or cancerous cells after diagnosis of
      cancer. Particularly, recurrence may occur when further cancerous cell growth occurs in
      the cancerous tissue. "Tumor spread," similarly, occurs when the cells of a tumor
      disseminate into local or distant tissues and organs; therefore tumor spread encompasses
      tumor metastasis. "Tumor invasion" occurs when the tumor growth spread out locally to
      compromise the function of involved tissues by compression, destruction, or prevention of
      normal organ function.
[99]       As used herein, the term "metastasis" refers to the growth of a cancerous tumor in an
      organ or body part, which is not directly connected to the organ of the original cancerous
      tumor. Metastasis will be understood to include micrometastasis, which is the presence of
      an undetectable amount of cancerous cells in an organ or body part which is not directly
      connected to the organ of the original cancerous tumor. Metastasis can also be defined as
      several steps of a process, such as the departure of cancer cells from an original tumor site,
      and migration and/or invasion of cancer cells to other parts of the body. Therefore, the
      present invention contemplates a method of determining the risk of further growth of one or
      more cancerous tumors in an organ or body part which is not directly connected to the
      organ of the original cancerous tumor and/or any steps in a process leading up to that
      growth.
[100]      Depending on the nature of the cancer, an appropriate patient sample is obtained. As
      used herein, the phrase "cancerous tissue sample" refers to any cells obtained from a
      cancerous tumor. In the case of solid tumors which have not metastasized, a tissue sample
      from the surgically removed tumor will typically be obtained and prepared for testing by
      conventional techniques.
[1O1]      The definition encompasses blood and other liquid samples of biological origin, solid
      tissue samples such as a biopsy specimen or tissue cultures or cells derived therefrom and
      the progeny thereof. The definition also includes samples that have been manipulated in
      any way after their procurement, such as by treatment with reagents; washed; or
      enrichment for certain cell populations, such as cancer cells. The definition also includes
      sample that have been enriched for particular types of molecules, e.g., nucleic acids,
      polypeptides, etc. The term "biological sample" encompasses a clinical sample, and also
      includes tissue obtained by surgical resection, tissue obtained by biopsy, cells in culture,
                                                      13

      cell supernatants, cell lysates, tissue samples, organs, bone marrow, blood, plasma, serum,
      and the like. A "biological sample" includes a sample obtained from a patient's cancer cell,
      e.g., a sample comprising polynucleotides and/or polypeptides that is obtained from a
      patient's cancer cell (e.g., a call lysate or other cell extract comprising polynucleotides
      and/or polypeptides); and a sample comprising cancer cells from a patient. A biological
      sample comprising a cancer cell from a patient can also include non-cancerous cells.
[102]      The term "diagnosis" is used herein to refer to the identification of a molecular or
      pathological state, disease or condition, such as the identification of a molecular subtype of
      breast cancer, prostate cancer, or other type of cancer.
[103]      The term "prognosis" is used herein to refer to the prediction of the likelihood of cancer
      attributable death or progression, including recurrence, metastatic spread, and drug
      resistance, of a neoplastic disease, such as ovarian cancer. The term "prediction" is used
      herein to refer to the act of foretelling or estimating, based on observation, experience, or
      scientific reasoning. In one example, a physician may predict the likelihood that a patient
      will survive, following surgical removal of a primary tumor and/or chemotherapy for a certain
      period of time without cancer recurrence.
[104]      As used herein, the terms "treatment," "treating," and the like, refer to administering an
      agent, or carrying out a procedure (e.g., radiation, a surgical procedure, etc.), for the
      purposes of obtaining an effect. The effect may be prophylactic in terms of completely or
      partially preventing a disease or symptom thereof and/or may be therapeutic in terms of
      effecting a partial or complete cure for a disease and/or symptoms of the disease.
      "Treatment," as used herein, covers any treatment of any metastatic tumor in a mammal,
      particularly in a human, and includes: (a) preventing the disease or a symptom of a disease
      from occurring in a subject which may be predisposed to the disease but has not yet been
      diagnosed as having it (e.g., including diseases that may be associated with or caused by a
      primary disease; (b) inhibiting the disease, i.e., arresting its development; and (c) relieving
      the disease, i.e., causing regression of the disease. In tumor (e.g., cancer) treatment, a
      therapeutic agent may directly decrease the metastasis of tumor cells.
[105]      Treating rnay refer to any indicia of success in the treatment or amelioration or
      prevention of an cancer, including any objective or subjective parameter such as
      abatement; remission; diminishing of syrnptoms or making the disease condition more
      tolerable to the patient; slowing in the rate of degeneration or decline; or making the final
      point of degeneration less debilitating. The treatment or amelioration of symptoms can be
      based on objective or subjective parameters; including the results of an examination by a
      physician. Accordingly, the term "treating" includes the administration of the compounds or
                                                        14

      agents of the present invention to prevent or delay, to alleviate, or to arrest or inhibit
      development of the symptoms or conditions associated with neoplasia, e.g., tumor or
      cancer. The term "therapeutic effect" refers to the reduction, elimination, or prevention of
      the disease, symptoms of the disease, or side effects of the disease in the subject.
[106]      "In combination with", "combination therapy" and "combination products" refer, in certain
      embodiments, to the concurrent administration to a patient of a first therapeutic and the
      compounds as used herein. When administered in combination, each component can be
      administered at the same time or sequentially in any order at different points in time. Thus,
      each component can be administered separately but sufficiently closely in time so as to
      provide the desired therapeutic effect.
[107]      According to the present invention, the first therapeutic can be any suitable therapeutic
      agent, e.g., cytotoxic agents. One exemplary class of cytotoxic agents are
      chemotherapeutic agents, e.g., they can be combined with treatment to inhibit AXL or GAS6
      signaling. Exemplary chemotherapeutic agents include, but are not limited to, aldesleukin,
      altretamine, amifostine, asparaginase, bleomycin, capecitabine, carboplatin, carmustine,
      cladribine, cisapride, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, cytarabine, dacarbazine (DTIC),
      dactinomycin, docetaxel, doxorubicin, dronabinol, duocarmycin, epoetin alpha, etoposide,
      filgrastim, fludarabine, fluorouracil, gemcitabine, granisetron, hydroxyurea, idarubicin,
      ifosfamide, interferon alpha, irinotedan, lansopraiole, levamisole, leucovorin, megestrol,
      mesna, methotrexate, rnetoclopramide, mitornycin, mitotane, mitoxantrone, omeprazole,
      ondansetron, paclitaxel (TaxolTM), pilocarpine, prochloroperazine, rituximab, saproin,
      tamoxifen, taxol, topotecan hydrochloride, trastuzumab, vinblastine, vincristine and
      vinorelbine tartrate. For ovarian cancer treatment, a preferred chemotherapeutic agent with
      which an AXL or GAS6 signaling inhibitor can be combined is paclitaxel (TaxolT .
[108]      Other combination therapies are radiation, surgery, and hormone deprivation (Kwon et
      aL, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci U.S.A., 96: 15074-9, 1999). Angiogenesis inhibitors can also be
      combined with the methods of the invention.
[109]      "Concomitant administration" of a known cancer therapeutic drug with a pharmaceutical
      composition of the present invention means administration of the drug and AXL inhibitor at
      such time that both the known drug and the composition of the present invention will have a
      therapeutic effect. Such concomitant administration may involve concurrent (i.e. at the
      same time), prior, or subsequent administration of the drug with respect to the
      administration of a compound of the present invention. A person of ordinary skill in the art
      would have no difficulty determining the appropriate timing, sequence and dosages of
      administration for particular drugs and compositions of the present invention.
                                                      15

[110]      As used herein, the phrase "disease-free survival," refers to the lack of such tumor
      recurrence and/or spread and the fate of a patient after diagnosis, with respect to the effects
      of the cancer on the life-span of the patient: The phrase "overall survival" refers to the fate
      of the patient after diagnosis, despite the possibility that the cause of death in a patient is
      not directly due to the effects of the cancer. The phrases, "likelihood of disease-free
      survival", "risk of recurrence" and variants thereof, refer to the probability of tumor
      recurrence or spread in a patient subsequent to diagnosis of cancer, wherein the probability
      is determined according to the process of the invention.
[111]      As used herein, the-term "correlates," or "correlates with," and like terms, refers to a
      statistical association between instances of two events, where events include numbers,
      data sets, and the like. For example, when the events involve numbers, a positive
      correlation (also referred to herein as a "direct correlation") means that as one increases,
      the other increases as well. A negative correlation (also referred to herein as an "inverse
      correlation") means that as one increases, the other decreases.
[112]      "Dosage unit" refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the
      particular individual to be treated. Each unit can contain a predetermined quantity of active
      compound(s) calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect(s) in association with the
      required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms can be dictated
      by (a) the unique characteristics of the active compound(s) and the particular therapeutic
      effect(s) to be achieved, and (b) the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such
      active compound(s).
[113]      "Pharmaceutically acceptable excipient "means an excipient that is useful in preparing a
      pharmaceutical composition that is generally safe, non-toxic, and desirable, and includes
      excipients that are acceptable for veterinary use as well as for human pharmaceutical use.
      Such excipients can be solid, liquid, semisolid, or, in the case of an aerosol composition,
      gaseous.
[114]      The terms "pharmaceutically acceptable", "physiologically tolerable" and grammatical
      variations thereof, as they refer to compositions, carriers, diluents and reagents, are used
      interchangeably and represent that the materials are capable of administration to or upon a
      human without the production of undesirable physiological effects to a degree that would
      prohibit administration of the composition.
[115]      A therapeuticallyy effective aniount" means the amount that, when administered to a
      subject for treating a disease, is sufficient to effect treatment for that disease.
                                                       16

                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[116]     AXL, MER and Tyro3 are the three receptor protein tyrosine kinases whose ligand is
      GAS6. As such, the present invention is based in part on the discovery of inhibitor agents
      that inhibit and/or antagonize the interaction of the wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3
      receptor with the GAS6 ligand.
[117]     According to the present invention, such an inhibitor agent can be selected from (a) an
      inhibitor of AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 activity, (b) an inhibitor of GAS6 activity and (c) an
      inhibitor of AXL, MER and/or Tyro3-GAS6 interaction, wherein the inhibitor agent is capable
      of binding to GAS6 with increased affinity compared to wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3.
[118]     In sone embodiments, the inhibitor agent binds to two or more epitopes on a single
      GAS6 molecule. The two or more epitopes can include at least one of the major and/or
      minor AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding site on GASe. In some embodiments, the epitopes
      are separate or distinct epitopes. In some embodiments the epitopes overlap. In some
      embodiments, the epitopes do not overlap. In some embodiments, the epitopes are
      adjacent. In some embodiments, the epitopes are not adjacent. In some embodiments, the
      epitopes include the major and/or minor AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding site on GASS.
      These GAS6 epitopes of the present invention, and to which the inhibitor agents of the
      present invention bind, can be located on one or more GAS6 molecules. In some
      embodiments, the epitopes are located on a single GAS6 molecule.
[119]     In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of binding to the major and/or
      minor AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding sites on a single GAS6.        Ii some embodiments, the
      inhibitor agent is capable of binding the major AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding site of GAS6
      and one or more additional GAS6 epitopes In other embodiments, the inhibitor agent is
      capable of binding to the AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 minor binding site on GASe and one or
      more additional epitopes. In some other embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of
      binding two or more distinct epitopes on GAS6. The additional GAS6 epitopes can include
      any epitopes on GAS6 which lead to increased affinity and/or increased avidity of the
      inhibitor agent binding to GASe as compared to wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3. In some
      embodiments, the AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present invention
      bind two epitopes on a single GAS6 molecule. In some embodiments, the two epitopes are
      the major and minor AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding sites.
[120]     According to the invention, GAS6 receptors include AXL, MER and Tyro3. The inhibitor
      agents of the present invention can also in some embodiments antagonize the major and/or
      minor GAS6/receptor interaction. In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of
      antagonizing the major and/or minor GAS6/receptor binding interaction. In other
                                                     17

      embodiments, the inhibitor agent is capable of antagonizing the major GAS6/receptor
      binding interaction (e.g., interfering with and/or inhibiting the major GAS6/receptor binding
      interaction). In some embodimenfs, the inhibitor agent is capable of antagonizing the minor
      GAS6/receptor binding interaction (e.g., interfering with and/or inhibiting the minor
      GASS/receptor binding interaction).
[121]      Inhibitor agents can also include for example protein scaffolds (i.e., smaller proteins that
      are capable of achieving comparable affinity and specificity using molecular structures that
      can be for example one-tenth the size of full antibodies).
[122      The inhibitor agents can also include non-antibody polypeptides. In some
      embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a non-antibody polypeptide. In some embodiments, the
      non-antibody polypeptide can include but is not limited to peptibodies, darpins, avimers,
      adnectins, anticalins, affibodies, maxibodies, or other protein structural scaffold, or a
      combination thereof.
[123--     In smnie embodiments the inhibitor agent provided by the present invention is an AXL,
      MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptide, e.g., an AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptide
      that has a binding activity to GAS6 that is substantially equal to or better than the binding
      activity of a wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide. In some embodiments of the
      present invention, the AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptides are utilized as
      therapeutic agents.
[124]     The AXL protein, with reference to the native sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, comprises an
      immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domain from residues 27-128, a second Ig-like domain from
      residues 139-222, fibronectin type 3 domains from residues 225-332 and 333-427,
      intracellular domain from residues 473-894 including tyrosine kinase domain. The tyrosine
      residues at 779, 821 and 866 become autophosphorylated upon receptor dimerization and
      serve as docking sites for intracellular signaling molecules. The native cleavage site to
      release the soluble form of the polypeptide lies at residues 437-451.
[125]      For the purposes of the invention, a soluble form of AXL (sAXL) is the portion of the
      polypeptide that is sufficient to bind GAS6 at a recognizable affinity, e.g., high affinity, which
      normally lies between the signal sequence and the transmembrane domain i.e. generally
      from about SEQ ID NO: 1 residue 19-437, but which may comprise or consist essentially of
      a truncated version of from about residue 19, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 to about residue 132,
      450, 440, 430, 420, 410, 400, 375, 350, to 321, e.g., residue 19-132. According to the
      methods of the present invention, SEQ ID NO:1 can be used interchangeably with amino
      acids 8-894 of SEQ ID NO: 1, both of which refer to the wild-type AXL sequence. In some
                                                      18

      embodiments, a soluble form of AXL lacks the transmembrane domain, and optionally the
      intracellular domain.
[126]      In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a soluble AXL variant polypeptide that lacks
      the AXL transmembrane domain and has at least one mutation relative to wild-type that
      increases affinity of the AXL polypeptide binding to GAS6 as compared to wild-type GAS6.
[127]     The MER protein, with reference to the native SEQ ID NO:2, comprises an
      immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domain from residues 81-186, a second Ig-like domain from
      residues 197-273, fibronectin type 3 domains from residues 284-379 and 383-482,
      intracellular domain from residues 527-999 including tyrosine kinase domain. The tyrosine
      residues at 749, 753, 754 and 872 become autophosphorylated upon receptor dimerization
      and serve as docking sites for intracellular signaling molecules.
[128]      For the purposes of the invention, a soluble form of MER (sMER) is the portion of the
      polypeptide that is sufficient to bind GAS6 at a recognizable affinity, e.g., high affinity, which
      normally lies between the signal sequence and the transmembrane domain, i.e. generally
      from about SEQ ID NO: 2 residue 21-526, but which may comprise or consist essentially of
      a truncated version In some embodiments, a soluble form of MER lacks the
      transmembrane domain (i.e., generally from about SEQ ID NO: 2 residue 506-526), and
      optionally the intracellular domain (Le., generally from about SEQ ID NO: 2 residue 527
      999).
[129]      In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a soluble MER variant polypeptide wherein
      said MER polypeptide lacks the MER trarismembrane domain and has at least one mutation
      relative to wild-type that increases affinity of the MER polypeptide binding to GAS6 as
      compared to wild-type MER.
[130]     The Tyro3 protein, with reference to the native SEQ ID NO:3, comprises an
      immunoglobulin (Ig)-like domain from residues 41-128, a second Ig-like domain from
      residues-139-220,-ibronectin type 3 domains from residues 225-317 and 322-413,
      intracellular domain from residues 451-890 including tyrosine kinase domain. The tyrosine
      residues at 681, 685, 686 and 804 become autophosphorylated upon receptor dimerization
      and serve as docking sites for intracellular signaling molecules.
[131]      For the purposes of the invention, a soluble form of Tyro3 (sTyro3) is the portion of the
      Tyro3 polypeptide that is sufficient to bind GAS6 at a recognizable affinity, e.g., high affinity,
      which normally lies between the signal sequence and the fransmembrane domain i.e.
      generally from about SEQ ID NO: 3 residue 41-450, but which may comprise or consist
      essentially of a truncated version In some embodiments, a soluble form of AXL lacks the
      transmembrane domain (i.e., generally from about SEQ ID NO: 3 residue 430-450), and
                                                        19

      optionally the intracellular domain (i.e., generally from about SEQ ID NO: 3 residue 451
      890).
[132]      In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a soluble Tyro3 variant polypeptide wherein
      said Tyro3 polypeptide lacks the Tyro3 transmembrane domain and has at least one
      mutation relative to wild-type Tyro3 that increases affinity of the Tyro3 polypeptide binding
      to GAS6 as compared to wild-type Tyro3.
[133]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MET or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MET
      or Tyro3 transmembrane domain and is a soluble variant polypeptide, e.g., sAXL, sMER or
      sTyro3 variant polypeptide.
[134]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER
      or Tyro3 intracellular domain.
[1351      In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent of the present invention inhibits binding
      between a wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide and a GAS6 protein in vivo or in
      vitro. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide inhibits binding
      between a wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide and a GAS6 protein in vivo or in
      vitro.
[136]     The inhibitor agents of the present invention can also exhibit an enhanced or better
      pharmacokinetic profile. In some embodiments, the enhanced or better pharmacokinetic
      profile includes for example but is not limited to a better absorption profile, better distribution
      profile, better metabolism profile, better excretion profile, better liberation profile, increased
      half-life, decrease half-life, faster rate of action, longer duration of effect as compared to
      AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 wild-type polypeptides which do not lack a transmembrane domain.
      One of skill in the art would understand preferred pharmacokinetic profile parameters for
      particular needs including for example treatment regimens, and how to appropriately
      implement such parameters in treatment regimens.
[137]      The wild-type AXL, MER and Tyro3 all contain two fibronectin domains. In some
      embodiments, the AXL, MER and Tyro3 polypeptides of the invention lack a functional
      fibronectin (FN) domain. Lacks or lacking a functional fibronectin domain can include but is
      not limited to deletion of one or both fibronectin domains and/or introducing mutations that
      inhibit, reduce or remove the functionality of one or both fibronectin domains, where such
      mutations can include for example but are not limited to substitution, deletion and insertion
      mutations. In some embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention have fibronectin 1
      (FN1) deleted, fibronectin 2 (FN2) deleted, or FN1 and FN 2 both deleted. In some
      embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention have portions of FN1 mutated and/or
      deleted, FN2 mutated and/or deleted, or FN1and FN2 mutated and/or deleted.
                                                         20

[138]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks a functional
      AXL, MER or Tyro3 fibronectin (FN) domain. En some embodimrents, the AXL, MER or
      Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the polypeptide binding to GAS6 as
      compared to wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or
      Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks a functional fibronectin (FN) domain also exhibits increased
      affinity of the polypeptide binding to GAS6 as compared to wild-type AXL, MER and/or
      Tyros.
[139]      In some embodiments, the lack of a functional fibronectin domain results in increased
      affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide binding to GAS6. In some embodiments, the
      lack of a functional fibronectin domain results in an enhanced or better pharmacokinetic
      profile, including for example but not limited to a better absorption profile, better distribution
      profile, better metabolism profile, better excretion profile, better liberation profile, increased
      half-life, decreased half-life, faster rate of action, longer duration of effect as compared to
      other wild-type polypeptides or other polypeptides which do not lack a functional fibronectin
      domain. One of skill in the art would understand preferred pharmacokinetic profile
      parameters for particular needs including for example treatment regimens, and how to
      appropriately implement such parameters in treatment regimens.
[140]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the
      transmembrane domain and has more than one Ig1 domain and exhibits increased affinity
      of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide binding to GAS6 as compared to wild-type AXL,
      MER and/or Tyro3. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide has two Ig1
      domains.      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide has three Ig1
      domains. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide has more than one
      Ig1domain and/or more than one Ig2 domain. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or
      Tyro3 polypeptide has two Ig2 domains. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3
      polypeptide has two Ig1 dornains and 2 Ig2 domains. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER
      or Tyro3 polypeptide includes for example but is not limited to one of the following Ig
      domain configurations, as well as any combinations or variations thereof:
                                - Ig1
                                e  Ig1 - Ig2
                                 S[g1 - Igi1
                                * ly1 - ly1 - lg1
                                * Ig1 - Ig2 - lg1
                                e   lg1 - l2 - ly1 - Ig2
                                                        21

[141]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide also lacks the AXL, MER or
      Tyro3 transmembrane domain and/or exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3
      polypeptide binding to GAS6. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
      polypeptide lacks the transmembrane domain, has more than one Ig1 domain, has more
      than one Ig2 domain and exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide
      binding to GAS6 as compared to wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3.
[142]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 has the immunoglobulin domains
      connected directly to one another. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 has the
      immunoglobulin domains connected indirectly, e.g., through a linker molecule including for
      example-any amino acid linker known in the art.
[1431      In some embodiments, the one or more AXL, MER or Tyro3 Ig1 and/or 1 or more AXL,
      MER or Tyro3 Ig2 domains result in an enhanced or better pharmacokinetic profile,
      including for example but not limited to a better absorption profile, better distribution profile,
      better metabolism profile, better excretion profile, better liberation profile, increased half-life,
      decreased half-life, faster rate of action, longer duration of effect as compared to other wild
      type polypeptides or other polypeptides which do not lack a functional fibronectin domain.
      One of skill in the art would understand preferred pharmacokinetic profile parameters for
      particular needs including for example treatment regimens, and how to appropriately
      implement such parameters in treatment regimens.
[144]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER
      or Tyro3 transmembrane domain and is capable of binding two or more epitopes on a single
      GAS6. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the AXL,
      MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain and is capable of binding both the major and minor
      AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding sites on a single GAS6. In some embodiments, the binding
      of both the major and minor AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding is simultaneous. In some
      embodiments, the binding of both the major and minor AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 binding sites
      is simultaneous on a single GAS6.
[145]      The present invention also provides AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides that do not
      bind two epitopes on a single GAS6 molecule. The present invention also provides AXL,
      MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides that do not bind two epitopes on a single GAS6
      molecule simultaneously. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant
      polypeptide is not capable of binding two epitopes on a single GASe, this includes for
      example monomeric AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptides. In some embodiments,
      the monomeric AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide comprises one Ig1 domain. In some
      embodiments, the monomeric AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptide is an Fc fusion
                                                      22

     polypeptide that does not bind to more than one site on a singe Gas6 molecule
     simultaneously. In some embodiments, the monomeric AXL MER and/or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide that is not capable of binding two epitopes on a single GAS6 comprises two
     AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptides each of which are not capable of binding two
     epitopes on a single GAS6 simultaneously. In some embodiments, the monomeric AXL,
     MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptide that is not capable of simultaneously binding two
     epitopes on a single GAS6 has one Ig1 domain. In some embodiments, the monomeric
     AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptide that is not capable of simultaneously binding
     two epitopes on a single GAS6 has an altered half-life when compared to AXL, MER and/or
     Tyro3 variant polypeptides that are capable of binding two epitopes on a single GAS6. In
     some embodiments, the polypeptide has one Ig1 domain and lacks a functional Ig2 domain.
     In some embodiments, the Ig1 domain comprises amino acids 1-131 of AXL (SEQ ID NO:1;
     or in some embodiments 8-138 of SEQ ID NO:1). In some embodiments, the polypeptide is
     a soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3
     variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, has one Ig1
     domain, lacks a functional Ig2 domain and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding
     to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3. In some embodiments, the
     polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide is a soluble AXL, MER
     or Tyrb3 variant polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide
     lacks the AXL, MER orTyro3 transmembrane domain, lacks a functional fibronectin (FN)
     domain, has one Ig1 domain, lacks a functional Ig2 domain and wherein said AXL, MER or
     Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
     polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
[146]The wild-type AXL, MER and Tyro3 all contain an Ig2 domain. In some embodiments, the
     AXL, MER and Tyro3 polypeptides of the inventionlack a functional Ig2 domain. Lacks or
     lacking a functional Ig2 domain can include but is not limited to deletion of the Ig2 domain
     and/or introduction of mutations that inhibit, reduce or remove the functionality of the Ig2
     domain, where such mutations can include for example but are not limited to substitution,
     deletion and insertion mutations. In some embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention
     lack a functional Ig2 domain. In some embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention lack
     a functional Ig2 domain and have a wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 IgI domain. In some
     embodiments, the polypeptides of the invention lack a functional Ig2 domain and have one
     or more mutations in the Ig1 domain relative to the wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 Ig1
     domain.
                                                     23

[147]      In some embodiments, the AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptide includes a linker.
      A wide variety of linkers are known in the art and any known linker can be employed with
      the methods of the present invention. In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3
      variant polypeptide includes one or more linkers or linker units. In some embodiments, the
      linker is an amino acid linker, including an amino acid sequence of 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acids
      which are different that the wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 sequences. In some
      embodiments, the linker has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more units. In some
      embodiments, the linker is (GLY)4 SER (SEQ ID NO:10).          In some embodiments, the linker
      has 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 or more (GLY) 4SER units. In some embodiments, the linker
      has 1, 2, 3 or 5 (GLY) 4SER units. In some embodiments, the linkers are between the AXL,
      MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide and the Fc portion of a fusion polypeptide. In some
      embodiments, the linkers are between the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide and the
      Fc portion of a fusion polypeptide and the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks a
      functional fibronectin domain.
[148] - lsome-embodiments- AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present
      invention also include one or more amino acid modifications within the soluble form of wild
      type AXL, MER     arid/or Tyrd3,  elg., one or more arino acid modifications that increase its
      affinity for GAS6. According to the present invention, amino acid modifications include any
      naturally occurring or man-rnade amino acid modifications known or later discovered in the
      field. In some embodiments, amino acid modifications include any naturally occurring
      mutation, e.g., substitution, deletion, addition, insertion, etc. In some other embodiments,
      amino acid modifications include replacing existing amino acid with another amino acid,
      e.g., a conservative equivalent thereof. In yet sonie other embodiments, amino acid
      modifications include replacing one or more existing amino acids with non-natural amino
      acids or inserting one or more non-natural amino acids. In still some other embodiments,
      amino acid modifications include at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 or 10 amino acid mutations or
      changes.
[149]      In some exemplary embodiments, one or more amino acid modifications can be used to
      alter properties of the soluble form of AXL, MER and/or Tyro3e.g., affecting the stability,
      binding activity and/or specificity, etc. Techniques for in vitro mutagenesis of cloned genes
      are known. Examples of protocols for scanning mutations may be found in Gustin eta.,
      Biotechniques 14:22 (1993); Barany, Gene 37:111-23 (1985); Colicelliet al., Mol Gen Genet
      199:537-9 (1985); and Prentki etaL, Gene 29:303-13 (1984). Methods for site specific
      mutagenesis can be found in Sambrook etal., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,
      CSH Press 1989, pp. 15.3-15.108; Weiner etal., Gene 126:35-41 (1993); Sayers etal,
                                                       24

      Biotechniques 13:592-6 (1992); Jones and Winistorfer, Biotechniques 12:528-30 (1992);
      Barton et al., Nucleic Acids Res 18:7349-55 (1990); Marotti and Tomich, Gene Anal Tech
      6:67-70 (1989); and Zhu Anal Biochem 177:120-4 (1989).
[150]      In some embodiments, AXL variant polypeptides of the present invention include one or
      more amino acid modifications within one or more regions of residue 18 to 130, residue 10
      to 135, residue 15 to 45, residue 60 to 65, residue 70 to 80, residue 85 to 90, residue 91 to
      99, residue 104 to 110, residue 111 to 120, residue 125 to 130, residue 19 to 437, residue
      130 to 437, residue 19 to 132, residue 21 to 132, residue 21 to 121, residue 26 to 132, or
      residue 26 to 121 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1). In some other embodiments, AXL
      variant polypeptides of the present invention include one or more amino acid modifications
      within one or more regions of residue 20 to 130, residue 37 to 124 or residue 141 to 212 of
      wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1). In yet some other embodiments, AXL polypeptide variants
      of the present invention include one or more amino acid modifications at one or more
      positions of position 19, 23, 26, 27, 32, 33, 38, 44, 61, 65, 72, 74, 78, 79, 86, 87, 88, 90, 92,
      97, 98, 105, 109, 112, 113, 116, 118, 127, or 129 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1).
[151]      In yet some other embodiments, AXL polypeptide variants of the present invention
      include one or more amino acid modifications including without any limitation 1) Al 9T, 2)
      T23M, 3) E260, 4) E27G or E27K, 5) G32S, 6) N33S, 7) T381, 8) T44A, 9) H61Y, 10)
      D65N, 11) A72V, 12) S74N, 13) Q78E, 14) V79M, 15) Q86R, 16) D87G, 17) D88N, 18)
      190M or 190V, 19) V92A, V92G or V92D, 20) 197R, 21) T98A or T98P, 22) T1 05M, 23)
      Q109R, 24) VI 12A, 25) F1 13L, 26) Hi 16R; 27) T1 18A, 28) G127R or G127E, and 29)
      E129K and a combination thereof.
[152]      In yet some other embodiments, AXL variant polypeptides of the present invention
      include one or more amino acid modifications at position 32, 87, 92, or 127 of wild-type AXL
      (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a combination thereof, e.g., G32S; D870; V92A and/or G1 27R. In yet
      some other embodiments, AXL polypeptide variants of the present invention include one or
      more amino acid modifications at position 26, 79, 92,127 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1)
      or a combination thereof, e.g., E26G, V79M; V92A and/or G127E. In yet some other
      embodiments, AXL variant polypeptides of the present invention include one or more amino
      acid modifications at position 32, 87, 92, 127 and/or 72 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1) or
      a combination thereof, e.g., G32S; D87G; V92A; G127R and/or A72V. In yet some other
      embodiments, AXL variant polypeptides of the present invention include one or more amino
      acid modifications at position 87, 92 and/or 127 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a
      combination thereof, e.g., D87G; V92A; and/or G127R. In yet some other embodiments,
      AXL variant polypeptides of the present invention include one or more amino acid
                                                     25

      modifications at position 32, 92, and/or 127 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a
      combination thereof, e.g., G32S; V92A; and/or G127R. In yet some other embodiments,
      AXL variant polypeptides of the present invention include one or more amino acid
      modifications at position 32, 87 and/or 127 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a
      combination thereof, e.g., G32S; D87G; and/or G127R. In yet some other embodiments,
      AXL polypeptide variants of the present invention include one or more amino acid
      modifications at position 32, 87 and/or 92 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a combination
      thereof, e.g., G32S; D87G; and/or V92A. In yet some other embodiments, AXL variant
      polypeptides of the present invention include one or more amino acid modifications at
      position 26, 79, 92, 127 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a combination thereof, e.g.,
      E26G, V79M; V92A and/or G127E. In yet some other embodiments, AXL variant
      polypeptides of the present invention include one or more amino acid modifications at
      position 87 and 92 of wild-type AXL (SEQ ID NO: 1) or a combination thereof, e.g., D87G
      and V92A. In yet some other embodiments, AXL variant polypeptides of the present
      invention include at least one amino acid modification at position 72 of wild-type AXL (SEQ
      ID NO: 1), e.g., A72V.
[153]     According to the present invention, the inhibitor agent can include but is not limited to a
      polypeptide, a polypeptide-carrier fusion, a polypeptide-Fc fusion, polypeptide-conjugate, a
      polypeptide-drug conjugate, an antibody, a bispecific antibody, an antibody-drug conjugate,
      an antibody fragment, an antibody-related structure, or a combination thereof.
[154]     The inhibitor agents of the present invention can include peptides or polypeptides. The
      peptides and polypeptides of the present invention can include natural and/or synthetic
      polypeptides. Synthetic polypeptides and methods of making synthetic polypeptides are
      well kriown in the art and ariy known methods for making synthetic polypeptides can be
      employed with the methods of the present invention. In some embodiments, the inhibitor
      agent is a natural or synthetic polypeptide. In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a
      natural or synthetic polypeptide-fusion. In some embodiments, the inhibitor agent is a
      natural or synthetic polypeptide-Fc fusion. In some embodiments the natural dr synthetic
      polypeptide-fusion is a fusion with another protein structural class or scaffold or a natural or
      synthetic polypeptide-fusion with a polymer or hydrogel or related structure.
[155]     According to the present invention, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the
      present invention can be further modified, e.g., joined to a wide variety of other
      oligopeptides or proteins for a variety of purposes. For instance, various post-translation or
      post-expression modifications can be carried out with respect to AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
      polypeptides of the present invention. For example, by employing the appropriate coding
                                                     26

      sequences, one may provide farnesylation or prenylation. In some embodiments, the AXL,
      MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present invention can be PEGylated, where the
      polyethyleneoxy group provides for enhanced lifetime in the blood stream. The AXL, MER
      or Tyro3 variant 1olypeptides of the present invention can also be combined with other
      proteins, such as the Fc of an IgG isotype, which can be complement binding, with a toxin,
      such as ricin, abrin, diphtheria toxin, or the like, or with specific binding agents that allow
      targeting to specific moieties on a target cell. The inhibitor agents of the present invention
      can include polypeptide conjugates ahd antibody-conjugates.           In some embodiments, the
      inhibitor agent is a polypeptide-conjugate or antibody-canjugate. In some embodiments, the
      polypeptide conjugate is a drug conjugate. In some embodiments, the peptide or
      polypeptide conjugate is an antibody-drug conjugates. In some embodiments, the
      polypeptide conjugate is a polymer conjugate. Polymers of the present invention include
      but are not limited to PEG, PEG-containing polymers, degradable polymers, biocompatible
      polymers, hydrogels, as well as other polymer structures that could be conjugated to a
      polypeptide, and can include combinations thereof.
[156]     In some embodiments, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of the present
      invention is a fusion protein, e.g., fused in frame with a second polypeptide. In some
      embodiments, the second polypeptide is capable of increasing the size of the fusion protein,
      e.g., so that the fusion protein will not be cleared from the circulation rapidly. In some other
      embodiments, the second polypeptide is part or whole of Fc region. In some other
      embodiments, the second polypeptide is any suitable polypeptide that is substantially
      similar to Fc, e.g., providing increased size and/or additional binding or interaction with Ig
      molecules. In yet some other embodiments, the second polypeptide is part or whole of an
      albumin protein, e.g., a human serum albumin protein.         In some embodiments, the second
      polypeptide is a protein or peptide that binds to albumin.
[157]     In some other embodiments, the second polypeptide is useful for handling the AXL,
      MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides, e.g., purification of AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
      polypeptides or for increasing stability in vitro or in vivo. For example, AXL, MER or Tyro3
      variant polypeptides of the present invention can be combined with parts of the constant
      domain of imnunoglobulins (IgG), resulting in chimeric or fusion polypeptides. These fusion
      proteins facilitate purification and show an increased half-life in vivo. One reported example
      describes chimeric proteins consisting of the first two domains of the human CD4
      polypeptide and various domains of the constant regions of the heavy or light chains of
      mammalian immunoglobulins. EP A 394,827; Traunecker et al., Nature, 331: 84-86,1988.
      Fusion proteins having disulfide-linked dimeric structures (due to the IgG) can also be more
                                                        27

      efficient in binding and neutralizing other molecules, than the monomeric secreted protein or
      protein fragment alone. Fountoulekis et aL, J. Biochem. 270: 3958-3964,1995.
[158]      In yet some other embodiments, the second polypeptide is a marker sequence, such as
      a peptide which facilitates purification of the fused polypeptide. For example, the marker
      amino acid sequence can be a hexa-histidine peptide, such as the tag provided in a pQE
      vector (QIAGEN, Inc., 9259 Eton Avenue, Chatsworth, Calif., 91311), among others, many
      of which are commercially available. As described in Gentz et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.
      USA 86: 821-824, 1989, for instance, hexa-histidine provides for convenient purification of
      the fusion protein. Another peptide tag useful for purification, the "HA" tag, corresponds to
      an epitope derived from the influenza hemagglutinin protein. Wilson et al., Cell 37: 767,
      1984.
[159]      In still some other embodiments, the second polypeptide is an entity useful for improving
      the characteristics of AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide variants of the present invention. For
      instance, a region of additional amino acids, particularly charged amino acids, may be
      added to the N-terminus of the polypeptide to improve stability and persistence during
      purification from the host cell or subsequent handling and storage. Also, peptide moieties
      may be added to the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide variants of the present invention to
      facilitate purification and subsequently removed prior to final preparation of the polypeptide.
      The addition of peptide moieties to facilitate handling of polypeptides are familiar and
      routine techniques in the art.
[160]      In still yet some embodiments, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present
      invention have a binding activity to GAS6 that is at least equal or better than the wild-type
      AXL, MER or Tyro3. In some 6ther embodiments, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides
      of the present invention has a binding activity or affinity to GAS6 that is at least 1-fold; 2
      fold, 3-fold, 4-fold, 5-fold, or 6-fold greater than that of the wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3. In
      some other embodiments, AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide variant of the present invention
      has a binding activity or affinity to GAS6 of at least about 1x10 , 1x10 7 , 1x1V or 1x10- M
      1 x 10-"M, 1xi 1-"M or x 10-12 M. In yet some other embodiments, sAXL polypeptides of
      the present invention is capable of inhibiting, inhibit or compete with wild-type AXL binding
      to GAS6 either in vivo, in vitro or both. In yet some other embodiments, sAXL polypeptides
      of the present invention inhibit or compete with the binding of AXL S6-1, AXL S6-2, and/or
      AXL S6-5 (as described in W02011/091305). In yet some other embodiments, sAXL
      polypeptides of the present invention inhibit or compete with the binding of any sAXL variant
      as described in W02011/091305.
                                                         28

[161]      The inhibitor agents of the present invention bind to GASG with increased affinity. In
      some embodimenfs, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity
      of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide binding to GAS6 as compared to wild-type AXL,
      MER or Tyro3. In some emb6dirnents, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits an
      affinity to GAS6 that is at least about 5-fold stronger, at least about 10-fold stronger or at
      least about 20-fold stronger, 50-fold stronger, 100-fold stronger or at least 200-fold stronger,
      etc. than the affinity of the wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide. In some
      embodiments, the soluble AXL has a about a 115-fold stronger affinity to GAS6 than the
      affinity of the wild-type AXL polypeptide.
[162]      The ability of a rnolecule to bind to GAS6 can be determined, for example, by the ability
      of the putative ligand to bind to GAS6 coated on an assay plate. In one embodiment, the
      binding activity of AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present invention to a
      GASe can be assayed by either immobilizing the ligand, e.g., GASe or the AXL, MER or
      Tyro3 variant polypeptides. For example, the assay can include immobilizing GAS6 fused
      to a His tag onto Ni-activated NTA resin beads. Agents can be added in an appropriate
      buffer and the beads incubated for a period of time at a given temperature. After washes to
      remove unbound material, the bound protein can be released with, for example, SDS,
      buffers with a high pH, and the like and analyzed.
[163]      In still yet other embodiments, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present
      invention has a better thermal stability than the thermal stability of a wild-type AXL. In some
      embodiments, the melting temperature of AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the
      present invention is at least 50 C, 10*C, 150C, or 200C higher than the melting temperature of
      a wild-type AXL.
[164]       According to the present invention, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the
      present invention can also include one or more modifications that do not alter primary
      sequences of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present invention. For
      example, such modifications can include chernical derivatization of polypeptides, e.g.,
      acetylation, amidation, carboxylation, etc. Such modifications can also include
      modifications of glycosylation, e.g. those made by modifying the glycosylation patterns of a
      polypeptide duririg its synthesis and processing or in further processing steps; e.g. by
      exposing the polypeptide to enzymes which affect glycosylation, such as mammalian
      glycosylating or deglycosylating enzymes. In some emb6diments, AXL, MER or Tyro3
       )olypeptide    variants of the present invention include AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
      polypeptides having phosphorylated amino acid residues, e.g. phosphotyrosine,
      phosphoserine, or phosphothreonine.
                                                        29

[165       In some other embodiments, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present
      invention include AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides furthermodified to improve their
      resistance to proteolytic degradation or to optimize solubility properties or to render them
      more suitable as a therapeutic agent. For example, AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide
      variants of the present invention further include analogs of AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
      polypeptides containing residues other than naturally occurring L-amino acids, e.g. D-amino
      acids or non-naturally occurring synthetic amino acids. D-amino acids may be substituted
      for some or all of the amino acid residues.
[166       In yet some other embodiments, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the present
      invention include at least two same or different AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides
      linked covalently or non-covalently. For example, in some embodiments, AXL, MER or
      Tyro3 polypeptide variants of the present invention include two, three, four, five, or six same
      or different AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides linked covalently, e.g., so that they will
      have the appropriate size, but avoiding unwanted aggregation.
[167]      According to the present invention, AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of the
      present invention can be produced by any suitable means known or later discovered in the
      field, e.g., produced from eukaryotic or prokaryotic cells, synthesized in vitro, etc. Where
      the protein is produced by prokaryotic cells, it may be further processed by unfolding, e.g.
      heat denaturation, DTT reduction, etc. and may be further refolded, using methods known in
      the art.
[1681      The AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides may be prepared by in vitro synthesis,
      using conventional methods as known in the art. Various commercial synthetic apparatuses
      are available, for example, automated synthesizers by Applied Biosystems, Inc., Foster
      City, CA, Beckman, etc. By using synthesizers, naturally    occurring amino acids may be
      substituted with unnatural amino acids. The particular sequence and the manner of
      preparation will be determined by convenience, economics, purity required, and the like.
[169]      The AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides may also be isolated and purified in
      accordance with conventional methods of recombinant synthesis. A lysate may be
      prepared of the expression host and the lysate purified using HPLC, exclusion
      chromatography, gel electrophoresis, affinity chromatography, or other purification
      technique. For the most part, the compositions which are used will comprise at least 20%
      by weight of the desired product, more usually at least about 75% by weight, preferably at
      least about 95% by weight, and for therapeutic purposes, usually at least about 99.5% by
      weight, in relation to contaminants related to the method of preparation of the product and
      its purification. Usually, the percentages will be based upon total protein.
                                                      30

[170]      Methods which are well known to those skilled in the art can be used to construct
      expression vectors containing coding sequences and appropriate
      transcriptional/translational control signals. These methods include, for example, in vitro
      recombinant DNA techniques, synthetic techniques and in vivo recombination/genetic
      recombination. Alternatively, RNA capable of encoding the polypeptides of interest may be
      chemically synthesized. One of skill in the art can readily utilize well-known codon usage
      tables and synthetic methods to provide a suitable coding sequence for any of the
      polypeptides of the invention. Direct chemical synthesis methods include, for example, the
      phosphotriester method of Narang et at (1979) Meth. Enzymol. 68: 90-99; the
      phosphodiester method of Brown et aL (1979) Meth. Enzymol. 68: 109-151; the
      diethylphosphoramidite method of Beaucage etal (1981) Tetra. Left., 22: 1859-1862; and
      the solid support method of U.S. Patent No. 4,458,066. Chemical synthesis produces a
      single stranded oligonucleotide. This can be converted into double stranded DNA by
      hybridization with a complementary sequence, or by polymerization with a DNA polymerase
      using the single strand as a template. While chemical synthesis of DNA is often limited to
      sequences of about 100 bases, longer sequences can be obtained by the ligation of shorter
      sequences. Alternatively, subsequences may be cloned and the appropriate subsequences
      cleaved using appropriate restriction enzymes.
[171]      The nucleic acids may be isolated and obtained in substantial purity. Usually, the
      nucleic acids, either as DNA or RNA, will be obtained substantially free of other naturally
      occurring nucleic acid sequences, generally being at least about 50%, usually at least about
      90% pure and are typically "recombinant," e.g., flanked by one or more nucleotides with
      which it is not normally associated on a naturally occurring chromosome. The nucleic acids
      of the invention can be provided as a linear molecule or within a circular molecule, and can
      be provided within autonomously replicating molecules (vectors) or within molecules without
      replication sequences. Expression of the nucleic acids can be regulated by their own or by
      other regulatory sequences known in the art. The nucleic acids of the invention can be
      introduced into suitable host cells using a variety of techniques available in the art, such as
      transferrin polycation-mediated DNA transfer, transfection with naked or encapsulated
      nucleic acids, liposome-mediated DNA transfer, intracellular transportation of DNA-coated
      latex beads, protoplast fusion, viral infection, electroporation, gene gun, calcium phosphate
      mediated transfection, and the like.
[172]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides expression vectors for in vitro or
      in vivo expression of one or more AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide variants of the
      present invention, either constitutively or under one or more regulatory elements. In some
                                                       31

      embodiments, the present invention provides a cell population comprising one or more
      expression vectors for expressing AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide variants of the
      present invention, either constitufively or under one or more regulatory elements.
[173]      According to another aspect of the invention, it provides isolated antibodies or
      fragments thereof which specifically bind to a GAS6 protein. GAS6 (growth arrest-specific
      6) belongs structurally to the family of plasma vitamin K-dependent proteins. GAS6 has a
      high structural homology with the natural anticoagulant protein S, sharing the same modular
      composition and having 40% sequence identity. GAS6 has growth factor-like properties
      through its interaction with receptor tyrosine kinases of the TAM family; Tyro3, AXL and
      MER. Human GAS6 is a 678 amino acid protein that consists of a gamma
      carboxyglutamate (Gla)-rich domain that mediates binding to phospholipid membranes, four
      epidermal growth factor-like domains, and two laminin G-like (LG) domains. The sequence
      of the transcript variants of human GAS6 may be accessed at Genbank at
      NM_001143946.1; NM_001143945.1; and NM_000820.2, respectively.
[174]      GAS6 employs a unique mechanism of action, interacting through its vitamin K
      dependent GLA (gamma-carboxyglutamic acid) module with phosphatidylserine-containing
      membranes and through its carboxy-terminal LamG domains with the TAM membrane
      receptors.
[175]      According to the present invention, isolated antibodies of the present invention include
      any isolated antibodies with a recognizable binding specificity against GAS6. In some
      enibodiments, isolated antibodies are partially or fully humanized antibodies. In some other
      embodiments, isolated antibodies are monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies. In yet some
      other embodiments, isolated antibodies are chimeric antibodies, e.g., with consistent
      regions, variable regions and/or CDR3 or a combination thereof from different sources. In
      yet some other embodiments, isolated antibodies are a combination of various features
      described herein.
[176]      Accordirg to the present invention, fragments of the isolated antibodies of the present
      invention include a polypeptide containing a region of the antibody (either in the context of
      an antibody scaffold or a non-antibody scaffold) that is sufficient or necessary for a
      recognizable specific binding of the polypeptide towards GAS6. In some embodiments,
      fragments of the isolated antibodies of the present invention include variable light chains,
      variable heavy chains, one or more CDRs of heavy chains or light chains or combinations
      thereof, e.g., Fab, Fv, etc. In some embodiments, fragments of the isolated antibodies of
      the present invention include a polypeptide containing a single chain antibody, e.g., ScFv.
      In yet some embodiments, fragments of the isolated antibodies of the present invention
                                                     32

      include variable regions only or variable regions in combination with part of Fc region, e.g.,
      CH1 region. In still some embodiments, fragments of the isolated antibodies of the present
      invention include minibodies, e.g., VL-VH-CH3 or diabodies.
[1771      In some embodiments, isolated antibodies of the present invention bind to an epitope
      comprised in or presented by one or more amino acid regions that interact with AXL, MER
      and/or Tyro3. In some other embodiments, isolated antibodies of the present invention bind
      to an epitope comprised in or presented by one or more amino acid regions of GAS6, e.g.,
      L295-T317, E356-P372, R389-N396, D398-A406, E413-H429, and W450-M468 of GAS6.
[178]      In yet some other embodiments, isolated antibodies of the present invention bind to an
      epitope comprised in or presented by one or more amino acid regions, e.g.,
      LRMFSGTPVIRLRFKRLQPT (SEQ ID NO: 4), EIVGRVTSSGP (SEQ ID NO: 5), RNLVIKVN
      (SEQ ID NO: 6), DAVMKIAVA (SEQ ID NO: 7), ERGLYHLNLTVGIPFH (SEQ ID NO: 8),
      and WLNGEDTTIQETVVNRM (SEQ ID NO: 9).
[1791      In yet some other embodiments, isolated antibodies of the present invention bind to an
      epitope comprised in or presented by at least one, two, three, four, five, or six amino acids
      in a region of L295-T317, E356-P372, R389-N396, D398-A406, E413-H429, and W450
      M468 of GAS6. In yet some other embodiments, isolated antibodies of the present
      invention bind to an epitope comprised in or presented by at least one, two, three, four, five
      or six amino acids in a region of LRMFSGTPVIRLRFKREQPT (SEQ ID NO: 4),
      EIVGRVTSSGP (SEQ ID NO: 5), RNLVIKVN (SEQ ID NO: 6), DAVMKIAVA (SEQ ID NO:
      7), ERGLYHLNLTVGIPFH (SEQ ID NO: 8), and WLNGEDTTIQETVVNRM (SEQ ID NO: 9).
[180]      In still some other embodiments, isolated antibodies of the present invention is capable
      of inhibiting, inhibits or competes with the binding between wild-type AXL, MER and/or
      Tyro3 or AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 polypeptide variants of the present invention and GAS6.
[181]     According to the present invention, the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides and
      isolated antibodies of the present invention can be provided in pharmaceutical compositions
      suitable for therapeutic use, e.g., for human treatment. In some embodiments,
      pharmaceutical compositions df the present invention include one or more therapeutic
      entities of the present invention, e.g., AXL polypeptide variants and/or isolated antibodies
      against GAS6 or pharmaceutically acceptable sa[ts, esters or solvates thereof or any
      prodrug thereof. In some other embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions of the present
      invention include one or more therapeutic entities of the present invention in combination
      with another cytotoxic agent, e.g., another anti-tumor agent. In yet some other
      embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention include one or more
                                                      33

      therapeutic entities of the present invention in combination with another pharmaceutically
      acceptable excipient.
[182]      In still some other embodiments, therapeutic entities of the present invention are often
      administered as pharmaceutical compositions comprising an active therapeutic agent, i.e.,
      and a variety of other pharmaceutically acceptable components. (See Remington's
      Pharmaceutical Science, 15.sup.th ed., Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pa., 1980). The
      preferred form depends on the intended mode of administration and therapeutic application.
      The compositions can also include, depending on the formulation desired,
      pharmaceutically-acceptable, non-toxic carriers or diluents, which are defined as vehicles
      commonly used to formulate pharmaceutical compositions for animal or human
      administration. The diluent is selected so as not to affect the biological activity of the
      combination. Examples of such diluents are distilled water, physiological phosphate
      buffered saline, Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution, and Hank's solution. In addition, the
      pharmaceutical composition or formulation may also include other carriers, adjuvants, or
      nontoxic, nontherapeutic, nonimmunogenic stabilizers and the like.
[183]      In still some other embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention
      can also include large, slowly metabolized macromolecules such as proteins,
      polysaccharides such as chitosan, polylactic acids, polyglycolic acids and copolymers (such
      as latex functionalized Sepharosem, agarose, cellulose, and the like), polymeric amino
      acids, amino acid copolyrers, and lipid aggregates (such as oil droplets or liposomes).
      Additionally, these carriers can function as imrnunostimulating agents (i.e., adjuvants).
[184]      According to yet another aspect of the invention, it provides methods for treating,
      reducing or preventing tumor metastasis or tumor invasion by inhibiting the AXL, MER or
      Tyro3 signaling pathway and/or GAS6 signaling pathway. In some embodiments, methods
      of the present invention include inhibiting the activity of AXL, MER, Tyro3 and/or GAS6, or
      the interaction between AXL, MER and/or Tyro3 and GAS6. For example, the activity of
      AXL, MER, Tyro3 and/or GAS6 can be inhibited at the gene expression level, mRNA
      processing level, translation level, post-translation level, protein activation level, etc. In
      some other examples, the activity of AXL, MER, Tyro3 or GAS6 can be inhibited by small
      molecules, biological molecules, e.g., polypeptides, polynucleotides, antibodies, antibody
      drug conjugates, etc. In some other examples, the activity of AXL, MER, Tyro3 or GAS6
      can be inhibited by one or more AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides or isolated
      antibodies of the present invention.
[185]      In yet other embodiments, methods of the present invention include administering to a
      subject in need of treatment a therapeutically effective amount or an effective dose of a
                                                      34

      therapeutic entity (e.g., inhibitor agent) of the present invention, e.g., an inhibitor of AXL,
      MER and/or Tyro3 activity or GAS6 activity or an inhibitor of interaction between AXL, MER
      and/or Tyro3 and GAS6. In some embodiments, effective doses of the therapeutic entity of
      the present invention, e.g. for the treatment of metastatic cancer, described herein vary
      depending upon many different factors, including means of administration, target site,
      physiological state of the patient, whether the patient is human or an animal, other
      medications administered, and whether treatment is prophylactic or therapeutic. Usually, the
      patient is a human but nonhuman mammals including transgenic mammals can also be
      treated. Treatment dosages need to be titrated to optimize safety and efficacy.
[186]      In some embodiments, the dosage may range from about 0.0001 to 100 mg/kg, and
      more usually 0.01 to 5 mg/kg, of the host body weight. For example dosages can be 1
      mg/kg body weight or 10 mg/kg body weight or within the range of 1-10 mg/kg. An
      exemplary treatment regime entails administration once per every two weeks or once a
      month or once every 3 to 6 months. Therapeutic entities of the present invention are
      usually administered on multiple occasions. Intervals between single dosages can be
      weekly, monthly or yearly. Intervals can also be irregular as indicated by measuring blood
      levels of the therapeutic entity in the patient. Alternatively, therapeutic entities of the
      present invention can be administered as a sustained release formulation, in which case
      less frequent administration is required. Dosage and frequency vary depending on the half
      life of the polypeptide in the patient.
[187]      In prophylactic applications, a relatively low dosage is administered at relatively
      infrequent intervals over a long period of time. Some patients continue to receive treatment
      for the rest of their lives. In therapeutic applications, a relatively high dosage at relatively
      short intervals is sometimes required until progression of the disease is reduced or
      terminated, and preferably until the patient shows partial or complete amelioration of
      symptoms of disease. Thereafter, the patent can be administered a prophylactic regime.
[188]      In still other embodiments, methods of the present invention include treating, reducing
      or preventing tumor metastasis or tumor invasion of ovarian cancer, breast cancer, lung
      cancer, liver cancer, colon cancer, gallbladder cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer,
      and/or glioblastoma.
[189]      In still yet some other embodiments, for prophylactic applications, pharmaceutical
      compositions or medicaments are administered to a patient susceptible to, or otherwise at
      risk of a disease or condition in an amount sufficient to eliminate or reduce the risk, lessen
      the severity, or delay the outset of the disease, including biochemical, histologic and/or
                                                        35

      behavioral symptoms of the disease, its complications and intermediate pathological
      phenotypes presenting during development of the disease.
[19o       In still yet some other embodiments, for therapeutic applications, therapeutic entities of
      the present invention are administered to a patient suspected of, or already suffering from
      such a disease in an amount sufficient to cure, or at least partially arrest, the symptoms of
      the disease (biochemical, histologic and/or behavioral), including its complications and
      intermediate pathological phenotypes in development of the disease. An amount adequate
      to accomplish therapeutic or prophylactic treatment is defined as a therapeutically- or
      prophylactically-effective dose. In both prophylactic and therapeutic regimes, agents are
      usually administered in several dosages until a sufficient response has been achieved.
      Typically, the response is monitored and repeated dosages are given if there is a
      recurrence of the cancer.
[191]      According to the present invention, compositions for the treatment of metastatic cancer
      can be administered by parenteral, topical, intravenous, intratumoral, oral, subcutaneous,
      intraarterial, intracranial, intraperitoneal, intranasal or intramuscular means. The most
      typical route of administration is intravenous or intratumoral although other routes can be
      equally effective.
[192]      For parenteral administration, compositions of the invention can be administered as
      injectable dosages of a solution or suspension of the substance in a physiologically
      acceptable diluent with a pharmaceutical carrier that can be a sterile liquid such as water,
      oils, saline, glycerol, or ethanol. Additionally, auxiliary substances, such as wetting or
      emulsifying agents, surfactants, pH buffering substances and the like can be present in
      compositions. Other components of pharmaceutical compositions are those of petroleum,
      animal, vegetable, or synthetic origin, for example, peanut oil, soybean oil, and mineral oil. I
      n general, glycols such as propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol are preferred liquid
      carriers, particularly for injectable solutions. Antibodies and/or polypeptides can be
      administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which can be formulated
      in such a manner as to permit a sustained release of the active ingredient. An exemplary
      composition comprises polypeptide at 1 mg/mL, formulated in aqueous buffer consisting of
      10 mM Tris, 210 mM sucrose, 51 mM L-arginine, 0.01% polysorbate 20, adjusted to p1 7.4
      with HCI or NaOH.
[193]      Typically, compositions are prepared as injectables, either as liquid solutions or
      suspensions; solid forms suitable for solution In, or suspension in, liquid vehicles prior to
      injection can also be prepared. The preparation also can be emulsified or encapsulated in
      liposomes or micro particles such as polylactide, polyglycolide, or copolymer for enhanced
                                                         36

      adjuvant effect, as discussed above. Langer, Science 249: 1527, 1990 and Hanes,
      Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 28: 97-119, 1997. The agents of this invention can be
      administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which can be formulated
      in such a manner as to permit a sustained or pulsatile release of the active ingredient.
[194]       Additional formulations suitable for other modes of administration include oral,
      intranasal, and pulmonary formulations, suppositories, and transdermal applications.
[195]       For suppositories, binders and carriers include, for example, polyalkylene glycols or
      triglycerides; such suppositories can be formed from mixtures containing the active
      ingredient in the range of 0.5% to 10%, preferably 1%-2%. Oral formulations include
      recipients, such as pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium
      stearate, sodium saccharine, cellulose, and magnesium carbonate. These compositions
      take the form of solutions, suspensions, tablets, pills, capsules, sustained release
      formulations or powders and contain 10%-95% of active ingredient, preferably 25%-70%.
[196]       Topical application can result in transdermal or intradermal delivery. Topical
      administration can be facilitated by co-administration of the agent with cholera toxin or
      detoxified derivatives or subunits thereof or other similar bacterial toxins. Glenn et al,
      Nature 391: 851, 1998. Co-administration can be achieved by using the components as a
      mixture or as linked molecules obtained by chemical crosslinking or expression as a fusion
      protein.
[197]       Alternatively, transdermal delivery can be achieved using a skin patch or using
      transferosomes. Paul et al, Eur. J. Immunol 25: 3521-24, 1995; Cevc et al, Biochem.
      Biophys. Acta 1368: 201-15, 1998.
[198]       The pharmaceutical compositions are generally formulated as sterile, substantially
      isotonic and in full compliance with all Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations of
      the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
[199]       Preferably, a therapeutically effective dose of the antibody compositions described
      herein will provide therapeutic benefit without causing substantial toxicity.
[200]       Toxicity of the proteins described herein can be determined by standard pharmaceutical
      procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, e.g., by determining the LD     0 (the dose
      lethal to 50% of the population) or the LD100 (the dose lethal to 100% of the population). The
      dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effect is the therapeutic index. The data obtained
      from these cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a dosage
      range that is not toxic for use in human. The dosage of the proteins described herein lies
      preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the effective dose with
      little or no toxicity. The dosage can vary within this range depending upon the dosage form
                                                       37

      employed and the route of administration utilized. The exact formulation, route of
      administration and dosage can be chosen by the individual physician in view of the patient's
      condition. (See, e.g., Fing/ et al., 1975, In: The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, Ch.
      1).
[201]     Also within the scope of the invention are kits comprising the compositions (e.g., AXL,
      MER orTyro3 variant polypeptides and formulations thereof) of the invention and
      instructions for use. The kit can further contain a least one additional reagent. Kits typically
      include a label indicating the intended use of the contents of the kit. The term label includes
      any writing, or recorded material supplied on or with the kit, or which otherwise
      accompanies the kit.
[202]     According to yet another aspect of the invention, it provides methods for determining the
      ability of a tumor to undergo tumor invasion and/or metastasis by detecting and/or
      determining the level of AXL, MER and/orTyro3 activity or GAS6 activity in a biological
      sample from a subject of interest. In some embodiment, the level of AXL, MER and/orTyro3
      activity or GAS6 activity is measured by the level of mRNA expression, the level of protein
      expression, the level of protein activation or any suitable indicator corresponding to the
      activity of AXL, MER and/orTyro3 or GASS either directly or indirectly. In some
      embodiments, the level of AXL, MER and/orTyro3activity or GAS6 activity in a biological
      sample is further compared to a predetermined level, e.g., standard leverobtained by
      establishing normal levels or ranges of AXL, MER and/orTyro3 activity or GAS6 activity
      based on a population of samples from tumors that do not develop tumor invasion or tumor
      metastasis or from normal tissues. For example, an increase of AXL, MER and/orTyro3
      activity or GAS6 activity over the predetermined level or standard level is indicative of a
      predisposition of the tumor to undergo tumor invasion or tumor metastasis.
[203]     All publications and patents cited in this specification are herein incorporated by
      reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and individually
      indicated to be incorporated by reference and are incorporated herein by reference to
      disclose and describe the methods and/or materials in connection with which the
      publications are cited. The citation of any publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing
      date and should not be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled
      to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further, the dates of publication
      provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be
      independently confirmed.
[204]      As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure, each of the
      individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and
                                                       38

      features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the
      other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present
      invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any
      other order which is logically possible. In the following, examples will be described to
      illustrate parts of the invention. It is also understood that the terminology used herein is for
      the purposes of describing particular embodiments.
                                                EXPERIMENTAL
      EXAMPLE 1 - AFFINITIES OF VARIOUS AXL FC CONSTRUCTS
[205]      Figure 1 shows the four domains of AXL and the various combinations of AXL Fc
      constructs made and tested.
[206]      Thefllowing AXL Fc constructs were made:
           a.  Full-length wild-type Fc fusion
           b.  Full-length AXL peptide 1 Fc fusion
           c.  AXL peptide 1 Fn(-) Fc fusion (this is the Fn- construct)
           d.  Full-length AXL peptide 1 Fc fusion with minor GAS6 binding site knocked out
           e.  AXL peptide 1 Fn(-) Fc fusion, 3x gly4ser linker between Fc and AXL
           f.  AXL peptide 1 Fn(-) Fc fusion, 5x gly4ser linker between Fc and AXL
           g.  AXL peptide 1 A72V Fn(-) Fc fusion, 3x gly4ser linker between Fc and AXL
[207]      The following Table 1 outlines the affinities of the above constructs to GAS6, with wild
      type AXL as a comparison.
                                        Table 1: Construct Affinities
           AXL clone                              Fn domains     Fc       Linker      Kd (DM)
           Wild-type 1                                 -         None     None        32.8 0.63
           AXL peptide 1 I11                           -         None     None        2.7 0.05
           (a) Wild-type                               +         hlaG     None        9.20.17
           (b) AXL peptide 1                           +        Ing       None        0.4 0.01
           (c) AXL peptide 1                           -            qGQ None          2.6 0.05
           (d) AXL peptide 1 (-) minor site            +        .IIg      None        2.60.10
           (e) AXL peptide 1                           -         uGQ 3x alyser        1.2 0.03
           (f) AXL peptide 1                           -           lqG    5x alyser   1.2 0.03
           (g) AXL peptide 1 A72V                      -       IG       I 3x ly 4ser 10.3 0.00
[208]      There are several conclusions that can be drawn from the data set in Table 1 above.
[209]      Fc-fusion constructs provide enhancements in affinity over the monomeric forms. For
      example: wild-type AXL lgl (monomeric) has a -33pM affinity, whereas wild-type Fc fusion
      has an affinity of ~9pM and AXL peptide Ig1 (monomeric) has an affinity of ~3pM,
      whereas AXL peptide 1- Fc fusion has an affinity of ~0.4pM
                                                       39

[210]      Significant affinity improvements for AXL peptide 1 over wild-type AXL. In addition, AXL
      pepticle 1 plus the A72V mutation has a further enhancement in affinity, construct (e)
      compared to construct (g), over wild-type AXL.
[211]      The mechanism of increasing the affinity in the Fc fusion comes from multivalent binding
      to a single GAS6 molecule. Specifically, one arm of the fusion binds to the major AXL
      binding site while the other binds the minor. This conclusion was based on the following
      experi-nental data:
                   a. AXL peptide 1 Ig1 (monomer) has the same affinity as the AXL peptide 1
                       Fn(-) Fc fusion, (c) in the table above. This suggests that simply having two
                       copies of AXL is insufficient for providing affinity improvement.
                   b. Full-length AXL peptide 1 with the minor binding site removed has the same
                       affinity as the monomer and the Fn(-) fusion. This shows that the minor
                       binding site has a definitive role in the affinity improvements.
                   c. The Fn(-) constructs are arranged such that the minor binding site is
                       inaccessible to the large GAS6 molecule. The addition of linkers between
                       AXL and the Fc provide additional flexibility and space, and with that a two
                       fold improvement in affinity is obtained. This further supports the idea that
                       the minor binding site is important.
[212]      Overall, Example 1 shows that Fc fusions of the AXL ECD can have improved affinity to
      GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL. While not being bound by theory, one mechanism
      underlying this improved affinity is simultaneous binding of one arm of the construct to the
      major AXL binding site on GAS6 and the other arm to the minor AXL binding site on GAS6.
      EXAMPLE 2 - AFFINITIES OF VARIOUS AXL FC CONSTRUCTS
[213]      Sequence: AXL peptide 2 - Fc. The AXL peptide 2 includes amino acids 1-131 of AXL,
      has the Ig2 domain deleted and has both the FN domains deleted.
[214]      This construct includes amino acids 1 - 131 of AXL fused to the human IgG1, with a
      single Gly 4Ser linker connecting the two domains (see Figure 2). Additionally, constructs
      can include various mutations in the AXL portion of the rnolecule, as described by the
      present invention. For example, embodiments can include having AXL peptide 1 IgI Fc
      fusion or AXL peptide 1 plus A72V.
[215]      The affinity of AXL peptide 1 Ig1- Fe to human GAS6 has been measured to be 1.7+/
      0.03 pM.
[216]      Overall, Example 2 shows that Fe fusions of the AXL Ig1 domain can have improved
      affinity to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL.
                                                        40

[217]      Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of
      illustration and example fdr purposes of clarity of understanding, it will be readily apparent
      to one of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain
      changes and modifications may be iade thereto without departing from the spirit or only
      and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by
      the appended claims.
[21a]      Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
      experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described
      herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the appended claims.
                                                         41

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. An inhibitor agent selected from the group consisting of (a) an inhibitor of AXL, MER
      and/or Tyro3 activity, (b) an inhibitor of GASS activity and (c) and inhibitor of AXL,
      MER or Tyro3-GAS6 interaction, wherein the inhibitor agent is capable of binding to
      GAS6 with increased affinity compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
  2. The inhibitor agent of the preceding claim wherein the inhibitor agent binds to two or
      more epitopes on a single GAS6.
  3. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein at least one of the
      epitopes is the major or minor AXL, MER or Tyro3 binding site of GASS.
  4. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is
      capable of binding to the major and minor AXL, MER or Tyro3 binding sites on a
      single GAS6.
  5. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is
      capable of binding the major AXL, MER or Tyro3 binding site of GAS6 and one or
      more additional GAS6 epitopes on a single GAS6.
  6. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is
      capable of binding to the minor AXL, MER or Tyro3 binding site on GAS6 and one or
      more additional epitopes on a single GAS6.
  7. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is
      capable of binding two or more epitopes on a single GASe.
  8. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is
      capable of antagonizing the major and/or minor GAS6/receptor binding interaction,
      and wherein the receptor is selected from AXL, MER and Tyro3.
  9. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is
      capable of antagonizing the major GAS6/receptor binding interaction, and wherein
      the receptor is selected from AXL, MER and Tyro3.
                                               42

10. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is
    capable of antagonizing the minar GAS6/receptor binding interaction, and wherein
    the receptor is selected from AXL, MER and Tyro3.
11. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims, wherein said inhibitor agent is a
    polypeptide, a polypeptide-carrier fusion, a polypeptide-Fc fusion, polypeptide
    conjugate, a polypeptide-drug conjugate, an antibody, a bispecific antibody, an
    antibody drug conjugate, an antibody fragment, an antibody-related structure, or a
    combination thereof.
12. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims, wherein said inhibitor agent is a
    natural or synthetic polypeptide.
13. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims, wherein said inhibitor agent is a
    non-antibody polypeptide.
14. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims, wherein said inhibitor agent is a
    darpin, an avimer, an adnectin, an anticalin, an affibody, a maxibody or a
    combination thereof.
15. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims, wherein said inhibitor agent is a
    polypeptide-conjugate or an antibody-conjugate.
16. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims, wherein said inhibitor agent
    comprises a polypeptide-polymer conjugate, and wherein said polymer is a PEG, a
    PEG-containing polymer, a degradable polymer, a biocompatible polymer or a
    hydrogel.
17. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is a
    polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide comprises a soluble AXL variant polypeptide
    wherein said AXL polypeptide lacks the AXL transmembrane domain arid has at
    least one mutation relative to wild-type that increases affinity of the AXL polypeptide
    binding to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL.
18. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is a
    polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide comprises a soluble MER variant polypeptide
    wherein said MER polypeptide lacks the MER transmembrane domain and ias at
                                           43

    least one mutation relative to wild-type that increases affinity of the MER polypeptide
    binding to GAS6 compared to wild-type MER.
19. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims wherein the inhibitor agent is a
    polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide comprises a soluble Tyro3 variant polypeptide
    wherein said Tyro3 polypeptide lacks the Tyro3 transmembrane domain and has at
    least one mutation relative to wild-type that increases affinity of the Tyro3
    polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to wild-type Tyro3.
20. The inhibitor agent of any of the preceding claims, wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide inhibits binding between a wild-type AXL, MER and/or Tyro3
    polypeptide and a GAS6 protein in vivo or in vitro.
21. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide lacks a functional fibronectin (FN) domain and/or wherein said
    AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the polypeptide
    binding to GASS compared to wild'type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
22. The pdlypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide lacks the transmembrane domain, has more than one Ig1
    domain and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased
    affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to
    wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
23. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said polypeptide has two
    Ig1 domains.
24. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said polypeptide has three
    Ig1 domains.
25. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or
    Tyro3 variant polypeptide lacks the transmembrane domain, has more than one Ig2
    domain and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased
    affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to wild
    type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
                                           44

26. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide has two Ig2
    domains.
27. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide is a soluble
    AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, has more
    than one Igl domain, more than one Ig2 dornain, and wherein said AXL, MER or
    Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide binding to GASG compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
28. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein Ihe polypeptide is a soluble
    AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, lacks a
    functional fibronectin (FN) domain, has more than one Ig1 domain, more than one
    Ig2 domain, and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits
    increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding to GAS6
    compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
29. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide has two Ig1 domains and two Ig2
    domains.
30. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims
    wherein the immunoglobulin domains are connected directly.
31. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims
    wherein the immunoglobulin domains are connected indirectly.
32. A soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide, wherein said variant polypeptide
    lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, is capable of binding both the
    major and minor binding site of a single GAS6 and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 polypeptide
    binding to GAS6.
33. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide has one IgI
    domain and lacks a functional Ig2 domain.
                                          45

34. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide is a soluble
    AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, has one
    IgI domain, lacks a functional Ig2 domain and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide exhibits increased affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
    polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
35. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the polypeptide is a soluble
    AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3 transmembrane domain, lacks a
    functional fibronectin (FN) domain, has one Ig1 domain, lacks a functional Ig2
    domain and wherein said AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide exhibits increased
    affinity of the AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide binding to GAS6 compared to
    wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3.
36. The polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the AXL, MER or Tyro3
    variant polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain.
37. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of the any of the preceding
    claims, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyr63 variant polypeptide further
    comprises a linker.
38. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of the any of the preceding
    claims, wherein said linker comprises one or more (GLY)4SER units.
39. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims
    wherein said variant polypeptide lacks the AXL, MER or Tyro3 intracellular domain.
40. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of the any of the preceding
    claims, wherein said soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide further ladks a
    functional fibronectin (FN) domain and wherein said variant polypeptide exhibits
    increased affinity of the polypeptide binding to GAS6.
                                           46

41. The soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims,
    wherein the soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptide comprises at least one
    amino acid modification relative to the wild-type AXL, MER or Tyro3 sequence.
42. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises at least one amino acid modification
    within a region selected from the group consisting of 1) between 15-50, 2) between
    60-120, and 3) between 125-135 of the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1).
43. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises at least one amino acid modification at
    position 19, 23, 26, 27, 32, 33, 38, 44, 61, 65, 72, 74, 78, 79, 86, 87, 88, 90, 92, 97,
    98, 105, 109, 112, 113, 116, 118, or 127 of the wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID
    NO: 1) or a combination thereof.
44. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant polypeptide comprises at least one amino acid modification
    selected from the group consisting of 1) Al 9T, 2) T23M, 3) E260, 4) E270 or E27K
    5)G32S,6) N33S,-7)T381, 8) T44A, 9) H61Y, 10) D65N, 11) A72V, 12) S74N, 13)
    078E, 14) V79M, 15) 086R, 16) D87G, 17) D88N, 18)190M or 190V, 19) V92A,
    V92G or V92D, 20) 197R, 21) T98A or T98P, 22) T1O5M, 23) Q109R, 24) VI12A,
    25) F113L, 26) H116R, 27) T118A, 28) G127R or G127E, and 29) G129E and a
    combination thereof.
45. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    AXL variant comprises amirid acid changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence
    (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c)
    valine 92; and (d) glycine 127.
46. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    AXL variant comprises amino acid changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence
    (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions: (a) aspartic acid 87 and (b) valine 92.
47. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    AXL variant comprises amino acid changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence
                                           47

    (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c)
    valine 92; (d) glycine 127 and (e) alanine 72.
48. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    AXL variant comprises amino acid changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence
    (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following position: alanine 72.
49. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein glycine
    32 residue is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 residue is replaced
    with a glycine residue, valine 92 residue is replaced with an alanine residue, or
    glycine 127 residue is replaced with an arginine residue or a combination thereof.
50. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein aspartic
    acid 87 residue is replaced with a glycine residue or valine 92 residue is replaced
    with an alanine residue or a combination thereof.
51. The soluble AXL variant polypeptid of ariy of the preceding claims, wherein alanine
    72 residue is replaced with a valine residue.
52. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein glycine
    32 residue is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 residue is replaced
    with a glycine residue, valine 92 residue is replaced with an alanine residue, glycine
    127 residue is replaced with an arginine residue or an alanine 72 residue is replaced
    with a valine residue or a combination thereof.
53. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    AXL variant comprises arniri acid changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence
    (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions: (a) glutamic acid 26; (b) valine 79; (c)
    valine 92; and (d) glycine 127.
54. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein
    glutamic acid 26 residue is replaced with a glycine residue, valine 79 residue is
    replaced with a methionine residue, valine 92 residue is replaced with an alanine
    residue, or glycine 127 residue is replaced with an arginine residue or a combination
    thereof.
                                           48

55. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    polypeptide comprises at least an amino acid region selected from the group
    consisting of amino acid region 19-437, 130-437, 19-132, 21-121, 26-132, 26-121
    and 1-437 of the wild-type AXL polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 1), and wherein one or
    more amino acid modifications occur in said amino acid region.
56. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    AXL variant comprises arino acid changes relative to the wild-type AXL sequence
    (SEQ ID NO: 1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c)
    alanine 72; and valine 92.
57. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein glycine
    32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glycine
    residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue, and valine 92 is replaced with
    an alanine residue, or a combination thereof.
58. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain and wherein
    said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence
    (SEQ ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c)
    alanine 72; and (d) valine 92.
59. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain and wherein
    glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a
    glycine residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue, and valine 92 is
    replaced with an alanine residue, or a combination thereof.
60. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain and wherein
    said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence
    (SEQ ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c)
    alanine 72; (d) valine 92; and (e) glycine 127.
                                            49

61. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain and wherein
    glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a
    glycine residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue, valine 92 is replaced
    with an alanine residue, and glycine 127 is replaced with an arginine residue or a
    combination thereof.
62. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain, lacks a
    functional FN domain, and wherein said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes
    relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a)
    glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72; and (d) valine 92.
63. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant is afusion protein comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional
    FN domain, and wherein glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid
    87 is replaced with a glycine residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue,
    and valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue, or a combination thereof.
64. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain, lacks a
    functional FN drnain, and wherein said AXL variant comprises amino acid changes
    relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the following positions: (a)
    glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72; (d) valine 92; and (6) glycine 127.
65. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional
    FN domain, and wherein glycine 32 is replaced with a serine residue, aspartic acid
    87 is replaced with a glycine residue, alanine 72 is replaced with a valine residue,
    valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue, and glycine 127 is replaced with an
    arginine residue or a combination thereof.
66. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain, lacks a
    functional FN domain, lacks an Ig2 domain, and wherein said AXL variant comprises
                                            50

    amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the
    following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72 and (d) valine
    92.
67. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant is afusion protein comprising an Fe domain, lacks a functional
    FN domain, lacks an Ig2 domain and wherein glicine 32 is replaced with a serine
    residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glycine residue, alanine 72 is replaced
    with a valine residue, and valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue or a
    combination thereof.
68. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein the
    soluble AXL polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain, lacks a
    functional FN domain, lacks an Ig2 domain, and wherein said AXL variant comprises
    amino acid changes relative to wild-type AXL sequence (SEQ ID NO:1) at the
    following positions: (a) glycine 32; (b) aspartic acid 87; (c) alanine 72; (d) valine 92;
    and (e) glycine 127.
69. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant is a fusion protein comprising an Fc domain, lacks a functional
    FN domain, lacks an Ig2 domain and wherein glicine 32 is replaced with a serine
    residue, aspartic acid 87 is replaced with a glydine residue, alanine 72 is replaced
    with a valine residue, valine 92 is replaced with an alanine residue, and glycine 127
    is replaced with an arginine residue or a combination thereof.
70. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant polypeptide has an affinity of at least about 1 x 108 M,1 x 10-'
    M, 1 x 10-1' M, 1 x 10-" M or 1 x 10-2 M for GAS6.
71. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant polypeptide exhibits an affinity to GAS6 that is at least about 5
    fold stronger, at least about 10-fold stronger or at least about 20-fold stronger than
    the affinity of the wild-type AXL polypeptide.
                                            51

72. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of the any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    linker comprises one or more (GLY)4 SER units.
73. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of the any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    linker comprises 1, 2, 3 or 5 (GLY)4 SER units.
74. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant polypeptide inhibits binding between wild-type AXL, MER and/or
    Tyro3 polypeptide and a GAS6 protein in vivo or in vitro.
75. The soluble AXL variant polypeptide of any of the preceding claims, wherein said
    soluble AXL variant polypeptide is a fusion polypeptide comprising an Fc domain.
76. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of one
    or more soluble AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant polypeptides of any of the preceding
    claims.
77. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 76, further comprising at least one
    cytotoxic agent or a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or a combination thereof.
78. A method of treating, reducing, or preventing the metastasis or invasion of a tumor
    in a mammalian pafient, the method comprising:
    administering to said patient an effective dose of the inhibitor agent of any of the
    preceding claims.
79. The method of claim 78, wherein said inhibitor is an AXL, MER or Tyro3 variant
    polypeptide of any of the preceding claims.
80. The method of claim 78, wherein said tumor is a tumor selected from the group
    consisting of an ovarian tumor, a breast tumor, a lung tumor, a liver tumor a colon
    tumor, a gallbladder tumor, a pancreatic tumor, a prostate tumor, and glioblastoma.
                                           52

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                           7013631_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                         SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> Gi ac c i a, Amat o J .
                    Rank i n, Er i nn Br uno
                    Coc hr an, J enni f er R.
                    J ones , Dougl as
                    Kar i ol i s , Mi hal i s
                    Fuh, Kat her i ne
                    Mi ao, Yu
                    Her s hens on, Sus an
              <120> MODI FI ED AXL PEPTI DES AND THEI R USE I N
<removed-apn>
                I NHI BI TI ON OF AXL SI GNALI NG I N ANTI - METASTATI C THERAPY
              <130> STAN- 1005WO
              <150> 61/ 737, 276
              <151> 2012- 12- 12
              <160> 10
              <170> Fas t SEQ f or Wi ndows Ver s i on 4. 0
              <210>   1
              <211>   894
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 1
              Met Al a Tr p Ar g     Cy s Pr o Ar g Met Gl y    Ar g Val Pr o Leu Al a     Tr p Cy s
               1                      5                         10                         15
              Leu Al a Leu Cy s      Gl y Tr p Al a Cy s Met    Al a Pr o Ar g Gl y Thr    Gl n Al a
                            20                           25                         30
              Gl u Gl u Ser Pr o     Phe Val Gl y As n Pr o     Gl y As n I l e Thr Gl y   Al a Ar g
                        35                          40                          45
              Gl y Leu Thr Gl y      Thr Leu Ar g Cy s Gl n     Leu Gl n Val Gl n Gl y     Gl u Pr o
                   50                          55                          60
              Pr o Gl u Val Hi s     Tr p Leu Ar g As p Gl y    Gl n I l e Leu Gl u Leu    Al a As p
              65                          70                         75                         80
              Ser Thr Gl n Thr       Gl n Val Pr o Leu Gl y     Gl u As p Gl u Gl n As p   As p Tr p
                                     85                         90                         95
              I l e Val Val Ser      Gl n Leu Ar g I l e Thr    Ser Leu Gl n Leu Ser       As p Thr
                             100                         105                        110
              Gl y Gl n Ty r Gl n    Cy s Leu Val Phe Leu       Gl y Hi s Gl n Thr Phe     Val Ser
                        115                         120                         125
              Gl n Pr o Gl y Ty r    Val Gl y Leu Gl u Gl y     Leu Pr o Ty r Phe Leu      Gl u Gl u
                    130                        135                         140
              Pr o Gl u As p Ar g    Thr Val Al a Al a As n     Thr Pr o Phe As n Leu      Ser Cy s
              145                         150                        155                        160
              Gl n Al a Gl n Gl y    Pr o Pr o Gl u Pr o Val    As p Leu Leu Tr p Leu      Gl n As p
                                     165                        170                        175
              Al a Val Pr o Leu      Al a Thr Al a Pr o Gl y    Hi s Gl y Pr o Gl n Ar g   Ser Leu
                             180                         185                        190
              Hi s Val Pr o Gl y     Leu As n Ly s Thr Ser      Ser Phe Ser Cy s Gl u      Al a Hi s
                        195                         200                         205
              As n Al a Ly s Gl y    Val Thr Thr Ser Ar g       Thr Al a Thr I l e Thr     Val Leu
                   210                         215                         220
              Pr o Gl n Gl n Pr o    Ar g As n Leu Hi s Leu     Val Ser Ar g Gl n Pr o     Thr Gl u
              225                         230                        235                         240
              Leu Gl u Val Al a      Tr p Thr Pr o Gl y Leu     Ser Gl y I l e Ty r Pr o   Leu Thr
                                     245                        250                        255
              Hi s Cy s Thr Leu      Gl n Al a Val Leu Ser      As n As p Gl y Met Gl y    I l e Gl n
                             260                         265                        270
              Al a Gl y Gl u Pr o    As p Pr o Pr o Gl u Gl u   Pr o Leu Thr Ser Gl n      Al a Ser
                        275                         280                         285
              Val Pr o Pr o Hi s     Gl n Leu Ar g Leu Gl y     Ser Leu Hi s Pr o Hi s     Thr Pr o
                                                                 Page 1

                                                            7013631_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                    290                      295                         300
              Ty r Hi s I l e Ar g Val Al a Cy s   Thr    Ser Ser Gl n Gl y     Pr o Ser Ser Tr p
              305                       310                         315                         320
              Thr Hi s Tr p Leu Pr o Val Gl u      Thr    Pr o Gl u Gl y Val    Pr o Leu Gl y Pr o
                                   325                         330                         335
              Pr o Gl u As n I l e Ser Al a Thr    Ar g   As n Gl y Ser Gl n    Al a Phe Val Hi s
                              340                         345                        350
              Tr p Gl n Gl u Pr o Ar g Al a Pr o   Leu    Gl n Gl y Thr Leu     Leu Gl y Ty r Ar g
                        355                        360                          365
              Leu Al a Ty r Gl n Gl y Gl n As p    Thr Pr o Gl u Val      Leu Met As p I l e Gl y
                    370                      375                          380
              Leu Ar g Gl n Gl u Val Thr Leu       Gl u Leu Gl n Gl y     As p Gl y Ser Val Ser
              385                       390                       395                           400
<removed-apn>
              As n Leu Thr Val Cy s Val Al a       Al a Ty r Thr Al a     Al a Gl y As p Gl y Pr o
                                   405                       410                           415
              Tr p Ser Leu Pr o Val Pr o Leu       Gl u Al a Tr p Ar g    Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Gl n
                              420                       425                          430
              Pr o Val Hi s Gl n Leu Val Ly s      Gl u Pr o Ser Thr      Pr o Al a Phe Ser Tr p
                        435                        440                          445
              Pr o Tr p Tr p Ty r Val Leu Leu      Gl y Al a Val Val      Al a Al a Al a Cy s Val
                    450                      455                          460
              Leu I l e Leu Al a Leu Phe Leu       Val Hi s Ar g Ar g     Ly s Ly s Gl u Thr Ar g
              465                       470                      475                            480
              Ty r Gl y Gl u Val Phe Gl u Pr o     Thr Val Gl u Ar g      Gl y Gl u Leu Val Val
                                   485                       490                           495
              Ar g Ty r Ar g Val Ar g Ly s Ser     Ty r Ser Ar g Ar g     Thr Thr Gl u Al a Thr
                              500                       505                          510
              Leu As n Ser Leu Gl y I l e Ser      Gl u Gl u Leu Ly s     Gl u Ly s Leu Ar g As p
                        515                        520                          525
              Val Met Val As p Ar g Hi s Ly s      Val Al a Leu Gl y      Ly s Thr Leu Gl y Gl u
                    530                      535                          540
              Gl y Gl u Phe Gl y Al a Val Met      Gl u Gl y Gl n Leu     As n Gl n As p As p Ser
              545                       550                       555                           560
              I l e Leu Ly s Val Al a Val Ly s     Thr Met Ly s I l e     Al a I l e Cy s Thr Ar g
                                   565                       570                           575
              Ser Gl u Leu Gl u As p Phe Leu       Ser Gl u Al a Val      Cy s Met Ly s Gl u Phe
                              580                       585                          590
              As p Hi s Pr o As n Val Met Ar g     Leu I l e Gl y Val     Cy s Phe Gl n Gl y Ser
                        595                        600                          605
              Gl u Ar g Gl u Ser Phe Pr o Al a     Pr o Val Val I l e     Leu Pr o Phe Met Ly s
                    610                      615                          620
              Hi s Gl y As p Leu Hi s Ser Phe      Leu Leu Ty r Ser       Ar g Leu Gl y As p Gl n
              625                       630                        635                          640
              Pr o Val Ty r Leu Pr o Thr Gl n      Met Leu Val Ly s       Phe Met Al a As p I l e
                                   645                        650                          655
              Al a Ser Gl y Met Gl u Ty r Leu      Ser Thr Ly s Ar g      Phe I l e Hi s Ar g As p
                              660                       665                          670
              Leu Al a Al a Ar g As n Cy s Met     Leu As n Gl u As n     Met Ser Val Cy s Val
                        675                        680                          685
              Al a As p Phe Gl y Leu Ser Ly s      Ly s I l e Ty r As n   Gl y As p Ty r Ty r Ar g
                    690                      695                          700
              Gl n Gl y Ar g I l e Al a Ly s Met   Pr o Val Ly s Tr p     I l e Al a I l e Gl u Ser
              705                       710                      715                            720
              Leu Al a As p Ar g Val Ty r Thr      Ser Ly s Ser As p      Val Tr p Ser Phe Gl y
                                   725                       730                           735
              Val Thr Met Tr p Gl u I l e Al a     Thr Ar g Gl y Gl n     Thr Pr o Ty r Pr o Gl y
                              740                       745                          750
              Val Gl u As n Ser Gl u I l e Ty r    As p Ty r Leu Ar g     Gl n Gl y As n Ar g Leu
                        755                        760                          765
              Ly s Gl n Pr o Al a As p Cy s Leu    As p Gl y Leu Ty r     Al a Leu Met Ser Ar g
                    770                      775                          780
              Cy s Tr p Gl u Leu As n Pr o Gl n    As p Ar g Pr o Ser     Phe Thr Gl u Leu Ar g
              785                       790                       795                           800
              Gl u As p Leu Gl u As n Thr Leu      Ly s Al a Leu Pr o     Pr o Al a Gl n Gl u Pr o
                                   805                       810                           815
              As p Gl u I l e Leu Ty r Val As n    Met As p Gl u Gl y     Gl y Gl y Ty r Pr o Gl u
                              820                       825                          830
              Pr o Pr o Gl y Al a Al a Gl y Gl y   Al a As p Pr o Pr o    Thr Gl n Pr o As p Pr o
                                                              Page 2

                                                           7013631_1.      t xt
<removed-date>
                        835                         840                          845
              Ly s As p Ser Cy s Ser Cy s      Leu Thr Al a Al a Gl u       Val Hi s Pr o Al a Gl y
                   850                         855                          860
              Ar g Ty r Val Leu Cy s Pr o      Ser Thr Thr Pr o Ser         Pr o Al a Gl n Pr o Al a
              865                     870                          875                          880
              As p Ar g Gl y Ser Pr o Al a     Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u     As p Gl y Al a
                                 885                          890
              <210>   2
              <211>   999
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
<removed-apn>
              <400> 2
              Met Gl y Pr o Al a     Pr o Leu Pr o Leu Leu        Leu Gl y Leu Phe Leu Pr o        Al a
               1                       5                          10                        15
              Leu Tr p Ar g Ar g     Al a I l e Thr Gl u Al a     Ar g Gl u Gl u Al a Ly s Pr o    Ty r
                            20                             25                          30
              Pr o Leu Phe Pr o      Gl y Pr o Phe Pr o Gl y      Ser Leu Gl n Thr As p Hi s       Thr
                        35                           40                           45
              Pr o Leu Leu Ser       Leu Pr o Hi s Al a Ser       Gl y Ty r Gl n Pr o Al a Leu     Met
                   50                           55                           60
              Phe Ser Pr o Thr       Gl n Pr o Gl y Ar g Pr o     Hi s Thr Gl y As n Val Al a      Ile
              65                           70                           75                         80
              Pr o Gl n Val Thr      Ser Val Gl u Ser Ly s        Pr o Leu Pr o Pr o Leu Al a      Phe
                                     85                           90                        95
              Ly s Hi s Thr Val      Gl y Hi s I l e I l e Leu    Ser Gl u Hi s Ly s Gl y Val      Ly s
                            100                            105                         110
              Phe As n Cy s Ser      I l e Ser Val Pr o As n      I l e Ty r Gl n As p Thr Thr     Ile
                        115                          120                          125
              Ser Tr p Tr p Ly s     As p Gl y Ly s Gl u Leu      Leu Gl y Al a Hi s Hi s Al a     Ile
                   130                          135                          140
              Thr Gl n Phe Ty r      Pr o As p As p Gl u Val      Thr Al a I l e I l e Al a Ser    Phe
              145                          150                          155                        160
              Ser I l e Thr Ser      Val Gl n Ar g Ser As p       As n Gl y Ser Ty r I l e Cy s    Ly s
                                     165                          170                       175
              Met Ly s I l e As n    As n Gl u Gl u I l e Val     Ser As p Pr o I l e Ty r I l e   Gl u
                             180                           185                         190
              Val Gl n Gl y Leu      Pr o Hi s Phe Thr Ly s       Gl n Pr o Gl u Ser Met As n      Val
                        195                          200                          205
              Thr Ar g As n Thr      Al a Phe As n Leu Thr        Cy s Gl n Al a Val Gl y Pr o     Pr o
                   210                          215                          220
              Gl u Pr o Val As n     I l e Phe Tr p Val Gl n      As n Ser Ser Ar g Val As n       Gl u
              225                          230                          235                        240
              Gl n Pr o Gl u Ly s    Ser Pr o Ser Val Leu         Thr Val Pr o Gl y Leu Thr        Gl u
                                     245                          250                       255
              Met Al a Val Phe       Ser Cy s Gl u Al a Hi s      As n As p Ly s Gl y Leu Thr      Val
                            260                            265                         270
              Ser Ly s Gl y Val      Gl n I l e As n I l e Ly s   Al a I l e Pr o Ser Pr o Pr o    Thr
                       275                           280                          285
              Gl u Val Ser I l e     Ar g As n Ser Thr Al a       Hi s Ser I l e Leu I l e Ser     Tr p
                   290                          295                          300
              Val Pr o Gl y Phe      As p Gl y Ty r Ser Pr o      Phe Ar g As n Cy s Ser I l e     Gl n
              305                          310                          315                        320
              Val Ly s Gl u Al a     As p Pr o Leu Ser As n       Gl y Ser Val Met I l e Phe       As n
                                     325                          330                       335
              Thr Ser Al a Leu       Pr o Hi s Leu Ty r Gl n      I l e Ly s Gl n Leu Gl n Al a    Leu
                             340                           345                         350
              Al a As n Ty r Ser     I l e Gl y Val Ser Cy s      Met As n Gl u I l e Gl y Tr p    Ser
                        355                          360                          365
              Al a Val Ser Pr o      Tr p I l e Leu Al a Ser      Thr Thr Gl u Gl y Al a Pr o      Ser
                   370                          375                          380
              Val Al a Pr o Leu      As n Val Thr Val Phe         Leu As n Gl u Ser Ser As p       As n
              385                          390                          395                        400
              Val As p I l e Ar g    Tr p Met Ly s Pr o Pr o      Thr Ly s Gl n Gl n As p Gl y     Gl u
                                     405                          410                       415
              Leu Val Gl y Ty r      Ar g I l e Ser Hi s Val      Tr p Gl n Ser Al a Gl y I l e    Ser
                                                                    Page 3

                                                                7013631_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                                420                          425                         430
              Ly s   Gl u Leu Leu Gl u Gl u     Val    Gl y Gl n As n Gl y Ser     Ar g Al a Ar g I l e
                           435                         440                         445
              Ser    Val Gl n Val Hi s As n     Al a   Thr Cy s Thr Val Ar g       I l e Al a Al a Val
                     450                        455                         460
              Thr    Ar g Gl y Gl y Val Gl y    Pr o   Phe Ser As p Pr o Val       Ly s I l e Phe I l e
              465                        470                           475                         480
              Pr o   Al a Hi s Gl y Tr p Val    As p   Ty r Al a Pr o Ser Ser      Thr Pr o Al a Pr o
                                     485                           490                        495
              Gl y   As n Al a As p Pr o Val    Leu    I l e I l e Phe Gl y Cy s   Phe Cy s Gl y Phe
                                500                          505                         510
              Ile    Leu I l e Gl y Leu I l e   Leu    Ty r I l e Ser Leu Al a     I l e Ar g Ly s Ar g
                           515                         520                         525
<removed-apn>
              Val    Gl n Gl u Thr Ly s Phe     Gl y   As n Al a Phe Thr Gl u      Gl u As p Ser Gl u
                     530                        535                         540
              Leu    Val Val As n Ty r I l e    Al a   Ly s Ly s Ser Phe Cy s      Ar g Ar g Al a I l e
              545                        550                           555                        560
              Gl u   Leu Thr Leu Hi s Ser       Leu    Gl y Val Ser Gl u Gl u      Leu Gl n As n Ly s
                                     565                           570                       575
              Leu    Gl u As p Val Val I l e    As p   Ar g As n Leu Leu I l e     Leu Gl y Ly s I l e
                                580                          585                        590
              Leu    Gl y Gl u Gl y Gl u Phe    Gl y   Ser Val Met Gl u Gl y       As n Leu Ly s Gl n
                           595                         600                         605
              Gl u   As p Gl y Thr Ser Leu      Ly s   Val Al a Val Ly s Thr       Met Ly s Leu As p
                     610                        615                         620
              As n   Ser Ser Gl n Ar g Gl u     Ile    Gl u Gl u Phe Leu Ser       Gl u Al a Al a Cy s
              625                        630                           635                        640
              Met    Ly s As p Phe Ser Hi s     Pr o   As n Val I l e Ar g Leu     Leu Gl y Val Cy s
                                     645                           650                       655
              Ile    Gl u Met Ser Ser Gl n      Gl y   I l e Pr o Ly s Pr o Met    Val I l e Leu Pr o
                                660                          665                        670
              Phe    Met Ly s Ty r Gl y As p    Leu    Hi s Thr Ty r Leu Leu       Ty r Ser Ar g Leu
                           675                         680                         685
              Gl u   Thr Gl y Pr o Ly s Hi s    Ile    Pr o Leu Gl n Thr Leu       Leu Ly s Phe Met
                     690                        695                         700
              Val    As p I l e Al a Leu Gl y   Met    Gl u Ty r Leu Ser As n      Ar g As n Phe Leu
              705                        710                           715                         720
              Hi s   Ar g As p Leu Al a Al a    Ar g   As n Cy s Met Leu Ar g      As p As p Met Thr
                                     725                           730                       735
              Val    Cy s Val Al a As p Phe     Gl y   Leu Ser Ly s Ly s I l e     Ty r Ser Gl y As p
                                740                          745                        750
              Ty r   Ty r Ar g Gl n Gl y Ar g   Ile    Al a Ly s Met Pr o Val      Ly s Tr p I l e Al a
                           755                         760                         765
              Ile    Gl u Ser Leu Al a As p     Ar g   Val Ty r Thr Ser Ly s       Ser As p Val Tr p
                     770                        775                         780
              Al a   Phe Gl y Val Thr Met       Tr p   Gl u I l e Al a Thr Ar g    Gl y Met Thr Pr o
              785                        790                           795                       800
              Ty r   Pr o Gl y Val Gl n As n    Hi s   Gl u Met Ty r As p Ty r     Leu Leu Hi s Gl y
                                     805                           810                      815
              Hi s   Ar g Leu Ly s Gl n Pr o    Gl u   As p Cy s Leu As p Gl u     Leu Ty r Gl u I l e
                                820                          825                        830
              Met    Ty r Ser Cy s Tr p Ar g    Thr    As p Pr o Leu As p Ar g     Pr o Thr Phe Ser
                           835                         840                         845
              Val    Leu Ar g Leu Gl n Leu      Gl u   Ly s Leu Leu Gl u Ser       Leu Pr o As p Val
                     850                        855                         860
              Ar g   As n Gl n Al a As p Val    Ile    Ty r Val As n Thr Gl n      Leu Leu Gl u Ser
              865                        870                           875                        880
              Ser    Gl u Gl y Leu Al a Gl n    Gl y   Ser Thr Leu Al a Pr o       Leu As p Leu As n
                                     885                           890                       895
              Ile    As p Pr o As p Ser I l e   Ile    Al a Ser Cy s Thr Pr o      Ar g Al a Al a I l e
                                900                          905                        910
              Ser    Val Val Thr Al a Gl u      Val    Hi s As p Ser Ly s Pr o     Hi s Gl u Gl y Ar g
                           915                         920                         925
              Ty r   I l e Leu As n Gl y Gl y   Ser    Gl u Gl u Tr p Gl u As p    Leu Thr Ser Al a
                     930                        935                         940
              Pr o   Ser Al a Al a Val Thr      Al a   Gl u Ly s As n Ser Val      Leu Pr o Gl y Gl u
              945                        950                           955                       960
              Ar g   Leu Val Ar g As n Gl y     Val    Ser Tr p Ser Hi s Ser       Ser Met Leu Pr o
                                                                    Page 4

                                                    7013631_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                                 965                  970                    975
              Leu Gl y Ser Ser Leu Pr o As p Gl u Leu Leu Phe Al a As p As p Ser Ser
                            980                   985                   990
              Gl u Gl y Ser Gl u Val Leu Met
                        995
              <210>   3
              <211>   890
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 3
<removed-apn>
              Met Al a Leu Ar g      Ar g Ser Met Gl y Ar g     Pr o Gl y Leu Pr o Pr o     Leu Pr o
               1                      5                         10                          15
              Leu Pr o Pr o Pr o     Pr o Ar g Leu Gl y Leu     Leu Leu Al a Al a Leu       Al a Ser
                            20                           25                          30
              Leu Leu Leu Pr o       Gl u Ser Al a Al a Al a    Gl y Leu Ly s Leu Met       Gl y Al a
                       35                           40                          45
              Pr o Val Ly s Leu      Thr Val Ser Gl n Gl y      Gl n Pr o Val Ly s Leu      As n Cy s
                   50                          55                          60
              Ser Val Gl u Gl y      Met Gl u Gl u Pr o As p    I l e Gl n Tr p Val Ly s    As p Gl y
              65                          70                          75                         80
              Al a Val Val Gl n      As n Leu As p Gl n Leu     Ty r I l e Pr o Val Ser     Gl u Gl n
                                     85                         90                          95
              Hi s Tr p I l e Gl y   Phe Leu Ser Leu Ly s       Ser Val Gl u Ar g Ser       As p Al a
                              100                        105                         110
              Gl y Ar g Ty r Tr p    Cy s Gl n Val Gl u As p    Gl y Gl y Gl u Thr Gl u     I l e Ser
                        115                         120                         125
              Gl n Pr o Val Tr p     Leu Thr Val Gl u Gl y      Val Pr o Phe Phe Thr        Val Gl u
                   130                         135                         140
              Pr o Ly s As p Leu     Al a Val Pr o Pr o As n    Al a Pr o Phe Gl n Leu      Ser Cy s
              145                         150                         155                        160
              Gl u Al a Val Gl y     Pr o Pr o Gl u Pr o Val    Thr I l e Val Tr p Tr p     Ar g Gl y
                                     165                        170                         175
              Thr Thr Ly s I l e     Gl y Gl y Pr o Al a Pr o   Ser Pr o Ser Val Leu        As n Val
                             180                         185                         190
              Thr Gl y Val Thr       Gl n Ser Thr Met Phe       Ser Cy s Gl u Al a Hi s     As n Leu
                        195                         200                         205
              Ly s Gl y Leu Al a     Ser Ser Ar g Thr Al a      Thr Val Hi s Leu Gl n       Al a Leu
                   210                         215                         220
              Pr o Al a Al a Pr o    Phe As n I l e Thr Val     Thr Ly s Leu Ser Ser        Ser As n
              225                         230                         235                       240
              Al a Ser Val Al a      Tr p Met Pr o Gl y Al a    As p Gl y Ar g Al a Leu     Leu Gl n
                                     245                        250                         255
              Ser Cy s Thr Val       Gl n Val Thr Gl n Al a     Pr o Gl y Gl y Tr p Gl u    Val Leu
                             260                         265                         270
              Al a Val Val Val       Pr o Val Pr o Pr o Phe     Thr Cy s Leu Leu Ar g       As p Leu
                        275                         280                         285
              Val Pr o Al a Thr      As n Ty r Ser Leu Ar g     Val Ar g Cy s Al a As n     Al a Leu
                   290                         295                         300
              Gl y Pr o Ser Pr o     Ty r Al a As p Tr p Val    Pr o Phe Gl n Thr Ly s      Gl y Leu
              305                         310                         315                        320
              Al a Pr o Al a Ser     Al a Pr o Gl n As n Leu    Hi s Al a I l e Ar g Thr    As p Ser
                                     325                        330                         335
              Gl y Leu I l e Leu     Gl u Tr p Gl u Gl u Val    I l e Pr o Gl u Al a Pr o   Leu Gl u
                             340                         345                         350
              Gl y Pr o Leu Gl y     Pr o Ty r Ly s Leu Ser     Tr p Val Gl n As p As n     Gl y Thr
                        355                         360                         365
              Gl n As p Gl u Leu     Thr Val Gl u Gl y Thr      Ar g Al a As n Leu Thr      Gl y Tr p
                   370                         375                         380
              As p Pr o Gl n Ly s    As p Leu I l e Val Ar g    Val Cy s Val Ser As n       Al a Val
              385                         390                         395                        400
              Gl y Cy s Gl y Pr o    Tr p Ser Gl n Pr o Leu     Val Val Ser Ser Hi s        As p Ar g
                                     405                        410                         415
              Al a Gl y Gl n Gl n    Gl y Pr o Pr o Hi s Ser    Ar g Thr Ser Tr p Val       Pr o Val
                             420                         425                         430
              Val Leu Gl y Val       Leu Thr Al a Leu Val       Thr Al a Al a Al a Leu      Al a Leu
                                                                  Page 5

                                                              7013631_1.     t xt
<removed-date>
                         435                           440                         445
              I l e Leu Leu Ar g Ly s     Ar g   Ar g Ly s Gl u Thr Ar g     Phe Gl y Gl n Al a Phe
                    450                          455                         460
              As p Ser Val Met Al a       Ar g   Gl y Gl u Pr o Al a Val     Hi s Phe Ar g Al a Al a
              465                         470                         475                         480
              Ar g Ser Phe As n Ar g      Gl u   Ar g Pr o Gl u Ar g I l e   Gl u Al a Thr Leu As p
                                   485                           490                          495
              Ser Leu Gl y I l e Ser      As p   Gl u Leu Ly s Gl u Ly s     Leu Gl u As p Val Leu
                              500                           505                          510
              I l e Pr o Gl u Gl n Gl n   Phe    Thr Leu Gl y Ar g Met       Leu Gl y Ly s Gl y Gl u
                         515                           520                         525
              Phe Gl y Ser Val Ar g       Gl u   Al a Gl n Leu Ly s Gl n     Gl u As p Gl y Ser Phe
                    530                          535                         540
<removed-apn>
              Val Ly s Val Al a Val       Ly s   Met Leu Ly s Al a As p      I l e I l e Al a Ser Ser
              545                         550                         555                         560
              As p I l e Gl u Gl u Phe    Leu    Ar g Gl u Al a Al a Cy s    Met Ly s Gl u Phe As p
                                   565                           570                          575
              Hi s Pr o Hi s Val Al a     Ly s   Leu Val Gl y Val Ser        Leu Ar g Ser Ar g Al a
                              580                           585                          590
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o     Ile    Pr o Met Val I l e Leu      Pr o Phe Met Ly s Hi s
                         595                           600                         605
              Gl y As p Leu Hi s Al a     Phe    Leu Leu Al a Ser Ar g       I l e Gl y Gl u As n Pr o
                    610                          615                         620
              Phe As n Leu Pr o Leu       Gl n   Thr Leu I l e Ar g Phe      Met Val As p I l e Al a
              625                         630                         635                         640
              Cy s Gl y Met Gl u Ty r     Leu    Ser Ser Ar g As n Phe       I l e Hi s Ar g As p Leu
                                   645                           650                          655
              Al a Al a Ar g As n Cy s    Met    Leu Al a Gl u As p Met      Thr Val Cy s Val Al a
                              660                           665                          670
              As p Phe Gl y Leu Ser       Ar g   Ly s I l e Ty r Ser Gl y    As p Ty r Ty r Ar g Gl n
                         675                           680                         685
              Gl y Cy s Al a Ser Ly s     Leu    Pr o Val Ly s Tr p Leu      Al a Leu Gl u Ser Leu
                    690                          695                         700
              Al a As p As n Leu Ty r     Thr    Val Gl n Ser As p Val       Tr p Al a Phe Gl y Val
              705                         710                         715                         720
              Thr Met Tr p Gl u I l e     Met    Thr Ar g Gl y Gl n Thr      Pr o Ty r Al a Gl y I l e
                                   725                           730                          735
              Gl u As n Al a Gl u I l e   Ty r   As n Ty r Leu I l e Gl y    Gl y As n Ar g Leu Ly s
                              740                           745                          750
              Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl u Cy s    Met    Gl u As p Val Ty r As p     Leu Met Ty r Gl n Cy s
                         755                           760                         765
              Tr p Ser Al a As p Pr o     Ly s   Gl n Ar g Pr o Ser Phe      Thr Cy s Leu Ar g Met
                    770                          775                         780
              Gl u Leu Gl u As n I l e    Leu    Gl y Gl n Leu Ser Val       Leu Ser Al a Ser Gl n
              785                         790                         795                         800
              As p Pr o Leu Ty r I l e    As n   I l e Gl u Ar g Al a Gl u   Gl u Pr o Thr Al a Gl y
                                   805                           810                          815
              Gl y Ser Leu Gl u Leu       Pr o   Gl y Ar g As p Gl n Pr o    Ty r Ser Gl y Al a Gl y
                              820                           825                          830
              As p Gl y Ser Gl y Met      Gl y   Al a Val Gl y Gl y Thr      Pr o Ser As p Cy s Ar g
                         835                           840                         845
              Ty r I l e Leu Thr Pr o     Gl y   Gl y Leu Al a Gl u Gl n     Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Gl u
                    850                          855                         860
              Hi s Gl n Pr o Gl u Ser     Pr o   Leu As n Gl u Thr Gl n      Ar g Leu Leu Leu Leu
              865                         870                         875                         880
              Gl n Gl n Gl y Leu Leu      Pr o   Hi s Ser Ser Cy s
                                   885                           890
              <210>   4
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 4
              Leu Ar g Met Phe Ser Gl y Thr Pr o Val I l e Ar g Leu Ar g Phe Ly s Ar g
               1                5                    10                      15
              Leu Gl n Pr o Thr
                                                       Page 6

                                                      7013631_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                              20
              <210>   5
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 5
              Gl u Val Gl y Ar g Val Thr Ser Ser Gl y Pr o
               1                  5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   6
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 6
              Ar g As n Leu Val I l e Ly s Val As n
               1                  5
              <210>   7
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 7
              As p Al a Val Met Ly s I l e Al a Val Al a
               1                 5
              <210>   8
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 8
              Gl u Ar g Gl y Leu Ty r Hi s Leu As n Leu Thr Val Gl y I l e Pr o Phe Hi s
               1                  5                     10                      15
              <210>   9
              <211>   17
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   H. s api ens
              <400> 9
              Tr p Leu As n Gl y Gl u As p Thr Thr I l e Gl n Gl u Thr Val Val As n Ar g
               1                  5                      10                    15
              Met
              <210>   10
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Sy nt het i c Li nk er
              <400> 10
              Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser
               1                   5
                                                           Page 7

